12-09-2021||India||After 18 months, Wipro senior staff to return to office today||Software company Wipro, on Sunday, said that a section of its senior leadership would resume work from office, twice a week, from Monday, after a gap of 18 months due to Covid-19 pandemic. “After 18 long months, our leaders @Wipro are coming back to the office starting tomorrow (twice a week). All fully vaccinated, all ready to go - safely and socially distanced! We will watch this closely,” Rishad Premji, the Chairman of Wipro, said in a post on Twitter. Premji also put out a video in which employees will go through a series of checks, including temperature, identification and scanning of QR codes to enter the office premises. According to the company, it will adopt a flexible and hybrid approach in its policy and fully vaccinated employees in leadership roles will return to office. The development comes at a time when Karnataka, and its largest technology hub Bengaluru, stares at the looming threat of an impending third wave of Covid infections. Former Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa had announced restrictions almost a week before the curfew announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in March last year, following which Information Technology (IT) companies had adopted the work from home (WFH) policy that later became the norm among large corporations. The WFH policy had helped reduce some of the traffic congestion in the city. However, the fear of contracting the virus in public transport has forced several of Bengaluru’s residents to depend on private transport that has added to the city’s challenges that include poor quality of roads, dipping air and water quality and endless traffic jams. Even the state IT/BT department had requested most of the IT companies to continue its WFH policy, at least till December 2022, in the light of Bengaluru Metro authorities about to start the construction work on the Outer Ring Road (ORR) stretch which houses some of these companies, and is dubbed one of the largest IT corridors of Bengaluru. Wipro’s decision could also open the doors for its peers to initiate the return of its employees to the offices. “Wipro Ltd will adopt a flexible, hybrid approach in our return to office policy. Beginning September 13, fully vaccinated employees in leadership roles will return to work from offices in India, twice a week (Mondays and Thursdays). We have extended work from home for all other employees until October 31, 2021,” the company said in a statement. The company said that almost 70% of all its employees have taken at least one dose of vaccine so far. “The health and safety of employees remain our utmost priority. We have put in place several measures, including round-the-clock workplace sanitization, wearing masks at all times and strict social distancing practices to ensure employee safety,” the company said in a statement on Sunday. Bengaluru is home to a number of technology companies such as Infosys, Wipro, Intel, Accenture and several other corporate giants in the fields of aerospace, biotechnology, startups among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-18-months-wipro-senior-staff-to-return-to-office-today-101631471366513.html
12-09-2021||India||Separate health care authority for Bengaluru on anvil: Karnataka government||The Karnataka government is planning to make an independent health authority for Bengaluru, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Sunday, a move that comes after the Covid-19 pandemic exposed the inadequacies in the healthcare system of the city.“I am preparing an independent health system for Bengaluru. Health is not with the corporation (Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, the city’s civic body) or the (state health) department and will make an effort to bring this under one system,” Bommai said.He said Bengaluru has a high population density, making it harder to separate the city and state authorities in health care. “It would be right if all of Bengaluru’s health infrastructure should be under one authority,” Bommai said.The statements come at a time when there appears to be an overlap in the overall health system of Karnataka and the BBMP, especially during the two waves of Covid-19 infections. The renewed focus on healthcare comes at a time when the threat of a third wave of infections looms over the city and state.Bommai said the Kalyana Karnataka (formerly Hyderabad Karnataka) region has a ratio of 10,000 patients for one hospital bed. Even the number of patients per doctor is very high due to regional imbalance as well as lack of focus on healthcare infrastructure in the past 70 years, he said.Bommai acknowledged that the healthcare system was inadequate during the first two bouts of the pandemic in Bengaluru. Hundreds of thousands have suffered with many lives lost due to pandemic-related infrastructure problems including lack of hospital beds, oxygen, life-saving medication and even space to cremate the dead, exposing the fault lines in one of India’s most technologically advanced cities. Karnataka’s Covid caseload nears 3 million and fatalities stand at over 37,400, according to government data.Bommai mooted that there be a diploma in public health in which people would be trained to visit each home, gather information on medical history, raise awareness on nutrition and hygiene that would help keep the population more secure.Bommai unveiled 120 advanced life support ambulances under the Arogya Kavacha scheme.“There are about 710 ambulances operating under the Arogya Kavacha -- 108 scheme and 155 among them are ALS ambulances. All the 120 ambulances flagged off by CM today are ALS ambulances,” said Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education.The minister said that if technologies, such as GPS and mobile app, are adopted, then ambulances can reach the patient within 10-15 minutes as against around 45 minutes now due to the disorganised approach and traffic snarls.“At present there is one ambulance for 1 lakh (10 million) population and we want to increase it to make 1 ambulance for every 45,000 to 50,000 population. We also provide training to drivers and paramedical staff to make the service more people-friendly,” Sudhakar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/separate-health-care-authority-for-bengaluru-on-anvil-karnataka-government-101631471309318.html
12-09-2021||India||The Week Ahead: Markets brace for consumer inflation report; IPL to resume in UAE||Mumbai The consumer price index (CPI) and the wholesale price index (WPI) are fair indicators of the impact of inflation on the common person. It is therefore quite natural that Monday’s announcement of the CPI data for August will be looked upon with significant interest. On Tuesday, the WPI will be announced. CPI inflation had eased to 5.6% in July after remaining above the 6% mark – the upper limit of Reserve Bank of India’s tolerance zone of 2%-6% -- in May and June. Food prices, which have a weight of 39% in CPI, were largely responsible for this decrease in inflation. Food inflation decreased from 5.1% in June to 4% in July. Non-food inflation decreased only marginally: from 7% in June to 6.7% in July. At 11.2%, WPI grew in double digits for the fourth consecutive month in July . However, this was lower than the June WPI inflation of 12.1%.The other topic of mass interest will be the Indian Premier League, the country’s most popular cricket tournament. Transferred out of India due to Covid’s devastating second wave in April, IPL 2021 resumes in the UAE on September 19. Players have begun to gather in the UAE bio bubble, including the 21 India players who were on the England tour where the final Test was cancelled after a Covid scare in the Indian contingent.Meanwhile, in the English Premier League, Manchester City and Liverpool continue their quest for the title with City playing Southampton and Liverpool vs Crystal Palace on September 18.Back to India for more important political developments. The Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) on data protection will meet on September 15 and 16 to discuss what format the new data protection bill should have. This is the first meeting under chairman PP Chaudhary.In Punjab, chief minister Amarinder Singh has a series of outreach programmes lined up. To make up for the time lost on account of Covid and internal bickering, Amarinder may launch whirlwind tours of Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Ferozepur and other important districts in Malwa and Doaba, sources said, stressing the need for a speedy campaign to counter anti-incumbency.In West Bengal, TMC minister Partha Chatterjee will appear in front of the CBI on September 13 for questioning in the I-Core ponzi scam that the agency is probing since 2014. The campaign for the crucial Bhabanipur assembly seat is expected intensify from next week as BJP candidate Priyanka Tibrewal will file her nomination papers on Monday and chief minister Mamata Banerjee is expected to address her first election rally in the constituency. Votes will be polled on September 30. The Congress, too, has a busy week ahead. A Digvijay Singh led committee with Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will meet for the first time to plan sustained agitations ahead of elections next year.Jharkhand is likely to become the latest state to take a call on reopening schools from Classes 1 to 8. Chief minister Hemant Soren may also announce the reopening of temples, too, this week.In northeast India, a select committee of Nagaland assembly will meet on September 14 to discuss the Assam-Nagaland border issue. Both states share a 434 km border with each other. In July, both states had agreed to deescalate tensions at two border points by withdrawing security forces.Home Minister Amit Shah is expected to visit Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh on September 18 to celebrate Balidan Diwas or martyrdom day of Gond king Shankar Shah and his son Kunwar Raghunath Shah, who were killed by British forces during the first war of Independence in 1857. The visit is aimed to lure back the tribals, who had weaned towards Congress and tribal political party, JAYs, in the 2018 assembly polls. But before that, Shah will be in Nirmal district of Telangana on September 17 to participate in BJP’s Liberation Day, which marks the Hyderabad state joining the Indian republic in 1948, a year after India’s independence. The BJP celebrates the day, whereas the state government holds no such function on that day as many people died in riots before September 18.The other issue that is consuming Indian policymakers is the climate crisis. US Presidential Envoy for Climate, John Kerry will be in India from Sunday to Tuesday to meet the environment minister, Bhupender Yadav, and various other ministers and senior officials of the Indian government regarding India’s climate change goals.A statement issued by the US department of state said Kerry will engage with international counterparts on efforts to address the climate crisis. He will meet with Indian counterparts and private sector leaders to discuss efforts to raise “global climate ambition and speed India’s clean energy transition.”During his visit, the United States and India will launch the Climate Action and Finance Mobilization Dialogue (CAFMD), one of the two main tracks of the U.S.-India Agenda 2030 Partnership that President Biden and Prime Minister Modi announced at the Leaders Summit on Climate in April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-week-ahead-markets-brace-for-consumer-inflation-report-ipl-to-resume-in-uae-101631471307834.html
12-09-2021||India||Telangana govt to file review plea in high court over immersion of Ganesh idols||The Telangana government on Sunday said it would file a review petition in the high court over its ruling against immersion of Ganesh idols made of Plaster of Paris (PoP) in lakes here.Speaking to reporters here, state Minister for Animal Husbandry Talasani Srinivas Yadav said, “As you are aware Ganesh idols have been put up in every nook and corner of the city... The government has decided to file a review petition in the High Court (in the wake of the Court’s order).” He assured that within 48 hours of immersion (of the idols), the lake will be cleaned.On September 9, the Telangana High Court directed the state government not to allow immersion of Ganesh idols made of PoP in Hussain Sagar Lake and other water bodies in the state capital.A bench of Acting Chief Justice M S Ramachandra Rao and Justice T Vinod Kumar after hearing a contempt petition, directed the government to allow immersion of PoP Ganesh idols in baby ponds already built by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) or in separate ponds which does not result in water pollution in the main water body.The Bhagyanagar Ganesh Utsav Samithi (BGUS), the body overseeing Ganpati celebrations in the city, on Saturday had asked the state government to file a review petition in the High Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-govt-to-file-review-plea-in-high-court-over-immersion-of-ganesh-idols-101631471248485.html
12-09-2021||India||Telangana reports 249 new Covid cases, two deaths in 24 hours||Telangana on Sunday added 249 fresh infections to its coronavirus tally, which rose to 6,61,551 while the toll mounted to 3,895 with two related fatalities.The number of active cases stood at 5,258, a state government bulletin said.The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation reported the highest number of 82 cases followed by Nalgonda 18, Medchal Malkajgiri 17 and Warangal Urban 14.Six out of the 33 districts recorded zero cases, it said.A total of 53,789 samples were tested on Sunday. Cumulatively, the number of samples tested was 25.4 million.A total of 313 Covid-19 recoveries were reported on Sunday taking the total number of recoveries to 6,52,398.The recovery rate and case fatality rate in the state was 98.61 per cent and 0.58 per cent, compared to the national average of 97.48 per cent and 1.3 per cent, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-reports-249-new-covid-cases-two-deaths-in-24-hours-101631471245020.html
12-09-2021||India||All banks should embrace digitisation: Sitharaman in Tamil Nadu visit||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday said banks, including private sector should embrace digitisation towards ensuring that government schemes reach the poor and downtrodden, besides adopting financial inclusion for a wider reach.Delivering her address at the centenary celebrations of the city-based Tamilnad Mercantile Bank here, Sitharaman said even during Covid-19 pandemic with the use of digitisation through banking correspondents, the government’s financial disbursements were distributed to the needy after verifying their details.“Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) was clearly aware that banking is important and did not hesitate that there can be accounts with zero balance, if they were opened under the Jandhan Yojana scheme (launched in 2014). But he ensured that every one must hold a bank account and be able to transact through a RuPay card,” she said.Stating that the government distributed ₹1,500 in three installments to the needy through their bank accounts during the Covid-19 outbreak, she said there are lot of changes happening in the banking sector at a “fast pace” through digitisation.”There is no necessity to open a branch in a place which does not have a bank. Today, to reach a bank account of the people who live there, all kinds of technologies are available...Even sitting from Tuticorin one can serve the banking requirements of people living in small villages through technology”, she said.“The way forward for any bank, particularly for a bank like Tamilnad Mercantile Bank, to be more efficient, is to adopt complete technology related solutions’ ‘, she said.“Today financial technology is the biggest area and using that we can able to populate data into forms. It may be Income Tax or GST related. Auto-populating data (of a consumer) has been very useful (today),” she said.Auto-populating data can be done only through ‘digitisation’ and the management of TMB should think of greater use of digitisation, she said.“There are a lot of prospects for banking...I think it is important for digitisation to be completely brought in. Digitisation cannot be avoided for your own good and for the sake of customers,” she said, adding TMB should onboard all its customers and ensure Financial Inclusion is implemented.Sitharaman after presenting a financial assistance to a beneficiary of the Tamilnad Mercantile Bank under the ‘PM Svanidhi scheme’, said today you are presenting a cheque to a woman who runs a business by selling ‘idlies’ in her pushcart, you are able to distribute the financial assistance because there is a scheme like PM Jandhan Yojana (financial inclusion scheme).“If that scheme was not available, today you would not have been able to distribute the assistance to the woman. It would not have been possible if PM Jandhan Yojana was not launched in 2014,” she said.Tamilnad Mercantile Bank’s 74 per cent of business was through “priority” sector lending and through this banks were able to expand into rural areas. During the Covid-19 outbreak, the Centre introduced the Emergency Credit Guarantee Liquidity Scheme towards enabling MSMEs to do business without collecting any additional collateral required, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-banks-should-embrace-digitisation-sitharaman-in-tamil-naduvisit-101631471189675.html
12-09-2021||India||TN vaccinates 2mn people in 12-hour mega drive, hopes for more supplies||Tamil Nadu on Sunday surpassed its target to inoculate two million people in a 12-hour mega vaccination drive, with 2.836 million people receiving a shot against the Covid-19 disease. The state hopes they can pitch this achievement to the Union government to get more supply of vaccines.Having received a steady supply of vaccines from the Union government, Tamil Nadu on Sunday held the drive by setting 40,000 camps across the state with a particular concern for the nine districts bordering Kerala. The vaccine drive is being carried out when there is a marginal increase in cases here, while neighbouring Kerala has more than 200k active Covid-19 cases, and the state is also dealing with Nipah and Zika, putting Tamil Nadu on alert.Tamil Nadu’s vaccination story started from absolute hesitancy due to fear of side effects, among other factors. The perception began to change only during May and June when the second wave of Covid-19 had peaked, and the state was under duress much like other regions due to a shortage in medical oxygen. Vaccinations numbers were still low, but officials said that it was due to a supply shortage.Officials in Tamil Nadu say that vaccination is the only way to prevent another wave of infections. “When we began vaccinations (in January) we began with 3000 vaccinations, and step by step, we have been increasing, and we have reached this number now. We crossed our 20-lakh target at 4 pm,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “We have been consistently telling the Centre that we can vaccinate in such high numbers. Several doubted us, but with our joint effort of health workers and local authorities and public cooperation we have been able to achieve this today.” Chief minister M K Stalin had also assigned 15 IAS officers to monitor the special drive today. 2.7 million doses were distributed across the state for Sunday’s drive, and they were exhausted in most camps by evening. The union government additionally sent 130k doses at 4 pm. “The logistics were complicated but today shows that we can vaccinate 50-lakh people per week if we get ample vaccines,” the health secretary said. “We will use this performance and make efforts to urge the Centre to supply more vaccines to us.”The capital city of Chennai, which has had maximum vaccinations was on top on Sunday too. “There was a good reception, especially in the nine districts bordering Kerala. Coimbatore district has crossed 1 lakh,” the health secretary said.Until the end of August, Tamil Nadu had vaccinated more than 30-million people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tnvaccinates-2mn-people-in-12-hour-mega-drive-hopes-for-more-supplies-101631471123485.html
12-09-2021||India||Covid recoveries cross 2 million mark in Andhra||The gross Covid-19 recoveries in Andhra Pradesh crossed the two million mark and touched 2,000,877 as 1,226 infected persons got cured in 24 hours ending 9 am on Sunday.The cumulative coronavirus cases increased to 2,029,985 with the addition of 1,190 in 24 hours, the latest bulletin said.The overall Covid-19 toll rose to 13,998 as 11 more people succumbed to the pandemic in a day.The number of active cases in the state stood at 15,110, the bulletin said.Chittoor district reported 219 fresh cases and Krishna 164 while the remaining 11 districts added less than 150 new cases each in 24 hours.East Godavari, Guntur, Krishna, Prakasam district reported two fresh fatalities while SPS Nellore, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari had one each.For the first time in over five months, Chittoor district did not report any Covid-19 death in a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-recoveries-cross-2-million-mark-in-andhra-101631471065694.html
12-09-2021||India||‘Narcotics jihad’ row intensifies across Kerala||Political and religious parties are making efforts to contain the rising communal divide in Kerala, triggered by Pala Bishop’s ‘narcotic jihad’ jibe recently.Many religious groups are taking out rallies outside the bishop’s residence in the last two days, either supporting or decrying his statement, even as several leaders in the state have requested their supporters to maintain restraint and communal harmony.Addressing a religious congregation in a church in Kuravilangad (Kottayam) last Thursday, Bishop Mar Joseph Kallaranghatt said Catholic girls and youth were becoming victims of a ‘narcotic jihad’, perpetrated by a section and decried authorities for turning a blind eye towards it.Many, including chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and the Congress, criticised the Bishop for making a sweeping comment, but the Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council (KCBC), the highest body of Catholics in the state, and Bharatiya Janata Party rallied behind him. The church-supported daily Deepika on Sunday wrote an editorial, reminding the CM that he represents the whole state, and has to hear all sections before rejecting their woes.“Continuous appeasement politics is fast turning the state into a nursery of terror activities. The Bishop’s statement is based on facts and experience, and instead of addressing it, some are turning against him. “Those who think that he can be silenced by a barrage of criticism, they are in fool’s world,” it wrote, asking the CM to examine his statement, before rejecting it outright.The CM had expressed surprise over his comment, saying that he heard the term for the first time.Opposition leader V D Satheesan also criticised the statement and said it was a trap set by Sangh Parivar outfits. “It seems the Bishop’s statement is based on some social media comments. We all know most of these social media accounts are being managed by Parivar cronies. It is a planned to move to create a communal polarization,” he said. The Muslim League, an ally of the Congress, also called for restraint.But the KCBC defended the bishop, saying he was cautioning against some dangerous tendencies prevailing in the society, and they cannot be dismissed summarily as isolated incidents. “It is a fact that Kerala is facing certain serious social crises and among them rise in narcotic abuse tops. His words should be taken up responsibly, instead of attacking him,” it said.Minister of state of external affairs V Muraleedharan, hailing from the state, also criticised the attack on the Bishop. “It seems he spoke based on conviction, not emotion. The term narcotic jihad is not new. Even world bodies said proceeds from narcotics was a major source of terror funding,” he said, adding there was a concerted move to silence the Bishop. He said no one is against any community, but all will have to isolate disruptive forces. Records show a sharp rise in drug-related cases and seizures in the state, indicating increased drug consumption. In the past, Prime Minister Narendra Modi highlighted how drugs became a major issue across states.The police busted many rave parties in Kochi and hill destinations after a tip-off during the peak of the Covid pandemic. According to state excise records, Kerala saw a sharp increase in the seizure of party drugs in Kerala. In 2018, the police seized contraband worth ₹650 crore. In 2019, it went up to ₹720 crore, and in 2020 it increased to ₹800 crore.A senior police officer, not willing to be named, admitted that the drug addiction is a matter of concern, and increased vigilance has resulted in a high number of seizures. “It is a societal problem and cannot be solved through policing. We need societal reforms to deal with it,” said Prakash Singh, former Director-General of Police, Uttar Pradesh. The Kerala high court observed that the drug abuse in the state was very high while hearing a plea in February 2020.“The scale of drug abuse in Kerala is unacceptably high. The major problem faced by probe agencies is their inability to plug supply channels that bring contraband to the state,” the court had said.Three cities, Kochi, Kozhikode and Thiruvananthapuram, figure on the list of 127 most vulnerable cities for drug abuse by the Union ministry of social justice with a high prevalence of drug dependency. Last week the police seized MDMA (synthetic drug methylenedioxymethamphetamine) worth ₹13 crore from a flat in Kochi.“It is a fact, use of narcotic substances is high. It is a social evil, and everyone will have to fight it united. People from all classes and religions are involved in such offences. But you can not put everything into the account of a particular community,” said Muslim Educational Society president Dr Fazal Gafoor adding such statements will vitiate the social fabric of the state asked everyone to keep utmost restraint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narcotics-jihad-row-intensifies-across-kerala-101631471063478.html
12-09-2021||India||4 of family killed in Baramulla cloudburst, 1 missing: Officials||Four members of a nomad family, including three minors, were killed when a cloudburst occurred in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Sunday.The cloudburst occurred in the upper belt of Dangiwacha at Hamam Marcoot in Sopore area of the north Kashmir district on Saturday night, the officials said.Police and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) teams rushed to the spot and four bodies have been recovered, they said.According to police, Mohammad Tariq Khari (8), Shahnaza Begum (30), Naziya Akther (14) and Arif Hussain Khari (5) – all residents of Kalsiyan Nowshera area of Rajouri in Jammu region -- died in the incident.Another family member, Mohammad Bashir Khari (80), is still missing, and efforts are on to trace him, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-of-family-killed-in-baramulla-cloudburst-1-missing-officials-101631470523198.html
12-09-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath calls Congress ‘mother of terrorism’, takes ‘Abba Jaan’ swipe at Samajwadi||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday intensified his attack against Congress and Samajwadi Party, calling the former “mother of terrorism” in India. Addressing a programme in Kushinagar, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader said that Congress gives shelter to the mafia and insults faith in Lord Ram.“But the BJP heals the citizens, paves the way for the construction of a grand temple of Lord Shri Ram and sends the mafia to the place they deserve. If there is BJP, there is respect for everyone, there is respect for faith," Adiyanath said.The Uttar Pradesh chief minister was in Kushinagar to launch several development projects.Accusing the Opposition parties of appeasement politics, the Uttar Pradesh chief minister said that Congress and Samajwadi Party gave nothing to the state apart from disease, unemployment, mafia raj and corruption. The BJP leader urged the people of Uttar Pradesh to not tolerate “the pro-Taliban, casteist and dynastic mentality that shot at the devotees of Lord Ram.” He said that there is no place for appeasement politics under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“Before 2017 was everyone able to get ration?... Earlier those who used to say 'Abba Jaan' digested the ration for the poor." he said. “The ration meant for Srinagar went to Nepal and Bangladesh back then. But if someone tries to take away ration from the poor now, he will definitely land in jail.” #WATCH | Under PM Modi leadership, there is no place for appeasement politics....Before 2017 was everyone able to get ration?....Earlier only those who used to say 'Abba Jaan' were digesting the ration: Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath in Kushinagar pic.twitter.com/CPr6IMbwrySoon after the clip of Adityanath’s speech was shared by news agency ANI, Omar Abdullah, former chief minister of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, hit back at the BJP leader for “blatant communalism” and “hatred” directed towards Muslims.“I’ve always maintained the BJP has no intention of fighting any election with an agenda other than blatant communalism & hatred with all the venom directed towards Muslims. Here is a CM seeking re-election claiming that Muslims ate up all the rations meant for Hindus,” the National Conference leader tweeted. On Saturday, BJP national president JP Nadda virtually launched the party’s booth Vijay Abhiyan (victory at the booths campaign) in UP as Assembly elections in the state is scheduled for early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-adityanath-calls-congress-mother-of-terrorism-takes-abba-jaan-swipe-at-samajwadi-101631463290688.html
12-09-2021||India||Congress’ student body passes resolution to re-appoint Rahul Gandhi as party chief||The National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), the students’ wing of Congress, on Sunday proposed to appoint Rahul Gandhi as the party chief.In its two-day National Executive ‘Sankalp’, the NSUI resolved and proposed in “one voice” that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi should be appointed the next President of the Indian National Congress.“Mr Rahul Gandhi is the foremost and honest leader who took a stand and strengthened the voice of students for their betterment, and also helped in garnering enough support by raising matters of students’ importance and also look for adequate justice for the students’ fraternity on varied subjects to fight for democracy and transparency,” the NSUI’s statement read.It further said, “We recognise Sri Rahul Gandhi’s dedication to India’s students which empowers us, and re-affirm our faith in his keen leadership abilities and statesmanship under which India can reach the pinnacle of success developing into a more sustainable and peaceful society.”The NSUI further said that students feel safe and secure under his guardianship and visionary leadership for socio-political governance.Taking it to Twitter to show his support, NSUI general secretary Vishal Chaudhary tweeted, “I support the Resolution passed at the #Sankalp2021-National Executive meeting of @NSUI for Hon’ble Shri @RahulGandhi ji to become president of @INCIndia again. #MyLeaderRahulGandhi.”The NSUI’s resolution comes a week after the Youth Congress passed a similar resolution to appoint Gandhi the party chief once again. The move came at the conclusion of ICY’s two-day national executive meeting last Monday.Rahul Gandhi, who took over as the Congress president from Sonia Gandhi in 2017, quit the post after the party’s flop show in the 2019 general elections.In his resignation letter, Gandhi had stated that a non-Gandhi should head the Congress, which has mostly been run by members of the Nehru-Gandhi family during its 135-year-long history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-student-body-passes-resolution-to-re-appoint-rahul-gandhi-as-party-chief-101631463925961.html
12-09-2021||India||Not at least in next 25 years…: Hardik Patel has a message for new Gujarat CM||The Opposition in Gujarat welcomed the new chief minister with a jibe claiming first-time MLA Bhupendra Patel may have a tough time to save the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the next election given its monumental failure in handling the coronavirus crisis, besides other major concerns.While extending his wishes to the new CM, Congress working president Hardik Patel said the ruling BJP was trying to hide its failures ahead of the next Assembly elections by bringing a new face. “But what your party could not do in the fields of education and health, for women, youth and farmers in 25 years, how would you achieve the same in one year?”The new CM’s name was announced by Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday, a day after Vijay Rupani gave up the reins.मैं गुजरात के नवनिर्वाचित मुख्यमंत्री भूपेन्द्र भाई पटेल को अपनी शुभकामनाएँ देता हूँ।भाजपा ने आपके रूप में अपना आख़री मुख्यमंत्री बना लिया है, क्योंकि कम से कम अगले 25 वर्षों तक गुजरात की जनता, अब गरीब और युवा विरोधी भाजपा को सत्ता से बाहर रखने का मन बना चुकी हैं। pic.twitter.com/tE1fuHbW1YHe further claimed the BJP got its last chief minister in Patel, because for at least the next 25 years, the state’s voters have decided to keep the anti-poor and anti-youth party away from power. “Now, it’s time to not just change the chief minister, but the entire party,” the Patidar agitation leader further wrote in a tweet.Earlier, he said the resignation of Rupani as the chief minister had made it clear that the BJP was unsuccessful in running the government.Also read | Who is Bhupendra Patel, Gujarat CM, first-time MLA and minister?Meanwhile, independent MLA Jignesh Mevani used a line of late actor AK Hangal from the famous yesteryear blockbuster ‘Sholay’ to welcome the new CM. He wrote “Itna sannata kyun hai bhai?” (Why is there so much silence).
12-09-2021||India||6 states, UTs vaccinate 100% adult population with at least 1 dose; Health minister Mandaviya lauds feat||As Centre and state governments give a major push to the vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease amid fears of an imminent third wave of the pandemic, three states and as many Union territories have achieved cent per cent inoculation of its entire adult population with at least one dose of the jab.The accomplishment was shared by Union minister of health and family welfare Mansukh Mandaviya on Sunday as he congratulated the state governments and the UT administrations and their health workers for the achievement.Also read | Covid-19: Vaccine inequality across districts is high, but it is decreasingHimachal Pradesh was among the first states to have vaccinated all the eligible adults. The other states that found a mention in Mandaviya’s list were Goa and Sikkim, while Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Ladakh and Lakshadweep were the three UTs to have achieved the feat.“Congratulations to these States & UTs for administering the first #COVID19 vaccine dose to 100% of the adult population. Special appreciation for the health workers in these regions for their diligence & commitment,” Mandaviya’s office tweeted, sharing the list and the number of doses administered there.Congratulations to these States & UTs for administering the first #COVID19 vaccine dose to 100% of the adult population.Special appreciation for the health workers in these regions for their diligence & commitment 👏 pic.twitter.com/pH89J7lhtFAccording to the data shared by the minister, 5,10,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered in Sikkim, while the figure is 6,26,000 doses in Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli. In Goa, 1.183 million doses have been delivered, while Himachal Pradesh, with over five million doses, administered the maximum vaccinations among the six states and UTs. Lakshadweep has managed to vaccinate with at least one dose to all adults in the UT with 53,499 doses and Ladakh with 1,97,000 doses.Himachal Pradesh became the first state in the country to vaccinate all adults with at least one dose on August 29, while Goa reached the milestone two days ago on September 10. Both the states were also praised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for their efforts against the disease.I congratulate our Doctors, Nurses and Healthcare Workers for administering the first dose of #COVID19 vaccines to 100% eligible population in Goa. I thank the people of Goa for their support in making this drive a huge success. pic.twitter.com/fsuX7vWmDSThe announcement from Mandaviya also came on the day when the country’s cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage went past the 740-million mark, as announced by the Union health ministry earlier in the day. #LargestVaccineDrive #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/Rc7QlsG1WSIn a separate tweet, Mandaviya said, “India marches ahead with another achievement in its fight against Covid-19, 74 crore vaccine doses administered.” As of 7am on the day, a total of 7,38,20,17,378 doses of the vaccine were administered across the country, according to the Centre’s provisional reports on vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-states-uts-vaccinate-100-adult-population-with-at-least-1-dose-health-minister-mandaviya-lauds-feat-101631458304559.html
12-09-2021||India||Counter-terrorism forces to have fresh training module on Taliban, claims report||Security forces deployed in counter-terrorism operations will get a fresh training module on the Taliban and their modus operandi, a PTI report said, claiming that the central security establishment has asked these forces to prepare and administer a new training module. The decision is in the view of the emerging scenario following the Taliban taking over Afghanistan, the report said.The existing training module has a segment dedicated to the "changing dynamics of border management", which has information on the Taliban, but it is not updated. "That is being added through open-source authentic information and others available in a classified manner to us and the focus is the developments of the last twenty years that took place in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks," an officer told PTI. The training module is meant for BSF, SSB, state police units and those involved in counter-terrorist duties like CRPF, J&K Police etc.After the fall of Afghanistan in the hand of the Taliban on August 15, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat said India is ready to handle terror overflow into India from Afghanistan. "We were concerned about how the terrorist activity from Afghanistan could overflow into India. To that extent, our contingency planning had been ongoing and we are prepared for that," he had said.The new module, which is being prepared has a full-fledged training, intelligence, combat module on the Taliban apart from the latest updates on its leadership, modus operandi etc."It is very important for the last man standing at the border, a checkpost or under a police jurisdiction to know about the Taliban's history and linked activities and strategies. Senior and top commanders of the security forces may know most of the things about Afghanistan and the Taliban situation but they draw their operational strength from the troops or the constable standing on the ground. They need to be informed well," a senior official said.A recent report by news agency ANI claimed that there have been intelligence inputs of a group of 25 Indians with IS allegiance trying to enter India.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/counterterrorism-forces-to-have-fresh-training-module-on-taliban-claims-report-101631460149362.html
12-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: SIT to probe Mumbai rape-murder case and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Was right under their nose in Kabul': Taliban spokesperson divulges how he fooled US-Afghan forcesWhen Taliban spokesperson Zabiullah Mujahid addressed a press conference in person after the Taliban captured Afghanistan, many media personalities expressed disbelief as they used to think that Zabiullah is a made-up name and not a real person. The same perception helped Zabiuallah stay right under the nose of the US and the Afghan forces in Kabul for years. [Read more…]SIT to handle probe into Sakinaka rape-murder caseInvestigations into the brutal rape and murder of a 32-year-old woman in Sakinaka were on Sunday transferred to a special investigation team (SIT). The SIT consists of 11 officers, including a woman assistant commissioner of police who heads the team, officials said. [Read more…]12 Air India Airbus aircraft remain grounded due to want of enginesAt least a dozen Airbus aircraft of the disinvestment-bound Air India are grounded since the past few years for engine replacement, but the airline is unable to perform the task due to shortage of funds. [Read more…]New memory cards, but no access to footage: Iran's deal with UN atomic agencyIran and the UN atomic agency on Sunday reached an agreement to avert the crisis surrounding the nuclear deal. Tehran has agreed to allow the inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to install new memory cards into surveillance cameras at its sensitive nuclear sites and continue the recording. [Read more…]Bhupendra Patel new Gujarat CM: A surprise pick as Vijay Rupani's successorBhupendra Patel will be the chief minister of Gujarat, the party decided on Sunday in its meeting to pick up the successor for Vijay Rupani, a day after Rupani resigned. Bhupendra Patel is an MLA from the Ghatlodiya assembly constituency in Gujarat and had won by a margin of over 1,17,000 votes against Shashikant Patel from Congress. Watch hereKapil Dev reacts to 'world's top bowler' Jasprit Bumrah breaking his 41-year-old recordDuring the fourth Test match at the Oval between India and England, fast bowler Jasprit Bumrah claimed his 100th Test wicket, becoming the quickest India pacer to complete a century of wickets in the longest format. Bumrah achieved the feat by breaking the record of one of India's greatest fast bowlers of all time, Kapil Dev. [Read more…]Kareena Kapoor slips into hospital gown, Aamir Khan wears turban in new Laal Singh Chaddha set picsThe paparazzi in Mumbai caught Kareena Kapoor and Aamir Khan in action on the sets of Laal Singh Chaddha. In the pictures, Kareena wore a hospital gown and a mask whereas Aamir was in character with his turban on. [See pics here…]||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sit-to-probe-mumbai-rape-murder-case-101631458433565.html
12-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu student’s suicide ahead of NEET sparks political row||In yet another tragic incident, a 19-year-old medical aspirant from Salem was found dead in his home on Sunday hours ahead of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) that is being conducted across the country on Sunday. The student is suspected to have died by suicide allegedly due to the fear of not succeeding in the exam as this was his third attempt, officials said. “There is no suicide note but circumstantial evidence points to suicide due to exam fear as he has failed twice in the past and couldn’t get a medical admission,” said a senior police official in Salem who did not wish to be named. “His parents were compelling him to prepare and clear NEET and not go for any other course. The family also says that he was under pressure,” the official added. The student was found dead in his room in the early hours of Sunday. His elder brother is an engineering graduate and his father was an industry worker turned farmhand. The police have registered a case of unnatural death under section 174 of the Indian Penal Code and are conducting enquiries. His death quickly turned into a political storm in the state with the opposition blaming the ruling DMK and the ruling government. The ruling government and its allies in turn have been blaming the Union government. Chief minister MK Stalin assured students that they will bring a bill on Monday that seeks the President’s assent to exempt Tamil Nadu from NEET.Former AIADMK chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami, who hails from the region, blamed the DMK for not fulfilling its election promise to abolish NEET and causing confusion among students over whether the exam will happen or not. “What happened to the promise of the DMK?” he tweeted. State BJP president K Annamalai said that the DMK should stop playing with students’ lives when the Supreme Court has made the exam mandatory. “Students’ lives are being lost for politics,” he said. The BJP is the only party in the state that supports NEET. Reacting to the death of the student, Stalin said in a statement that the DMK government will pass a Bill in the Tamil Nadu assembly on Monday seeking permanent exemption from NEET. “Let the injustice end,” he said. “Our legal battle against NEET is just beginning.” He blamed the Union government’s ‘indifference’ and said that the death reinforces the need to bring back education from the concurrent list to the state list under the Constitution. He appealed to students not to lose hope. Since NEET was introduced in Tamil Nadu in 2017, more than a dozen medical aspirants have died by suicide either due to fear of failing or having failed in the exam. What is the NEET issue in Tamil Nadu?Before NEET, Tamil Nadu considered class 12 board exam marks for admissions to medical colleges. Following a Supreme Court ruling, NEET became a reality in 2017 in Tamil Nadu which had availed an exemption successfully until then. Since then, the state has tried to be exempted from the exam through an ordinance, inside court halls and negotiations with the Union government and civil society protests spilt over to the streets but nothing has worked. Tamil Nadu has one of the highest medical aspirants in the country- one in eight doctors from India is from Tamil Nadu, based on data from the Medical Council of India provided by former Union health minister Harsh Vardhan in the parliament in 2019. The staunch resistance to NEET originated from the plight of disadvantaged students from Tamil Nadu’s hinterlands who have to compete with urban and affluent students who have more access to resources to crack the exam. Like any other exam, NEET too is marred by the tragedy of students dying by suicide. S Anitha, a Dalit teenager, died by suicide in 2017 after failing in NEET, although she was a school topper with 98%. She continues to be the face to rally against the exam for politicians. Her death led to widespread protests across Tamil Nadu. On 22 August 2017, the Supreme Court did not give Tamil Nadu an exemption from NEET in a case in which Anitha had impleaded herself. The fight against the exam also extended as one where the state argues that the Union government is interfering in their autonomy. Voices opposing NEET have argued that the exam has not led to more meritorious students but it has only helped the mushrooming of private centres charging exorbitant fees. Tamil Nadu has been offering free coaching to government and government-aided school students to prepare for NEET. Those for it say that while the rest of the country has taken up NEET, Tamil Nadu has to help its poor and rural students by giving them the right resources. Last year during its regime, the AIADMK introduced a 7.5% horizontal reservation in medical colleges for government school students who clear NEET. This ensured that government school students got 405 seats in the 2020-2021 academic year as opposed to six seats earlier. The previous regime also passed an ordinance against NEET in the state assembly in 2017 but the President did not give his assent.The DMK government after taking over in May constituted a committee chaired by Justice AK Rajan to study the adverse impact of NEET on socially and economically backward students. The state BJP challenged this in the Madras high court which was disposed of. After submitting the report to Stalin on 14 July, Rajan said that a majority among the 86,343 stakeholders in the exercise, were against NEET.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-student-s-suicide-ahead-of-neet-sparks-political-row-101631459303727.html
12-09-2021||India||‘Narcotics jihad’ remark: Kerala BJP unit urges Amit Shah to protect Pala bishop||The Kerala unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has written to Union home minister Amit Shah, seeking Central protection fors Pala bishop Joseph Kallarangatt, who they alleged were threatened by “some extremists” following his ‘narcotics jihad’ comment. The BJP leadership said the “extremist” elements entered the Bishop’s home and threatened him of harming him physically.In a letter dated September 11, BJP general secretary George Kurian wrote, "In this circumstance, I request you (Shah) to kindly intervene in this matter and take necessary action to protect the Bishop and the Christian community," a PTI report said.During a church ceremony in Kottayam on September 9, Kallaranghatt, the bishop of Pala Diocese of the Syro-Malabar church, created a controversy when he said that after “love jihad”, Catholic girls were being lured into committing extremist activities with the help of drugs. Calling them victims of “narcotics jihad”, the bishop urged parents to be careful.“Wherever arms are not used, narcotic drugs are being used and Catholic girls turn victims. Some groups are functioning in the state to help them. To understand this, one needs to analyse how women from other religions landed in the Islamic State camps,” he said.‘Love jihad’ is a controversial term employed by right wing groups to describe inter-religious unions. The bishop said the state authorities are turning a blind eye to instances of ‘love jihad’.The bishop’s statements were severely criticised by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. “It (narcotic jihad) is a new term. I never expected such a statement from a person like him. I have no idea what prompted him to make it. Narcotics has no religion and nobody encourages it,” Vijayan said.“Persons holding such respectable positions should be careful while making such a statement. It will create unnecessary rift and animosity,” he added.Congress legislator and Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly VD Satheesan also urged religious leaders to speak with to ensure social harmony. “We can’t count the number of crimes based on caste or religion. Such a statement was not expected from a religious leader. All will have to keep restraint to ensure brotherhood and peace,” he said.The BJP and several political leaders from the Christian community, however, defended the bishop. State BJP president K Surendran said ‘narcotics jihad’ was reality and those arrested for drug possession have links to terrorist networks.Kurian also claimed in his letter that the “extremists” were incited by Vijayan and Satheesan criticisms of the Bishop.Satheesan, however, hit out at those who went to the bishop’s house over the matter. "We want religious harmony and communal harmony in Kerala more than politics. Do not make this issue worse. Both sections must end this. This should not continue."Muslim political groups in the state like Samasta Kerala Sunni Students Federation (SKSSF) and Kerala Naduvathul Mujahideen have asked the bishop to produce evidence to substantiate his claims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narcotics-jihad-remark-kerala-bjp-unit-urges-amit-shah-to-protect-pala-bishop-101631456412251.html
12-09-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: Sept 13, 1965 — Jawans advance in Lahore sector, Pak loses 55 tanks in fierce battle||New Delhi – In their onward march in the Lahore and Sialkot sectors in the last 24 hours, Indian troops continued to batter Pakistan’s armour capturing 15 more tanks and destroying 40. It was another day of fierce battles and found Pakistan’s crack unit, the First Armoured Division, in complete disarray. Yesterday, the Division, rendered leaderless by the death of its commander, had lost 27 tanks. Of these, 15 had been captured by Indian forces in normal working condition.There was no change in the situation in the Chhamb-Jaurian sector, an official spokesman said here tonight. With the latest toll, the number of the Pakistani tanks accounted for so far has risen to 246-212 destroyed or damaged and 34 captured. On the 50-mile Lahore front from Wagah to Kasur, the Indian forces continued to press forward, despite heavy counter-attacks. Our performance was equally impressive in the Sialkot area. Here too, substantial quantities of armour and equipment were destroyed or captured. Pakistani ranks also lost heavily. In Kashmir, where the Uri-Poonch link-up had already been established, Indian troops occupied two important positions, eight miles north-west of Uri, and a Pakistani post north of Poonch. In the valley as well as in the Poonch-Rajouri area, several Pakistani infiltrators were killed in engagements with the Indian troops. As a result, the raiders were forced to break themselves up in smaller groups.Jammu operationsThese solid successes were, to a large extent, made possible by flying sorties of the Indian Air Force in support of the ground units. Fresh attacks were also made on several Pakistani airfields. The Pakistani air force bombed Adampur, Pathankot and Halwara airports but no significant damage was done. According to first details of the operation Sialkot, given today by an army observer, the Indian bag included a huge ammunition dump -anti-tank recoilless guns, Bren guns, light machine-guns, automatic rifles, mines, grenades and other ammunition-and heavy trucks and jeeps.The operations in the Jammu sector, he said, began with heavy artillery bombardment by Indian troops on the midnight of Sept. 7 and 8, following reports that Pakistan was building up for a strike. The stiff resistance encountered confirmed this. Indian troops had, by the morning overcome the enemy and occupied two strategic strongholds, commanding a vital trunk route in Pakistani territory. Indian troops advanced along this route.Indian Army engineers quickly built roads in the face of enemy fire so that our vehicles and guns could move. The signals played their part a laying communication lines, while the personnel of the Medical Corps rendered assistance to the wounded right under enemy fire. The ASC kept the wheels moving so that supplies were carried to the frontline. Officers and jawans of the Indian Army, the observer said, were at their best and performed acts of gallantry in utter disregard of their personal safety. Jawans approached the enemy machine-gun positions which were belching fire and silenced them. A jawan, who was severely wounded himself, refused to be evacuated b and killed four of the enemy at close quarters. A junior commissioned officer, leading a platoon, found his advance blocked by machine-gun positions. The entire platoon crawled under the enemy’s wilting fire, hurled grenades at the machine-guns and in a final assault, took the position. The troops combed the villages for weapons, arms and ammunition, while ensuring that the civilian population did not suffer. Indian troops gave food to many Pakistani villagers who did not have anything to eat, An old lady told the observer: “We have no doubt that you are not to blame for what is happening to us. The trouble was started by our Government.” The two-pronged drive from Uri and Poonch to straighten the loop on the ceasefire line was completed on Friday night with the capture of three more Pakistani posts in the area.The loop covers an area of about 150 sq. miles with high mountain ranges rising from 8,000 ft. to 13,000 ft. The mountain heights in the area have been used by the Pakistanis for repeated attacks on both the Kashmir valley and the Poonch area of Jammu. They were also used as bases by Pakistani infiltrators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-sept-13-1965-jawans-advance-in-lahore-sector-pak-loses-55-tanks-in-fierce-battle-101631455762622.html
12-09-2021||India||‘AAP’s growing influence pushed BJP to change CM in Gujarat’: Raghav Chadha on Vijay Rupani’s resignation||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA and national spokesperson Raghav Chadha on Sunday said that his party’s growing influence in Gujarat has forced the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to change their chief minister in the state. Chadha’s remarks follow the resignation of Vijay Rupani as Gujarat CM earlier on Saturday and the ensuing episode on Sunday, when Ghatlodia MLA Bhupendra Patel was elected unanimously for the state’s top post during the BJP’s legislature party meeting.“Be it Uttarakhand or Gujarat where the AAP has entered BJP had to change the chief ministers. They changed the chief minister in Uttarakhand several times. Now is the time for Gujarat. The influence of AAP is growing in Gujarat. AAP is the big reason that BJP needs to change the chief minister in Gujarat,” news agency ANI quoted Chadha as saying.Also read | Work to better society, not for posts: Delhi CM Arvind KejriwalFurther, he also slammed the opposition Indian National Congress (INC) party and called it a “compromised opposition” and said only AAP has challenged the BJP. “There was no one who challenged the non-performing chief minister or the government in the state. Congress does not have that ability as it is a compromised Opposition. It is AAP that has challenged the BJP. It came under pressure. AAP made BJP understand: either perform or perish,” he further said.However, this was not the first time Chadha has made such a claim. After Rupani’s resignation on Saturday, Chadha tweeted “AAP breaches BJP's citadel, wins 27 seats in Surat, captures the space of opposition in Gujarat dislodging ineffective Congress. BJP forced to remove its CM,” sharing a news clipping about the resignation. He referred to the elections to the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) earlier in February this year, where the AAP won 27 out of the 120 seats and the BJP won the remaining 93. Congress, which held 36 seats earlier, won no seats in SMC.The AAP has made its national ambitions clear and has tried to project itself as the alternative for the two national parties, BJP and the Congress, in many states. The party has announced its decision to contest in the state assembly elections to be held in Uttar Pradesh (UP), Uttarakhand, Goa, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab, all set to go to polls in 2022, drawing major inspiration from their performance in the local body elections.Senior AAP leader and party’s UP incharge Sanjay Singh said that the party would contest from all seats in UP, where it had previously tried its luck in the 2014 and 2019 parliamentary elections from some seats without any gains. Similar to Chadha, Singh also pointed to the party’s performance in the UP panchayat polls where it won more than the Congress. “Our party is stronger than the Congress in the state. While the Congress won 40 seats in panchayat polls, we scored a victory in 83 panchayats. AAP got over 40 lakh votes in these polls, where 1600 party candidates contested,” news agency PTI on Sunday quoted him as saying.With the state elections due next year, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal was re-elected as the party’s national convenor for the third time, in the party’s national council meeting. The newly elected 34-member executive council met for the first time on Sunday via video-conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aaps-growing-influence-pushed-bjp-to-change-cm-in-gujarat-raghav-chadha-on-vijay-rupani-s-resignation-101631454938336.html
12-09-2021||India||‘New energy to Gujarat’s development’: BJP leaders wish CM-elect Bhupendra Patel||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders, including Union ministers Amit Shah and Pralhad Joshi, on Sunday conveyed their wishes to Bhupendra Patel on his appointment as the next chief minister of Gujarat. The decision to elect Patel was taken earlier in the day during a legislature party meeting of the state BJP unit in Gandhinagar, a day after Vijay Rupani tendered his resignation as the chief minister.Shah said the state’s sustainable development would get new energy under Patel’s leadership. “I believe under the guidance of Narendra Modi and your leadership, the state’s sustainable development journey will get new energy and momentum and Gujarat will continue to be a leader in good governance and public welfare,” Shah wrote on Twitter. BJP’s national president JP Nadda echoed similar views in his congratulatory message.Also read | Bhupendra Patel to be new Gujarat Chief Minister, to take oath tomorrowJoshi, one of the BJP’s central observers for Gujarat, called the appointment “a very good decision”, adding the legislature party had unanimously decided to elect Patel as its new leader. Further, in a tweet, Joshi said, “Congratulations to Shri @Bhupendrapbjp ji on becoming the Chief Minister of Gujarat. May the state continue to scale new heights of progress under his leadership.”Senior BJP leader and Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan too conveyed his wishes to Patel. “May the state and the party touch new heights under your able leadership, best wishes,” Chouhan wrote on Twitter.Earlier in the day, Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who is the BJP’s other central observer for Gujarat, announced Patel’s appointment in the role and said the swearing-in ceremony would take place soon. News agency ANI quoted state BJP chief CR Patil as saying Patel would take oath on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-energy-to-gujarat-s-development-bjp-leaders-wish-cm-elect-bhupendra-patel-101631454246152.html
12-09-2021||India||Low pressure over Bay of Bengal to turn into depression, IMD predicts heavy rains in Odisha, Chhattisgarh||A low pressure area over the Bay of Bengal is likely to intensify into a depression by late Sunday night and it is expected to bring extremely heavy rains over parts of Odisha and Chhattisgarh during the next two days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.The IMD has also issued a red-colour coded alert to Odisha and Chhattisgarh for September 13, cautioning that the states are expected to witness heavy rainfall activity. "A well marked low pressure area lies over northwest and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal. It is very likely to move west-northwestwards and concentrate into a depression over northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining areas of north Odisha-West Bengal coasts during next 12 hours," the IMD said on Sunday afternoon.It is very likely to move west-northwestwards across north Odisha and north Chhattisgarh during subsequent 2-3 days, it added. "Isolated extremely heavy rainfall activity (is likely) over Odisha and Chhattisgarh during next two days," the IMD added. The IMD said isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall activity is very likely to continue over Gujarat, north Konkan, north central Maharashtra and east Rajasthan during next five days.Isolated heavy falls are also very likely over coastal and south interior Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal and Kerala during the next three days, it said, adding isolated very heavy falls are likely over coastal Andhra Pradesh on September 12 and Telangana in September. 13.The IMD added that isolated to scattered rainfall activity is likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh during next five days. Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls is likely over Uttarakhand from September 12-16, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/low-pressure-over-bay-of-bengal-to-turn-into-depression-met-dept-predicts-heavy-rains-in-odisha-chhattisgarh-101631450350350.html
12-09-2021||India||‘Ruff’ weather? Help your pet battle storm anxiety||With monsoon in no hurry to retreat this year, many parts of the country have been receiving heavy rains accompanied by thunder and lightning even in September. While for humans, the rumble of the thunder and the pitter patter of raindrops might be soothing, for their furry friends it spells storm anxiety. But with a little understanding, pet parents can help the pets feel safe and secure during storms too.Malvika Vahi, a pet parent to Honey, an eight-year-old German Shepherd is all too familiar with this phenomenon. She says, “Honey runs and hides under the cupboard and keeps whimpering. She hides there the whole day/evening till the rains have passed. We let her hide and keep blankets to drown out the sound as much as we can.” For animals, anxiety is the body’s natural response to stress. “Storm anxiety in pets can be defined as their body’s natural response of restlessness and disarray during thunderstorms, lightning or when the cloud cover gets dark. Pets are the first to sense the drop of barometric pressure and the change in scents due to their superior hearing and sense of smell and this leads to a whole lot of behavioural changes,” says Dr Dilip Sonune, director of veterinary services, Wiggles.in. From hiding in confined spaces, trembling, barking, howling, whining, to pacing, drooling or engaging in destructive behaviour, they have various responses. Dr Pranjal Khandare, a veterinarian, Wiggles.in explains, “Pets can hear a louder range of frequency than us, hence they show thunderstorm anxiety by urinating, hiding or barking excessively.” Empathy is the key to helping your furry buddy. It is very important to observe and understand the triggers that make them anxious. “Stay close to your pet to give them a sense of security and love. Distract them with their favourite toys, food or treats but do not force it upon them,” advises Dr Sonune. Urvi Raghvani, a dog mom to Groot, a two-and-a-half months old Labrador says, “Groot does not eat anything when it starts thundering. I take him close and talk to him in a calm tone.”They can be covered with blankets or a jacket, or they can hold on to your old t-shirt for reassurance that you’re with them. It’s also important to be patient with them to make them feel loved. It’s important to be patient and understanding when your dog deals with anxiety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ruff-weather-help-your-pet-battle-storm-anxiety-101631449521497.html
12-09-2021||India||Who is Bhupendra Patel, Gujarat CM, first-time MLA and minister?||Bhupendra Patel, popularly known as Bhupendrabhai Patel, will lead Gujarat in its next assembly election in 2022 as the party has announced his name as the successor of Vijay Rupani, who resigned from the post on Saturday. The announcement is as surprising as Vijay Rupani's resignation as 59-year-old Bhupendra Patel is not only the first-time Chief minister but also the first-time minister of Gujarat.Here is all you need to know about the new chief minister of Gujarat> Bhupendra Patel is a first-time minister but his association with the RSS goes long back.> He is believed to be a close aide of Anandiben Patel.> Bhupendra Patel became an MLA for the first time in 2017 when he defeated Congress's Shashikant Patel by over 1 lakh votes. He represents the Assembly constituency that is part of the Gandhinagar Lok Sabha seat represented by Union minister Amit Shah.> Before contesting the Assembly election, he was active in local politics.> Bhupendra Patel belongs to the Patidar community.> Bhupendra Patel held various administrative posts of civic bodies in past. He served as the chairman of the Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority. He also served as the president of Memnagar Nagarpalika.> The new CM is an engineer by profession.> Bhupendra Patel also has a very clear political background with no criminal record, a report said.>  Patel is also a trustee of Sardardham Vishwa Patidar Kendra, an organisation dedicated to the socio-economic development of the Patidar community, PTI reported. Amid allegations and speculations that Bhupendra Patel will be a "remote-controlled" CM, Union home minister Amit Shah expressed confidence in Bhupendra Patel's leadership. "I believe that under the guidance of Narendra Modi, the state's sustainable development will keep up its momentum," Amit Shah tweeted.After Vijay Rupani resigned on Saturday, speculations regarding the probable contenders for the tough job to handle Prime Minister and home minister's home state in the election year were going on. Names of Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, deputy chief minister Nitin Patel were doing the rounds as the argument was that the BJP might want to replace soft-spoken Vijay Rupani with a strong, more mainstream politician. Bhupendra Patel's name was not among the frontrunners. But in the meeting, his name was unanimously accepted while he was sitting in the last row, reports said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-is-bhupendra-patel-gujarat-cm-first-time-mla-and-minister-101631446281167.html
12-09-2021||India||Moily bats for Prashant Kishor's induction in Congress, blasts ‘anti-reform’ G-23 leaders||Amid reports of a divide in Congress over poll strategist Prashant Kishor’s induction, senior party leader Veerappa Moily said that those against it are “anti-reform”. Voicing strong support for Kishor’s inclusion, Moily argued that it will be “quite beneficial” for Congress if he joins the party instead of working from outside. Congress president Sonia Gandhi has already held discussions with several senior leaders on the issue and is expected to take a final call on Kishor’s induction, news agency PTI reported last week."Let there be strong willpower to join hands with Sonia ji to ensure that the party's organisation is strengthened within a couple of months. This is what I proposed that Prashant Kishor can inject that kind of resurgence of the Congress party (that is needed) by plan and design," Moily told PTI.The former Union minister also warned against the institutionalisation of G-23, the group of 23 Congress leaders who had written to Sonia Gandhi seeking a complete overhaul of the party. Talking about the letter written to Sonia Gandhi last year, Moily said that he and some other leaders only signed on it to bring reforms to the party and “not to destroy it.” He accused some of the Congress leaders of misusing G-23."If they (some leaders) persist (with G-23) that means there is a vested interest for a few of them to work against the Congress party which we don't subscribe to and rather oppose it," the former Karnataka chief minister said.Speaking on the prospects of Congress, Moily asserted that the grand old party would be the fulcrum of the Opposition alliance in the 2024 general elections. Recounting the party's comeback in the past, he insisted that Congress remains the main plank of Indian politics."We may lose sometimes but it cannot be said that we will lose forever. For example, in 1977 we lost and in 1980 with all the allegations against her (Indira Gandhi), ultimately the people found that they wanted the Congress and Indira ji came back, this is the history of the Congress," Moily said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/moily-bats-for-prashant-kishor-s-induction-in-congress-blasts-anti-reform-g-23-leaders-101631445049791.html
12-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Stalin promises law for exemption from NEET after boy dies by suicide and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.TN boy dies by suicide before NEET, Stalin promises law for exemption from examA 19-year-old medical aspirant from Salem was found dead at his home, hours ahead of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admissions to undergraduate medical courses in different colleges across India. Read MoreCong in talks with JD(S) over coalition in Kalaburagi civic bodyCongress leader and former Karnataka minister Sharan Prakash Patil on Sunday said the party is in talks with JD(S) to stitch a coalition in Kalaburagi municipal corporation. Read MoreHeat and dust over Bishop’s ‘narcotic jihad’ comment yet to settle in KeralaHectic efforts are on to contain a communal divide in Kerala after the controversial remark of the Pala Bishop on “narcotic jihad” triggered a war of words between different communities. Read More‘He’s a renowned skipper': Chappell names 3 replacements for Rahane at No.5, suggests new possible vice-captainFormer Australia captain Ian Chappell agreed that the current Indian side is the one to beat but he also suggested areas of improvement. Read MoreAkshay Kumar shares PM Modi's long letter to him after mother's death: ‘My dear Akshay…'Actor Akshay Kumar has posted the long letter sent to him by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday. Read MoreJacqueline Fernandez in sheer saree worth ₹54k paints the internet romantic redWedding season is upon us, which means it is time to revisit some note-worthy looks of our favourite best-dressed celebrities. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-stalin-promises-law-for-exemption-from-neet-after-boy-dies-by-suicide-and-all-the-latest-news-101631444577611.html
12-09-2021||India||Traffic moves without restrictions in Kochi as Kerala repeals Sunday lockdown||Traffic movement continued normally without any restrictions at Kochi in Kerala on the first Sunday after the state government repealed the full lockdown on Sundays earlier in the week, news agency ANI reported. Previously on September 7, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan announced that the weekend lockdown in the state would be lifted, along with the night curfew, citing a fall in the state’s test positivity rate.Night curfews from Monday to Saturday, between 10pm and 6am, were introduced in the state to control the high number of daily infections in the state following the Onam festival. Kerala reported over 30,000 new cases everyday for several days after the festival, following which the night curfew and the complete lockdown on Sundays were introduced to curb the spread of the virus.Also read | ‘Kerala accounts for 68.59% of India’s Covid-19 cases’, says health ministryHowever, on September 7, Vijayan said that the weekly positivity rate fell to 17.91% for the period between August 31 to September 6 from the 18.49% recorded during the previous week.Further, educational institutions would also be reopened in the state from October 4, the CM had announced. The state government has said that all teachers, staff and students should be vaccinated before they enter the premises again.While the daily new infections in Kerala have been high recently, it has been found decreasing in the past two days. The state logged 20,487 new cases on Saturday and 26,200 new cases on Friday after reporting over 30,000 cases on Thursday. At least 4,355,191 people have tested positive for the disease so far, according to a bulletin from the state government on Saturday while the death toll stood at 22,484. The active caseload continues to remain above the 200,000-mark and was recorded at 231,792, according to the latest data.Among its districts, Ernakulam (of which Kochi is a part) and Kozhikode with 34,811 active cases and 31,362 active cases added the maximum to the state’s tally, while Malappuram followed next with 28,219 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/traffic-moves-without-restrictions-in-kochi-as-kerala-repeals-sunday-lockdown-101631445154169.html
12-09-2021||India||Heat and dust over Bishop’s ‘narcotic jihad’ comment yet to settle in Kerala||Hectic efforts are on to contain a communal divide in Kerala after the controversial remark of the Pala Bishop on “narcotic jihad” triggered a war of words between different communities. Many groups took out rallies outside the bishop’s house in the last two days supporting and decrying his statement even as religious and political leaders asked their supporters to maintain restraint and keep communal amity. While addressing a religious congregation in a church in Kuravilangad (Kottayam) Bishop Mar Joseph Kallaranghatt last Thursday said Catholic girls and youth were becoming victims of a “narcotic jihad” perpetrated by a section and decried authorities for turning a blind eye towards it. Many including, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Congress leaders, decried the Bishop for making a sweeping comment but the Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council (KCBC), the highest body of Catholics in the state, and the Bharatiya Janata Party rallied behind him. The church-supported Deepika daily on Sunday wrote an editorial reminding the CM that he represents the whole state and he has to hear all sections before rejecting their woes. “Continuous appeasement politics is fast turning the state into a nursery of terror activities. The Bishop’s statement is based on facts and experience and instead of addressing it, some are turning against him. Those who think that he can be silenced by a barrage of criticism they are in fool’s world,” it wrote in a hard-hitting editorial asking the CM to examine his statement before rejecting it outright. The CM had expressed surprise over the Bishop’s comment, saying he was hearing the term, ‘narcotic jihad’ for the first time. “I never expected such a statement from a person like him. Persons holding such respectable positions should be careful while making such a statement. It will create rift and animosity. It is a fact that all religions, as well as the government, are concerned about the increased use of narcotics. It is not proper to put everything into the account of a particular section,” he said on Friday. Opposition leader VD Satheesan also criticised it and said it was a trap set by Sangh Parivar outfits. “It seems the Bishop’s statement is based on some social media comments. We all know most of these social media accounts are being managed by the parivar cronies. It is a planned to move to create a communal polarization,” he said. The Muslim League, an ally of the Congress, also called for restraint. But the KCBC defended the bishop saying he was cautioning against some dangerous tendencies prevailing in the society and they can’t be dismissed summarily as isolated incidents. “It is a fact that Kerala is facing certain serious social crises and among them rise in narcotic abuse tops. His words should be taken up responsibly, instead of attacking him,” it said. Minister of state of external affairs, V Muraleedharan, also criticised the attack on the Bishop. “It seems he spoke on the basis of conviction, not emotion. The term ‘narcotic jihad’ is not new, even world bodies said proceeds from narcotics was a major source of terror funding,” he said, adding, there was a concerted move to silence the Bishop. He said no one is against any community but all will have to isolate disruptive forces. Addressing a church ceremony, the Bishop came out against a particular community saying that Catholic girls and youth were targeted by it. “Wherever arms are not used, narcotic drugs are being used and Catholic girls turn victims. Some groups are functioning in the state to support them. To understand this, one needs to analyse how women from other religions landed in the Islamic State camps,” he said. He was referring to the trip of 21 people, including five converts to Islam, from north Kerala to Afghanistan in 2016 to reportedly join the Islamic State. Drug abuse on the rise Records show a sharp rise in drug-related cases and seizures in the state, indicating an increase in drug consumption in the state like several other parts of the country. In the past, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also highlighted how drugs was becoming a major issue across states.Even at the peak of the pandemic, many rave parties were busted in Kochi and hill destinations after a tip-off. According to state excise records, there is a sharp increase in the seizure of party drugs in Kerala. In 2018, contraband worth ₹650 crore was seized and in 2019 it went up to ₹720 crore while in 2020, it increased to ₹800 crore.A senior police officer, not willing to be named, admitted that drug addiction was a major issue of concern and higher seizure has is a result of increased vigilance by police. “It is a societal problem and cannot be solved through policing. We need societal reforms to deal with it,” said Prakash Singh, former Director-General of Police, Uttar Pradesh. While hearing a plea in February 2020, the High Court had observed that the drug abuse in the state was very high. “The scale of drug abuse in Kerala is unacceptably high. The major problem faced by probe agencies is their inability to plug supply channels that bring contraband to the state,” the court had said. Three cities from the state - Kochi, Kozhikode and Thiruvananthapuram - figure on the list of 127 most vulnerable cities for drug abuse by the Union ministry of social justice with a high prevalence of drug dependency. Last week MDMA (a synthetic drug called methylenedioxymethamphetamine) worth ₹13 crore was seized from a flat in Kochi. “It is a fact that the use of narcotic substances is high. It is a social evil and everyone will have to fight it united. People from all classes and religions are involved in such offences. But you can’t put everything into the account of a particular community,” said Muslim Educational Society president Dr Fazal Gafoor. Such statements will vitiate the social fabric of the state, he said and asked everyone to keep utmost restraint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heat-and-dust-over-bishop-s-narcotic-jihad-comment-yet-to-settle-in-kerala-101631444182757.html
12-09-2021||India||Bhupendra Patel to be new Gujarat Chief Minister, to take oath tomorrow||Bhupendra Patel will be the chief minister of Gujarat, the party decided on Sunday in its meeting to pick up the successor for Vijay Rupani, a day after Rupani resigned. Bhupendra Patel became an MLA in 2017 from the Ghatlodiya assembly constituency in Gujarat after defeating Congress's Shashikant Patel by a margin of over 1,17,000 votes. He also chaired the standing committee of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation. "Bhupendra Patel elected as the new leader of BJP legislative party," Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar said announcing Patel's name as the next CM. The meeting to decide a successor of Vijay Rupani began at 3pm in the presence of central observers Tomar and Prahlad Joshi. It has been decided that the new CM will take oath on Monday. With a year left before the state goes to the polls, the removal of Rupani was seen as BJP's usual process of pre-poll shake-up, following feedback from the grassroots level. All eyes were on the crucial choice that the party makes to replace Vijay Rupani and observers believe that once again the party has gone for an unusual choice. Bhupendra Patel is not only the first time chief minister of the state but also a first-time minister.After Rupani resigned, several names were doing the rounds but choosing Bhupendra Patel was a surprise decision of the BJP as he was not among the frontrunners.  Apart from Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, Gujarat deputy chief minister Nitin Patel's name was doing the rounds as a probable successor to which he reacted and said the new CM will have to be popular, strong, experienced and the one who is known and acceptable to all. "I am not here to express my personal opinion on the possible name. The exercise to elect the next chief minister is not just a work to fill in a vacancy. Gujarat should get a successful leadership so that the state can develop, keeping all together," PTI quoted Nitin Patel as saying before the meeting started.State BJP chief CR Paatil, who was also believed to be one of the contenders dismissed the speculation on Saturday and said he was not in the race. "Vijay Rupani has resigned from his post today. Naturally, there are a lot of names in the media for the new Chief Minister, including my name. I want to make it clear that I am not in any such race. Together with the new chief minister appointed by the party and Vijay Rupani, we will achieve our target of winning 182 out of 182 seats in the next assembly elections and work to strengthen the party," Paatil said.Rupani was the fourth chief minister to have resigned this year following Uttarakhand's Trivendra Singh Rawat, Tirath Singh Rawat and Karnataka's BS Yediyurappa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhupendra-patel-to-be-new-gujarat-chief-minister-101631442423654.html
12-09-2021||India||TN boy dies by suicide before NEET, Stalin promises law for exemption from exam||A 19-year-old medical aspirant from Salem was found dead at his home, hours ahead of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admissions to undergraduate medical courses in different colleges across India. The student is suspected to have died by suicide, driven allegedly by the fear of failure in his third attempt to clear the examination, police said.“There is no suicide note but circumstantial evidence points to death by suicide due to fear of the examination as he couldn’t clear it in the past to secure a medical seat,” said a senior police officer in Salem who did not wish to be named. The student was found dead in his room in the early hours of Sunday.“His parents were compelling him to prepare and clear NEET. The family also says that he was under pressure,” the officer added. The police have registered a case of unnatural death under Section 174 of the IPC and are conducting enquiries.Former All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami, who hails from the region, accused the ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam or DMK for not fulfilling its election promise to abolish NEET and thereby causing confusion among students who didn’t know whether the examinations will happen or not. “What happened to the promise of the DMK?” he tweeted.Reacting to the death of the student, chief minister M K Stalin, said in a statement that the DMK government will pass a bill in the Tamil Nadu assembly tomorrow seeking permanent exemption from NEET. “Let the injustice end,” he said. Since NEET was introduced in Tamil Nadu in 2017, more than a dozen medical aspirants have died by suicide either due to the fear of failure or failure in the exam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-boy-dies-by-suicide-before-neet-stalin-promises-law-for-exemption-from-exam-101631439560307.html
12-09-2021||India||Terrorists fire on cops in Srinagar, officer dies||An officer succumbed to his injuries that he sustained when terrorists attacked a police party in the Khanyar area of Old Srinagar city on Sunday.Police said that Arshid Ahmad, a probationary sub-inspector, was fired upon by the militants. Ahmad passed away at Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Science in Soura where he was rushed to following the attack."Around 1:35pm, terrorists fired upon a police naka party at Khanyar resulting in injuries to PSI (probationary sub-inspector) Arshid Ahmad of PS Khanyar," an officer was earlier quoted as saying by PTI.The area has been cordoned off and a hunt launched to nab the attackers, he added.(Further details awaited)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorists-fire-on-cops-in-srinagar-officer-injured-101631436979010.html
12-09-2021||India||BJP MP Varun Gandhi raises farmers’ issues like sugarcane prices, subsidies||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Pilibhit in Uttar Pradesh, Varun Gandhi has written to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath seeking more remuneration for sugarcane crop; subsidy in diesel and electricity prices and doubling of money given to farmers under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana.Gandhi has said that farmers in his constituency have raised the demand for re-visiting the prices of sugarcane crop, pointing out that the prices have gone up by just ₹10 per quintal in the last four years. He has sought an increase in the minimum support price (MSP) for sugarcane to at least ₹400 per quintal for the year 2021–22 keeping in view the increased input costs.While the UP government has claimed to have cleared almost 84% of dues to about 4.5 million sugar cane farmers of the state, Gandhi has pointed out that some dues still remain unpaid. The Yogi Adityanath government claims to have paid ₹1.42 lakh crore to sugarcane farmers in the past four years.Referring to the farming community’s alleged economic distress, the BJP MP pitched for a ₹200 per quintal bonus for farmers who grow wheat and rice apart from giving them seeds at cheaper rates and at least ₹20 per litre subsidy in diesel prices.Gandhi has also pitched for doubling the ₹6,000 per annum, paid to farmers under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana and accepting their demand to be included among workers, considered eligible to participate in the national minimum rural employment guarantee scheme.This is not the first time that Gandhi has raised issues related to the farmers. Last week, commenting on the ongoing farmers’ stir and the rally seeking a roll back of the farm laws, Gandhi said there was a need for “re-engagement” with the protesting farmers. Referring to the farmers as “our own flesh and blood”, Gandhi insisted that their “hardships” should be taken into consideration.“The last few years have been an economically tumultuous time more-so for our farmers who have borne the brunt on many angles,” said Varun Gandhi. “As a public representative who has written on rural economics and worked with farmers for years, I felt the requests I made to the UP CM are fiscally affordable and can be immediately actualised and would go a long way in normalising Govt-farmer relations”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mp-varun-gandhi-raises-farmers-issues-like-sugarcane-prices-subsidies-101631437400201.html
12-09-2021||India||Over 100 Myanmar nationals enter Mizoram after military offensive across border||Over 100 Myanmar nationals have entered two districts of Mizoram in the past few days following a military offensive across the border, the state government said. “I have heard that hundreds of people from Myanmar have entered Mizoram in the past few days. But I don’t have the exact figure of how many as I am under quarantine at present,” Mizoram home minister Lalchamliana said. According to news reports “intense fighting” has broken out between armed civilians opposed to the military rule in Myanmar and the neighbouring nation’s army in the past few days near the border with Mizoram. The fresh influx is believed to comprise Myanmarese nationals trying to flee the violence. Since March this year, thousands of Myanmar nationals, especially those residing close to the border with India, have entered Mizoram. According to official figures, over 10,000 of them are residing in the northeastern state at present. “There has been a fresh influx of Myanmar nationals into Mizoram in recent days due to fighting just across the border. These people have entered Champhai and Hnahthial districts. I believe they will return as soon as the situation across the border improves,” Mizoram chief secretary Lalnunmawia Chuaungo said. Mizoram and Myanmar share a 510 km border. Most of the refugees who have entered Mizoram are from the Chin state of Myanmar, which borders six districts of the state—Champhai, Hnahthial, Serchhip, Saitual, Siaha and Lawngtlai. Mizos and Chins share close ethnic ties. “Since the past few days several groups of people in small batches have entered our district through various border points. We don’t have the exact figure of the influx in recent days. At present the district has around 730 people who came in during the past few months. They are being accommodated by village elders in 6-7 villages,” said Saizikpuii, additional deputy commissioner Hnahthial. “On Wednesday, 35 Myanmar nationals, most of them old and infirm women and small children, entered our district. Local NGOs have accommodated them in temporary shelters built away from Zawlsei village,” Maria CT Zuali, deputy commissioner of Champhai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-100-myanmar-nationals-enter-mizoram-after-military-offensive-across-border-101631435480134.html
12-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Chirag Paswan shares PM Modi's message on father's death anniversary and all the latest news||Chirag’s heart warms up with PM Modi’s message on Paswan’s death anniversaryPrime Minister Narendra Modi late Saturday evening spoke to Member Of Parliament (MP) from Jamui and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan on his father and former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan’s first death anniversary. Read more'The villain of the piece was not India': Nasser Hussain has a different take on 5th Test cancellationFormer England captain Nasser Hussain refused to blame India for the cancellation of the fifth and final Test at Old Trafford in Manchester. BCCI and the IPL have been in the firing line ever since the last match of the India-England series got cancelled due to Covid-19 scares in the Indian camp. Read moreKapil Sharma reminds Kangana Ranaut how she called Twitter users ‘velle’ in 2017, this was her reactionActor Kangana Ranaut appeared on The Kapil Sharma Show's Saturday episode to promote her latest movie, Thalaivii. There, host Kapil Sharma reminded Kangana of one of her previous appearances on the show, when she did not speak highly of those who ‘waste time’ on social media. Read moreSonal Chauhan practises this yoga pose to relieve menstrual cramps, reduce belly fatThere are several health benefits related to yoga that improve the physical and psychological aspects of our life. Bollywood diva Sonal Chauhan, known for her performance in Jannat opposite actor Emraan Hashmi, is talking about the same in her latest post. Read moreAstronaut aboard ISS posts pic of ‘strange shapes’. Can you guess what it shows?A post shared by astronaut Thomas Pesquet, presently aboard the International Space Station (ISS), about a few images taken from space has left people intrigued. There is a chance that his share will leave you amazed too. Read more'If a chaiwala can become PM': Soren on 'sabziwala' plotting to topple his govtIn the latest edition of The Interview, Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren speaks to Hindustan Times and talks about an alleged plot to topple his government. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-chirag-paswan-shares-pm-modi-s-message-on-his-father-s-death-anniversary-and-all-the-latest-news-101631430633532.html
12-09-2021||India||Cloudburst in J&K's Baramulla, 5 members of tribal community missing: Report||A cloudburst occurred on Sunday in Jammu and Kashmir’s (J&K’s) Baramulla district, following which five members of the Bakarwal tribal community were reported missing in the Rajouri district, reports said. Citing the disaster management authority under the J&K government, the ANI news agency said that officials are awaiting further details on the incident.Jammu and Kashmir | Cloud burst reported at Kafarnar Bahak, in upper reaches of Baramulla district. Five Bakarwals from Rajouri district were reported missing. Details awaited: Disaster Management Authority, J&K GovtLocal media in the Kashmir valley also reported that at least five members of a nomad family went missing, possibly feared dead, after the cloudburst. A report by the Free Press Kashmir indicated that the cloudburst may have taken place in the Rafiabad area of north Kashmir's Baramulla district.Although the number of persons missing or potentially dead in the cloudburst incident has not been officially confirmed so far, the possibility of a higher figure than what is initially being reported cannot be ruled out just yet.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cloudburst-in-j-k-s-baramulla-5-members-of-tribal-community-missing-report-101631430689880.html
12-09-2021||India||Bengaluru water supply to be disrupted today, tomorrow for emergency repair||Several areas in Bengaluru will see a disruption in the water supply on Sunday and Monday, the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) has notified. The News Minute cited a note from BWSSB saying that emergency repair work to arrest leakages in a 1750mm transmission main pumping station is set to start and that water supply will be affected in areas falling under the Cauvery third stage.Bengaluru usually faces water supply issues every month. The city faced a water supply issue between 6am on August 31 to 2am on September 1, due to maintenance work, according to a BWSSB press release. Bengaluru again witnessed disruption in water supply in several parts of the city on June 30 and July 1. This happened because the BWSSB carried out repair work to fix a leakage in one of their water pipelines.This time the areas to be affected in Bengaluru are Gandhinagar, Kumarapark cast, Vasanthanagar, high grounds, Sampangiramnagar, CKC Garden, KS Garden, Town Hall, Lalbagh road from 1st to 4th cross, Dharmaraya Swamy temple ward, Cubbonpete, Nagarthapete, Kumbarapete, Cottonpete, Chikpete, Bakshigarden, Bharathinagara, St Johns Road, Haines Road, Narayana Pillai Street, Sangam Road, Kamraj Road, Veerapillai Street, Infantry Road, Shivajinagar, Lavelle Road, Frazer Town, Byadarahalli, Williams Town, Sindy colony, NC colony, Coles road, Machalibetta in Cox Town, Doddigunta, Jeevanahlli, Vivekanand Nagar, Hutchins Road, Devis Road, Cooke Town, old Byappanahalli, Nagayyanapalya, Sathyanagar and Maruthisevanagar.Few other places that are likely to be hit by water crisis in these two days include Pilianna garden, Kushainagar, P&T colony, Muneshwara nagar DJ Halli, Pillannagarden, KG Halli, Nagawara, Sarnadha Nagar, Pillanna garden-1st, 2nd and 3rd stage, New Bagalur, old Bagalur, Lingarajpura, Chamarajpet, Bank Colony, Srinivasa nagar, Gavipuram, Hanumanthnagara, Girinagar, Bytarayanapura, Raghavendra block, Avalahalli, Muneshwara block, Kalidas layout, Srinagar, BSK 1st Stage, Yeshwanthpur (part), Malleshwaram, Kumarapark, Jayamahal, Sheshadripuram, Nandidurga road extension, JC Nagar, Sadashivanagar, Palace Guntahalli, BEL Road (PART), Sanjayanagar, Dollars Colony, RMV Extension, Geddalahalli, Bhoopasandra, Kavalbyrasandra, Ganganagara, RT Nagar, Manorayanapalya, Anandanagar, V Nagenahalli, Shampura, Sultanpalya, Shanthala nagara, Ashok nagara, MG Road, Brigade Road, Part of HAL 2nd stage, Doopanahalli, Indiranagar 2nd stage, Lakshmipuram, Kadiraishnapalya, Kalahalli, Andhra Colony, LBS Nagar, LIC Colony, HAL 3rd stage, Jeevanbhimanagar, Kodihalli, Hanumanthappa Layout, Bazaar Street, Ulsoor, MV Garden, Murphy Tawn, Jogupalya, Cambridge Layout, Decnabandhunagara, Janakiram layout, Siddaramappa Garden and surrounding areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-water-supply-to-be-disrupted-today-tomorrow-for-emergency-repair-101631428968804.html
12-09-2021||India||‘Boost to our morale’: PM Modi shares clip of interaction with Paralympic stars||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday shared the video footage of his interaction with the para-athletes who recently represented India at the 2020 Summer Paralympic in Tokyo. The Indian contingent, which included these athletes as well as their coaches, was hosted by the Prime Minister last Thursday at his residence in New Delhi. In the video footage of the interaction released on Sunday, Modi was seen congratulating the Paralympic stars for their record-breaking historic performance at the multi-sports event.Interacting with our champions… #Paralympics https://t.co/IKVreoh5f3Although India's athletes have appeared in every edition of the Summer Paralympics since 1984, the event this year proved to be the most successful Paralympic season for the country yet, with the athletes securing a total of 19 medals—five gold, eight silver, and six bronze. Before this edition, India had won 12 medals—4 medals of each colour—in all previous Paralympic appearances combined.Lauding the Paralympians for their fantastic performance, the Prime Minister said that their achievements will now provide a significant boost to the morale of the entire sporting community of the country. The feats performed by the para-athlete will encourage more budding sportspersons to emerge from India and make a name for themselves on the international stage, he said, adding that a section of the country not much aware of the variety of sporting events is now gradually coming to know about the options available before them.“Today you all are well-known because of your hard work,” the Prime Minister told the athletes. “You all can motivate people, help bring big changes… I am always with you all.”#WATCH "Today you all are well known because of your hard work. You all can motivate people, help bring big changes...I am always with you all," says PM Modi to Indian Paralympics athletes pic.twitter.com/798gcYzaFiPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday shared the video footage of his interaction with the para-athletes who recently represented India at the 2020 Summer Paralympics in Tokyo. The Indian contingent, which included the said athletes as well as their coaches, was hosted by the Prime Minister last Thursday at his residence in New Delhi. In the video footage of the interaction released today, Modi was seen congratulating the Paralympics stars for their record-breaking historic performance at the multi-sports event.Although India's athletes have appeared in every edition of the Summer Paralympics since 1984, the event this year proved to be the most successful Paralympic season for the country yet, with the athletes securing a total of 19 medals - five gold, eight silver, and six bronze. Before this edition, India had won 12 medals (4 medals of each colour) in all previous Paralympic appearances combined.Lauding the Paralympians for their fantastic performance, the Prime Minister said that their achievements will now provide a significant boost to the morale of the entire sporting community of the country. The feats performed by the para-athlete will encourage more budding sportspersons to emerge from India and make a name for themselves on the international stage, he said, adding that a section of the country not much aware of the variety of sporting events is now gradually coming to know about the options available before them.“Today you all are well-known because of your hard work,” the Prime Minister told the athletes. “You all can motivate people, help bring big changes… I am always with you all.”|#+|Thanking Modi for his kind words and the invite, the para-athletes said that they felt honoured to share a table with the Prime Minister of the nation and called it yet another achievement in their books. Many of the athletes also gifted Prime Minister Modi their autographed sporting equipment, with which they won medals at the Tokyo Paralympics. Modi said that these gears would later be auctioned off, a move that was welcomed by the players.A stole, signed by all medalists, was also gifted to the Prime Minister.The 2020 Summer Paralympics in Tokyo was held from August 24 to September 5 this year entirely behind closed doors due to the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation. Just like the Olympics, the multi-sports event was branded as Tokyo 2020 despite being delayed a year due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boost-to-our-morale-pm-modi-shares-clip-of-interaction-with-paralympics-stars-101631427853075.html
12-09-2021||India||Gujarat nurse, who worked hours despite flooded ward, to get Florence Nightingale award||A nurse of Sir Sayajirao General Hospital of Vadodara, Gujarat will be conferred with the Florence Nightingale Award.While speaking to the media, the nominee, Bhanumati Gheewala, said, "I got selected for this award for Covid-19 Gynaec duties including the delivery of newborns and working during 2019 floods that had inundated the hospital. I do not prefer taking casual leave (CL)."She has been handling the delivery of Covid-19 positive pregnant women as well as taking care of newborns.In 2019, when the wards of the hospital were waterlogged due to flood. She carried her duty in the gynaecology department and the pediatric ward.The Indian Nursing Council, a statutory body under the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, grants the Florence Nightingale Award to recognise the contribution of healthcare workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-nurse-who-worked-hours-despite-flooded-ward-to-get-florence-nightingale-award-101631424837932.html
12-09-2021||India||After Vijay Rupani steps down, senior BJP leaders to meet today||Senior BJP leaders, including Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Pralhad Joshi, reached Gujarat on Sunday to attend a legislative party meeting to choose the successor of chief minister Vijay Rupani, who stepped down from the top post in the state ahead of the assembly elections in 2023. “BJP Gujarat legislative party meet to be held at 3pm. Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar, Pralhad Joshi and BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh will conduct the meeting to elect our new chief minister,” Yamal Vyas, spokesperson of the state BJP, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI."We have come here to hold further discussions (over the name of next chief minister of Gujarat). We will hold discussions with the state President and other senior leaders," Tomar told reporters at the airport in Ahmedabad, according to ANI.Tomar was accompanied to Gujarat by Bharatiya Janata Party national general secretary Tarun Chugh. “I will hold consultations with Gujarat leaders. Then the central leadership will take a decision,” Union minister of parliamentary affairs Pralhad Joshi was quoted as saying by ANI.Gujarat deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, state general secretary Gordhan Zadafia and Lakshadweep and Daman and Diu administrator Praful Khoda Patel are being considered as possible choices for new chief minister.Also read | Caste and Covid-19, the two reasons for Vijay Rupani’s ousterGujarat BJP chief CR Paatil on Saturday issued a video saying he is not in the race for the chief minister's post. "Vijay Rupani has resigned from his post today. Naturally, there are a lot of names in the media for the new Chief Minister, including my name. I want to make it clear that I am not in any such race,” Paatil said. “Together with the new chief minister appointed by the party and Vijay Rupani, we will achieve our target of winning 182 out of 182 seats in the next assembly elections and work to strengthen the party,” he added.Rupani on Saturday met Gujarat Governor Acharya Devvrat and submitted his resignation as the chief minister. His resignation came ahead of the Gujarat assembly elections scheduled to be held in 2023. After Vijay Rupani’s resignation, senior Gujarat BJP leaders met at the party office Gandhinagar. Union health minister Mandaviya, Nitin Patel, CR Paatil and Rupani were among those who attended the meeting.Also read | 'CM stands for Chairs Musical': Trinamool, AAP, Cong react to Rupani's exitSeveral BJP leaders his response to Covid-19 and his caste played a role in the 65-years old Rupani’s replacement. They said the way Rupani, who is a Jain, handled the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic and his failure to build cohesive political support for the BJP were key determinants in the decision. The BJP still faces challenges from the Patidars, a community with immense political power that can swing the electoral outcome.Rupani, who represents Rajkot West in the state assembly, took charge as the Gujarat chief minister on August 7, 2016, to replace Anandiben Patel following the Patidar agitation for reservation. In the 2017 assembly elections, the BJP won 99 of the state's 182 assembly seats and the Congress got 77 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-vijay-rupani-steps-down-senior-bjp-leaders-to-meet-today-101631424105167.html
12-09-2021||India||India, Australia converges on Kabul, Indo-Pacific, set stage for QUAD summit||With India and Australia on the same page on Afghanistan and Indo-Pacific, the stage is set for the QUAD summit in Washington as External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar leaves for the US on September 20 to attend the UNGA and prepare the groundwork for the first bilateral summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden.While EAM Jaishankar will fly to New York and be in Washington on September 22 evening when PM Modi lands, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval will be accompanying the PM on Air India One. PM Modi will address the UNGA on September 25 morning and then depart for India unless some bilateral meetings are fixed at the last minute on the sidelines of the UNGA. EAM Jaishankar will be holding bilateral meetings with other foreign ministers throughout the UNGA high segment week starting September 21 and will return later.During the US visit, the focus will be on Taliban ruled Afghanistan as it is increasingly becoming evident that the Sunni Islamist forces will continue to remain ultra-conservative and will be brutal in approach to women and the other minorities. With Pakistani ISI overtly involved in political and military affairs of the Taliban government in Kabul, the global community will be holding Islamabad responsible in case any terrorist attack emanates from Afghanistan in future. The QUAD physical summit will discuss the Afghanistan situation, the spread of coronavirus, Indo-Pacific and climate change in detail with all the participants virtually on the same page on key issues. In 2021 Taliban ruled Afghanistan a new power axis has emerged with Pakistan, Qatar and Turkey being the main players with Chinese support unlike Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, and the UAE support and legitimacy to the Sunni Pashtuns during 1996-2001. The role played by Qatari intelligence chief Mohammed bin Ahmed Al-Misnad in first facilitating the so-called Doha process and then giving a private plane to the entourage of UN-designated terrorist Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, now deputy PM, to land in Kandahar after the Taliban seized Kabul cannot be underestimated. Apart from Pakistani ISI, the closeness of Qatar with the Taliban is evident as the latter has made the Kabul airport operational.The other important issue to resonate during PM Modi’s visit to the US will be the Indo-Pacific and right to free navigation in the South China Sea with Beijing getting increasing belligerent in enforcing its unfounded maritime claims in the region. The QUAD navies, on the other hand, are routinely exercising in Indo-Pacific with Malabar Exercise just concluded off the coast of Guam last month.The first two plus two dialogue between India and Australia on Friday clearly showed that both countries have similar concerns over Indo-Pacific and Afghanistan as Canberra’s position is different from the pro-Pakistan stand of the UK in the Taliban takeover of Kabul. Just as India is being pressed by Beijing all along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Australia has a running battle with China asking investigation of alleged human rights abuses by the Australian military during deployment in Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-australia-converges-on-kabul-indo-pacific-set-stage-for-quad-summit-101631421377941.html
12-09-2021||India||63% people want children vaccinated against Covid-19, finds survey||At least 63% of the parents are ready for their children to get inoculated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) when such a vaccination drive is launched.The findings published in Journal of Family Medicine and Family Healthcare, and based on a recent survey conducted by the Community Medicine department of New Delhi-based Vardhaman Mahavir College & Safdarjung Hospital, show that while 70.44% of the respondents were willing to get their vaccinated against the virus, 29.55% of them showed unwillingness.Meanwhile, 72.58% of the healthcare workers, who were among the 467 respondents surveyed for the study, said they would get their children inoculated even as 27.41% responded negatively.The respondents surveyed, including healthcare workers, professionals, homemakers and students, were asked a set of 13 questions for the study, according to Live Hindustan.ALSO READ | Covid-19 in children: How to identify symptoms early on and tackle themDr Jugal Kishore, the head of the Department of Community Medicine at Vardhaman Mahavir College & Safdarjung Hospital, said the people have shown a positive outlook towards the vaccination of children. “It is positive news that 63.1% of the people are ready for the vaccination of the children against Covid-19. This would help carry on the inoculation drive at a steady pace,” the doctor said.The survey also covered the people's response towards the type of vaccination when it comes to children. While 44.3% repondents said they would want an oral vaccine for children, 55.6% of them preferred the dose through injection.Last month, the chief of Centre's working group on Covid-19, Dr NK Arora, said Zydus Cadila's Covid-19 vaccine, ZyCoV-D, approved for children in the age group of 12-17 years, would be rolled out in October. The vaccine received emergency-use approval on August 20.The third phase of clinical trial of ZyCoV-D on around 27,000 volunteers showed presented an efficacy rate of 66.6%. A first-of-its-kind DNA vaccine that produces the spike protein of the SARS-CoV-2 to elicit an immune response, ZyCoV-D is an intradermal vaccine is to be applied using a ‘needle-free injector’, which the manufacturer says will help in reducing side effects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-for-children-coronavirus-in-india-vaccination-drive-survey-101631414870217.html
12-09-2021||India||India sees further decline in daily Covid-19 cases with 28,591 infections||India on Sunday saw a gradual decline in daily Covid-19 cases with 28,591 infections recorded in the past 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 33,236,921, while the death toll climbed to 442,655 with 338 fresh fatalities, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare.Active cases rose to 6,595 to stand at 384,921 during the same period, according to data released by the health ministry at 8am. Active cases constitute 1.18% of total cases while the national Covid-19 recovery rate stands 97.6%, the Union health ministry said.As many as 15,30,125 Covid-19 tests were conducted on Saturday, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 54,18,05,829. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 32,409,345 while the case fatality rate stood at 1.33%, it said. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.1%, even as i t has remained below 3% for the past 12 days. The weekly positivity rate, which has been less than 3% for the past 78 days, was recorded at 2.26% on Sunday morning, according to the health ministry.More than 720 million Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to states and Union territories so far through the Centre's free-of-cost channel, the health ministry said on Saturday. "More than 5.75 crore (5,75,43,795) balance and unutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states/UTs to be administered," it added.Meanwhile, India's cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage surpassed 730 million, of which 65,27,175 vaccine doses were administered in the previous 24 hours, the health ministry informed.The Covid-19 vaccination drive has been ramped up through the availability of more vaccines, advanced visibility of vaccine availability to states and Union Territories for enabling better planning by them and streamlining the vaccine supply chain. The new phase of universalisation of vaccination commenced on June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sees-further-decline-in-daily-covid-19-cases-with-28-591-infections-101631417558997.html
12-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mega vaccination-drive in Tamil Nadu today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Tamil Nadu: Mega-vaccination drive against Covid-19 today, over 1,000 camps set up in ChennaiThe MK Stalin-led Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) government in Tamil Nadu will organise a mega-vaccination drive against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Sunday, with the aim to inoculate the remaining section of the vaccine-eligible population in the state who are yet to receive their respective jabs. The vaccination drive will be conducted on a weekly basis, Tamil Nadu health minister Ma Subramanian said earlier this week, putting in a request to the central government for additional Covid-19 vaccine doses. Read MorePanjshir resistance forces leader Ahmad Massoud has not left Afghanistan: ReportAhmad Massoud, the leader of the resistance forces in Panjshir valley, is still in Afghanistan but 70 per cent of the main streets in Panjshir are under the control of the Taliban, Iranian news agency Fars has reported citing people familiar with the situation. Fars reported on Saturday that rumours about Massoud, the son of late former Afghan guerrilla commander Ahmad Shah Massoud, leaving Afghanistan for Turkey or any other place is false and the resistance leader is said to be in a safe place. Read MoreISI chief meets intelligence heads of China, others amid heat over 'proxy war' in AfghanistanPakistan's intelligence chief General Faiz Hameed, the director-general of the notorious Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) held a meeting in Islamabad on Saturday with the intelligence heads of multiple nations, including China and Russia, regarding the evolving situation in Afghanistan. Although there was no official confirmation from either side, those familiar with the development said that that the meeting, hosted by the director-general of the ISI, indeed took place and it was attended by the intelligence chiefs of China, Russia, Iran, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, and Turkmenistan. Read MoreWATCH: ‘More women in parliament helps make public spaces less unequal’: Brinda KaratIn the latest edition of On The Record, CPI(M) leader and former Rajya Sabha MP Brinda Karat speaks to Hindustan Times' National Political Editor, Sunetra Choudhury, and talks about 25 years of the Women's Reservation Bill. Karat said it is positive that regional parties like TMC, YSR, BJD have given women tickets. She added, “Regional parties have given a better representation of women compared to the national parties, both the BJP and the Congress.” Watch the full video for more.Ram Vilas Paswan death anniversary: Top leaders, ex-contenders among inviteesThe Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) in Bihar will on Sunday observe the ‘barsi’ or the first death anniversary of its founder and stalwart leader Ram Vilas Paswan, who died in October last year after undergoing heart surgery. A Union minister in the first and second Modi ministries, nine-times Lok Sabha member and Rajya Sabha MP Ram Vilas Paswan left a lasting legacy in Bihar's political scenario. Read More'They will never say anything good about Indian team': Gavaskar against reports stating India 'refused to play 5th Test'The cancellation of the fifth Test match has thrown a lot of people in a puzzle. Initially, it was believed that the Indian team refused to take part in the series-deciding game in Manchester, with reports doing the rounds that players were not keen on taking the field after their physio Yogesh Parmar had tested positive. Read MoreThese are the top 10 best cities in the world in 2021Have you ever wondered which are the best cities in the world? Well, a new poll by international culture and entertainment magazine Time Out answers this exact question. The outlet questioned 27,000 city-dwellers from Melbourne to Madrid, Chicago to Copenhagen, and Tel Aviv to Tokyo to find out the best cities in the world. Read MoreWhen Prachi Desai flew to another country to surprise 'someone', realised he lied to her: 'I holidayed alone'Actor Prachi Desai had once revealed she flew to another country to surprise the person she was dating only to find out that the person lied to her. Prachi ended up holidaying alone instead of telling the person that she had travelled to the nation for him. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mega-vaccination-drive-in-tamil-nadu-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101631416248458.html
12-09-2021||India||Odisha: 20,035 excess deaths in 2020 amid Covid deaths underreporting cloud||Odisha reported 20,035 excess deaths registered by the state’s Civil Registration System in 2020 as compared to 2019 amid allegations that the state under-reported Covid-19 deaths last year, data obtained through Right to Information (RTI) application by HT shows.As per the data, Odisha registered 342,947 deaths in 2019 while it was 362,982 in 2020, indicating that some of the 20,000-odd excess deaths in 2020 may possibly have been caused by Covid-19.In 2017, the state recorded 322,660 deaths while in 2018 it was 328,799, as per the Civil Registration System. As many as 300,884 deaths (provisional figure) have been recorded at the state’s 430 registration units between January and September this year.As per health experts, excess deaths are defined as the difference between the observed numbers of deaths and expected numbers of deaths in a time period. The excess deaths can provide information about the burden of mortality related to the Covid-19 pandemic.Provisional data during 2020 showed Odisha saw a major jump in deaths from September last year when the Covid mortalities were rising. As per the provisional data of month-wise deaths in 2020, 5,000 more deaths were reported in September and October last year compared to the previous year, while 10,000 excess deaths per month were recorded in November and December.The state government, however, announced only 1,876 Covid deaths in 2020 while 6,216 deaths have been reported in 2021 so far. As per the provisional data, the number of deaths reported between September and December 2020 was around 10 times the official Covid toll for the same period. While 150,000 deaths were registered across the state in those four months, only 1,356 Covid deaths were acknowledged by the government.Incidentally, in May this year, more than 1,000 deaths have been reported from 20 districts with Ganjam recording the maximum 4,641 followed by Cuttack (3,754), Bolangir (3,716), Sundargarh(3,619) and Khurda (3,571). Early this week, Orissa high court had pointed out several discrepancies in a government affidavit while hearing a PIL over Covid deaths in the state. The state government in its affidavit had said there were 3,097 deaths between July 15 and August 31 this year, while in another affidavit filed at a later date, the government said there were 8,022 deaths in Odisha due to the pandemic as on August 31. The court indicated it was not satisfied by government’s data reporting and also the counting methodology. Noted microbiologist Dr Tribhuvan Mohapatra said that some of the excess deaths witnessed last year may be due to Covid or causes linked to Covid. “It is quite possible that some people in rural areas may not have been able to travel to Covid hospital or have not been tested at all before they died. Some may have even died of post-Covid complications which the governments don’t count as Covid deaths. Many others who have been suffering from cancer or other chronic diseases may have died due to lack of medical facilities as health infrastructure in most states were diverted for Covid treatment,” said Dr Mohapatra.State BJP leader Mohan Majhi said the death figures showed that the government had been misleading everyone by hiding the actual data on Covid casualty. “The suppression of fact from the public is a cognisable offence and a crime against humanity. Children who have lost their parents to the pandemic will be deprived of the government welfare schemes for orphans. The government should publish a white paper on actual Covid deaths,” said Majhi.Similarly, Gouranga Mohapatra of Jana Swasthya Abhiyan, an NGO working in the health sector, said they have been alleging undercounting of Covid deaths since last year. “The government for long has been hiding details about deaths due to diarrhoea and other illnesses. It did the same with Covid deaths,” he alleged.Dr Samiran Panda, head of the epidemiology division of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), New Delhi, however said that one can’t jump to conclusions that excessive deaths were due to Covid. “It is true that last year several cancer patients as well as those with other comorbidities did not get the attention they deserved due to pressure on health infrastructure. So each of the deaths need to be analysed and studied before drawing any definite conclusion,” he said.However, additional director of the health department, Dr Ramachandra Rout attributed the excessive numbers to better reporting by ASHA workers. “As ASHA workers are getting an incentive of ₹100 for each death that they report in their locality, the reporting has increased. Besides, over the last 4 years, Odisha is witnessing rise in death rates and a decline in birth rates. So there is nothing abnormal,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-20-035-excess-deaths-in-2020-amid-covid-deaths-underreporting-cloud-101631417118338.html
12-09-2021||India||Pandal in Hyderabad installs eco-friendly Ganesha idol to promote Covid-19 vaccination||A community pandal in Hyderabad installed an eco-friendly Ganesha idol on platforms modelled on Covid-19 vaccine vial with an aim to encourage the people to get vaccinated. “We are installing Ganesh idols here every year for the last 25 years. From the last 12 years, we are focusing on creating eco-friendly idols. And this time, we came up with the idea of promoting the Covid-19 vaccination drive via this idol. Here, Ganesh deity is standing on three vaccines with two rats holding the vaccine box. The idol promotes registration on the Co-WIN portal for the drive," Sachin Chandan, the president of Future Foundation Society, who helped in creating the idol, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI."We are giving a social message through the Ganesh idols that vaccines are safe and everybody should get inoculated," he added.The devotees appreciated the idea of promoting the Covid-19 vaccination drive. One of them said, "I am very excited to see this pandal. I come every year here to take the blessings of Ganpati Bappa."Ganesh Chaturthi began on September 10 with much enthusiasm across the nation amid Covid-19 restrictions and protocols. The 10-day festival is also known as Vinayaka Chaturti. This is a Hindu festival which celebrates the arrival of lord Ganesh to earth from 'Kailash Parvat' with his mother Goddess Parvati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pandal-in-hyderabad-installs-eco-friendly-ganesha-idol-to-promote-covid-19-vaccination-101631411609538.html
12-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu: Mega-vaccination drive against Covid-19 today, over 1,000 camps set up in Chennai||The MK Stalin-led Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) government in Tamil Nadu will organise a mega-vaccination drive against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Sunday, with the aim to inoculate the remaining section of the vaccine-eligible population in the state who are yet to receive their respective jabs. The vaccination drive will be conducted on a weekly basis, Tamil Nadu health minister Ma Subramanian said earlier this week, putting in a request to the central government for additional Covid-19 vaccine doses.Also Read | District-wise estimates of Covid-19 vaccination coverage in IndiaThe Greater Chennai Corporation said that it has set up more than 1,000 ‘special camps’ across the capital city for the vaccination drive, which includes one ‘static’ camp and two ‘mobile’ camps for each of the 200 wards in Chennai. “We will protect ourselves, our home, and our nation by vaccinating against Covid-19,” the Chennai corporation said in a tweet from its official handle on the microblogging website.வரும் ஞாயிறு சென்னை முழுவதும் ஆயிரத்துக்கு மேல் தீவிர தடுப்பூசி முகாம்கள் நடைபெற உள்ளன.தடுப்பூசி செலுத்திக் கொண்டு நம்மையும், நம் வீட்டையும், இந்த நாட்டையும் பாதுகாத்துக் கொள்வோம். #VaccinationForAll#Covid_19 #CovidIsNotOver pic.twitter.com/HwetQpiAaxThe Chennai municipal corporation has also released a special song — ‘Vaccine podu, makka’ or “Get vaccinated, brother” — to encourage more citizens to get themselves inoculated against the infectious disease at the nearest Covid-19 vaccination camp. The song is being played by corporation vehicles playing the city to generate awareness about the mega-vaccination drive.Tamil Nadu health minister Ma Subramanian on Tuesday urged the Union government to provide the state with an additional 10 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines for the mega-vaccination drive planned on September 12. Pointing out that this inoculation campaign is the ‘next step’ in protecting the people from the coronavirus disease, Subramanian wrote a letter to Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya requesting the additional doses.Also Read | These 5 Indian states are administering Covid vaccines faster than foreign countriesTamil Nadu logged 1,639 fresh Covid-19 cases and 27 fatalities on Saturday, pushing the overall caseload to 26,32,231 and the death toll to 35,146. Recoveries were fewer than new infections, with 1,517 people getting discharged in the 24 hours prior, aggregating to 25,80,686 and leaving 16,399 active infections, a health department bulletin said.With 224 new Covid-19 cases, Coimbatore topped the daily infection tally, followed by 170 cases in Chennai, 151 in Erode, 120 in Chengalpet, and 117 in Thanjavur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-mega-vaccination-drive-against-covid-19-today-over-1-000-camps-set-up-in-chennai-101631407163722.html
12-09-2021||India||Ram Vilas Paswan death anniversary: Top leaders, ex-contenders among invitees||The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) in Bihar will on Sunday observe the ‘barsi’ or the first death anniversary of its founder and stalwart leader Ram Vilas Paswan, who died in October last year after undergoing heart surgery. A Union minister in the first and second Modi ministries, nine-times Lok Sabha member and Rajya Sabha MP Ram Vilas Paswan left a lasting legacy in Bihar's political scenario.Also Read | LJP denies speculation of Paswan family’s reluctance to vacate 12 Janpath bunglowChirag Paswan, LJP leader and son of Ram Vilas, will be organising the mega ‘barsi’ event on Sunday in Bihar's capital of Patna. Speaking to reporters a day before, Chirag said that he was ‘desperately seeking’ an appointment with Janata Dal (United) or JD(U) chief and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, who he wanted to invite to the event. Notably, Chirag was reported to have burnt his bridges with many of the party's political rivals, most notably Kumar, ahead of the assembly polls last year when he pulled out of the NDA vowing to defeat the JD(U) leader against who he levelled many accusations, which included “misbehaviour” with his late father.Although it has not yet been confirmed if Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief and former chief minister Lalu Prasad Yadav will be attending the ‘barsi’, speculation is rife in Bihar ever since it was reported that Chirag had extended him an invite for the event. Lalu's son, Tejashwi Yadav, wrote a letter to Nitish Kumar on Friday, suggesting that the birth anniversaries of former Union ministers, including that of the late Ram Vilas Paswan, be declared state functions.Although the LJP is fraught with issues concerning party leadership, its current chief and Ram Vilas' brother Pashupati Kumar Paras has said that he will attend the death anniversary event on September 12. The PTI news agency noted that Paras is embroiled in a bitter dispute with his nephew, Chirag, to claim the legacy of the late Paswan in Bihar, but the conflict has not deterred either of the politicians from paying out their respects to the party's founding member.Also Read | From leadership aspirations to losing LJP, how Chirag Paswan got outmaneuvered“I will definitely attend the event on September 12,” Paras said on Friday. “It is an event to mark the death anniversary of my elder brother [Ram Vilas Paswan]. There is no question of not attending it. Whatever I am today, it is because of his blessings, although I have the good wishes of the Prime Minister [Narendra Modi] as well.”Top national leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, and Congress president Sonia Gandhi have also received invites to the event. Chirag also met President Ram Nath Kovind earlier this week and extended him an invite to the event.Ram Vilas Paswan died in Patna on October 8, 2020, after being hospitalised and undergoing heart surgery. He was the cabinet minister of consumer affairs, food and public distribution in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-vilas-paswan-death-anniversary-top-leaders-ex-contenders-among-invitees-101631403389582.html
12-09-2021||India||BJP legislature party may meet today to pick Vijay Rupani’s replacement||The BJP legislature party in Gujarat is likely to meet on Sunday to choose the new chief minister after the shock resignation of Vijay Rupani, a leader has said. Union home minister Amit Shah may join the legislature party meeting along with central observers, Gujarat BJP spokesperson Yamal Vyas said according to news agency PTI. Among the names that are likely to be considered for the next Gujarat CM is Lakshadweep and Daman and Diu administrator Praful Patel, state general secretary Gordhan Jhadaphia, a Patidar leader, and Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya.Vyas was speaking to reporters on Saturday after a meeting of senior leaders, including national general secretary BL Santhosh and Union minister Bhupender Yadav at the Bharatiya Janata Party headquarters in Gandhinagar. "The BJP legislature party is likely to meet on Sunday, but we will be able to confirm this once the central parliamentary board conveys the exact time of the meeting to us. All BJP MLAs will attend the meeting along with central observers," Vyas was quoted as saying by PTI.Also read | CR Paatil says he is not in the race for Gujarat's CM postThe Gujarat BJP spokesperson added that the name of the new Gujarat CM will be decided in the meeting. Rupani did a lot of development work as chief minister and took Gujarat to new heights, Vyas said. "It is a common process in the BJP... He will be given a new responsibility. He was earlier state president, then became chief minister, and now he will take up a new responsibility," he added.Also read | 'CM stands for Chairs Musical': Trinamool, AAP, Cong react to Rupani's exitSanthosh and Bhupender Yadav met senior Gujarat BJP leaders, including state unit chief CR Paatil, deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, ministers Bhupendrasinh Chudasama and Pradipsinh Jadeja, state BJP general secretaries Pradipsinh Vaghela and Rajubhai Patel, as well as Pankaj Desai, the party's chief whip in the assembly.Also read | Caste and Covid-19, the two reasons for Vijay Rupani’s ousterGujarat CM Vijay Rupani resigned on Saturday, more than a year before the assembly elections are scheduled to be held in the state. Rupani met Gujarat Governor Acharya Devvrat earlier today and submitted his resignation as chief minister.Rupani, a Jain leader, replaced Anandiben Patel in 2016 after the agitation by the politically powerful Patidar community demanding to be brought under the ambit of reservation. He was sworn in for a second term after the party won the 2017 assembly elections even though there were reservations among state leaders on his elevation. He is MLA from Rajkot West seat in Gujarat. The BJP won 99 seats and Congress 77 in the last Gujarat assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-legislature-party-may-meet-today-to-pick-vijay-rupani-s-replacement-101631404634468.html
12-09-2021||India||Pilot’s violation of SOPs caused Kozhikode crash: Probe report||The final probe report on the Air India Express crash that took place in Kozhikode in 2020 and killed 21 has said that the probable cause of the accident was non-adherence to the standard operating procedure by the pilots of the aircraft.The report, released by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB), also noted that the role of systemic failures as a contributory factor could not be overlooked.“The probable cause of the accident was the non-adherence to SOP by the PF (Pilot Flying), wherein, he continued an unstabilised approach and landed beyond the touchdown zone, half way down the runway, in spite of ‘Go Around’ call by PM (Pilot Monitoring) which warranted a mandatory ‘Go Around’ and the failure of the PM to take over controls and execute a ‘Go Around’,” the report noted.On August 7, 2020, the Air India Express Boeing-737 plane repatriating Indians stranded in Dubai due to the Covid-19 pandemic overshot the runway in heavy rain, skidded off the table-top runway and broke into two parts after crashing nose-first into the ground. The flight was carrying 190 passengers and crew. It was the deadliest commercial aviation disaster in the country in 10 years, claiming 21 lives. Another Air India Express flight from Dubai overshot Mangaluru’s table-top runway in 2010. It slid down a hill and left 158 people dead.“A large number of similar accidents/incidents that have continued to take place, more so in AIXL (Air India Express Ltd), reinforce existing systemic failures within the aviation sector. These usually occur due to prevailing safety culture that give rise to errors, mistakes and violation of routine tasks performed by people operating within the system,” the report said.It noted the actions and decisions of the pilot in command) were steered by a “misplaced motivation to land back at Kozhikode to operate next day morning flight AXB 1373.”The report also noted that the possibility of visual illusions causing errors in distance and depth perception could not be ruled out due to low visibility and sub-optimal performance of the windshield wiper in rain.“The AIXL pilot training program lacked effectiveness and did not impart the requisite skills for performance enhancement,” it said.AAIB in August last year appointed a team of five investigators to lead the probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pilots-violation-of-sops-caused-kozhikode-crash-probe-report-101631396816405.html
12-09-2021||India||‘Why has Govt not used its majority in House to pass Women's Reservation Bill?’: Brinda Karat||Twenty-five years after it was first introduced in Parliament, the Women’s Reservation Bill is yet to become a reality. In an interview with Hindustan Times, the Communist Party of India (Marxist)’s politburo member and former MP, Brinda Karat, talks about whether this proposed law is still relevant, and the significance of reservation for women in politics. Edited excerpts:Has anything changed since the introduction of the bill in 1996?We were all so happy and felt that it was going to usher in a mechanism to fill the gap between men and women, but just the next day, BJP MPs raised the issue of reservation for women belonging to the Other Backward Classes within this bill. Since then, Parliament and the successive governments have never thought to put the bill at the top of their agenda.How is it that despite enjoying the support of two major parties — the Congress and BJP — the legislation seems impossible?I don’t think it’s impossible, it just requires political will... At the end of the day, political will ensured that the bill was discussed, debated and adopted (in the RS). So, why is it that the Centre, which has pushed through several anti-worker, anti-farmer legislation... has not used its strong majority in the House to pass this bill?... One of the reasons is also their cultural framework... One of the objections was... our women whose main job is to bring up children, preferably sons, what is going to happen to that?But, why didn’t the UPA push it through between 2010 and 2014?They didn’t have the numbers... they were dependent on certain parties which were not in favour... they have had three committees... I don’t think any other bill has gone through that torturous process... A lot of women question the need for quotas? But, look at the figures — in the 1st Parliament in 1952, we had 24 women. In 2019, we have 78. So, if it takes 73 years to get about 50 more women in Parliament, how many years is it going to take to reach one-third reservation without a quota?The government is proud of the fact that they have two Cabinet ministers, top ministers, including the finance minister, as women. It counts for something.Certainly... increasing the number of women in leadership positions holds an important message for the country. The question, however, is: Why are they not raising their voices?...Do you think, in the last 25 years, things have become easier for women in politics?Women have gained confidence... The patriarchal conservative framework that “aurat ka sthaan ghar pe hai, pehle maa bano, fir kuch aur bano ” has changed.Why is the bill still relevant?Patriarchy is bad for everyone — men, women and the Indian society... bringing the legislation will weaken the patriarchal process..., reduce the inequality in public spaces..., and will further strengthen the Indian democracy.With inputs by Amitoj Singh Kalsi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-has-centre-not-used-its-majority-in-house-to-pass-the-bill-brinda-karat-101631395863510.html
12-09-2021||India||Why BJP pit youth leader Priyanka Tibrewal against CM Mamata in Bhawanipore?||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s decision to field a youth leader Priyanka Tibrewal, who lost at least two elections, against TMC chief Mamata Banerjee from Bhawanipore constituency in the upcoming by-poll may have raised some eyebrows, but senior BJP leaders said that a lot of thought has gone into it before the announcement was made. Tibrewal is the vice-president of the BJP’s youth wing in the state and an advocate, who played a pivotal role in the BJP’s legal battle in the Calcutta high court on post poll violence, which ultimately led a five-judge bench to order for a CBI probe. “Only a woman candidate would be able to mount a direct attack against another woman candidate. A male candidate would have to think twice before making a public statement against a woman candidate. Mamata Banerjee starts crying foul whenever she is on the back foot and plays the woman-victim card. We had to take a safeguard against this,” said a senior BJP leader. A second BJP leader said that as Tibrewal has been in the forefront of the legal battle related to post-poll violence, projecting her from Bhawanipore against Mamata Banerjee would help to boost the morale of the party workers. Tibrewal had earlier contested the civic polls in 2015, but lost. In the recently held assembly polls she was fielded from Entally seat in north Kolkata. This time too she lost to TMC’s lightweight leader Swarna Kamal Saha by more than 58,000 votes. “We have pitted one defeated leader against another. Mamata Banerjee too was defeated four months back by BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari. As far as the question of fielding a youth leader is concerned, Tibrewal is a good fighter. In 1984 Mamata Banerjee had defeated Somnath Chatterjee. Before that who knew the name of Banerjee,” Dilip Ghosh, BJP’s state president told the media. BJP leaders said that Rudranil Ghosh, the party’s candidate who lost from Bhawanipore in the recently held assembly polls, had also expressed interest to contest against Banerjee in the upcoming polls. He had lost to Sovandeb Chatterjee, a TMC veteran, by around 28,000 votes. But BJP leaders in Delhi chose Tibrewal. “While on the one hand the woman-to-woman fight factor was there, another factor which could have played a role is the decision behind selecting Tibrewal is that a sizeable population of the electors in Bhawanipore are Sikhs and Gujratis,” said a BJP leader. A BJP leader said that a section of leaders in the state had wanted that a Bengali face should be pitted from Bhawanipore so that the TMC may not play the ‘outsider’ card again this time. In the 2021 polls, the party had judiciously played the ‘outsider’ card in its favour. The final call was however taken by the BJP leadership in Delhi. “The BJP’s unit in West Bengal had sent a list, comprising some names, to the party’s leadership in Delhi. The name of Rudranil Ghosh, who had contested from Bhawanipore in the recently held assembly election, was also there. The final call was made by the party’s top leaders,” said a BJP leader. Banerjee, who filed her nomination later in the day, has to win the bypoll to become a member of the assembly in order to continue in the chair. She had taken oath on May 5 and must get elected within six months as per protocols – November 5. “The people of Bhawanipore have already chosen their leader. Let the BJP bring all their central leaders and field any one in Bhawanipore. When the results are declared on May 3, they would lose by a record margin,” said Tapas Roy, veteran TMC leader and a party spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-bjp-pit-youth-leader-priyanka-tibrewal-against-cm-mamata-in-bhawanipore-101631389388818.html
12-09-2021||India||Monsoon likely to withdraw late this year, Met predicts; more rain in store||The monsoon has entered an active phase from Saturday because of a low-pressure system that will travel across central and northwest India, bringing the region widespread and heavy rain over the next four to five days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) warned on Saturday.The monsoon starts waning in September and usually begins withdrawing from September 17.But the Met department’s extended range forecast indicates that there is likely to be widespread rain over the country, including northwest India, till around September 30.Normally, around six depressions form through the course of the monsoon season, but this time the first monsoon depression is likely to form only in the next 24 to 48 hours.Also Read| Intense 3-hour rain spell brings Delhi to a grinding halt yet again“Normally, however, July and August are the main monsoon months, when active spells are common. We have also indicated that monsoon deficiency will reduce and settle in the normal category by the end of the season,” said OP Sreejith, head, climate monitoring and prediction group, IMD.“The formation of fewer low-pressure systems compared to the climatology and absence of their longer westward movements during August contributed to the large deficient rainfall in central India as well as all India,” the IMD said in a statement on Friday.So far, the monsoon deficiency is 7% across the country.August received 24% less rainfall than it usually does, but September has so far seen 16.4% excess rain, showed data from the Met department.A Negative Indian Ocean Dipole over the tropical Indian Ocean — a phenomenon where the western Indian ocean becomes colder than the eastern one and which is unfavourable for monsoon — prevailed throughout August, contributing to deficient rainfall.There were also fewer typhoons in the West Pacific and so there was an absence of westward movement of their remnants into Bay of Bengal. This led to fewer low-pressure systems forming over Bay of Bengal.“But now West Pacific is very active. The sea surface temperatures over central and eastern equatorial Pacific Ocean are also cooler indicating weak La Nina setting in. This is also associated with good rains,” added Sreejith.La Niña refers to the large-scale cooling of the ocean surface temperatures in the central and eastern equatorial Pacific Ocean, coupled with changes in the tropical atmospheric circulation, namely winds, pressure and rainfall. It usually has the opposite impacts on weather and climate as El Niño, which is the warm phase of the so-called El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO).ENSO has a major influence on weather and climate patterns such as heavy rains, floods and drought. In India for example, El Nino is associated with drought or weak monsoon while La Nina is associated with strong monsoon and above average rains and colder winters.Also Read| Arrival area of Delhi airport’s T3 floods, over 100 flights delayed“Monsoon will be in its active phase for the next 4-5 days. This is mainly because a low-pressure area is lying over east central and adjoining northeast Bay of Bengal which will intensify and move west-northwest wards and monsoon trough will be active. The combination of these two will bring widespread rains to central India starting from Odisha covering Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Delhi, and some more parts of northwest India during the next few days,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.Heavy rains in September can impact standing crops, particularly pulses, experts said.“Pulses are particularly vulnerable to damage. However, the heavy rain spell will fill reservoirs in Gujarat, Rajasthan where there was a very long dry spell in August which will be useful for the Rabi crop,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology, Skymet Weather.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/monsoon-likely-to-withdraw-late-this-year-met-predicts-more-rain-in-store-101631388597445.html
12-09-2021||India||Failed medicos disrupt OPD at Patna Medical College Hospital, demand re-evaluation||Some MBBS second year students of 2019 batch forced closure of the outdoor patient departments (OPDs) at the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) on Saturday as a mark of protest, demanding re-evaluation of answer sheets of the MBBS first professional examination, conducted by the Aryabhatta Knowledge University (AKU) in March. As many as 423 of the 1,140 MBBS students (37.10%) who appeared in the exams across nine medical colleges in Bihar have failed the first university examinations, in what was the worst performance by medicos since the inception of the AKU in 2010, university officials said. Students, who accessed copies of their answer-sheets through the Right to Information Act, claimed that some of their correct answers remained unmarked during evaluation. The agitating students, who staged a protest near the principal’s office, forced closure of the OPD by 10.30 am, two hours after the services began on Saturday. They also met the principal and gave him a representation, addressed to the AKU vice-chancellor, demanding re-evaluation of answer-sheets. The students said they would continue to agitate and allow only emergency services to function at the hospital if their demands were not met. PMCH principal Dr Vidyapati Choudhary sympathised with the students whose correct answers remained unmarked, while some had failed narrowly. “There were around 5-6 students who were not awarded marks for answers evaluated to be correct. I spoke to the registrar of university and have forwarded their application for consideration. A few students have failed by just one or two marks. Still, our result has been better than most other medical colleges, as 19 out of the 172 students who appeared in the examination had failed,” said Dr Choudhary. The principal said the undergraduate students, for the first time, interrupted OPD services twice during the day, but he got the services restored within an hour or two. The medicos had earlier demanded that the failed students be promoted on the basis of their internal marks, obtained in the first and second semester exams, conducted by the respective medical colleges. The National Medical Commission, which governs the medical curriculum, however, does not allow it, said university officials. The AKU stand so far has been that medicos who have flunked the exams should appear in the supplementary exams to be held from September 27. Medicos of Patna’s Nalanda Medical College Hospital had protested on the AKU campus on September 1, after the university declared the results on August 30. Protests were also reported earlier at the Vardhaman Institute of Medical Sciences in Pawapuri and the Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College Hospital, Gaya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/failed-medicos-disrupt-opd-at-patna-medical-college-hospital-demand-reevaluation-101631388248854.html
12-09-2021||India||Will table bill on arbitration in winter session of house: Union law minister||The central government is set to introduce a new legislation on mediation in the upcoming winter session of the parliament, said Union law minister Kiren Rijiju on Saturday, underscoring the Centre’s commitment to push alternative dispute resolution mechanism in the country.“In the upcoming winter session of the parliament, we will table a Bill on mediation. Preparations for the same have been complete,” Rijiju said at the foundation stone laying ceremony of a National Law University proposed to be established at Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh.In line with the government’s strategy to promote procedure for settling disputes without litigation, the minister added: “We want to make India an international destination of arbitration.”Rijiju further said that the Central government is very keen to work closely with all national law universities, law colleges and law academies.“We believe in the independence of the judiciary. We want to strengthen India’s judicial system and will take steps to make judiciary stronger,” said the minister, adding the government wishes to develop a strong relationship with all judges of high courts and the Supreme Court.Rijiju also spoke on the need to ensure that justice is given to the common man within a reasonable time. “Timely delivery of justice must be made a priority...The Centre would work with the judiciary in order to facilitate the delivery of justice to the common man,” he further said.At the India-Singapore mediation summit in July, Chief Justice of India, NV Ramana, had favoured a special enactment that would make mediation mandatory before litigation, citing the backlog of 30 million cases in the country’s courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-table-bill-on-arbitration-in-winter-session-of-house-union-law-minister-101631387085819.html
12-09-2021||India||25 years on, bill seeking 33% women in Parliament awaits nod||Over a decade ago, former Union minister Kumari Selja found herself at the side of late law minister HR Bhardwaj, who was set to introduce the “new and improved” Women’s Reservation Bill in the Rajya Sabha in 2008. The Bill sought 33% reservation for women in Parliament and state legislative assemblies, and promised a quota for scheduled castes and scheduled tribes within the ambit of the umbrella legislation.But before long, there was bedlam in the Upper House. Samajwadi Party members attempted to snatch and shred the Bill, before it could even be discussed, with Selja finding herself protecting both Bhardwaj and his Bill.Also Read| ‘Why has Govt not used its majority in House to pass Women's Reservation Bill?’“Ambika Soni (former Congress Union minister) and I were on either side of Bhardwaj as those from the opposition and even some of our allies were up in arms against the Bill,” said Selja, the current Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president. The women, including Renuka Chowdhury, Jayanti Natarajan and Alka Balram Kshatriya, formed a ring around Bhardwaj to ensure the passage of the Bill through Rajya Sabha. The Bill was inevitably sent to the standing committee for review after which it was reintroduced and passed by the Upper House in 2010. However, it soon lapsed with the 15th Lok Sabha.This was the fourth time the Bill was introduced in Parliament and failed to go through. First introduced in 1996, the Bill has witnessed a tumultuous journey in Parliament. It has been opposed on many grounds, from perpetuating a “proxy culture’’ or a similar concept of “sarpanch pati” to stressing the lack of merit. Those backing the Bill hailed it as a means to empower women who continue to remain marginalised in the political discourse.On Sunday, it will be 25 years since the first time the Women’s Reservation Bill was introduced in Parliament.According to PRS Legislative Research, a non-profit legislative watchdog, “There are 78 women MPs in Lok Sabha today. This is the highest number in the history of the House. The first LS only had 24 women members.”But both experts and opposition parties argue that even as India envisions a new egalitarian society that envisages equal rights for men and women, the reservation Bill remains crucial as its need has not diminished, especially considering that the rise in the number of women parliamentarians is marginal.Women’s reservation: The logic, the historyFirst introduced in 1996, the Bill aimed to achieve 33% reservation for women in Parliament and state assemblies. The idea for the Bill originated from a constitutional amendment in 1993 that stated that one third of sarpanch (or council leader) positions in the gram panchayat should be reserved for women.The Bill was opposed on many counts, with critics arguing it would underline the lack of women’s merit as they would enter on the basis of reservation. It was then reintroduced in 1998, 1999 and 2008. “Opponents argue that it would perpetuate the unequal status of women since they would not be perceived to be competing on merit. They also contend that this policy diverts attention from the larger issues of electoral reform such as criminalisation of politics and inner party democracy,” PRS Legislative Research stated in a research paper.India globally ranks 148th in a list of 193 countries vis-à-vis women’s representation in Parliament, according to the global data on national parliamentarians by the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU). This despite the fact that the country’s present number of women parliamentarians is at an all-time high of over 14%, which still falls way short of the international average of nearly 22%.The head of outreach, PRS Legislative Research, Chakshu Roy, said studies indicate political reservation has increased redistribution of resources in favour of the groups that benefit from reservation. “So far, there have been four unsuccessful attempts to bring a women’s reservation Bill in Parliament. On the last two occasions, copies of the Bill were snatched and torn in the House,” he said.“Reservation for women in panchayats has also shown that women elected under reservation invest more in the public goods closely linked to women’s concerns. On the other hand, a women member in the constituent assembly argued that reservation of constituencies for women will result in them not being considered for general seats, despite their competency.”Also Read| International Women's Day: Women MPs push for 33% reservation in ParliamentCommunist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) (CPI-ML) leader Kavita Krishnan said there may be technicalities in the Bill that could be examined but the essence of it is the need of the hour. “This is not the time to look at technicalities,” she said, adding, “There already is a draft Bill, it should be put to vote.”Selja concurred with the sentiment. “In our time, there was a will but not a majority. Today, the ruling party has a majority but does not have the will, the situation is different,” she said.Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Sushmita Dev said reservation of seats for women alone will not result in empowerment of women. “It would also have to be accompanied with other political reforms,” she said.Just follow our model: BJPShazia Ilmi, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson, said the need for women’s reservation was unnecessary if one “follows the ruling party model”. “The BJP rewards people on merit, irrespective of whether it is men or women,” she said. “Look at the number of women ministers in the Union cabinet and even the number of women parliamentarians. It is the highest number we have ever seen. Moreover, even in the national executive, BJP has a significant number of women.”Opposition party leaders, however, feel the BJP has aligned itself to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) ideology that excludes women. Dev, who recently joined the TMC from Congress, said there was no space for women in the Sangh. “BJP and RSS ideology is completely against women…They do tokenism, which is counter-productive to women empowerment,” she added.Countering the argument of proxy representation, Dev said women being subjected to such scrutiny was unfair as men never were evaluated on similar grounds. “How is that we always talk about incompetent women, aren’t there incompetent men?” she asked.“This is a double standard. There as many competent women as there are men. Nearly 14 lakh (1.4 million) women are part of the panchayati raj structure, are we trying to imply they are all incompetent?”She also highlighted that West Bengal chief minister and TMC chief Mamata Banerjee led by example when it comes to empowering women in positions of power. “Look at the number of women MPs, it is greater than the percentage share of any party,” Dev said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-years-on-bill-seeking-33-women-in-parliament-awaits-nod-101631387888722.html
12-09-2021||India||Will table Bill on arbitration in winter session of Parliament: Rijiju||New Delhi: The central government is set to introduce a new legislation on mediation in the upcoming winter session of the parliament, said Union law minister Kiren Rijiju on Saturday, underscoring the Centre’s commitment to push alternative dispute resolution mechanism in the country. “In the upcoming winter session of the parliament, we will table a Bill on mediation. Preparations for the same have been complete,” said Rijiju while speaking at the foundation stone laying ceremony of a National Law University proposed to be established at Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh. In line with the government’s strategy to promote procedure for settling disputes without litigation, the minister added: “We want to make India an international destination of arbitration.” Rijiju further said that the Central government is very keen to work closely with all national law universities, law colleges and law academies. “We believe in the independence of the judiciary. We want to strengthen India’s judicial system and will take steps to make judiciary stronger,” said the minister, adding the government, under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, wishes to develop a strong relationship with all judges of high courts and the Supreme Court. Rijiju also spoke on the need to ensure that justice is given to the common man within a reasonable time. “Timely delivery of justice must be made a priority...The central government would work with the judiciary in order to facilitate the delivery of justice to the common man,” he further said. During his address at the India-Singapore mediation summit in July, Chief Justice of India, NV Ramana, had favoured a special enactment that would make mediation mandatory before litigation while citing the backlog of 30 million cases in the country’s courts and the rising costs of litigation. “Given the growing scope of mediation, it’s time for India to enter mission mode. To popularise mediation as a cheaper and faster dispute resolution mechanism, a movement needs to be launched,” Justice Ramana had said.“Prescribing mediation as a mandatory first step for resolution of every allowable dispute will go a long way in promoting mediation. Perhaps, an omnibus law in this regard is needed to fill the vacuum,” the judge had added. Barring a handful of legislations, there is no provision for mandatory mediation or other alternative dispute resolution processes such as conciliation and arbitration in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-table-bill-on-arbitration-in-winter-session-of-parliament-rijiju-101631387408539.html
12-09-2021||India||Farmers call off Karnal protest as Haryana govt agrees to demands||Protesting farmers called off their stir in Karnal on Saturday after the Haryana government ordered a judicial probe into last month’s police lathicharge on demonstrators and agreed to send the IAS officer who purportedly told personnel to “break the heads” of agitators on leave, government officials and farm leaders said.On August 28, 10 people were injured when Haryana Police lathicharged a group of protesting farmers who were trying to head to the venue of a state BJP meeting in Karnal. During the incident, a video of former Karnal Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Ayush Sinha purportedly telling police personnel to “break the heads” of anyone who tried to cross the barricades went viral. On September 2, he was transferred out of Karnal and posted as additional secretary of Citizen Resources Information Department.Also Read| Farmers’ protests sponsored by Cong with eye on Punjab polls: VijFollowing the incident, the farmers called for Sinha’s suspension and an investigation into police action. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) – a platform for farm unions –began an indefinite protest at the main entrance of the Karnal mini-secretariat on September 7 over the demands.“A judicial inquiry of the incident (lathi-charge) at the Bastara toll plaza on August 28 will be conducted by a retired high court judge and the judge will submit the report in one month. During the investigation, IAS officer Ayush Sinha will remain on leave,” said additional chief secretary to Haryana government, Devender Singh in a joint conference along with farmer leaders.The additional chief secretary also announced that government jobs would be given to two family members of a farmer, who, the protesters claimed, died after being injured during the lathicharge. The administration had earlier rejected this claim.Also Read| Karnal stir to mirror Delhi agitation: Rakesh Tikait“The Haryana government will give jobs to two family members of deceased farmer Satish Kajal under sanctioned posts at DC rate in Karnal,” Singh announced.The farmers held three rounds of talks with the administration over their demands during which they pressed for an FIR against Sinha.“We had taken a legal opinion and found that judicial inquiry is a better option than the registration of FIR. And the FIR will be registered later if he was found guilty in the investigation,” said farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni Charuni, who also addressed the joint press conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-call-off-karnal-protest-as-haryana-govt-agrees-to-demands-101631386628888.html
12-09-2021||India||‘Humbled’: Tech Mahindra MD Gurnani lauds KTR for holding umbrella for him||In a show of appreciation for humbleness, the managing director and CEO of Tech Mahindra, CP Gurnani recently took to Twitter to laud Telangana cabinet minister KT Rama Rao.In a picture that Gurnani shared, Rao was seen holding an umbrella over the former’s head – thereby drawing an applause from the businessman. “It was good catching up with you [KT Rama Rao] and humbled by your thoughtful gesture… It’s not every day that someone of your stature holds the umbrella for me,” Gurnani tweeted along with the picture on Friday.In reply, Rao said that he has “so much to learn” from Gurnani. “Age, experience and wisdom; so much to learn from you CP. Always lovely meeting you,” Rao wrote on Twitter.
12-09-2021||India||Those dead within 30 days of testing +ve to be considered Covid fatalities: Govt||The death certificates of those who died at home or a hospital within 30 days of testing positive for Covid-19 and people who continued being treated for the infectious disease at hospitals beyond 30 days but died subsequently will show the cause of their fatality as Covid-19, the Centre has told the Supreme Court in an affidavit.The new rules form part of the simplified regulations issued jointly by the ministry of health and family welfare and the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) on September 3 following the Supreme Court judgment directing the Centre to consider expanding the scope of Covid-19 deaths to such people who were admitted initially for the viral disease but subsequently died due to related complications.Presenting the guidelines to the court over two petitions filed by advocates Gaurav Kumar Bansal and Reepak Kansal, expected to be heard on Monday, the Centre said: “COVID-19 cases, for the purpose of these Guidelines, are those which are diagnosed through a positive RT-PCR/ Molecular Tests/ RAT or clinically determined through investigations in a hospital/ in-patient facility by a treating physician, while admitted in the hospital/ in-patient facility.”To make the scope broader and more inclusive, the affidavit, filed by additional secretary Govind Mohan of the home ministry, said: “Deaths occurring within 30 days from the date of testing or from the date of being clinically determined as a COVID-19 case, will be treated as ‘deaths due to COVID-19, even if the death takes place outside the hospital/ in-patient facility.”It added: “A COVID-19 case, while admitted in the hospital/in-patient facility, and who continued as the same admission beyond 30 days, and died subsequently, shall be treated as a COVID-19 death.”The guidelines excluded deaths due to poisoning, suicide, homicide, and deaths due to an accident from the ambit of Covid-19 fatalities, even if the deceased were positive for Covid-19.The affidavit said that any death where the Medical Certificate of Cause of Death (MCCD) under Covid-19 has been issued by a medial or health attendant or owner of a place for disposal of dead bodies under Section 10 of Registration of Births and Deaths Act 1969 shall be treated as a fatality because of the infectious disease. In this regard, the Office of Registrar General of India has issued a communication to Chief Registrars of all states and Union Territories.In the event where the next of kin of the deceased are not satisfied with the cause of death given in MCCD, their application shall be forwarded by the concerned state/UT to a four-member committee that will verify and issue remedial directions, including issuance of official document for Covid-19 death within 30 days of submission of the application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/those-dead-within-30-days-of-testing-positive-to-be-considered-covid-fatalities-centre-101631386390014.html
12-09-2021||India||T’gana reports 296 new Covid cases, one death||Telangana on Saturday added 296 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the tally to 661,302, while the death toll rose to 3,893 with one more fatality.The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 74, followed by Karimnagar (29) and Warangal Urban (22) districts, a state government bulletin said, providing details as of 5.30pm on Saturday.With 322 people recuperating from the infectious disease, the cumulative number of recoveries till date was 652,085.Active cases stood at 5,324, the bulletin said.It said 69,833 samples were tested and the total number tested till date was 25,378,513.The samples tested per million population were 681,851.The case fatality and recovery rates were at 0.58 per cent and 98.60 per cent compared to 1.3 per cent and 97.45 per cent, respectively at the national level||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tgana-reports-296-new-covid-cases-one-death-101631385969737.html
12-09-2021||India||Playing sport comes at a price in Bengaluru||Ashish Adhikari came to Bengaluru in 2018 after he got a job as a graphic designer in the city. A sport enthusiast, one of the first things Adhikari searched for in the city, after an apartment, was a football ground. The 26-year-old said everyone guided him towards football turfs in the city, which were good but playing there required shelling out money. “Each game used to have around 10 people and the ground cost was ₹1,500 per hour. Every month, I ended up paying ₹900 for football and since I play badminton as well, my monthly expenses on sport were around ₹1,700 per month,” he said, adding that back home in Assam playing sports didn’t cost a penny. With the public playgrounds in the city shrinking with time, more sports enthusiasts are moving towards the artificial grounds, which come at a price. Reuben Varghese Kurien, who runs Bangalore Football Turf in east Bengaluru’s Hennur, said people are ready to pay for better facilities that offer safety. “Most of the public grounds in the city are crowded and chances of injuries are high because the grounds are not maintained. So, most of the customers want the flexibility – availability of a good-quality ground at a time convenient to them,” he said. According to Kurien, there are more than 100 such grounds in Bengaluru and at least 90 of them were already existing when he launched his football turf in 2016. “There are at least 100 people playing here every day,” he said. One of the reasons for Bengaluru’s shrinking public spaces, especially public grounds, has been a result of poor planning and policies. Ravindran DS, a former Indian Forest Service officer who conducted research on public spaces in Bangalore, said that over the period of time, Bengaluru was showing an alarming reduction in the available public space, which includes playgrounds. “If you look at the Karnataka town country planning Act (1961), it said there should be at least 15% open area. In the development plans that came in the 1980s, 1990s, and in 2005, a similar percentage of public place was proposed. But it never happened,” he said. The retired officer said that during his study in 2005, he found that Bengaluru was not anywhere near the World Health Organization’s (WHO) recommendation of having a 10 metre square area per person. “From having an 8 metre square per person in 1968, we had come down to around 1 metre square per person. It was a drastic drop. The built-up area in Bengaluru was around 71%, whereas it should have been 30%,” added the official. He attributed the change to two reasons. Firstly, bad planning and secondly, a cultural change. “The governments have not been able to enforce the regulations they had brought in. Secondly, culturally speaking, Bengaluru didn’t have a ‘vertical growth’ with multiple apartments coming up until recently. When there was an explosion of population, the bad planning meant there was little public space available,” he said. Leo Saldana, Bengaluru-based environmental activist, said the impact of not having a healthy ratio between open spaces and population was seen during the recent lockdowns. “Those living in congested neighborhoods suffered more (because of lack of access to public spaces). So far there is no study on its impact but a good way to assess the impact of lack of access to public spaces, for release of human energy, is the Nimhans’ reporting that from getting a few calls before lockdown, they are getting around 250 calls per day (during the lockdown) from distressed children,” he said. Senior BBMP officials claimed that the city had around 256 public playgrounds. However, for a population over 10.2 million, these numbers are not enough, say activists. “We have identified more places that can be developed as playgrounds and we are in the process of developing them,” said a senior official of BBMP’s estate department. “But compared to many metros in the city, Bengaluru still has a large number of playgrounds. As the city is developing further, we are ensuring such facilities are part of the development plan,” the official added. While BBMP’s claims get objections from activists, enthusiast like Adhikari has to shell out money to play any sport of his choice in the city and for those who cannot afford it, the option is to fight out for space in overcrowded playgrounds of Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/playing-sport-comes-at-a-price-in-bengaluru-101631385968345.html
12-09-2021||India||Kerala House Speaker slams drop in India’s place on press freedom index||India’s position in the World Press Freedom Index is declining and this is the time when journalists should be on the constant lookout for anything that could jeopardise secularism and unity of the people, Kerala Assembly Speaker M B Rajesh said on Saturday. He said in today’s world, media is facing direct attacks across the globe and it means democracy is in danger.Delivering a speech at the launch of a website of Global Malayalee Press Club (GMPC) here, the Speaker said journalists must not become propagandists of those who divide society. Leader of Opposition in the Assembly V D Satheesan warned those who misuse the media. In a sensitive period like this, the challenge before the media is to handle issues which affect unity of society, he said.“The other day, there was news of journalists being brutally attacked in Afghanistan came. It is easy for us to talk about Afghanistan but it will be difficult for us to say about India, where an editor Gauri Lankesh was shot. Many local journalists have been killed. India’s position in the World Press Freedom Index is declining. That means democracy is in danger,” Rajesh said. As per the World Press Freedom Index, 2021, of Paris-based Reporters without Borders, India is in the 142nd position among 180 countries. India’s rank was 133 in 2016 which came down to 142 in 2020.“This is the time when journalists should be on the constant lookout for anything that could jeopardise secularism and unity of the people,” he said.Apart from Rajesh and Satheesan, Ernakulam Member of Parliament Hibi Eden and others participated in the launch of the website of GMPC, an international network of Malayalee journalists and media community.“We will be very popular tonight but social media can make us unpopular within hours. There are people who misuse social media. Similarly, there are people who misuse the media. In a sensitive period like this, the challenge before the media is to handle issues which affect the unity of society,” Satheesan said.Rajesh said society, these days, is witnessing people holding responsible positions making irrational and irresponsible statements. “Not to become the propagandists of those, who say things detrimental to the communal unity and harmony of a society like Kerala, is an important qualification of a journalist,” Rajesh said.George Kallivayalil, president of GMPC, addressing the gathering, gave an insight into the formation of such an initiative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-house-speaker-slams-drop-in-india-s-place-on-press-freedom-index-101631385849956.html
12-09-2021||India||Kerala begins seroprevalence study on Covid-19 situation||The Kerala government is conducting a seroprevalence study to take stock of the spread of Covid-19 virus among the people in the state.Health minister Veena George said the study began earlier this month and is expected to be completed by the end of September.The study would help understand the Covid seropositivity rate among various age groups including children, she told reporters here.“The Health Department is conducting the seroprevalence study. It is expected to completed by this month end. It will be carried out among children as well as adults,” the minister said.Asked about the school reopening in the state, George said the study would help understand the seropositivity among children and the government would take further decisions about it after the study.The study report would be submitted to the CM, General Education and other concerned officials, who would take a call on the reopening of schools after that.On the concerns regarding Nipah virus, reported in Kozhikode last week, she said all the samples tested so far had turned out to be negative, which is a matter of relief.“Source tracing is equally important as that of the contract tracing. A special team from the National Institute of Virology is already collecting samples from the state to identify the source of the spread of the virus infection,” she said.However, the minister said the ongoing strict vigil and the restrictions in the affected areas would continue for some more time. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday said his government had conducted a complete house-to-house survey within three-km-radius from the house of the 12-year-old boy who succumbed to Nipah virus on September 5 as part of is fever surveillance.He said in the survey around 15,000 houses were included from the containment zone and details were sought from around 68,000 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-begins-seroprevalence-study-on-covid-19-situation-101631385848491.html
12-09-2021||India||E-exams unfair to those with no devices: Kerala govt to Supreme Court||Online examinations will be a disadvantage for students with no access to laptops and mobile phones, the Kerala government told the Supreme Court in an affidavit, days after the top court stayed the state’s decision to hold physical examinations for Class 11 students while terming their Covid-19 situation “alarming”. On Saturday, Kerala reported 20,487 new Covid-19 cases and 181 deaths, taking the state’s cumulative tally to 4,355,191. The toll in the state has reached 22,484. In its affidavit, filed on Friday, APM Muhammad Hanish, principal secretary (Department of General Education)  said: “The conduct of examination through online mode will prejudice a large number of students who have no access to laptops, desktops or even mobile phones. The students belonging to the lower strata of society are depending on mobile phones or tablets for attending online classes. In many areas, internet connection or mobile data are not available. These students will never be able to write online examinations.”“The issue of lack of electronic gadgets to students could also be eliminated and a fair, equitable and transparent method of conducting examinations could be ensured, eliminating chances of any complaints,” the affidavit added. On May 28, the state government announced that the Class 11 examinations, will be held offline between September 6 and 27, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. This decision was challenged by advocate A Rasoolshan before the Kerala high court, which observed that conducting examination was a matter of government policy and no interference was warranted. Challenging the HC decision, Rasoolshan told the top court that holding physical exams was a huge risk since children have not yet been vaccinated.On September 3, an SC bench of justices AM Khanwilkar, Hrishikesh Roy and CT Ravikumar acknowledged the petitioner’s concern and observed: “There is an alarming situation in Kerala... Children of tender age cannot be exposed to any risk in this situation... Prima facie, we find force in the submission made by the petitioner that the state government has not seriously considered the prevailing situation before deciding to conduct physical examination (for Class 11).”The top court bench issued a notice on the petition to the Kerala government and put the examination on hold till September 13 -- the next date of hearing.In the affidavit, the state government stood by its decision to hold Class 11 examinations, citing the success of offline examinations for Class 10 and 12 students in April. The state further pointed out that all safety protocols are in place for the physical Class 11 examinations, and the state has also arranged separate rooms for students showing symptoms of illness. “Examination in offline mode can be conducted by strictly adhering to all precautionary measures issued by state and Central governments in preventing further spread of Covid-19 pandemic,” the affidavit said.This is not the first instance where Kerala has been hauled up by the top court for its potentially dangerous decisions to spread Covid-19. In July, the state government’s decision to relax lockdown restrictions in view of Bakrid festivities was challenged before the top court. The Court slammed the state’s decision as “extremely alarming” and said that if the decision of the state resulted in any untoward spread of the Covid-19 infection, any member of the public would be free to approach the Court after which action will be accordingly taken. As two days of restrictions got over by the date when the order was passed, the state government decided not to continue with further relaxation of lockdown curbs.This is not the first instance where Kerala has been hauled up by the top court for its potentially dangerous decisions to spread Covid-19. In July, the state government’s decision to relax lockdown restrictions in view of Bakrid festivities was challenged before the top court. The Court slammed the state’s decision as “extremely alarming” and said that if the decision of the state resulted in any untoward spread of the Covid-19 infection, any member of the public would be free to approach the Court after which action will be accordingly taken. As two days of restrictions got over by the date when the order was passed, the state government decided not to continue with further relaxation of lockdown curbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eexams-unfair-to-those-with-no-devices-kerala-govt-to-supreme-court-101631385791398.html
12-09-2021||India||BJP offered money to quit Congress, says ex-Karnataka minister||Former Karnataka cabinet minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Shrimant Patil on Saturday alleged he was offered money to join the party from the Congress in 2019, which refused at the time.Patil held the portfolio of minority welfare in the state government between 2020 and 2021 and was one of the ministers recently dropped from the newly formed cabinet under chief minister Basavaraj Bommai. Talking to reporters on Saturday, the Kagwad MLA said he was offered money at the time of quitting Congress by the BJP government, but he refused. “I’m someone who joined the BJP without taking any money. They had asked me how much of money I wanted, but I didn’t take a single paisa,” he said. “I declined the offer of money and told them that when the party is in power, they should give a good position so that I can do social service. Now, they (BJP) have dropped me from the new cabinet. However, I am confident of getting a cabinet berth in the coming days,” he said. He further added that he had discussed with senior leaders regarding the cabinet portfolio. “The Maratha community is also pitching in for me, demanding my inclusion in the new cabinet. The senior BJP leaders have assured me that I will be accommodated in the cabinet,” Patil added. The BJP is yet to react to Patil’s remarks. However, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee Working President Eshwar Khandre said that the leader’s statement is only proving what the Congress party has been alleging, and the truth is before the people. “The leaders are now openly talking about it. They are not happy with the BJP and cabinet position. The Supreme Court should take note of these statements,” he said. In 2019, the opposition parties in Karnataka accused the BJP of horse-trading 16 MLAs, belonging to the Congress and the Janata Dal (Secular), which ended their coalition government. Later, the party triumphed over the bypolls and formed the government under the leadership of BS Yediyurappa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-offered-money-to-quit-congress-says-ex-karnataka-minister-101631385788383.html
12-09-2021||India||Andhra CID files FIR against 16 people in ₹321cr FiberNet case||Two months after it was entrusted with the case, the Crime Investigation Department of Andhra Pradesh has registered an FIR on the alleged irregularities in AP State FiberNet Limited, putting the sum involved at ₹321 crores.The FiberNet project was meant to provide Internet and telephone services to all households in the state, as part of the Bharat Net project of the Government of India.The Centre initially provided a financial assistance of ₹3,840 crores for the FiberNet project under the National Optic Fibre Network.In the FIR registered on September 9, copy of which became public on Saturday, the CID named 16 people and two companies as the accused in the case.Citing a complaint filed by APSFL Chairman P Goutham Reddy, the CID said Vemuri Harikrishna Prasad, the then member of the e-Governance Authority governing council, colluded with Tera Software Limited to ensure the tender for ₹321 crore was illegally awarded to the company.The company lacked the necessary qualifications for the award of the tender, the CID FIR said.Besides Vemuri Harikrishna Prasad, the CID named the then managing director of Infrastructure Corporation of AP K Sambasiva Rao, Tera Software chairman SSR Koteswara Rao, managing director T Gopi Chand and six other directors as accused in the case.Also, six directors of another company Himachal Futuristic Communications Limited were listed as accused, along with unnamed government officials and others.A case under various sections of Indian Penal Code and Prevention of Corruption Act has been registered against the accused and the report submitted to the Special Judge for Anti-Corruption Bureau and Special Police Establishment cases.On July 11, Energy Secretary Srikant Nagulapalli issued an order directing the Additional Director General of CID to investigate the irregularities and submit a detailed report to the government.The Central Bureau of Investigation allegedly did not show any interest in taking up the case, though the state government issued a confidential order on July 13, 2020, according consent to the national agency to exercise powers and jurisdiction “for taking up regular investigation and follow up action pertaining to the scam in APSFL.” The case was then entrusted to the state CID for investigation.The Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government constituted a Cabinet Sub-Committee in June 2019 to look into various “financial scandals” committed by the previous Chandrababu Naidu regime in different schemes, causing a loss running into hundreds of crores of rupees.The Cabinet Sub-Committee headed by Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath found out that the project costs were inflated by at least ₹700 crore.Besides, a person with fake certificates was appointed as head of the project.Also, inferior quality set top boxes were purchased from different companies, sidestepping the lowest bidder (a South Korean firm) that came forward to supply high-end STBs at a lower price.“This alone cost hundreds of crores of rupees to the exchequer while the project remained unaccomplished,” the Cabinet Sub-Committee pointed out.Based on the Cabinet Sub-Committee’s preliminary inquiry report, the state Cabinet on June 11, 2020, decided to order a CBI probe into the case.But the CBI allegedly did not show any interest in taking up the case, despite the Chief Minister writing several letters to the Centre and also personally taking up the issue with Union Home Minister Amit Shah.“Tender conditions were relaxed to facilitate the award of work to Tera Software Ltd., though the Central Public Sector Enterprise, Telecommunication Consultants India, emerged as the lowest bidder. It was not considered for ‘Project Monitoring Authority’ on inadequate grounds even though the firm quoted a lesser price but instead the APSFL chose to call for fresh bids. Non-selection of TCIL was due to the fear that the Central PSE would expose the compromised tender conditions to favour Tera Software Ltd. Hence the decision to seek a CBI inquiry to unearth the massive irregularities,” the state had then said, while seeking the central agency’s probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-cid-files-fir-against-16-people-in-321cr-fibernet-case-101631385728760.html
12-09-2021||India||Centre to treat all deaths within 30 days of testing positive as Covid-19 fatalities||People who died at home or hospital within 30 days of being tested Covid-19 positive as well as those who continued in hospital beyond 30 days for Covid-19 treatment and subsequently died will now be entitled to get death certificates showing cause of death due to Covid-19, the Centre told the Supreme Court in an affidavit filed on Friday.The new rules form part of the simplified regulations issued jointly by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) on September 3 following the Supreme Court judgment of June 30 directing the Centre to consider expanding the scope of Covid-19 deaths to such persons who were admitted initially for Covid-19 but subsequently died due to Covid-19-related complications.Presenting the guidelines to the Court in two petitions filed by advocates Gaurav Kumar Bansal and Reepak Kansal, expected to be heard on Monday, the Centre said, “Covid-19 cases, for the purpose of these Guidelines, are those which are diagnosed through a positive RT-PCR/ Molecular Tests/ RAT or clinically determined through investigations in a hospital/ in-patient facility by a treating physician, while admitted in the hospital/ in-patient facility.”To make the scope broader and more inclusive, the affidavit filed by Additional Secretary Govind Mohan of Ministry of Home Affairs said, “Deaths occurring within 30 days from the date of testing or from the date of being clinically determined as a Covid-19 case, will be treated as ‘deaths due to Covid-19, even if the death takes place outside the hospital/ in-patient facility.”Further, it added, “A Covid-19 case, while admitted in the hospital/in-patient facility, and who continued as the same admission beyond 30 days, and died subsequently, shall be treated as a Covid-19 death.”Making an exception, the guideline excluded deaths occurring due to poisoning, suicide, homicide, deaths due to accident from the ambit of Covid-19 deaths, even though Covid-19 was an accompanying condition.Further, the affidavit stated that any death where the Medical Certificate of Cause of Death (MCCD) has been issued by a medial or health attendant or owner of a place for disposal of dead bodies under Section 10 of Registration of Births and Deaths Act 1969, the same shall be treated as a Covid-19 death. In this regard, the Office of Registrar General of India has issued a communication to Chief Registrars of all states and union territories.In the event where next of kin of the deceased are not satisfied with the cause of death given in MCCD, their application shall be forwarded by the concerned state/UT to a four-member Committee that will verify and issue remedial directions, including issuance of official document for Covid-19 death within 30 days of submission of application.The top court in its June 30 order had specified the need for such a Committee to reduce hassles being caused to common man. This Committee to be constituted at the district level will comprise of Additional District Collector, Chief Medical Officer of Health (CMOH), Additional CMOH/ Principal or HOD Medicine of a Medical College (if one exists in the district) and a subject expert.The June 30 decision had also directed the Centre to frame guidelines for payment of ex-gratia compensation for Covid-19 deaths under the National Disaster Management Act 2005. The Court had granted six weeks for the Centre to frame the scheme under the 2005 Act and specify the amount since Covid-19 was notified as a disaster under the 2005 Act.On August 16, the Court extended this time by four weeks. The judgment of June 30 also required the Centre to consider framing a national insurance scheme for disaster-related deaths in line with recommendations made by the 15th Finance Commission. The present affidavit has not indicated any compliance on this aspect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-treat-all-deaths-within-30-days-of-testing-positive-as-covid-19-fatalities-101631385668174.html
12-09-2021||India||Judicial infrastructure neglected after Independence, says CJI Ramana||Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana on Saturday rued that judicial infrastructure was largely “neglected” after the country got its independence in 1947 and lack of facilities continues to cripple access to justice. Laying emphasis on strengthening judicial infrastructure, Justice Ramana said poor infrastructure in courts across the country was not only adverse for litigants but also for judicial officers and court staff who were bound to work under deleterious conditions. “We neglected and failed to focus on providing good infrastructure for courts in India after the British left,” the CJI said at the foundation stone laying ceremony of the National Law University, proposed to be established at Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh. “Courts in India still operate from dilapidated structures, without proper facilities. Such a situation is severely detrimental to the experience of litigants and lawyers. It is an unpleasant work environment for court staff and judges, making it difficult to effectively perform their functions,” Justice Ramana added. The event was also attended by President Ram Nath Kovind, Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel, Union law minister Kiren Rijiju, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and acting chief justice of Allahabad high court MN Bhandari. Supreme Court judges Vineet Saran, Dinesh Maheshwari, Krishna Murari and Vikram Nath were also present. During his address, the CJI highlighted the role of National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation (NJIC) in developing concepts of the national court development project and its implementation to build modern and self-sufficient judicial infrastructure. “NJIC shall be along the lines of different infrastructure development statutory bodies that work towards creating National Assets across the country. One of the design principles that NJIC will follow, is socially responsible and inclusive architecture,” said Justice Ramana. The judge underlined that sufficient judicial infrastructure can help improve access to justice, by catering to the ever-rising number of cases and litigants, and their changing needs. NJIC, an ambitious plan by CJI Ramana, envisages collection of actionable data from across the country on requirement and upgradation of court buildings along with ancillary infrastructure. The managing committee to NJIC has to include the CJI and other Supreme Court judges who are in line to become CJI in future, chief justices of high courts and finance secretaries of the Union and state governments. According to the proposal, states would be required to fund modern court complexes through a one-time grant. Justice Ramana also expressed his concerns about pendency in the Allahabad high court. “I do not want to point any fingers or lay any blame regarding the pendency in the Allahabad high court relating to criminal cases, which is very worrying. I request the Allahabad bar and bench, to work together and cooperate to resolve this issue.” Allahabad high court has the maximum pendency among the 26 high courts across the country. The data submitted by the Uttar Pradesh government in the Supreme Court last month disclosed that around 180,000 criminal cases were pending in the Allahabad high court, which presently has a vacancy of 68 judges. Against the sanctioned strength of 160, the high court currently has 92 judges. In addition to the criminal cases, there are more than 600,000 civil cases pending before the high court. Justice Ramana placed on record his gratitude for President Ram Nath Kovind over his support to the legal community. “It was his (Kovind’s) idea to translate the judgments of the Supreme Court to vernacular languages to increase access to justice, which has now been implemented. Whenever we meet, he always asks about the welfare of the legal fraternity, and is always thinking of improving the legal aid system for the under privileged,” added the CJI. At the occasion, President Kovind said to achieve the inclusive ideals of the Indian Constitution, the role of women in the judiciary needs to be increased, while hailing the appointment of three women judges in the Supreme Court last month as a “historic” decision towards women empowerment. “If we have to achieve the inclusive ideals of our Constitution, then the role of women in the judiciary also has to be increased,” the President added. The CJI also paid rich tributes to Anand Bhushan Saran, an eminent lawyer and father of Justice Vineet Saran. “Till his last days, he never wavered from his routine and was still working, without ever making excuses of ill health. This earned him universal respect and admiration. Working closely with his son, brother Justice Vineet Saran, I can state that my brother has imbibed some of his best qualities by watching his eminent father.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judicial-infrastructure-neglected-after-independence-says-cji-ramana-101631385008782.html
12-09-2021||India||India, Australia share concerns on Afghanistan||New Delhi India and Australia on Saturday insisted Afghanistan’s soil must not become a safe haven for terrorists or be used for attacks on other nations, even as they called for steps to ensure an inclusive governing structure in Kabul and the safe departure of people wishing to leave the war-torn country.At the conclusion of the inaugural India-Australia 2+2 dialogue of defence and foreign ministers, the two sides asserted that their bilateral partnership and cooperation in groupings such as the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad was focused on ensuring an open and inclusive Indo-Pacific and not aimed at any country.Remarks by defence minister Rajnath Singh, external affairs minister S Jaishankar and their Australian counterparts, Marise Payne and Peter Dutton, at a media interaction following the meeting made it evident the situation in Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover on August 15, and mounting concerns about terror emanating from Afghan soil were a major part of the discussions.The significance of the meeting being held on the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks in the US – an event that triggered the American invasion of Afghanistan – wasn’t lost on the ministers. Jaishankar said in his opening remarks this was a reminder of the importance of “combating terrorism without compromise”, and India appreciates the value of global cooperation given its location close to the “epicentre” of terrorism.In her opening remarks, Payne said: “Last month did see the fall of Kabul and along with the ongoing fight of terrorism, the future of Afghanistan remains a central concern to both of our countries.”Jaishankar said in response to a question that UN Security Council resolution 2593 emphasises “Afghanistan must not allow its soil to be used in any manner, by anybody for terrorism”. Payne added: “We do share a very strong interest in ensuring that Afghanistan never again becomes a safe haven for the breeding or the training of terrorists and that is an abiding concern of the international community.” The two sides, Jaishankar said, have concerns about the “inclusiveness of the dispensation” in Kabul, the treatment of women and minorities, the travel of Afghan nationals and humanitarian aid. Payne said Australia’s focus is on seeking safe passage for its citizens, foreign nationals and visa holders of other countries who want to leave Afghanistan. “We are very conscious of the impact of violence and breaches of human rights on the Afghanistan community and again would call for those fundamental human rights to be observed,” she said. The Taliban takeover exacerbated issues that were already affecting the Afghans, such as a drought and significant internal and external displacement of citizens, and international organisations such as UNHCR should be allowed unimpeded access to provide humanitarian support, she added. Payne, who is also Australia’s minister for women, spoke strongly for the rights of Afghan women and girls. Australia worked for two decades to ensure such rights, including in education and participation in the workforce, were preserved and the international community must now ensure these rights are “not wound back”, she said. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that developments in Afghanistan were a key part of separate meetings held by the foreign and defence ministers. The Indian side also raised its concerns about terrorism from Afghan soil and Pakistan’s backing for the Taliban at all the meetings, the people said. Jaishankar’s reference to the Taliban setup in Kabul as a “dispensation” was an indication the Indian side is in no hurry to accord any recognition to the interim cabinet formed by the group this week. Responding to another question on the Chinese side referring to Quad as an “Asian NATO”, Jaishankar said this is a platform for India, Australia, Japan and the US to cooperate for the benefit of the world, and such a description amounts to a misrepresentation of reality. “I think a term like NATO is very much a Cold War term, looking back. I think Quad looks [to] the future, it reflects globalisation [and] the compulsions of countries to work together,” he said. There is no relationship between issues the Quad is focused on – such as vaccines, supply chains, education and connectivity –and NATO, he added. Payne said the Quad champions Asean centrality and has a “positive and practical agenda” that includes Covid-19 vaccines, climate change, critical technologies and countering “dangerous disinformation”. She added, “Our constructive engagement in an informal diplomatic network is overwhelmingly about contributing positively for that open, inclusive and resilient region in which we all want to live.” The four ministers asserted that India and Australia are committed to bolstering cooperation across the Indo-Pacific to ensure a free and open region based on a rules-based order and to improve coordination for maritime security and information-sharing. Singh said the two sides discussed institutional frameworks for collaboration in defence and fighting the pandemic, and emphasised the need to ensure free flow of trade and adherence to international rules. “On bilateral defence cooperation, we decided to expand military engagements across services, facilitate greater defence information-sharing and to work closely for mutual logistics support,” Singh said. Dutton described India as a “rising Indo-Pacific great power” and an “increasingly significant security partner for Australia”, and said the bilateral logistics support arrangement enabled Australia to airlift oxygen to India during the second wave of Covid-19 infections this year. He said he and Singh had agreed on new initiatives to further defence ties and engagement between the armed forces. Australia will invite India to participate in the Talisman Sabre exercise and continue to participate in India’s Malabar naval exercise along with the US and Japan. The two sides agreed to reinforce each other’s maritime domain awareness through increased information-sharing, and Australia will increase its defence diplomatic representation in New Delhi to support coordination on maritime security and greater information-sharing, Dutton said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiaaustralia-share-concerns-on-afghanistan-101631384647604.html
12-09-2021||India||Vijay Rupani resigns as Gujarat CM ahead of polls next year||Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani resigned from the post on Saturday, an announcement that came a little over a year before the assembly elections in the state that is ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).While it was not immediately clear what led to the move, with Saturday’s sudden change of the guard, Gujarat joined a list of states where the central BJP brass opted to change the leadership ahead of assembly elections. After Karnataka, where chief minister BS Yeddiyurappa was replaced by Basavaraj Bommai ahead of the 2023 elections, and Uttarakhand, where the incumbent Trivendra Singh Rawat was first replaced by Tirath Singh and later by Pushkar Dhami, Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani on Saturday announced his resignation. Both Gujarat and Uttarakhand will pick new assemblies in 2022.BJP’s general secretary (organisation) BL Santosh and Gujarat state unit incharge Bhupender Yadav met party functionaries soon after Rupani announced his resignation. Rupani and state cabinet colleagues met the governor and submitted their resignations.Rupani, who tendered his resignation to Governor Acharya Devvrat in the afternoon, told reporters: “I am a loyal soldier of the BJP and have resigned of my own accord; nobody asked me to do so. I will work for the party organisation or whatever role the party leadership assigns me.” Amid speculation of infighting, he denied he had any differences with state BJP president CR Paatil.Asked about the reason for his resignation, Rupani said: “In BJP, it is like a relay race for party workers. One gives the baton to the other.” A person aware of the matter said Rupani’s successor will be discussed at a legislature party meeting likely to be held on Sunday.Among the names that are likely to be considered for the next CM is Lakshadweep and Daman and Diu administrator Praful Patel. The others are state general secretary Gordhan Jhadaphia, a Patidar leader, and Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, said a senior BJP functionary, asking not to be named.Among the reasons cited by party leaders, who asked not to be named, for the 65-year-old’s exit were his response to the Covid-19 pandemic and his caste. The Jain CM’s performance in facing the challenges posed by the pandemic and failure to build cohesive political support for the BJP which still faces challenges from the Patidars, a community with immense political heft that can swing electoral outcomes, were stated as key determinants in the decision, according to the leaders.A change of face a little over a year ahead of the elections is expected to blunt anti-incumbency in the state. The term of the 182-member assembly ends in February 2023.A senior party leader based in Delhi said the change should not be attributed to Rupani’s performance but is part of the BJP’s policy of fostering newer leadership. “The BJP believes in leadership development process whereby newer people are given a chance to be in charge. In Gujarat that is what has happened… it’s a generational change. New leaders will take over the charge with enthusiasm,” said the functionary.However, there is a section of party leaders that said the resignation is an indication that the central command is not inclined to go to the polls with incumbent leaders in states where the public perception is not in their favour.“Even though the chief minister carried forward the development agenda that was set by Prime Minister Modi when he was the chief minister of the state, there were many issues that could be attributed for this change. The first and foremost being the state’s response to the Covid challenge,” said second leader. He went on to add: “…Since he also did not meet the criterion that was arrived at after doing the electoral calculations the party decided that he should to replaced and a new person given the charge till the election.”The central leadership that included Santhosh and Yadav held a series of meetings with the state party leaders in the past few months to get an insight into the public sentiment against the CM.In April this year, the high court of Gujarat took a serious view of the state’s preparedness for the pandemic and said the manner in which the government had dealt with the challenge was “not satisfactory and not transparent”. There was an uproar over the lack of oxygen supply in hospitals; beds were also in short supply.Rupani, a non-Patidar leader, replaced Anandiben Patel in 2016 in the aftermath of the agitation by the politically powerful Patidar community that was rallying for being brought under the ambit of reservation. He was sworn in for a second term after the party won the 2017 assembly elections even though there were reservations among state leaders on his elevation.The party has been concerned over the state unit leaders losing hold over the electorate. In 2017 when the party returned to power it won just 99 of the 182 seats, down from the previous election’s 115. Later, the Aam Aadmi Party’s performance in the Surat municipal corporation rang the alarm bells again. The party has officially dismissed the AAP’s emergence in the state, but it is aware of the simmering discontent among the Patidars over the delay in taking back cases that were filed against those booked in the 2015 agitation, said a third leader.Political commentator Ghanshaym Shah said there was pressure from party cadres and the Patidar community to change the chief minister. “The party cadres had relayed to the central leadership the need to have the Patidars on their side, so the change can be attributed to this pressure,” he said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rupani-resigns-as-cm-ahead-of-polls-next-year-101631384590678.html
12-09-2021||India||In 1 day, National Lok Adalat settles 1.5 million cases worth ₹2,281 crore||New Delhi Organised by the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA), the National Lok Adalat on Saturday succeeded in getting over 1.5 million cases settled in a day, involving a settlement amount of whopping ₹2,281 crore . Data available till 4 pm on Saturday from legal services authorities across the country demonstrated that 3.3 million cases were taken up, out of which 1.5 million were disposed of. Of the settled cases, more than 592,000 cases were pending before various courts at different stages while 940,000 cases have been resolved at pre-litigation stage. Lok Adalats were organised in both virtual and hybrid mode and chiefly took up cases of motor accident, matrimonial disputes, cheque bounce, labour disputes, criminal compoundable cases and revenue cases. Justice Uday U Lalit, Executive Chairman of NALSA, virtually joined the ongoing proceedings of the Lok Adalat benches constituted at district levels and also interacted with more than 50 presiding judges of these benches. During his interaction with the judicial officers, Justice Lalit emphasised that Lok Adalats are imperative to reduce the huge pendency in the justice system of the country. The Adalat on Saturday also achieved the feat of establishing a virtual connect up to taluka level and some of the places connected for the first time included Pindwara in Sirohi district, which is a Tribal area of Rajasthan and Keshkal in Kondagaon district, which is a Moaist-affected area of Chhattisgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-1-day-national-lok-adalat-settles-1-5-million-cases-worth-2-281-crore-101631383928776.html
12-09-2021||India||Centre clears appointments to NCLT , ITAT||New Delhi: The central government on Saturday approved the appointment of judicial and technical members to the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) and the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) days after the Supreme Court pulled up the Centre over vacancies in tribunals across the country. In an official communication, the Centre announced the appointment of eighteen members to the NCLT - eight judicial members and ten technical members — and thirteen new appointments to ITAT - six judicial members and seven accountant members. A three-judge Bench headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana had on September 6, pulled up the government for its inaction in filling up vacancies in tribunals. As of September 6, more than 200 posts lying vacant across 15 tribunals in the country. The Union government has no respect for the judgments of the top court and is now testing its patience, said an anguished Supreme, adding the government is “emasculating tribunals” by not filling up vacancies in them. A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, further observed it is “very upset” by the government and censured the Centre for re-enacting the very same provisions for the administration of tribunals that were struck down by the court in July. “The government is bent upon not honouring the orders of this court... Virtually the same Act is re-enacted. We cannot have this situation. Legislature can take away the basis of a judgment but you cannot overrule a judgment by re-enacting the very same provisions,” said the bench, which also included justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao. The bench said that the court will have to consider staying the new law since it is a “replica” of the old law, which was held to be unconstitutional.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-clears-appointments-to-national-company-law-tribunal-income-tax-appellate-tribunal-101631383689636.html
12-09-2021||India||Govt slashes edible oil duties again as prices soar||The Union government on Saturday slashed duties on edible oils to a decade’s low to ease prices at home, which have spiralled on the back of high global rates. The country meets two-thirds of its domestic demand for vegetable oils through imports.The government has “further reduced the standard rate of duty on crude palm oil, crude soyabean oil and crude sunflower oil by up to 2.5%”, a statement said. The standard rate of duty on refined oils of palm, soyabean and sunflower stands had been cut by 32.5% in a series of moves to make vegetable oils cheaper.In June, the government had cut duties on palm oil by 5% and lifted restrictions in the import of refined palm oil, as food inflation worries mounted.Also Read| Govt hikes rabi MSPs, sharper raise for oilseedsEdible oil prices have risen by up to 60%, according to data from the consumer affairs ministry from a year ago. Average costs of a litre of mustard oil rose to ₹170 in August compared to ₹120 a year ago.“It may be noted that the International prices and thereby domestic prices of edible oils have been ruling high during 2021-22 which is a cause of serious concern from inflation as well as consumer’s point of view,” a government statement said.According to an August report of the Food and Agricultural Organisation, global prices have rallied sharply in recent months due to bad crop in key producing nations and higher demand as economies reopened from Covid-19 shutdowns.Higher food inflation not only impacts poorer households more, which tend to spend a larger share of their monthly budgets on food, compared to the well-off, but they also throw the Reserve Bank’s inflation targets off gear.Palm is one of the most widely consumed oils, which is found in everything from bread to ice-creams. Cutting import duties can lower prices instantly. Edible oil is India’s third most high-value import, after crude oil and gold. India typically imports from producers such as Malaysia, Indonesia Brazil, Argentina and Russia.Throughout June, the government was evaluating the price trends before taking a “decision” on cutting import duties, an official with knowledge of the matter said. The first cuts in tariffs came in June itself as global commodity outlook showed the high prices were likely to hold, the official said.Also Read| Ambiguous definition means oil-palm plantations will count as forest cover“Prices are likely to slide only when summer harvests kick in by December. The duty cuts should bring down prices without much lag unless there is hoarding,” said Abhishek Agrawal, an analyst with Comtrade, a private commodity brokerage firm, adding retail prices should come down by at least ₹5.Currently, India’s levies on edible oil imports ranges between 32.5% (for palm oil, the cheapest edible oil) and 35% for soyabean oil. The country produces about 11 million tonne of edible oil but consumption hovers around 24 million tonne.According to official data, the share of rural and urban consumption in total is 3.8% and 2.7%. Much of the demand comes from commercial users, like biscuit and snack makers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-slashes-edible-oil-duties-again-as-prices-soar-101631381287890.html
12-09-2021||NA||Breaking news highlights: Sena to contest for all 403 seats in UP Assembly polls||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Work to better society, not for posts: Delhi CM KejriwalAam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday urged party workers to work for the betterment of society without aspiring for any posts, as the party reconstituted its national executive to elect 34 members, including prominent leaders from Uttarakhand, Goa and Karnataka, among others, through online voting.Anti-mosquito fogging initiated in Karnataka's Kalaburagi to curb dengue cases: Dist health officerKarnataka | Kalaburagi admin initiates anti-mosquito fogging in the district to curb dengue cases"266 cases reported in Kalaburagi since Jan-Aug. Max cases (158) were reported in August. Fogging & larva surveys being done," says Sharanabasappa Ganajalkhed, Dist Health Officer pic.twitter.com/H4ZLbEA0N9Cases of dengue have already been reported from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and many other states and Union Territories (UTs). Read more.Shiv Sena to contest for all 403 seats in UP Assembly polls 2022Shiv Sena to contest for all 403 seats in Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections in 2022. The party has not allied with any other political party as of now but has signaled the possibility of an alliance. pic.twitter.com/qqdZz6FQXHShiv Sena will contest for all 403 seats in Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections in 2022, news agency ANI reported.4 held in Kozhikode for allegedly drugging, gangraping a woman in a lodge: PoliceKerala | 4 people arrested in Kozhikode for allegedly gang-raping a woman by giving her drugs in a lodge in Chevarambalam, Kozhikode. 2 accused were arrested earlier, remaining 2 accused arrested today. All accused are from Kozhikode district: Asst Police Commissioner N SudarsanA total of four persons have been arrested in Kozhikode for allegedly gangraping a woman by giving her drugs in a lodge in Chevarambalam, Kozhikode, police said.‘Not in any race’: Gujarat BJP chief CR Paatil on becoming new CMGujarat BJP chief and Navsari MP CR Paatil on Saturday cleared the air regarding him being in the race for becoming the new chief minister, saying that he is not “in any such race," news agency ANI reported.SP candidate for block chief's post, Ritu Singh, joins CongressRitu Singh, the block chief candidate representing Samajwadi Party, who was the victim of violence in panchayat elections, joined the Congress on Saturday. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was present in Lucknow. She had recently visited Lakhimpur Kheri to meet Ritu Singh.20 more people test negative for Nipah virus in KeralaTest results of 20 more people, from Nipah contact list, turned negative. 2 samples were tested in NIV Pune & remaining 18 were tested in a specially set up lab at Kozhikode Medical College. With this 108 samples were found negative: Kerala Health Min Veena George (File pic) pic.twitter.com/qkjQ4qhi9iA 12-year-old boy, who died, was the first victim of the Nipah virus. The contact tracing process is being done with connections to him. Read more.New York holds first moment of silence to remember 9/11 deadNew York holds the first moment of silence to remember those who died in the 9/11 attacks, AFP reports.New York ceremony to mark 20 years of 9/11 attacks beginsThe ceremony in United States' New York to mark the 20th anniversary of 9/11 attacks has begun, AFP reported.Pak's ISI chief hosts counterparts from China, Russia, and others, to discuss Afghanistan situationThe ISI chief of Pakistan Lt General Faiz Hamid held a meeting in Islamabad on Saturday with the counterparts of China,Iran, Kazakhstan, Pakistan, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan to deliberate on emerging security situation in Afghanistan and how to coop for ensuring peace and stability.Centre cuts edible oils import duty by up to 2.5 per centThe central government on Saturday made a fresh cut in edible oils import duty by up to 2.5 per cent, and also suspended a cess on the items to stem rising prices, an official statement informed. In June, the Centre had decreased palm oil duties by 10 per cent. Notably, India meets up to two-thirds of its domestic demand for vegetable oils through imports.Breast milk pump bank opened in LudhianaThe Ludhiana district administration in Punjab has opened a breast milk pump bank in the premises of the mother and child section in the Civil Hospital. Two electric pumps, 10 manual pumps, 16 containers, and one steriliser have been offered to the bank by the local administration, news agency ANI reported.‘BJP workers risked their lives to help the needy during Covid’: NaddaWe have political leaders who go abroad for vacation even when Parliament session is underway. During Corona, every party & leader, except that of BJP, went into lockdown, under quarantine. BJP workers risked their lives & considered it their duty to help the needy: BJP chief pic.twitter.com/j61PUoN4yOThe BJP president said that according to all surveys, the party's victory in Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls - scheduled next year, is “certain.” “Not only in UP, but the return of BJP is certain in Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur too,” he added.SIT formed to probe Mumbai's Sakinaka rape case: Police chiefA Special Investigation Team has been formed. CM directed to institute fast track court. Unfortunately, the victim died during treatment this morning & we've converted section 307 to 302. Probe revealed there's only one person involved: Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale pic.twitter.com/zj5QMDOVDEThe 45-year-old accused in the case has been sent to police custody till September 21. Read more.‘Discussed further collaborations in responding to Covid-19 challenges’: Jaishankar on dialogue with Australian FM Marise PayneIt was during 1st India-Australia virtual leaders' summit on 4th June 2020 that our PMs agreed to elevate our relations to a comprehensive, strategic partnership. This '2+2' format is a direct outcome of that summit & is pursuant to the comprehensive, strategic partnership: EAM pic.twitter.com/7S5PXYIeQ0Union external affairs minister S Jaishankar also said that on June 4, 2020, during the first India-Australia virtual leader's summit, the prime ministers of both countries - Narendra Modi and Scott Morrison, respectively, “agreed to elevate our (India-Australia) relations to a comprehensive, strategic partnership.”‘9/11 reminder of barbaric acts of terrorism’: Australian defence minister Peter DuttonI acknowledge 9/11 anniversary, it is a reminder of barbaric acts of terrorism. India is a rising Indo pacific great power. We both depend on free & open excess to sea lines in the Indo pacific, for trade & economic well-being: Australia Defence Minister Peter Dutton pic.twitter.com/yg2c5C7huDDutton and Australian foreign minister Marise Payne are currently in India for a dialogue with their Indian counterparts Rajnath Singh and S Jaishankar.Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani resignsThe chief minister of Gujarat, Vijay Rupani, resigned on Saturday.Mumbai's rape case accused sent to police custody till Sept 21A court in Mumbai has sent Sakinaka rape and assault accused to police custody till September 21, news agency ANI reported. A statement issued by Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray's office said that he will “ensure strictest punishment is given to the perperator.”At least 9 injured in scuffle between workers of BJP and Youth Congress in LudhianaAt least nine people were left injured after scuffle broke out between the workers of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Youth Congress outside BJP's office near clock tower in Ludhiana on Saturday. The Youth Congress workers had staged a protest outside BJP's office against inflation, and planned to put a lock on the venue. When BJP workers tried to stop them, clashes broke out with both parties exchanging punches, kicks and also hitting one another with sticks. Heavy police force has been deployed in the area now to avert further clashes between both the parties.Map shows flight paths of four airlines hijacked on September 11, 2001Map showing the flight paths of the four airliners hijacked in the US on September 11, 2001#911Anniversary pic.twitter.com/WGlwQQyOuMA map tweeted by AFP shows the flight paths of the four airlines hijacked by terrorists on September 11, 2001. All passengers, including the hijackers onboard the four planes died during the attacks 20 years ago in the US.Philippines reports record 26,303 new daily coronavirus casesThe Philippines on Saturday reported a record 26,303 daily coronavirus cases.The health ministry said confirmed cases rose to 2.206 million, while deaths rose by 79 to 34,978.Vehicles damaged in a landslide incident near Rudraprayag areaVehicles damaged in a landslide incident near Rudraprayag area on Rishikesh-Badrinath National Highway, due to heavy rainfall.Odisha's daily Covid-19 cases drop below 700Odisha’s daily detection of new Covid-19 cases dropped below 700 after a gap of three days as 630 more people including 116 children tested positive for the infection on Saturday, taking the state’s caseload to 10,15,713, a health department official said.China administered total of 2.14 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines as of September 10China has administered a total of 2.14 doses of Covid-19 vaccines as of September 10, data from the National Health Commission showed on Saturday.Queen Elizabeth says prayers for victims and survivors of 9/11Britain's Queen Elizabeth said on Saturday that her prayers remained with the victims and survivors of the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks on the United States and paid tribute to the communities that joined together to rebuild after the devastation.Woman raped in stationary tempo in Mumbai's Sakinaka diesWoman, who was raped and brutally assaulted in stationary tempo in Mumbai's Sakinaka early on Friday, dies during treatment: Police.Himachal Pradesh National Highway 305 blockedHimachal Pradesh National Highway 305 blocked after a truck overturned near Jalori Pass in Kullu.9/11 remembered for 'attack on humanity': PM Modi9/11 remembered for 'attack on humanity', but on same date, Swami Vivekananda preached humanitarian values: PM Modi.PM Modi launches Sardardham Bhavan PM Narendra Modi launches Sardardham Bhavan, Ahmedabad, via video conferencing. Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani and Deputy CM Nitin Patel also present alongside.Maharashtra: Fire breaks out at chemical factory in PalgharA fire broke out in a chemical factory at Boisar Tarapur industrial area of Palghar district of Maharashtra at 3 AM on Saturday.3 persons dead, infant missing as vehicle plunges into canal in JammuThree persons, including a couple, were killed while a rescue operation is on to trace out a missing baby after a private car plunged into a canal in the outskirts of Jammu early on Saturday, police said.Farmers to end protest at Karnal mini-secretariat todayKarnal impasse ends. Farmers to end protest at Karnal mini-secretariat today.S Jaishankar welcomes Australian FM Marise Payne with a fist bumpEAM S Jaishankar welcomes Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne with a fist bump.Marise Payne along with Australia Defence Minister Peter Dutton arrived in New Delhi, yesterday for '2+2' ministerial dialogue pic.twitter.com/dZUC2043KQEAM S Jaishankar welcomes Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne with a fist bump.Marise Payne along with Australia Defence Minister Peter Dutton arrived in New Delhi, yesterday for '2+2' ministerial dialogue.WHO seeks more data from Sputnik V makers for granting EULThe World Health Organisation has sought some more data from Russia’s Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, developer of Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V for according Emergency Use Listing status for the jab. Sputnik V is currently manufactured in India and being sold by Dr Reddy’s Laboratories under Emergency Use Authorisation route.CNG price may rise 10-11% in OctoberCNG and piped cooking gas prices in cities such as Delhi and Mumbai may be hiked by 10-11 per cent next month as the government-dictated gas price is set to rise by about 76 per cent, ICICI Securities said in a report.Gas explosion in Chinese apartment building kills 8: ReportEight people were killed by an explosion and fire Saturday caused by a leak from a liquefied gas cylinder in an apartment building in northeastern China, a state news agency reported.India reports 33,376 fresh Covid-19 cases, 308 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia recorded 33,376 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 33,208,330, while the death toll climbed to 442,317 with 308 daily fatalities, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday. Light to moderate rain in city and suburbs: BMCLight to moderate rain in city and suburbs with the possibility of occasional intense spells: Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation.US honors 9/11 dead on 20th anniversary of attacksAmerica marks the 20th anniversary of 9/11 Saturday with solemn ceremonies given added poignancy by the recent chaotic withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan and return to power of the Taliban.Victim's sister marks 9/11 at stalled trial in GuantanamoA woman whose fireman brother died in the 9/11 attacks expressed frustration at the lack of a resolution in the nine-year-old trial of the perpetrators, but said she was hopeful for eventual justice.Earthquake of magnitude 4.6 hit 31km WSW of JoshimathAn earthquake of magnitude 4.6 hit 31km WSW of Joshimath, Uttarakhand at 05:58 IST today: National Center for Seismology.One held for kidnapping minor in DelhiDelhi Police on Friday arrested one person for allegedly kidnapping a minor in the national capital.Fighting in Myanmar kills at least 15 after uprising callFifteen to 20 villagers, including several teenagers, have been killed in some of Myanmar's deadliest fighting since July between government troops and resistance forces, a villager and reports by independent media said Friday.India, Australia to hold 2 2 ministerial dialogue todayIndia will host the first-ever 2 2 Ministerial Dialogue with Australia on Saturday in New Delhi.At least 1 dead, 10 missing in landslide near Mexico CityA section of mountain on the outskirts of Mexico City gave way Friday, plunging rocks the size of small homes onto a densely populated neighborhood and leaving at least one person dead and 10 others missing.Met issues heavy rain warning for Odisha; yellow alert for 19 MP districtsThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued heavy rainfall warning for Odisha over the next few days.PM Modi to inaugurate Sardardham Bhavan in Ahmedabad todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the Sardardham Bhavan in Ahmedabad and also perform the 'bhoomi pujan' of Sardardham Phase-II Kanya Chhatralaya, a girls' hostel at 11am on Saturday via video conference.Covid-19 cases in Australia's second biggest state hits 13-month highAustralia's second most populous state on Saturday reported the biggest one-day rise in locally acquired Covid-19 cases in more than a year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-september-11-2021-101631316695252.html
