13-09-2021||India||Citizenship an essential right: Gauhati HC in plea against foreign tribunal||Guwahati: Citizenship is an essential right and should be decided on the basis of merit by considering the material evidence cited by the person concerned, and not by way of default, the Gauhati high court observed as it set aside an ex-parte order of a foreigners’ tribunal (FT) declaring a man in Morigaon district as foreigner.The high court’s observation came while hearing a petition filed by Asor Uddin, a resident of Moirabari, challenging the decision of an FT order in April 2011 that declared him as foreigner under Section 2(a) of Foreigners Act, 1946, because he failed to submit a written statement by adducing evidence to prove his documents. “Citizenship, being an important right of a person, ordinarily, should be decided on the basis of merit by considering the material evidences that may be adduced by the person concerned and not be way of default as happened in the present case,” a division bench of justices Manish Choudhury and N Kotiswar Singh ruled in an order passed on September 9. In his plea filed through advocate M.A Sheikh, the petitioner said that he is very poor and couldn’t readily collect documents bearing names of his grandfather, father as well as his own for filing written statements before the FT. Hence, he failed to appear before it.He added that in order to earn a livelihood, he had to leave Assam and work in Kerala. The petitioner also said that he couldn’t communicate with his engaged counsel, who also failed to inform him about the subsequent dates fixed by the FT for his appearance. He pointed out that as he had appeared before the FT through his counsel on February 12, 2010, he had no intention of evading proceedings.In his plea, Asor Uddin contended that the FT, in its case, listed him as a ‘D-voter’ (doubtful voter) without proper examination of documents. However, special counsel for FT, A. Verma, said the plea should not be entertained as the petitioner himself is to be blamed for his non-appearance. She added that in the absence of the person concerned, the FT had no option but to carry forward proceedings ex-parte and declare him a foreigner as per law. Taking note of the voter lists of 1965, 1970 and 1971, which included names of the petitioner’s grandparents, parents and also his own, submitted in the court, the bench said: “There were sufficient reasons for the petitioner for not being able to appear before the FT to enable the tribunal to consider his claim on merit and accordingly, we are inclined to afford another opportunity to the petitioner to appear before the FT to prove he is an Indian, not a foreigner.” The court, however, directed Asor Uddin to appear before the Morigaon FT on or before November 8 this year for fresh proceedings. It added that since the petitioner’s citizenship “has come under cloud”, he will remain on bail during proceedings and appear before the superintendent of police within 15 days. He will also have to submit a bail bond of ₹5,000 and a surety of the same amount. If Asor Uddin fails to pay the cost or appear before the FT on or before November 8, the FT order set aside by HC will be revived and “law will take its own course”, the bench observed. The court directed the police to collect fingerprints and biometrics of the petitioner, and asked the petitioner not to leave the jurisdiction of Morigaon district without permission from the superintendent of police. As per the Assam Accord of 1985, anyone who has been staying in the state prior to March 24, 1971, or can establish lineage to people residing on or before that date is considered as an Indian citizen — a requirement also accepted for inclusion in the National Register of Citizens (NRC) updated in 2019. As many as 1.9 million people who failed to prove their or their ancestor’s residency in Assam on that date and those who were declared foreigners by foreigners’ tribunals (as well their relatives) were excluded from the NRC, potentially rendering them “stateless”. The external affairs ministry later said the process of deciding the fate of the 1.9 million people is expected to be “fairly long” and they have the right to appeal to FTs and higher courts.Assam has 100 foreigners’ tribunals, a quasi-judicial body, which adjudicates on citizenship of those people who have been marked as suspected foreigners by the border police or listed as doubtful voters (D-voters) in electoral rolls. “There have been cases where FTs have passed ex-parte orders declaring someone as foreigner. If some one doesn’t appear at hearings or provide evidence to prove citizenship, the FTs have no option but to declare a person as foreigner. But before making such an observation, it should be seen whether the process of issuing summons and other details were followed properly,” senior advocate Nekibur Zaman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/citizenship-an-essential-right-gauhati-hc-in-plea-against-foreign-tribunal-101631557651963.html
13-09-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: Sept 14, 1947 — Troops beat off mob attack on village near Delhi; miscreants snipe from houses in Daryaganj, escape||New Delhi: There was recurrence of trouble in the Daryaganj area this evening when some Muslim rioters entrenched themselves behind a house and a mosque in the Faiz Bazar area and began firing on passersby. One person was killed and two were injured. The police and the military took immediate action, overcame opposition and occupied the house. The rioters beat a hasty retreat through a back-lane. A military picket has been stationed in the area. The police today carried out a number of searches to recover arms and ammunition illegally held. A Muslim house on Barakhamba Road and another on Keeling Road were searched this morning by the police aided by the military. Some weapons are reported to have been recovered, and in one Muslim house a number of guns were found against licences issued by the N.-W.F.P. Government. A shot was fired on the occupants of 6 Keeling Road today, but the identity or the community is not known. This house has been occupied by a refugee family from Lahore. The bullet hit the window glass pane. The police is investigating the incident. Three boxes of shot-guns were recovered by the police near Nizamuddin. They came from Bombay and did not bear the name and address of the sender. They were addressed to “Abdulla.” who is not traced. At Palam aerodrome searches resulted in the confiscation of two wshot-guns which were held without any licences. A mob estimated at 25.000 yes. A military spokesman describing the incident said the mob was armed with all types of weapons. A platoon of troops broke up the mob. Fresh reinforcements have been sent to the area. The area, however, is still disturbed. A Delhi Magistrate advised the Muslims of Mehrauli to evacuated to Red Fort for their own safety, but they refused to do so. A bomb exploded in Phatak Habash Khan resulting in injuries to one person. There were two cases of arson, one in Kucha Natwan and the other in a house on Bahadurgarh Road in the area of police station Sadar Bazar. A few shops were looted in Pertain locality. Stabbing Incidents There were some stray cases of stabbing in the Babar Road area and one person is reported to have been killed. For the rest, New Delhi presented a more or less normal appearance. The shops including those of the Muslims and the shopping centres were all open. In Chandni Chowk, there was a case of booting early this morning. The police had to use tear-gas and a number of arrests were made. Except for Daryaganj, where almost all were open before the shooting incident in the evening, Old Delhi again presented a deserted appearance. Six persons, who, it is believed, took part in the rioting in Paharganj, have been arrested. One car which it is alleged was used in the Paharganj rioting has also been seized. The concentration of Muslim refugees in Jama Masjid has decreased and, as welcome sign of a partial return to normalcy, refugees were seen freely moving about in a wide area around the mosque. Warning To Rioters Stray incidents, it is reported, have occurred in which -miscreants have fired on troops patrolling the city. A major incident of this nature occurred on Thursday night when shots were fired on the troops near Purana Quila. The firing was replied to by the troops but the miscreants managed to escape. The military headquarters of the Delhi Area Command have issued a warning to all such lawbreakers that stern action will be taken to prevent such incidents in future. A similar case of firing from a house has also been reported from Ballimara6 Street in Old Delhi. Casualties admitted into Delhi hospitals on Friday totalled 54. Thirty-four bad characters were rounded up in Old Delhi and 13 in New Delhi on Friday. A large quantity of looted property was recovered. It was reported that most of the telephone operators and staff had turned up for work in Delhi and others had been requisitioned from outside. It is expected that the telephone system would be working satisfactorily in two or three days. Situation Under Control Indian Army Headquarters reported to the Emergency Committee of the Cabinet on Saturday that the Army was in control of the situation in the disturbed areas of East Punjab and Delhi. Prompt action had been taken by troops wherever incidents had occurred. Except for isolated stabbings and some cases of looting, Delhi, on the whole, has been quiet. Patrols have been strengthened in areas where tension still prevails, and in the combing out of localities where disturbances occurred, large quantities of illicit arms and ammunition have been recovered. Regarding East Punjab, the Committee was informed that although there was tension in rural areas, the movement of refugees in both directions was generally proceeding smoothly. The Committee decided that the Pakistan officials and staff, and their families, stranded in Delhi, should have the first priority in moving out. The Committee was informed that transport had been arranged and the Commander-in-Chief reported that protective escorts would be provided. Protection For Refugees The Committee directed the Delhi Emergency Committee, through its chairman, Mr Bhabha, to arrange for all refugees to be accommodated in organized and protected camps, where arrangements for food and medical attention are provided. Pandit Nehru reported that in addition to the provinces and States who have already offered to accept refugees, he had received a number of offers from individuals to receive refugee families. The list of offers has been handed over to the Ministry of Refugees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-sept-14-1947-troops-beat-off-mob-attack-on-village-near-delhi-miscreants-snipe-from-houses-in-daryaganj-escape-101631556752062.html
13-09-2021||India||CRPF recovers 6 Chinese hand grenades in J&K’s Srinagar||Srinagar: The Central Reserve Police Force recovered six Chinese hand grenades from a sandbag at Bemina in Srinagar on Monday, an official said.The grenades, however, were old and were hidden in a bag filled with sand. The CRPF spokesman said: “During routine Road Opening exercise, along NH 44, the alert troopers of 73 Battalion CRPF recovered 6 Chinese grenades from a sandbag placed on the divider of the road in Bemina.” “The alacrity of troops averted an incident on the busy highway. Considering the huge rush on the highway, the grenades were not demolished in-situ,” the spokesman added. He said the grenades were handed over to the Central Reserve Police forces Bomb Disposal squad and state police for disposal adhering to safety protocols and standard operating procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpfrecovers-6-chinese-hand-grenades-in-j-k-s-srinagar-101631555551431.html
13-09-2021||India||UN rights chief criticises restrictions on public gatherings, communications blackouts in J-K||UN human rights chief Michelle Bachelet on Monday criticised the use of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act across India as well as restrictions on public assembly and frequent communication blackouts in Jammu and Kashmir.In her opening statement at the 48th session of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva, Bachelet largely focused on the impact of the “triple planetary crises of climate change, pollution and nature loss” on human rights, but also raised what she described as a “number of specific and fast-moving situations”.“Indian authorities’ restrictions on public assembly, and frequent temporary communication blackouts, continue in Jammu and Kashmir, while hundreds of people remain in detention for exercising their right to the freedom of expression, and journalists face ever-growing pressure,” the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights said.“Ongoing use of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act throughout India is worrying, with Jammu and Kashmir having among the highest number of cases in the country,” she said. While acknowledging the Indian government’s efforts to counter terrorism and promote development in Jammu and Kashmir, Bachelet said “such restrictive measures can result in human rights violations and foster further tensions and discontent”.There was no immediate response from Indian officials to Bachelet’s remarks. In the past, India has described such criticism as interference in the country’s internal matters based on an inadequate understanding of the ground situation.In the case of China, Bachelet said she was unable to report progress in her efforts to seek “meaningful access to the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region”. She said her office is finalising its assessment of the situation in Xinjiang on the basis of “available information on allegations of serious human rights violations in that region” and the findings will be made public by the end of the year.Bachelet’s speech was largely focused on the impact of climate change, pollution, and nature loss on a broad range of rights, including the “rights to adequate food, water, education, housing, health, development and even life itself”.She described displacement caused by environmental disaster as a “particularly serious phenomenon” in Asia, where the Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre reported that India, China, Bangladesh and the Philippines witnessed “more disaster displacement than all other countries combined” in 2019.The displacement in these four countries amounted to 70% of the global total and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s report of last month presents a “troubling forecast for South Asia”, she said.“Combating and recovering from the Covid-19 pandemic will require billions of dollars to be spent on rebuilding and supporting national economies. Policy choices can direct that spending into new, green directions that tackle inequalities and stimulate innovative environmental solutions that also uphold and promote human rights,” Bachelet said. Several countries have issued new climate commitments and the European Union adopted a new climate law in June that creates a legal obligation to attain climate neutrality by 2050, and requires a 55% reduction of EU-wide greenhouse gas emissions from their 1990 levels. Bachelet noted it wouldn’t be easy achieving these targets as it would mean that EU member states must reduce emissions in the next eight years by more than what was achieved in the last three decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-rights-chief-criticises-restrictions-on-public-gatherings-communications-blackouts-in-jk-101631553813706.html
13-09-2021||India||India stands by Afghan people, provided it has unfettered access: Jaishankar||External affairs minister S Jaishankar made it clear at a UN meeting that India is ready to send humanitarian aid to Afghan people as in the past but it should have unrestricted access and the aid should be distributed to all sections of society. He said India had always stood and would stand with Afghan people but humanitarian aid should be unfettered.He said only the United Nations had the capacity to monitor such endeavours and reassure donors.Addressing a high-level meeting of the United Nations on the humanitarian situation in the war-ravaged country, Jaishankar called for the global community to help create the best possible enabling environment in the country.Given the grave emerging situation in the neighbouring country, India was willing to stand by the Afghan people just as it had done in the past, the external affairs minister said. However, among the challenges that the current situation posed was that of efficient logistics, he added.“It is therefore essential that humanitarian assistance providers are accorded unimpeded, unrestricted and direct access to Afghanistan. Once relief materials reach that country, the world will naturally expect a non-discriminatory distribution of humanitarian assistance across all sections of the Afghan society. Only the United Nations has the capacity to monitor such endeavours and reassure donors,” he said.Guided by historical ties, India's friendship with Afghanistan was reflected in the development projects that had been undertaken in all 34 provinces of the country.“In all, we have invested more than $3 billion for the welfare of the people of Afghanistan. We have undertaken 500 projects in critical areas of power, water supply, road connectivity, healthcare, education, agriculture and capacity building,” he added.Jaishankar said India was monitoring developments with “understandable concern” in Afghanistan following its takeover by the Taliban. As the war-torn country was passing through a critical and challenging phase, there was an imminent threat of rising poverty levels and the same could have a catastrophic effect on regional stability, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-stands-by-afghan-people-provided-it-has-unfettered-access-jaishankar-101631547676071.html
13-09-2021||India||‘Samples of 17 close contacts of deceased have tested negative for Nipah’, says Kerala health minister||The samples of 17 close contacts of the 12-year-old boy who succumbed to Nipah virus in Kerala’s Kozhikode have tested negative for the infection, state health minister Veena George said on Monday. George added that with the addition of the 17 samples, a total of 140 samples have tested negative for the virus so far.“17 more people have tested negative for Nipah virus. Samples of a total of 140 people have been found negative,” George told reporters.The minister said that of the 17 samples, five were tested at the Pune-based National Institute of Virology (NIV) while the rest were sent to a special laboratory set up at the Kozhikode Medical College.A special laboratory was set up at the medical college on September 6, a day after the 12-year-old succumbed to the virus. George said the lab at Kozhikode has tested a total of 115 samples in six days. High risk contacts of the deceased have also been isolated in the Kozhikode medical college hospital and their condition is stable.The Kerala government has undertaken a house-to-house survey within a 3km-radius of the house of the deceased. Around 15,000 houses were included in the containment zone and details were sought from around 68,000 people, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan informed last Friday.State health authorities said earlier that they had very little information on the source of the virus but like earlier cases fruit bats were suspected to be the reason.On Saturday, a team from Pune’s NIV had collected samples from fruit-eating bats to find the source of the Nipah Virus in Kozhikode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/samples-of-17-close-contacts-of-deceased-have-tested-negative-for-nipah-says-kerala-health-minister-101631550338956.html
13-09-2021||India||At UN high-level meeting on Afghanistan, Jaishankar reiterates India’s commitment||India on Monday reiterated its commitment to stand by the people of Afghanistan and called for “non-discriminatory” and direct distribution of humanitarian assistance through the United Nations at a time when the war-torn country is going through a critical phase.Addressing a high-level meeting on the humanitarian situation in Afghanistan convened by UN Secretary-General António Guterres, external affairs minister S Jaishankar underlined the need for humanitarian assistance providers to be given “unimpeded, unrestricted and direct access” to the country.“Once relief materials reach that country, the world will naturally expect a non-discriminatory distribution of humanitarian assistance across all sections of the Afghan society. Only the United Nations has the capacity to monitor such endeavours and reassure donors,” Jaishankar said.“Today, I wish to underline that in the face of a grave emerging situation, India is willing to stand by the Afghan people, just as in the past,” he added.The world community must come together to create the “best possible enabling environment” for helping the Afghan people and addressing challenges such as efficient logistics in the current situation.With no formal recognition yet of the interim setup created by the Taliban following their takeover of Afghanistan on August 15, India and other countries are reluctant to see aid being sent directly to the Taliban. Several nations have called for all aid to be routed through the UN and international bodies.“As the picture becomes clear in respect of the legitimate concerns, I am confident that the world will step forward and assist the Afghan people in their hour of need,” Jaishankar said without giving details. He noted that India has “consistently supported a central role” for the UN in the future of Afghanistan.“A multilateral platform is always more effective than small groups in building global consensus and encouraging united action,” he said, adding that India, as an immediate neighbour, is monitoring developments in Afghanistan with “understandable concern”.Jaishankar noted the issue of travel and safe passage “can emerge as an obstacle to humanitarian assistance” and should be “immediately sorted out”. He said, “Those who wish to travel into and out of Afghanistan should be granted such facilities without obstruction. “The normalisation of regular commercial operations of Kabul airport would not only assist in that regard, but then become the basis for a regular flow of relief material.”Jaishankar said UN Security Council resolution 2593, which was passed at a meeting held under India’s presidency of the body last month, should guide the world community’s approach towards Afghanistan in the coming days. He also recalled India’s role as the largest regional donor for reconstruction and development efforts in Afghanistan, with pledges totalling $3 billion in recent years. India’s approach to Afghanistan has always been guided by its “historical friendship with its people” and this will continue to be the case, he said. India’s contributions to the humanitarian requirements of Afghan society have included providing more than one million metric tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan over the past decade. Last year, India shipped 75,000 metric tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan via Iran’s Chabahar port. India’s efforts are also reflected in some 500 development projects in all 34 provinces of Afghanistan in critical areas such as power, water supply, road connectivity, healthcare, education, agriculture and capacity-building.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-un-high-level-meeting-on-afghanistan-jaishankar-reiterates-india-s-commitment-101631550392308.html
13-09-2021||India||Average daily income from cultivation was ₹27 per day in 2018-19||An Indian farmer earned ₹27 per day on average from cultivation in 2018-19. This is less than what he would have earned doing MGNREGS work through the year.These numbers underline the magnitude of the viability crisis in Indian agriculture.India’s inability to shift a large part of its workforce from agriculture to non-agricultural work, especially manufacturing, is considered one of the biggest failures of its economic policy. Agriculture is considered to be the employment of last resort in India. This became apparent during the lockdown last year, when share of agricultural employment increased for the first time in India (read.ht/J9kZ).Markets, however, always find a way to surprise. The latest Situation Assessment Survey (SAS) – it is the most comprehensive official survey on economic conditions of farmers in the country – published by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on September 10, and first reported by Hindustan Times on September 11, presents one such surprise.SAS – it was conducted in calender year 2019 and collected data for the July 2018-June 2019 period – shows a unique contradiction in the Indian economy. Agriculture continues to be the largest employer . The corresponding Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) for 2018-19 put the share of agricultural employment at 42.5%. But cultivation of crops – the activity considered synonymous with agriculture by most people – is no longer the largest source of income for the average Indian farmer or agricultural household (more on this later).Experts believe the declining share of cultivation in the overall income of farmers highlights the marginalisation of farming itself within the Indian economy. This is a development that does not bode well for private investment in improving farm yields and ensuring sustainability.Almost half of India’s rural households have insignificant stakes in agricultureSAS estimates that there are 93.1 million agricultural households in rural India. It also lists another 79.3 million non-agricultural households in rural India (SAS is a rural survey). An agricultural household is defined as one which produced field or horticultural crops, livestock, or other specified agricultural products worth more than ₹4,000 and had a member self-employed in agriculture in the 365 days preceding the survey.This means that almost half of India’s rural population does not even have the minimal economic stakes in agriculture, which is what it takes to qualify as an agricultural household. Almost all (99%) of non-agricultural households possess less than one hectare of land and the major source of income for almost half of them is from casual employment. Approximately one in five non-agricultural households reported having salaried work, which might be a sign of economic well-being – salaried employment is the highest paying kind of work in India – rather than distress. Cultivation incomes are losing importance even for agricultural householdsSelf-employment in cultivation and animal farming is the largest source of income for 71% of the estimated 93.1 million agricultural households . An average agricultural household earned a smaller share of its total income from cultivation (38%) than from wages (40%). Unfortunately, SAS surveys are not conducted as regularly as NSO’s employment and consumption surveys. So, a proper historical comparison of the declining importance of cultivation is not possible. However, in the last SAS round, which collected data for the July 2012-June 2013 period, the share of income from cultivation in total income was 48%. While cultivation incomes were not an overwhelming majority of farmers’ incomes even earlier, this is the first instance where cultivation is not even the largest source of income for India’s agricultural households. An MGNREGS worker can earn more than the average farmer in IndiaThe Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) provides guaranteed unskilled work for hundred days in a year in India’s villages on demand. Wages under MGNREGS are slightly below par with unskilled wages in the open market. This makes the programme very good at self-targeting. Only those who find nowhere else to work will ask for manual work under MGNREGS.In the traditional village hierarchy, an MGNREGS worker will be seen as the poorest of the poor. SAS shows that for all but five states, average income from cultivation per agricultural household is actually less than what MGNREGS work would theoretically pay in 365 days.The average wage under the MGNREGS for each month by states is available from the scheme’s public data portal. This can be used to calculate annual earnings for an MGNREGS worker if that work was available on all 365 days in the July 2018-June 2019 period, when SAS was carried out. The potential earning numbers under MGNREGS in 23 out of 28 states is higher than the average annual income from cultivation per agricultural household given in SAS. To be sure, it is higher than the total income of an agricultural household in only Jharkhand and Odisha. At the all-India level, average annual income from cultivation per agricultural household would be 0.7 times potential MGNREGS wages in 365 days. This comparison does not include income from sources other than cultivation. Whither “progressive farmer”?The SAS report gives detailed accounts of receipts and expenses for agricultural households reporting crop production. This balance-sheet, however, does not include investment spending, which is important for augmenting yields.Summary statistics present a dismal picture. Paid out expenses, as a share of receipts, rise as cultivation incomes increase with land-size. This suggests diseconomies, rather than economic of scale in farming, as it is practised in India.Net incomes, i.e. receipts less expenses, left an average of ₹816.5 per person per month or ₹27 per person per day for agricultural households. The average household size for agricultural household given in the SAS report is 4.9. Even if one person of the agricultural household worked on average MGNREGS wages of ₹179.7 a day throughout the year – farming normally occupies more than one member of the household – per person daily incomes would have been ₹36.7. This makes it clear that cultivation leaves very little surplus for long-term investment “The latest SAS report clearly shows that farming is an economic burden rather than a gainful activity. Per person daily earnings of ₹27 from farming makes older poverty lines, which were criticised as being too low, look good” said Himanshu, an associate professor of economics at Jawaharlal Nehru University. “That this has happened under a government that promised to double farm incomes and claims to offer guaranteed returns through Minimum Support Prices, speaks volumes about the efficacy of agricultural policy. These numbers also show the pointlessness of trying to offer small cash transfers instead of focusing on the larger viability crisis in farming.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/average-daily-income-from-cultivation-was-27-per-day-in-201819-101631550090909.html
13-09-2021||India||Indian Army display firepower, air stunts at Zapad 2021; China & Pakistan watch||The Indian Army contingent of personnel from the Naga Regiment and Mechanised Infantry and commandos of the Indian Air Force on Monday participated at the multi-nation strategic drills, Zapad 2021, at Nizhniy in Russia.The Indian Army posted on it official Twitter handle that the contingent carried out a joint rehearsal of the Special Heliborne Operation (SHBO) on Sunday for the final validation of the Zapad 2021 exercise, which will continue till September 16.Exercise #ZAPAD2021#IndianArmy contingent participating in Multi Nation Exercise #ZAPAD2021 carried out a joint rehearsal of Special Heliborne Operation #SHBO for the final validation Exercise of #ZAPAD2021.#IndianArmy#StrongAndCapable pic.twitter.com/VkVakTNl80Russian President Vladimir Putin attended the main stage of the Zapad 2021 Russian-Belarusian joint strategic drills at the Mulino testing ground at Nizhny Novgorod earlier in the day, according to Russian news agency TASS.During the main stage of the exercises, Russian army units, jointly with military contingents from military contingents of the armed forces of Armenia, Belarus, India, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, and Mongolia are taking part in practical actions as part of the coalition group of troops, to conduct flexible defense, to deliver targeted fire attack and crush the enemy.Interestingly, while India showcased its military prowess at the war game, Pakistan and China were among the 'observer' nations along with Vietnam, Malaysia, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Uzbekistan and Sri Lanka.The joint strategic exercise of the armed forces of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus takes place every two years in accordance with the decision taken by the heads of the two states.The Zapad 2021 exercise is the final stage of joint training of the armed forces of the Republic of Belarus and the Russian Federation in 2021.A release by the ministry of defence of the Russian Federation said on Monday elaborated on the methodology of performing combat training tasks. It said that the mehodology is based on the experience of recent armed conflicts, as well as new methods of action of troops and forces that have proven themselves during combat training events.“The draw will use the method of a through attack, which is the most difficult type of training of troops (forces) and requires precise and coordinated actions from the opposing sides. For the first time, reconnaissance and fire support robots Uran-9 multifunctional robotic complexes, prototypes of BMP B-19 infantry fighting vehicles with the Epokha combat module, mixed mobile air defense groups to combat unmanned aerial vehicles will be used,” the Russian military said in the statement.Ex #Zapad: Attack Heptr saying “Hello”.The exercise aims at strengthening long standing strategic partnership between #India and #Russia and also enhance better understanding, cooperation with all other participating Nations.@IndEmbMoscow @adgpi @indiatvnews pic.twitter.com/WFKXLVBHDV“In the fire defeat of a mock enemy, all types of aviation equipment in service with the Russian Aerospace Forces will be involved, attack UAVs, artillery, rocket and multiple launch rocket systems as part of reconnaissance, shock and fire complexes, high-precision ammunition, heavy flamethrower systems TOS-1, an engineering reconnaissance and fire complex of engineering systems for remote mining,” it added.Zapad 2021 will focus primarily on operations against terrorists, the Indian Army said in a recent statement. “The Naga battalion group participating in the exercise will feature an all arms combined task force. The exercise aims to enhance military and strategic ties amongst the participating nations while they plan and execute this exercise,” it further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-display-firepower-air-stunts-at-zapad-2021-china-pakistan-watch-101631546972208.html
13-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: India's cumulative Covid-19 vaccine coverage crosses 75 crore and all the latest news||WHO congratulates India for administering over 75 crore Covid-19 vaccine dosesIndia’s cumulative vaccination coverage against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday surpassed the 75 crore-mark, an official statement by the Union ministry of health and family welfare read. Read MoreNIA takes over case of bomb attack outside house of Bengal BJP MP Arjun SinghThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday took over the case of bomb 'attacks' outside the house Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) parliamentarian Arjun Singh's house on the outskirts of Kolkata. Read MoreNegative in 9 Covid tests, man may be source of new outbreak in ChinaA Chinese national who completed 28 days in quarantine including three weeks at a centralised isolation, after returning from Singapore and tested negative for nine nucleic acid and one serum tests during the four weeks. Read MoreIndia captain Virat Kohli opens up for the first time after cancelled 5th Test against EnglandIndia captain Virat Kohli opened up for the first time after the fifth India vs England Test match in Manchester was cancelled due to Covid-19 fears in the Indian camp. Read MoreY The Last Man review: Yawn-inducing post-apocalyptic show disrespects celebrated source materialWith title sequence music that sounds an awful lot like the song Butterfly by Crazy Town, every episode of Y: The Last Man begins by first putting a smirk on your face. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-s-cumulative-covid-19-vaccine-coverage-crosses-75-crore-and-all-the-latest-news-101631545357275.html
13-09-2021||India||‘One of the tallest leaders of Congress’: Manmohan Singh condoles Oscar Fernandes’ death, writes to his wife||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh reached out to erstwhile Union Minister Oscar Fernandes’ wife Blossom Fernandes to condole his death. Fernandes, a Congress veteran, passed away on Monday at a private hospital in Mangalore due to age-related ailments.“I was deeply shocked and saddened to learn about the sudden and untimely demise of our beloved Shri Oscar Fernandes today. With his hard work, pleasant nature and popularity he became one of the tallest leaders of the Congress Party from Karnataka who helped the Congress Party in making many important decisions,” Singh wrote.Fernandes, who served as the Union minister of labour and employment in the first United Progressive Alliance government, was a strong backroom man who also served as the All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary. He was known among the Congress workers for working 16-17 hours a day to get his party ready for elections. “When he was working in the party, the AICC office wouldn’t close before 3am,” senior Congress leader BK Hariprasad said in remembrance of Fernandes.Singh remembered how popular Fernandes was amongst the common people, who elected him to the Lok Sabha as their representatives five times. “His popularity among the common people of Karnataka is evident from the fact that Oscarji was elected five times to the Lok Sabha and two times to the Rajya Sabha,” Singh wrote.“He was a gifted leader and an efficient administrator who served as a minister in the Central Government in the UPA Government. His services to the country, especially to the state of Karnataka, will always be remembered by the people of our country,” the former Prime Minister added.Singh extended his wife Gursharan Kaur’s condolences to the late minister’s family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-of-the-tallest-leaders-of-congress-manmohan-singh-condoles-oscar-fernandes-death-writes-to-his-wife-101631545721667.html
13-09-2021||India||With Covid-19 cases dipping, Kerala eases restrictions||With Covid-19 cases dipping, the Kerala government has decided to open zoos and museums across the state from September 14 after five months and asked government employees to attend their offices six days a week, officials said. When cases peaked, government employees were directed to come to their offices on alternate days which was later increased to five days a week. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will chair the core committee meeting on the pandemic on Tuesday to announce more concessions, a spokesman of the government said. Hotel and bars are likely to be opened with strict restrictions, he said. Meanwhile, the state reported 15,058 Covid-19 cases on Monday with a test positivity rate of 16.69 per cent after 91,885 samples were tested, said the state health ministry. It also reported 99 deaths, taking the total toll to 22,650 while active cases came down to 2,08,773. Among two lakh-odd patients, about 13 per cent are hospitalised and 40 per cent of the state’s ICU beds are vacant, it said. Thrissur district reported the maximum number of cases with 2158 infections followed by Kozhikode at 1800 and Ernakulam at 1694 cases. Northern district Kasaragod reported the lowest with 452 cases. The state has vaccinated about 80 per cent of the eligible population, it said. Covid-19 cases have started dipping in the last week after a peak. About two weeks back, the state reported 28,000 average cases weekly, contributing about 70 per cent of total cases. When in the rest of India cases shrunk considerably, in Kerala cases went up alarmingly affecting the national tally. Experts said cases will further stabilise by the month-end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-covid-19-cases-dipping-kerala-eases-restrictions-101631545291989.html
13-09-2021||India||WHO congratulates India for administering over 75 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses||India’s cumulative vaccination coverage against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday surpassed the 75 crore-mark, an official statement by the Union ministry of health and family welfare read.World Health Organisation’s (WHO) South-East Asia regional director Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh congratulated India for achieving the feat at an ‘unprecedented pace.’“While it took 85 days to administer the first 100 million (10 crore) doses, India reached 750 million (75 crore) doses from 650 million (65 crore) in just 13 days,” she was quoted as saying in a tweet by WHO South-East Asia.
13-09-2021||India||Afghan crisis can have catastrophic effect on regional stability: Jaishankar||External affairs minister S Jaishankar said India was monitoring developments with “understandable concern” in Afghanistan following its takeover by the Taliban. Stating that the war-torn country was passing through a critical and challenging phase, Jaishankar said there was an imminent threat to rising poverty levels and the same could have a catastrophic effect on regional stability.Jaishankar, who spoke at the United Nations High-Level Meeting on the Humanitarian Situation in Afghanistan on Monday, said, “Afghanistan is passing through a critical and challenging phase. There's been a sea change in its political, economic, social and security situation & consequently, in its humanitarian needs.”Also read | ‘Concern about inclusiveness’: Jaishankar on Afghanistan dispensation“As an immediate neighbour, India is monitoring developments with understandable concern. The UNDP recently assessed that there is an imminent threat of poverty levels rising from 72 per cent to 97 per cent. This would have catastrophic consequences for regional stability,” the EAM was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Jaishankar is slated to travel to Tajikistan later this week to participate in a key meeting on Afghanistan and hold talks with counterparts from several countries, including Iran, on the rapidly evolving situation in the war-torn country.Guided by historical ties, India was willing to stand by the Afghan people in their hour of crisis, as it had done in the past, the external minister further said. He also called on the global community to help create the best possible enabling environment in the country.“Our friendship is reflected in development projects in all 34 (Afghan) provinces. In face of grave emergency situation, India is willing to stand by Afghan people, as in the past.”Also read | India’s only investment in Afghanistan is on its people, will get full-value in return: Jaishankar“India's own approach to Afghanistan has been guided by historical friendship with its people. This will continue to be the case. Even in the past, we have contributed to the humanitarian needs of that society,” Jaishankar said.Speaking on safe passage of those willing to leave the war-ravaged nation, the issue needed to be immediately sorted out having a potential to emerge as an obstacle to humanitarian assistance. “Those who wish to travel in and out of Afghanistan should be granted such facilities without obstruction,” he said at the meeting.“The normalisation of regular commercial operations of Kabul airport would not only assist in that regard but then become the basis of a regular flow of relief material. This would also accelerate activities that would complement domestic relief measures,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-crisis-can-have-catastrophic-effect-on-regional-stability-jaishankar-101631542900351.html
13-09-2021||India||‘Citizenship an important right’: Gauhati HC cancels tribunal’s foreigner order||GUWAHATI: The Gauhati high court has set aside an ex-parte order by a foreigner’s tribunal (FT) declaring a resident of Morigaon district as a foreigner, holding that citizenship was an important right of a person, which the tribunal should have decided on merits.The ruling by the division bench of justices Manish Choudhury and N Kotiswar Singh came on a petition by Asor Uddin, a resident of Moirabari in Morigaon district 70 km from state capital Dispur, against the tribunal’s verdict.The Morigaon tribunal is among Assam’s 100 such quasi-judicial bodies that are mandated to adjudicate on the citizenship of those people who have been marked as suspected foreigners by the border police or listed as doubtful voters (D-voters) in electoral rolls.Asor Uddin pleaded that the Morigaon FT declared him a foreigner under the Foreigners Act 1946 because he missed hearings at the tribunal due to a communication gap and took time to produce evidence to establish his citizenship.“Citizenship, being an important right of a person, ordinarily, should be decided on the basis of merit by considering the material evidence that may be adduced by the person concerned and not by way of default as happened in the present case,” the bench said in its judgment on September 9. HT reviewed the verdict on Monday.The judges gave the petitioner time till November 8 to appear before the foreigners’ tribunal to establish his citizenship. The high court also ordered him to submit a bail bond of ₹5,000 and a surety of the same amount since his citizenship “has come under a cloud”. He was also told to pay ₹5,000 as costs to the tribunal.The high court said if Asor Uddin failed to pay up or appear before the foreigners’ tribunal on or before November 8, the order set aside by the high court will be revived and “law will take its own course”. In Assam, as per the Assam Accord of 1985, anyone who has been staying in the state prior to March 24, 1971, or can establish lineage to people residing on or before that date is considered as Indian citizen—a requirement also accepted for inclusion in the National Register of Citizens (NRC) updated in 2019.Names of around 1.9 million people who failed to prove their or their ancestor’s residency in Assam on that date and those who were declared foreigners by foreigners’ tribunals (as well their relatives) have been excluded from the NRC. In his petition, Asor Uddin said he took time to collect the documents required to prove his citizenship and his lawyer failed to inform him about the dates fixed by the tribunal.Asor Uddin also stressed that he was incorrectly classified as a D-voter since he worked in Kerala to earn his livelihood. The petitioner said he did appear before the tribunal on February 12, 2010 and did not intend to evade its proceedings.A Verma, special counsel appearing for the tribunal, insisted that the tribunal did not have any option but to go ahead with the proceedings due to his continued absence.“There were sufficient reasons for the petitioner for not being able to appear before the FT to enable the tribunal to consider his claim on merit and accordingly, we are inclined to afford another opportunity to the petitioner to appear before the FT to prove he is an Indian, not a foreigner,” the high court ruled setting aside the FT’s order.The court also directed the police to collect fingerprints and biometrics of the petitioner. It also asked the petitioner not to leave the jurisdiction of the Morigaon district without permission from the superintendent of police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/citizenship-an-important-right-gauhati-hc-cancels-tribunal-s-foreigner-order-101631540669659.html
13-09-2021||India||Maha CM Thackeray announces ₹10 lakh aid for family of Sakinaka rape victim||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday announced a compensation of ₹10 lakh for the family of the brutal rape assault victim from Mumbai’s Sakinaka area. The rape and murder of the 32-year-old woman in the country’s financial capital has sent shockwaves across the spectrum.The chief minister has also convened an urgent meeting at the office of director general of police. Besides senior key police officers, home minister Dilip Walse Patil, chief secretary Sitaram Kunte and additional chief secretary Manu Kumar Shrivastava are attending the meeting.The CM is taking stock of the situation as concerns are being raised over the safety of women.The victim who was raped and attacked with an iron rod on Friday night lost her life’s battle on Saturday while undergoing treatment at Rajawadi hospital.Since then, opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has intensified its criticism of the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-cm-thackeray-announces-rs-10-lakh-aid-for-family-of-sakinaka-rape-victim-101631538387833.html
13-09-2021||India||Karnataka Cong members arrive on bullock carts in protest against rising fuel, LPG prices||The senior leadership of the Congress party in Karnataka on Monday travelled on bullock carts till Vidhana Soudha on the first day of the monsoon session as a mark of protest against the price of fuel and gas under the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre.Siddaramaiah, the Congress’s leader of the opposition, and state party president DK Shivakumar arrived on bullock carts to the Vidhana Soudha, commuting several kilometres from their respective homes along with other seniors and party workers.Hundreds joined the protest march with no social distancing or masks at a time when the state stares at another wave of Covid-19 infections.“Each morning the BJP government is trying to pick the pockets of the people. This is a pickpocket government,” Shivakumar said.The protest comes at a time when several states and the population, in general, have raised their voices against the increasing prices of all commodities as a result of the increase in petrol and diesel prices that have breached the ₹100 mark.Shivakumar said that the party demands the petrol and diesel prices be reduced by at least ₹25 while LPG rates should be reduced by ₹150.The timing of the increase has dealt a heavy blow on individuals and businesses alike who are yet to recover from the repeated blows due to the pandemic-related lockdowns and increasing restrictions on movement.The BJP government at the Centre and the Basavaraj Bommai-led administration in Karnataka have turned down demands to reduce the prices of fuel and LPG.“We will raise the issue in the assembly and will also continue our struggle against the government of Karnataka and the government of India as well,” Siddaramaiah said.The protests kicked off the monsoon session of the Karnataka legislature on Monday, adding to the pressure on the Bommai government which faces several contentious issues, including the caste census row and increasing threats of agitation by dominated and backward communities over reservation-related demands.B Sriramulu, Karnataka’s transport and Scheduled Tribe Welfare minister, on Monday called the protests by the Congress “gimmicks” done for “free publicity”.“I will ask the Congress leaders one question. They were in power for 60 years and I want to ask them what did they do?” Sriramulu said in Vidhana Soudha on Monday.“If you have any concern for India, whichever states that you are in power, will you be able to reduce VAT in these states?” the minister said, posing a challenge to the Congress party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cong-members-arrive-on-bullock-carts-in-protest-against-rising-fuel-lpg-prices-101631538571393.html
13-09-2021||India||ED summons Bengal law minister Moloy Ghatak to Delhi in ‘coal smuggling’ case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned West Bengal law minister Moloy Ghatak in connection with an alleged coal smuggling case. The senior Trinamool Congress legislator has been asked to appear before the federal agency on Tuesday.Enforcement Directorate summons West Bengal Law minister Moloy Ghatak on 14th September in an alleged coal smuggling case.The ED has also issued a fresh summon on Trinamool Congress national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee for questioning on September 21 in the smuggling case.The Lok Sabha MP, who was quizzed for nine hours in Delhi on September 6, had earlier said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would not be able to come to power in Bengal by using probe agencies against leaders of the ruling camp.Also read | CBI questions Bengal industry minister in I-Core chit fund caseThe nephew of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew was summoned for the second time on September 8 but he had informed the ED that he was unable to travel from Kolkata at such short notice.The ED had initiated a parallel investigation after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) launched a probe in the coal smuggling case last year.It is alleged that illegally mined coal worth crores have been sold in the black market over several years by a racket operating in the western parts of Bengal where the Eastern Coalfields Limited runs several mines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-summons-bengal-law-minister-moloy-ghatak-in-coal-smuggling-case-101631535096104.html
13-09-2021||India||War of words over ‘narcotics jihad’ rages on in Kerala||The war of words over Pala Bishop Joseph Kallarangatt’s ‘narcotics jihad’ jibe continues to rage in Kerala, with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) demanding security for the religious head and the Congress alleging the issue will allow the Sangh Parivar a foothold in the state. Congress has asked the government to convene a meeting of different community leaders before the issue escalates into a flashpoint with VD Satheesan alleging that the government was waiting for Sangh Parivar outfits to hijack the issue. The BJP state unit has written to home minister Amit Shah to provide security to the Bishop. Party national spokesperson Tom Vadakkan said, “He has voiced a genuine concern prevailing in the community. It is the voice of the victims of ‘love jihad’ and narco- terrorism. The state government can’t remain in denial.” Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan, who hails from the state, also criticised the attack on the Bishop. “Narcotic jihad is not a new term. Even world bodies said proceed from narcotics was a major source of terror funding,” he said, alleging that a planned move to silence the Bishop was afoot. Goa Governor Sreedharan Pillai also supported the religious head. “It seems the Bishop has aired his concern and no one needs to go beyond what he said. I hope CM Pinarayi Vijayan will talk to him and clear his concern,” said Pillai who enjoys a rapport with the heads of many Christian sects and was instrumental in the Centre’s move to broker peace between the warring sects of Jacobites and Orthodox Church last year. Though the Nair Service Society (NSS), a socio-cultural wing of the Nair community, has supported the Bishop, it said the issue shouldn’t have been give a communal colour. “It is a fact that girls are being lured by love and converted subsequently...But it is not fair to attribute it to any religion,” said NSS in a statement, urging the government for an independent investigation into the Bishop’s charges. Addressing a religious congregation in a church in Kuravilangad (Kottayam) last Thursday, Bishop Kallaranghatt said young Catholics were becoming victims of a ‘narcotic jihad’ perpetrated by a section of society. Many, including chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and the Congress, have criticised the Bishop for making a sweeping statement, but the Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council, the highest body of Catholics in the state, has rallied behind him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/war-of-words-over-narcotics-jihad-rages-on-in-kerala-101631535450053.html
13-09-2021||India||From Modi to Yogi, BJP wishes Bhupendra Patel after he takes oath as Gujarat CM||Bhupendra Patel was on Monday sworn-in as the new chief minister of Gujarat, succeeding Vijay Rupani – who resigned from the chair late on Saturday. Patel has become the 17th chief minister of the state, and at the oath taking ceremony, Union home minister Amit Shah and chief ministers of other Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states were present. Following the oath-taking ceremony, Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter to congratulate Patel and expressed confidence that the latter will “certainly enrich Gujarat’s growth trajectory.” Apart from Modi, several other prominent BJP leaders also took to the micro-blogging site to congratulate the first-time legislator for becoming the new chief minister of Gujarat. Here are some of the reactions:1. Besides congratulating Patel, Modi praised the former chief minister of Gujarat Vijay Rupani for “working tirelessly for all sections of society,” and undertaking “people-friendly measures.” “I am certain he will continue to contribute to public service in the times to come,” the Prime Minister’s tweet further read.During his five years as CM, Vijay Rupani Ji has undertaken many people-friendly measures. He worked tirelessly for all sections of society. I am certain he will continue to contribute to public service in the times to come. @vijayrupanibjpCongratulations to Bhupendra Bhai on taking oath as CM of Gujarat. I have known him for years and have seen his exemplary work, be it in the BJP Organisation or in civic administration and community service. He will certainly enrich Gujarat’s growth trajectory. @Bhupendrapbjp2. Shah also took to the micro-blogging site after the oath-taking ceremony of Bhupendra Patel to congratulate him. He said he has faith that under the “leadership” of Modi, Patel will take Gujarat’s development journey to “new heights by working with full devotion and dedication for the welfare of the poor, farmers and underprivileged sections of the state.”
13-09-2021||India||WHO approval for Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin likely this week: Report||The World Health Organization (WHO) is likely to grant approval to India’s indigenously manufactured Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, for an emergency use listing (EUL), this week, sources told news agency ANI on Monday.Covaxin, which is manufactured by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), has been on the pipeline for approval since July, after the manufacturer submitted all of the documentation needed for WHO's EUL on July 9.“All documents required for EUL of Covaxin have been submitted to WHO as of July 9. The review process has now commenced with the expectation that we will receive EUL from WHO at the earliest," Dr Krishna Ella, chairman and managing director of Bharat Biotech, had said on Twitter.Suchitra Ella, Bharat Biotech's co-founder and joint managing director, had said in early July that the UN health body’s approval is not expected to be a "long-drawn process".After receiving Bharat Biotech’s documentation WHO chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan had said that the final approval will be granted in four to six weeks.“There is a process to be followed for approval. Companies have to submit their safety data, complete trial data, and even manufacturing quality data for approval. Bharat Biotech has already started submitting the data and the dossier is being assessed. It is the next vaccine to be reviewed by our committee. There will be a decision on inclusion in the next four to six weeks,” Swaminathan said during a webinar on July 9.Covaxin was found to be nearly 77.8% effective against symptomatic Covid-19 cases in final phase 3 trials, according to Bharat Biotech. As per the data submitted by the manufacturer, the vaccine was found to be 63% effective against asymptomatic cases, and 65% effective in countering the Delta variant. Swaminathan had remarked that the third phase trial results of Covaxin “looks good” and meets the safety profile of the international public health agency so far.An EUL approval will bring relief to Indians who have travelled or will be travelling abroad and to citizens of at least 12 other countries where the vaccine was administered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-approval-for-bharat-biotech-s-covaxin-likely-this-week-report-101631533717625.html
13-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Jaishankar to participate in key meeting on Afghanistan and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.EAM Jaishankar to participate in key meeting on Afghanistan this weekExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar will travel to Tajikistan this week to participate in a key meeting on Afghanistan and hold talks with counterparts from several countries, including Iran, on the rapidly evolving situation in the war-torn country. Read more.CBI questions Bengal industry minister in I-Core chit fund caseA three-member team of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) questioned West Bengal industry minister Partha Chatterjee for two hours on Monday in connection with the I-Core chit fund case. An officer said on condition of anonymity that the agency was in possession of some video clips showing Chatterjee at a public event with Anukul Maity, the managing director of I-Core, who was arrested over alleged money-laundering of deposits received from investors in 2015. Read more.2,097 govt personnel died of Covid during election duty in UPA fresh tabulation by the Uttar Pradesh government has revealed that 2,097 government personnel died of Covid-19 infections while on duty in the three-tier panchayat election in April in the state, and a large number of them were teachers. Read more.'Players feared they must've contracted the disease, were dead scared': Ganguly on why India didn't play Manchester TestSourav Ganguly, president of the BCCI, has broken his silence over India's decision to sit out the 5th Test of the series against England on Friday. Ganguly dismissed theories and reports that the decision to opt out of the Manchester Test was due to the IPL and instead revealed that it was indeed because of the Covid scare that hit the Indian camp. Read more.BMW India launches X5 xDrive SportX Plus, price starts at ₹77.50 lakhBMW on Monday has announced the launch of its X5 xDrive SportX Plus models in India. Available in xDrive40i and xDrive30d variants, the new model comes priced at ₹77.90 lakh and ₹79.50 lakh (ex-showroom) respectively. Read more.Arjun Kapoor is unstoppable as he exercises to Chokra Jawaan at gym this MondayAll we need this Monday is a peppy song to pump up our drooping energies as we tackle loads of work piling upon our office desk and bring in the right zeal at the start of a new week, is Bhoot Police star Arjun Kapoor. From Russian kettlebell swing to bicep curls, Arjun's robust workout at the gym this morning is enough to brush aside our Monday blues. Read more.Sonam Kapoor is ‘obsessed’ with her wall-mounted toilet, husband Anand Ahuja is unsettled by their bathroom. WatchActor Sonam Kapoor gave fans a tour of her London apartment, where she lives with her husband Anand Ahuja. Sonam has been sharing pictures from her apartment in recent days, and the actor also appeared in a special video feature in which she showed off her sprawling living room and ‘dramatic’ interior design preferences. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-jaishankar-to-participate-in-key-meeting-in-afghanistan-101631531118070.html
13-09-2021||India||BJP, Congress out to woo tribal voters in Madhya Pradesh||Both the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress are out to woo the tribals, who comprise one-fifth of the population of Madhya Pradesh, and would see some of their prominent leaders in Jabalpur on September 18. Gonds celebrate the day as Balidan Diwas every year in the memory of Gond king Shankar Shah and his son Kunwar Raghunath Shah for their contribution during the 1857 mutiny against the British. This year, the BJP has decided to go big and honour prominent tribal leaders and social workers, and Union home minister Amit Shah will attend the programme. The Congress function will be addressed by former chief minister Digvijaya Singh. The party has already launched multiple events even as it accuses the BJP government in the state of “tormenting” the tribals.Rakesh Singh, Member of Parliament of BJP from Jabalpur, said the home minister would address tribals on the day and would also meet their leaders and members of different tribal organisation under ‘Janjatiya Samaj Jodo Abhiyan’ to discuss their problems.“This is part of the BJP exercise to increase outreach among the tribals and tell them how the Congress has cheated them for decades,” he said.Tribals have 47 seats reserved for them. In 2018 assembly polls, the Congress won 30 of these seats. Political experts say tribals have influence over 78 seats and the Congress returning to power in 2018 was primarily because of its good performance in these seats.Bhopal-based political analyst Girija Shankar said about Shah’s interaction with tribal leaders, “The BJP is trying to regain control over the tribal belt, especially the Gonds, which are the majority among tribals in the state.” On its part, the Congress, which has started an Adiwasi Jan Adhikar Yatra on Monday to target the state government over recent crime incidents in tribal areas, will also organised a bike rally on September 18 to pay tribute to the Gond king. Digvijaya Singh will participate in the rally, party leaders said.MP Congress president Kamal Nath said, “Congress will fight for rights of tribal in MP. The BJP-led state government is working to suppress the tribals.” Also Read | MP govt announces financial support for tribal man Kanhaiya Lal Bhil’s familyTribals are a suppressed lot. According to National Crime Records Bureau, the highest number of cases of atrocities against tribals in 2019 were reported from MP and 23 % of cases of rape of tribal women in the country were from the state. Recently, in Nemawar in Dewas district, five members of a family of tribal community was killed and buried while in Neemuch, a 45-year-old tribal man died after being thrashed, and then tied to a moving mini-truck. Experts point out that the two national parties should be alert to the emergence of Jai Adiwasi Yuva Sangathan (JAYS), a social organisation working for tribals, in the past four years. In 2018 assembly polls, JAYS leader Heeralal Alawa contested as a Congress candidate from Manawar and won by a good margin. A rally in Jobat on World Indigenous Day recently attracted at least 5,000 people, the local administration said, while initiating action against JAYS for violating Covid protocol. The organisation has a dedicated platform to raise issues of tribal rights. JAYS spokesperson Anand Rai said, “Tribals have now realised that they are just a vote bank for political parties and no one is interested in raising their issues. We are not a political party... but if they want us to contest elections, we will think about it like Heera Alawa did. For us, tribals are not just voters, but a community facing oppression for years.” JAYS’ rise can also be attributed to the dwindling influence of Gondwana Ganatantra Party (GGP). “JAYS gained popularity due to social media. They don’t know the real issues of tribals. They raise only those issues which are highlighted by media...we are the ones who try to get justice for every tribal,” GGP’s newly appointed president Aman Singh Porthe said.Tribal rights experts say there is a fight over tribal votes as they tend to vote en bloc. “Tribal voters were never afraid of experimenting and know the importance of their votes. They believe in giving s chance to new people and that is why GGP, and now JAYS, has gained popularity. The BJP and Congress need to accept this,” said Gajanand Brahmane, a tribal right expert working in west MP.Congress MLA and former minister Omkar Singh Markam said, “BJP is the biggest threat for tribal as RSS and BJP is trying to change the tradition and history of tribal by calling them a part of Sanatan Dharm. They are organising Ram Leela and Durga festival in tribal belt with distorted facts to misguide them.” However, BJP’s tribal MLA Ram Dangore said, “Congress has failed to uplift the tribals in the past 70 years. They want us to live like vanvasis but now we need development. We don’t want to be forest dwellers only. We want to become IAS and IPS officers too. The BJP is putting in efforts to enhance their education and standard of living.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-congress-out-to-woo-tribal-voters-in-madhya-pradesh-101631532448911.html
13-09-2021||India||Pegasus: SC reserves order on petitions seeking probe into alleged surveillance||The Supreme Court on Monday reserved its order on a clutch of petitions that have demanded a court-monitored investigation into use of Pegasus spyware for the alleged surveillance of citizens after the Union government declined to make public whether its agencies used the Israeli software. A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, reserved its order after an 80-minute hearing during which the government refused to share any more information on use of Pegasus by its agencies or hand out specific information on alleged interception of some of the petitioners. The bench, which included justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, said the court will pass an interim order in the next 3-4 days on constitution of an expert committee and on other ancillary issues related to an independent inquiry after considering the materials placed by the petitioners before it and the submissions made by the counsel for the parties. After taking time on Tuesday last week to reconsider its previous stand against filing a detailed response on the bunch of petitions, solicitor general Tushar Mehta reiterated on Monday that use of a particular software like Pegasus cannot be a subject matter of any affidavit or a public debate. While the government is open to have a committee of independent domain experts who can go into all aspects of the controversy and submit its report before the bench, Mehta emphasised, use of a particular software “cannot be made a part of the public discourse in the larger national interest and in the interest of the security of the nation.” Also Read | Court must enquire into antecedents of accused while considering bail, says Supreme CourtThe law officer said the government stands by its August 16 affidavit filed on the Pegasus snooping matter. This affidavit neither confirmed nor denied the use of the military-grade spyware to hack phones of ministers, politicians, businessmen, activists and journalists and offered to instead set up an expert committee. But the bench said, “We said it very clearly even on the last date that nobody is interested in disclosure of information that could compromise with national security. We wanted a limited affidavit from you because we have petitioners before us, citing violation of their privacy...In the face of the allegations that some software was used to snoop certain individuals like lawyers and journalists, it had to be made known whether there are methods of interception other than lawful means.” Mehta, on his part, maintained that a facade is sought to be created that the government is hiding the truth whereas its stand is clear that it is not evading any inquiry but is rather willing to have it done on its own through a committee of independent experts. This submission was strongly objected to by petitioners’ lawyers, which included senior counsel Kapil Sibal, Shyam Divan, Rakesh Dwivedi, Dinesh Dwivedi, Colin Gonsalves and Meenakshi Arora. All these lawyers condemned the Centre’s refusal to come clean on use of Pegasus while also urging the court to reject the government’s proposal to form a committee by itself. Sibal referred to a statement made by Ravi Shankar Prasad, then Union law minister, in Parliament in response to a question by AIMIM chief and lawmaker Asaduddin Owaisi. Prasad admitted that WhatsApp had notified the government about attempts to hack phones of more than 100 users in India. Sibal said that the government is impeding the course of justice by keeping relevant information hidden from the highest court of the land and it indicates that the government has been using Pegasus against the citizens without any sanction of law. Most of the senior lawyers pointed out that the government, being the “wrongdoer”, cannot be allowed to have a committee by itself and that the court should set up a panel of members of its own choice to go into the issue and report back. While Divan pressed for a directive to the cabinet secretary to file a “disclosure affidavit”, Dinesh Dwivedi asked for an interim order to restrain the government from using Pegasus against anyone. Mehta, at this point, reiterated that the court should allow the government to set up a committee, which, he said, will have experts completely unconnected with the government. “Suppose a committee examines it and places its report before us, then also everything will come into public domain...but ultimately it is your prerogative and you have decided not to file anything. We will now pass an interim order what we have to pass,” replied the bench, reserving its order. The Pegasus row erupted on July 18 after an international investigative consortium reported that the phones of Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 that were potentially targeted by Pegasus, Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software. According to this consortium, Pegasus can switch on a target’s phone camera and microphone, as well as access data on the device, effectively turning a phone into a pocket spy. Responding to a bunch of petitions filed by lawyers, politicians, journalists and civil rights activists, the Union ministry of electronics and information technology filed a three-page affidavit on August 16 that refused to confirm or deny whether it used Pegasus spyware for surveilling Indians. The Centre instead offered to set up an expert committee to look into the controversy and “dispel any wrong narrative spread by certain vested interests”. On August 17, the court observed that it is “not averse” to setting up an expert committee to look into the alleged surveillance of Indian citizens with Pegasus spyware but expects the government to bring sufficient facts on record regarding the interception regime in India. The government, however, said that all interceptions were being done in accordance with the statutory procedure, and it would not wish to put out in the public domain details of the software used for lawful surveillance by filing any additional affidavit. Following the Centre’s refusal, the court on August 17 issued a formal notice to the government on the batch of pleas filed by petitioners in the case, a list that includes advocate ML Sharma, former minister Yashwant Sinha, Rajya Sabha MP John Brittas, the Editors Guild of India, journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar, journalists Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, Rupesh Kumar Singh, Ipshita Shatakshi, SNM Abdi, and Prem Shankar Jha, and civil rights activists Jagdeep S Chhokar and Narendra Mishra. Deferring the matter for August 17, the bench once again asked SG Mehta to consider filing a detailed reply while observing that the court would ponder over the future course of action in the meantime. On September 7, the S-G asked for some time to reconsider its earlier stand, following which the matter was fixed for a hearing on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pegasus-sc-reserves-order-on-petitions-seeking-probe-into-alleged-surveillance-101631531909159.html
13-09-2021||India||Oscar Fernandes: Multiple-time MP, minister, but always a Congress worker first||In the spring of 2009, as the Congress party was getting ready to face the national elections, party president Sonia Gandhi had conveyed to Prime Minister Manmohan Singh that some ministers are required to join the organisation. The first name in the list was Oscar Fernandes, a soft-mannered politician holding the charge of the Union minister of labour and employment. It was apparently surprising as Fernandes neither had the political skill of someone like Kamal Nath nor a grip on electoral management like Pranab Mukherjee or Ghulam Nabi Azad. Fernandes, who died on Monday at the age of 80, was a diligent backroom man. Someone who would work daily for 16-17 hours in the background to help the party get battle-ready. Senior Congress leader BK Hariprasad remembers, “When he was working in the party, the AICC office wouldn’t close before 3am.” At the time of his death, Fernandes was admitted to a private hospital in Karnataka’s Mangaluru due to age-related ailments. “We are deeply saddened by the demise of Shri Oscar Fernandes ji, our heartfelt condolences to his family. A Congress stalwart, his vision for an inclusive India had a huge influence on the politics of our times. The Congress family will deeply miss his mentorship & guidance,” tweeted the Congress.Expressing his condolences, PM Narendra Modi said, “Saddened by the demise of Rajya Sabha MP Shri Oscar Fernandes Ji. In this sad hour, my thoughts and prayers are with his family and well-wishers. May his soul rest in peace.” Also Read | Congress veteran and ex-Union minister Oscar Fernandes passes away at 80If intellectual prowess clubbed with administrative skills have lifted the likes of Manmohan Singh or Pranab Mukherjee to the highest echelons of public life, for Fernandes, his soft nature and readiness to take up the burden of the backroom made him one of the favourites of Sonia Gandhi. The man from a very humble background had a brush with politics when he joined the youth Congress in his district. In 1980, Fernandes emerged as a giant killer in national politics when he defeated Tonse Ananth Pai, a legendary political leader and a banker (responsible for the rise of the Syndicate Bank). It’s another matter that in an earlier election, Fernandes was the election agent of Pai. Oscar Fernandes’s entry in Lok Sabha took him straight to then PM Rajiv Gandhi’s office and the young leader was appointed as the parliamentary secretary to Gandhi for a year. Fernandes, who started his career as a member of Udipi municipal council, went on to serve the Lok Sabha for five terms and he was the sitting member of the Rajya Sabha in his third term. A trained Kuchipudi dancer, Fernandes and his colleague Veerappa Moily have even performed on stage in a dance recital. While his last outing as the minister was in labour and employment ministry, Fernandes really enjoyed organisational works. His aide BP Singh is now a secretary of the party. Organisational responsibility took him to several places, including the hinterlands of Bihar. Many Congress leaders remembered that in one such meeting, people asked him to speak in Hindi when he introduced himself as “Oscar Fernandes”! A sharp political mind, Fernandes restarted his speech saying, “Main hoon Oscar. Aur meri biwi (Blossom Fernandes) ka naam hai Phoolkumari.” When he was a minister, he once called this correspondent to meet him at 10 o’clock. Upon further enquiry, it was found out that he will meet the reporter in his office at 10pm as he works there till 2am. Finally, the meeting started at 11.50pm and ended at 12.10am. As this correspondent was about to leave the minister’s chamber, a smiling Fernandes said, “Remember, you came here yesterday and are leaving today.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oscar-fernandes-multiple-time-mp-minister-but-always-a-congress-worker-first-101631530649108.html
13-09-2021||India||AICC spokesperson slams govt’s disinvestment strategy for CONCOR||The Congress Party has criticised the government’s disinvestment from Container Corporation of India Ltd. (CONCOR) in a party briefing held on Monday. CONCOR is a Navratna railway public sector undertaking (PSU) and is currently a market leader in domestic container transport.All India Congress Committee (AICC) spokesperson, Gourav Vallabh, raised concerns surrounding the method of the Modi government’s disinvestment from CONCOR and hinted towards possible detrimental implications of this move.CONCOR commenced its operations in 1989, taking over the existing network of seven Inland Container Depots (ICDs) from the Indian Railways. Since then, it is now a market leader with the largest network of sixty ICDs and provides inland rail transport for containers and has expanded to cover management of ports, air cargo complexes, and cold-chains.The Modi government has given its nod to sell a 30.8 per cent stake out of its 54.8 per cent holding in CONCOR to strategic buyers.Vallabh questioned the reason for disinvestment and asked, “Why a Navratna company that is of strategic importance, consistently generating a profit and declaring average dividends of ₹365 crores per year in the last 4 years, is deciding for disinvestment?”CONCOR has over sixty ICDs, and twenty four of them are situated on the railway land. He questioned the government’s decision to reduce the land licensing fees (LLF) from existing 6 per cent to 2-3 per cent, and increase the lease period from 5 years to thirty-five years. He asked, “Is the proposal to reduce the LLF an indirect way to hand over developed government land to private parties for the long term?”In addition, Vallabh remarked, “CONCOR is a zero debt company with consistent total incomes, net profits, and dividends. For paying 99 per cent upfront lease, it has to raise debts of ₹3500 crores. Debts will directly hurt the valuation. Is the entire transaction planned to reduce the valuation of CONCOR?”The AICC spokesperson highlighted the possibility that such haphazard disinvestments by the government can create monopolies and oligopolies with a considerable amount of market power. “How will the government ensure that these giant firms do not exploit this monopoly for commercial gains?” he questioned.In his response to Congress’ criticism, BJP spokesperson Gopal Agarwal said, “BJP’s policy for disinvestment is that the government has no role to be in business. Professional and business decisions of companies, whether private or government, need to be taken on professional considerations.” "You cannot wait for a company to be destroyed and then go for disinvestment, like the Congress did for Air India. In that case, there will be no takers. When the company is a growing concern, only then it gets a proper valuation,” Agarwal told Hindustan Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aicc-spokesperson-slams-govt-s-disinvestment-strategy-for-container-corporation-of-india-101631529390356.html
13-09-2021||India||Congress veteran and ex-Union minister Oscar Fernandes passes away at 80||Senior Congress leader and former Union minister Oscar Fernandes passed away at a private hospital in Mangaluru on Monday.Fernandes (80) was a sitting member of the Rajya Sabha. He was hospitalised in July after suffering a fall while doing yoga at his house. He had also undergone a surgery to remove a clot in his brain, a PTI report said."We are deeply saddened by the demise of Shri Oscar Fernandes ji, our heartfelt condolences to his family. A Congress stalwart, his vision for an inclusive India had a huge influence on the politics of our times. The Congress family will deeply miss his mentorship & guidance," the party wrote on its official Twitter handle.Known as a trusted aide of Congress president Sonia Gandhi, the five-time Lok Sabha MP from Udupi in Karanatka had handled several tricking situations for the grand old party over the years.In June, he was rushed to a private hospital in Mangalore after he complained of chest pain. He was also fighting kidney and heart related issues.Fernandes was the Cabinet minister for transport, road and highways in the Congress-led UPA government. He was also in charge of the ministry of labour and employment.Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the veteran Congressman's demise. “Saddened by the demise of Rajya Sabha MP Shri Oscar Fernandes Ji. In this sad hour, my thoughts and prayers are with his family and well-wishers. May his soul rest in peace,” the PM wrote on Twitter.Extremely saddened by the demise of @INCIndia stalwart Shri Oscar Fernandes.An irreplaceable mentor & hardworking organisational leader, Oscar ji contributed immensely towards the betterment of the nation & the party.Heartfelt condolences to his family, friends & followers. pic.twitter.com/vs9bprhZh8Congress general secretary KC Venugopal said Fernandes was an irreplaceable mentor and hardworking organisational leader. A diligent backroom man, Fernandes was also a trained Kuchipudi dancer, and had even performed on stage with party colleague Veerappa Moily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-veteran-oscar-fernandes-passes-away-in-mangaluru-101631527962709.html
13-09-2021||India||EAM Jaishankar to participate in key meeting on Afghanistan this week||External affairs minister S Jaishankar will travel to Tajikistan this week to participate in a key meeting on Afghanistan and hold talks with counterparts from several countries, including Iran, on the rapidly evolving situation in the war-torn country. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually join the summit of heads of state of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) on September 17, while Jaishankar is set to represent India in the meeting on Afghanistan of heads of state of SCO and the Russia-led Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO) the same day. Jaishankar will hold several bilateral meetings while in the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe during September 16-17, including with his new Iranian counterpart Hossein Amir Abdollahian, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. He is also expected to meet Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov. Abdollahian, who assumed office last month, was set to travel to India on Monday but deferred his visit because he will meet Jaishankar in Dushanbe, the people said. A fresh date for Abdollahian’s visit is yet to be fixed though he is expected to travel to New Delhi soon. Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi and Pakistani foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi will also be in Dushanbe, though there was no word on whether Jaishankar would meet them. The people cited above ruled out the possibility of a meeting with Qureshi in view of the strained ties with Pakistan. High-ranking delegations from 17 countries and the secretary generals of SCO and CSTO are gathering in Dushanbe for the summit and the meeting on Afghanistan. CSTO is a military alliance of Russia, Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, and Tajikistan. Also Read | PIA first foreign commercial flight to land in Kabul since Taliban takeoverJaishankar’s meetings on the margins of the SCO Summit will be an opportunity to compare notes on the rapidly evolving situation in Afghanistan and the way forward, especially in view of India’s security concerns regarding Pakistan’s role in the country and its military establishment’s close ties with the Taliban. Since the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan on August 15, India has asserted that Afghan territory must not be used for terrorism or anti-India activities. It has repeatedly expressed concern about the lack of inclusiveness of the “dispensation” in Kabul while indicating it is in no rush regarding the recognition of the Taliban regime. Iran has kept open its mission in Kabul and continued interactions with the Taliban leadership, though it has its own security concerns regarding Afghanistan, including the well-being of the Shia Hazara minority. Jaishankar discussed the situation in Afghanistan during a phone call with Abdollahian on September 1. A readout from Iran’s foreign ministry had quoted Abdollahian as saying that the “international community, including regional nations, must join hands to defuse the crisis in Afghanistan”. He added that it was Iran’s policy to “support the formation of an inclusive government in Afghanistan made up of all Afghan ethnic groups”. The readout quoted Jaishankar as saying that “Iran and India need to continue consultations on Afghanistan”. The people cited above added Russia too had informed the Indian side in recent meetings that there should be no rush in recognising the Taliban regime. This was a message conveyed by Nikolay Patrushev, secretary of Russia’s security council, at a meeting with senior Indian security officials in New Delhi on September 8, and in President Vladimir Putin’s interventions during discussions at a virtual Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) Summit the following day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-to-travel-to-tajikistan-for-crucial-meeting-on-afghanistan-this-week-101631527648816.html
13-09-2021||India||CBI questions Bengal industry minister in I-Core chit fund case||A three-member team of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) questioned West Bengal industry minister Partha Chatterjee for two hours on Monday in connection with the I-Core chit fund case. An officer said on condition of anonymity that the agency was in possession of some video clips showing Chatterjee at a public event with Anukul Maity, the managing director of I-Core, who was arrested over alleged money-laundering of deposits received from investors in 2015.The I-Core sponsored event in question was held in 2011, the year Trinamool Congress (TMC) party came to power. Maity died in judicial custody in November last year. His company allegedly raised around ₹7,000 crore from the market by promising high returns.CBI and Enforcement Directorate (ED), which is also probing all chit fund cases in Bengal, had summoned Chatterjee in March and April but he did not appear before the agencies saying he was campaigning for the polls. He won the Behala West assembly seat in south-west Kolkata for the fifth time.On September 8, CBI sent fresh summons to Chatterjee, asking him to come to CBI’s office at the CGO Complex in south Kolkata on September 13. The senior Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader wrote to the agency that he was busy with the assembly bypoll at Bhawanipore and would not be able to go anywhere. The probe agency then informed the minister that he would be questioned in his office.The CBI team arrived at the Camac Street office of the industry department at 12.30 pm and left at 2.15 pm. The office is located less than a kilometre away from the CGO complex at Nizam Palace.Chatterjee is the party’s observer for the September 30 by-election in Bhawanipore where Mamata Banerjee is contesting for re-election to assembly so that she can continue as chief minister after losing to Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram seat in East Midnapore district.The fresh summons to Chatterjee was sent 48 hours after TMC national general secretary and the chief minister’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee was questioned for almost nine hours by ED in Delhi in connection with the coal smuggling case that CBI is also probing.The chief minister targeted the Centre on September 8 and accused it of activating the probe agencies before the polls.“They summoned Abhishek and Partha. Why? The agencies have become proactive because of the elections. They are summoning those who did nothing and not touching the one who took money,” the chief minister said at a TMC worker’s meeting in Bhowanipore, indirectly referring to her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari, who is an accused in the Narada and Saradha cases.After the questioning, Chatterjee said, “How was I supposed to know the background of the company and its activities while attending a public programme? I told CBI that I will cooperate in the investigation. The officers were very courteous.” CBI officers refused to comment.The probe into the chit fund cases started in 2014 following an order from the apex court. The other big chit fund companies under investigation are Saradha and Rose Valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-questions-bengal-industry-minister-in-i-core-chit-fund-case-101631525068380.html
13-09-2021||India||Bhupendra Patel takes oath as 17th CM of Gujarat, PM Modi tweets wishes||First-time legislator Bhupendra Patel took oath as the 17th chief minister of Gujarat on Monday a day after his name was announced for the top job by the BJP leadership.Earlier in the day, Union home minister Amit Shah reached Ahmedabad to attend Patel’s swearing-in ceremony. Patel met his predecessor Vijay Rupani, who resigned from the post late on Saturday,  at the Chief Minister's residence in Gandhinagar.Fondly addressed as 'Dada' by his supporters, Bhupendrabhai Rajnikanthbhai Patel became the 17th chief minister of Gujarat.Patel (59), unanimously elected BJP legislature party leader on Sunday, was sworn in governor Acharya Devvrat at a simple ceremony in Gandhinagar.Also read | 'Won't let BJP down': Bhupendra Patel promises as he is chosen to be Gujarat CMBesides Shah, chief ministers of some BJP-ruled states were among those present at the Raj Bhavan during the ceremony. Soon after, Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated Patel for taking oath as the Gujarat CM. “I have known him for years and have seen his exemplary work, be it in the BJP Organisation or in civic administration and community service. He will certainly enrich Gujarat’s growth trajectory,” he wrote on Twitter.Congratulations to Bhupendra Bhai on taking oath as CM of Gujarat. I have known him for years and have seen his exemplary work, be it in the BJP Organisation or in civic administration and community service. He will certainly enrich Gujarat’s growth trajectory. @BhupendrapbjpRegarding outgoing CM Rupani, Modi said the former had undertaken many people-friendly measures and worked tirelessly for all sections of society. “I am certain he will continue to contribute to public service in the times to come,” he further wrote.Also read | Bhupendra Patel: How first-time MLA rose up political ranks to helm GujaratLater, Shah, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar, his Madhya Pradesh counterpart Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Goa CM Pramod Sawant were seen congratulating Patel.As decided by the party, only Patel took the oath. The council of ministers will take oath during the next few days after their names are finalised, BJP sources said.At Sunday’s legislature party meeting, the proposal to elect Patel as the legislative party leader was moved by Rupani, whose resignation a day ago, about 15 months ahead of the Assembly polls, surprised many. Rupani, the fourth chief minister to demit office in BJP-ruled states during the coronavirus pandemic, was sworn in as chief minister – his second stint as CM - in December 2017 and completed five years in office on August 7 this year. With state polls scheduled in December 2022, the BJP is banking on Patel, a Patidar, for coming back to power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhupendra-patel-takes-oath-as-17th-chief-minister-of-gujarat-101631523448596.html
13-09-2021||India||Chhattisgarh: 20 IAS, 2 IPS and 94 state officers reshuffled in a day||The Chhattisgarh government late on Sunday reshuffled 20 Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers, 94 Chhattisgarh Administrative Service officers and two Indian Police Service (IPS) officers. Additional chief secretary (ACS) Subrat Kumar Sahoo (1996 batch) was relieved of additional charge of ACS, Water Resource Department, and given responsibility for Public Health and Engineering Department. Similarly, additional charges were given to principal secretary Manoj Kumar Pingua (1994) while Agriculture and Farmer Welfare and BioTechnology Department secretary Dr M Geetha (1997) was given additional charge of resident commissioner, Chhattisgarh Bhawan, New Delhi. The other IAS officers who were either given additional charges or transferred or relieved from charges were Amrit Kumar Khalkho (2002), Siddharth Komal Singh Pardeshi (2003), Avinash Champawat (2003), Prasanna R (2004), Ambalgan P (2004) Dhananjay Dewangan (2004), Neelam Namdev Ekka (2005), Alex V F Paul Menon (2006), Bhuvnesh Yadav (2006), Rajesh Singh Rana (2008), Narendra Kumar Dugga (2008), Abhijeet Singh (2012), Rannbir Sharma (2012), Sudhakar Khalkho (2012), Jagdish Sonkar (2013), Rituraj Raghuvanshi (2014), Chandan Sanjay Tripathi (2016) and Tulika Prajapati (2016) The Chhattisgarh home department also transferred two IPS officers. Ajay Yadav (2004) who was posted as deputy inspector general (IG) in police headquarters has been given additional responsibility of in-charge IG of Surguja range. Similarly, Vivek Shukla (2019) has been relieved from additional charge of superintendent of police (SP) of Janjgir-Champa district and shifted to police headquarters as assistant inspector general. Later on Sunday evening, the state government also issued an order to reshuffle 94 officers of Chhattisgarh Administrative Service posted across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-20-ias-2-ips-and-94-state-officers-reshuffled-in-a-day-101631522427885.html
13-09-2021||India||Prayers, meetings and orders: Bhupendra Patel has a packed day before taking oath as Gujarat CM||Bhupendra Patel, Gujarat chief minister-designate, on Monday offered 'gau puja' at Swaminarayan Temple in Ahmedabad, met with his predecessor Vijay Rupani as well as deputy, Nitin Patel, and instructed officials in Jamnagar to help people stranded after the flood-like situation in the district. Bhupendra Patel, a surprise pick by the Bharatiya Janata Party, will be sworn in as the 17th chief minister of Gujarat at 2.20pm. Union home minister Amit Shah and Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai are among the leaders who are expected to attend the ceremony.Before that, Bhupendra Patel called on Vijay Rupani, who resigned from the top post last week, 15 months ahead of the Gujarat assembly elections scheduled to be held in late 2022. Patel, a first-time legislator who has never held any ministerial position, met Rupani at his official residence in Gandhinagar in the morning and held discussions on various issues, a release issued by the state government said.After Rupani resigned on Saturday, Patel, who represents the Ghatlodia assembly seat in Ahmedabad, was unanimously elected as the BJP legislative party leader on Sunday.Also read | Karnataka CM Bommai to head to Gujarat for Bhupendra Patel’s swearing-in todayPTI reported citing a government release that Bhupendra Patel instructed district authorities in Jamnagar to make necessary arrangements to airlift about 35 people stranded in three villages, which have been inundated and cut off from other parts of the district amid incessant rain. The Jamnagar district's disaster management wing has said that the Indian Air Force has been requested to airlift people stranded in some of the villages of Kalavad and Jamnagar talukas.Also read | 'Won't let BJP down': Bhupendra Patel promises as he is chosen to be Gujarat CMBhupendra Patel called on deputy chief minister Nitin Patel at his residence on Monday morning. Nitin Patel told reporters that Bhupendra Patel and he are friends and they share family relations. "He visited my house to meet me. I greeted him... I am there to offer any help that he requires from me," Nitin Patel added. He said he has known Bhupendra Patel for a long time and had even inaugurated his MLA office in Ghatlodia after he won from that assembly constituency. The deputy chief minister also said he offered his best wishes to Bhupendra Patel on Sunday, soon after he was chosen for the top post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhupendra-patel-has-a-packed-day-before-taking-oath-as-gujarat-cm-101631520807559.html
13-09-2021||India||'A fight against injustice': BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal files nomination for Bhabanipur by-polls||Lawyer Priyanka Tibrewal, who has been fielded by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to take on West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee in the upcoming by-elections to the assembly constituency of Bhabanipur, on Monday filed her nomination papers to contest against the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo. Alipore, West Bengal: BJP candidate for Bhabanipur by-poll, Priyanka Tibrewal files her nomination. She will face CM and TMC candidate Mamata Banerjee in the by-poll, scheduled for 30th September. pic.twitter.com/M8E3zTtf4jBefore filing her nomination, she described her contest with Banerjee as a “fight against injustice.”Also Read | Bhabanipur by-polls: BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal to file her nomination papers today“This is a fight against injustice, and also a fight for justice, for the people of West Bengal. I would like to tell the people of Bhabanipur that they’ve got a big opportunity. So, they should come forward and make history,” Tibrewal, who joined the BJP in 2014, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. This is a fight against injustice. This is a fight for justice, for the people of West Bengal. I would like to tell the people of Bhabanipur that they've received a big opportunity, they should come forward and make history: Priyanka Tibrewal, BJP candidate for Bhabanipur bypolls pic.twitter.com/NHUxfulnZRTibrewal, who represented her party in the Calcutta high court in hearings over the alleged post-poll violence in the eastern state, is a vice-president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), the BJP’s youth wing, in West Bengal. She began her campaign for the by-polls on Sunday by drawing a painting of the lotus, the BJP’s symbol, on a wall in Bhabanipur. Also Read | Why BJP pit youth leader Priyanka Tibrewal against CM Mamata in Bhawanipore?Banerjee, meanwhile, has already filed her nomination papers, doing so last Friday. She contested the West Bengal assembly elections, held across eight phases earlier this year, from Nandigram, where she challenger her former aide, BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari. Though the TMC chief gave Adhikari a tough fight, she was unable to defeat him. Banerjee was sitting, and 2-term legislator from Bhabanipur when she announced her decision to contest from Nandigram against Adhikari, who is now the leader of opposition in the West Bengal assembly.Also Read | West Bengal by-poll: BJP's candidate Priyanka Tibrewal says her fight in Bhabanipur to be against ' 1 particular person'The Bengal chief minister, who took oath on May 5, three days after votes were counted and results declared, has to get elected to the state assembly by November 5 to retain her chair. Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, who contested and won from Bhabanipur in Mamata’s absence, vacated the seat for his party chief to contest by-polls from.The by-elections will take place on September 30. Counting of votes and declaration of results is scheduled to be held on October 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-fight-against-injustice-bjp-s-priyanka-tibrewal-on-bhabanipur-bypolls-101631517070278.html
13-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: ED summons AAP leader in money laundering probe and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.ED issues summons to AAP secretary in money laundering probe against Punjab MLAThe ED has issued summons to AAP national secretary Pankaj Gupta in connection with its probe against former Punjab leader of opposition Sukhpal Singh Khaira. Read moreSitharaman says vaccination must for economic rebound, 3rd wave preventionThe Union finance minister said that vaccination against Covid-19 infection was the only “medicine” which will allow businessmen and farmers to carry out their work. Read more'Franchise that bought you feels cheated, betrayed': Chopra says 'IPL family doesn't forget' following mass ENG pulloutAddressing the mass pullouts by England players, Aakash Chopra remarked that the “IPL family doesn't forget" and that they may have to face the consequences in the future. Read moreOla electric scooter facility to be largest all-women factory in the worldOla Electric will employ 10,000 women to power its electric scooter factory in Tamil Nadu which, at full capacity, will also be the largest in the world for electric scooters. Read moreLeonardo DiCaprio, Bradley Cooper, Brad Pitt, others add Hollywood spice to US Open. See picsLeonardo DiCaprio, Bradley Cooper, Brad Pitt and many other Hollywood actors were seen during the US Open, which ended on Sunday. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ed-summons-aap-leader-in-money-laundering-probe-and-all-the-latest-news-101631514555185.html
13-09-2021||India||ED issues summons to AAP secretary in money laundering probe against Punjab MLA||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has issued summons to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national secretary Pankaj Gupta in connection with its probe against former Punjab leader of opposition Sukhpal Singh Khaira who is under investigation in at least two cases of money laundering.Officials familiar with the development said they have summoned Gupta to seek some clarifications in the probe against the Bholath MLA.Khaira is under investigation in two cases registered earlier this year to investigate money laundering – first based on a trans-border drugs smuggling network unearthed in Fazilka, Punjab in 2015, and the second pertaining to a fake passport racket in Delhi. The agency even raided Khaira and his son-in-law Inderveer Singh Johal in March this year and they have been questioned a few times.Officials cited above didn’t divulge further details on why Pankaj Gupta is required for examination in the probe against Khaira or the date when he has been issued the summons.Also Read | Abhishek Banerjee summoned again by ED for questioning in coal smuggling caseAAP leader Raghav Chadha tweeted that the party will hold a press conference on the ED notice. “In a first, AAP receives a love letter from Modi Government’s favorite agency -- the Enforcement Directorate. I will address an important press conference today, 1.30pm at AAP headquarters in Delhi -- to expose the political witch hunt of AAP by a rattled BJP,” he said in the tweet.
13-09-2021||India||Sitharaman says vaccination must for economic rebound, 3rd wave prevention||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday said that vaccination against Covid-19 infection was the only “medicine”, which, when taken, will allow businessmen and farmers to carry out their work, enabling growth of the economy. She also said that it was the only way to prevent a third wave of the disease.“Vaccination is the only medicine for [the growth of the] economy. For people to buy and sell or farmers to carry out farming in their land,” Sitharaman said at the centenary celebrations of Tamilnad Mercantile Bank Limited in Thoothukudi district. She added that 730 million eligible beneficiaries have received at least one dose for free across the country.Sitharaman’s comments came on a day when Tamil Nadu administered at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine to 2.5 billion people through 40,000 camps across the state.Sitharaman said that hospitals located in rural areas were able to spruce-up facilities during the second wave of the disease by availing of the schemes announced by her ministry and were praying for the third wave not to happen. “But if it does occur, we are looking into the availability of hospitals. Do they have an ICU and even if there is an ICU, do they have oxygen support? For all these questions, the ministry announced a scheme on June 28, allowing hospitals to expand capabilities during the second wave,” she said.Sitharaman praised the Nadars-- a powerful backward trading community-- for creating the bank, which, she said, had gained wide acceptance. “It has a countrywide presence and deposits of more than ₹41,000 crore….Through the report by Tamilnad Mercantile Bank, we are able to see that they take the schemes announced by the ministry to the beneficiaries (hospitals). It is necessary that not only the public sector banks, private sector banks also follow suit,” she said.The finance minister also spoke on the banking sector’s role in bringing about financial inclusion as championed by the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana. “It’s only because of the Jan Dhan Yojana that a poor woman can set up a small idly business, even without a shop, on a pushcart,” Sitharaman said.“Businesses are not just for the rich. The Prime Minister understood that banking is the right of every citizen, that’s why he implemented the Jan Dhan Yojana,” Sitharaman said, and added that the opening of these bank accounts had helped the Union government in giving direct financial assistance to those affected by Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sitharaman-says-vaccination-must-for-economic-rebound-3rd-wave-prevention-101631515167131.html
13-09-2021||India||Pests attack popular Yongchak trees in Manipur village||Almost all Yongchak trees in Manipur’s Willong Khunou village have been infested with caterpillar-like pests, also known as looper, threatening the livelihood of many households. Both the flower and beans of Yongchak (Parkia Speciosa) are consumed, as is its pod. Yongchak Eromba or Singju, prepared with fermented fish, is one of the most sought after dishes of Manipur during winters.However, this village in Senapati district, which borders Nagaland, has now reported that almost all its trees are under attack by looper.A joint team of Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) Senapati and e-loumee, a platform for farming experts, visited the hill village located about 150km north west of Imphal on Sunday and confirmed the development.Also Read | In joint op with Assam Rifles, Manipur police kill self-styled SDFK commander“We’ve visited the village to oversee the situation arising out of pest attack on Yongchak (tree bean) trees,” says Homen Kangjam,farm manager of KVK Senapati. “We’ve also collected pest samples for further study.”Looper can be seen in large numbers in every Yongchak tree and village areas, including house walls, he said. Though the cause of the looper attack is yet to be ascertained, entomologists in the state said the pests will grow into moths. Pungdi P Celestine, a social worker from Senapati, said villagers spotted the looper only recently and the pest has consumed almost all the green portions of Yongchak trees within a short span.A source claimed a similar attack on Yongchak trees has been reported from the Kamjong area in Manipur. However, HT could not confirm this development.Meanwhile, officials of horticulture & soil conservation department have started remedial measures by spraying the trees with organic medicines. “We’ve also sent the collected samples (of loopers) to Indian Council of Agricultural Research for investigation,” Kh Upen,district horticulture officer, said on phone.The state has already survived drying up of Yongchak trees over the years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pests-attack-popular-yongchak-trees-in-manipur-village-101631514146856.html
13-09-2021||India||Stalin moves bill seeking permanent exemption from NEET amid oppn walkout||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Monday tabled a bill in the assembly, seeking a permanent exemption from the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), for the state as the opposition All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK)  staged a walkout. “Today, I have presented the resolution against NEET. You (AIADMK) also brought this resolution. I urge opposition parties to extend their support to this resolution,” Stalin said in the assembly as he moved the bill, according to news agency ANI.Leader of Opposition Edappadi K Palaniswami alleged that students and their parents were totally confused whether the NEET exam will be held in Tamil Nadu, adding that they were not given the opportunity to discuss a medical aspirant’s death in the assembly. “There is no clear stand taken by the DMK government on NEET,” Palaniswami said, according to news agency ANI as he held the government responsible for the 19-year-old student’s death. “Students didn't prepare well for the exam as DMK-government said that NEET will be scrapped. We have decided to walk out in protest. We will support NEET resolution,” the former Tamil Nadu CM said.Also read | Tamil Nadu student’s suicide ahead of NEET sparks political rowThe medical aspirant was found dead on Sunday at his home in Salem hours before he was to appear for the NEET exam for the third time. The bill seeks to provide for admission to undergraduate courses in medicine, dentistry, Indian medicine and homoeopathy based on the marks obtained by students in the qualifying examination (Class 12). The bill said the government has decided to enact a law to dispense with the requirement of NEET for admission to UG Medical degree courses and to provide admission to such courses on the basis of marks obtained in the qualifying examination, through “normalisation methods”, according to news agency PTI.This is to ensure "social justice, uphold equality and equal opportunity, protect all vulnerable student communities from being discriminated and bring them to the mainstream of medical and dental education and in turn to ensure a robust public health care across the state particularly the rural areas,” reported PTI.On his part, Stalin reminded that NEET was conducted for the first time in Tamil Nadu when Palaniswami was the chief minister and it was not held even when late J Jayalalithaa was the CM. He also talked about student deaths, including that of S Anita, in recent years, saying all of them happened when Palaniswami was the CM. Stalin also targeted the AIADMK over therejection of bills enacted during its regime in 2017 to get the state exempted from the ambit of NEET and also for hiding it from the House.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-moves-bill-seeking-permanent-exemption-from-neet-amid-oppn-walkout-101631513043603.html
13-09-2021||India||Record rainfall in Odisha; two die in separate wall collapse incidents||Two people in Odisha’s Kendrapara district died in wall collapse as the state experience a record rainfall in most of its coastal regions, including state capital Bhubaneswar and pilgrim town of Puri on Monday. Later, a 29-year-old farmer of Khurda district was washed away in floodwater. A 100-year-old building also reportedly collapsed in Behrampur. The downpour is a result of the depression over northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining Odisha coast intensifying into a deep depression.Bhubaneswar received its highest single-day rain of September in the past 63 years at 195mm over the last 24 hours. Puri received 341mm of rainfall during the same period, its highest in a single day in September, when south-west monsoon is normally on the wane, in 87 years.The port town of Paradip received 219 mm of rainfall in last 24 hours.Meanwhile, the two deceased are a 62-year-old man in Patakura Badabeta village of Kendrapara district, and a 60-year-old woman in Derabis Dihasahi village . Schools have been closed for two days in 12 districts of the state where a red alert has been sounded by the meteorological department, said school and mass education minister Samir Dash.Also Read | Deep depression crosses Odisha coast; heavy rain likely in central, west India“The depression intensified into a deep depression and crossed Odisha coast near Chandbali in Bhadrak district on Monday morning. It is very likely to continue to move west north-westwards across north Odisha, north Chhatisgarh and Madhya Pradesh during the next 48 hours. Districts like Puri, Cuttack, Jagatsinghpur, Dhenkanal, Ganjam, Gajapati, Nayagarh, Kendrapara would witness intense spells of rain,” the regional meteorological department in Bhubaneswar said.Bhubaneswar saw heritage temples and main roads in knee-deep water. Shopping establishments were flooded while government quarters faced a deluge. In Khandagiri, a three-storey house in Dumduma collapsed on one side due to the heavy rains.In Behrampur, a 100-year-old building collapsed late on Sunday, though no casualties were reported. The building, Andhra Bhasa Vibardhani, had several old books of Telugu literature.Noted climatologist and director of Bhubaneswar’s Centre for Environment and Climate Dr Sarat Sahu said the downpour was a result of the system becoming stationary over Bay of Bengal in the last two days. “Though it did not intensify into a cyclone, it packed enough moisture from the Bay of Bengal and was aided by moisture flowing from Arabia sea. When it became stationary, it led to massive amount of rainfall. This kind of rainfall is climate change as it is happening in otehr cities of the country as well as rest of the world,” said Dr Sahu.Officials in IMD Bhubaneswar said, till Sunday, Odisha had 25% deficit of monsoon rainfall. Following the incessant rainfall, the deficiency would drop below 19%. As the weather system will move to Chhattisgarh by around 10-11pm today, the upper Mahanadi basin in Odisha is going to record very heavy rainfall in the range of 5-10cm in the next 48 hours. As per the Central Water Commission data, the water level in Hirakud reservoir stands at 189.91 mt today against the full reservoir level of 192.02 mt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-rainfall-in-odisha-two-die-in-separate-wall-collapse-incidents-101631512826574.html
13-09-2021||India||8 killed as jeep rams into lorry in Karnataka's Chintamani||In a tragic accident, eight persons were killed when the jeep they were travelling rammed into a cement laden lorry coming from the opposite direction near Marinayakanahalli under Kencharlahalli police limits in Chintamani taluk on Sunday.According to police, six persons were killed on the spot while two succumbed at the hospital."Around 4.00 PM a jeep with seventeen passengers was heading towards Chintamani from Royalpad in Srinivasapur taluk. The impact of the accident was such that after colliding head-on with the lorry, the jeep was dragged for a distance," police said."Six inmates of the jeep were found dead on the spot while two others succumbed at the Chintamani RN Jalappa Hospital," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-killed-as-jeep-rams-into-lorry-in-karnataka-s-chintamani-101631512162239.html
13-09-2021||India||Air India Express flight to Sharjah turns back due to technical glitch||An Air India Express flight which took off from here for Sharjah, in the UAE, on Monday morning with 170 passengers was forced to turn back shortly after taking off due to a technical glitch. The plane, which also had a crew of six, landed safely at Thiruvananthapuram airport and another flight was arranged for the passengers, including five infants, to travel to Sharjah, an Air India Express (AIE) spokesperson told PTI.According to an official of the airport, the incident occurred around 7 AM. The AIE spokesperson said the pilots noticed the technical glitch around half-an-hour after take-off and immediately decided to turn back to Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-express-flight-to-sharjah-turns-back-due-to-technical-glitch-101631510520460.html
13-09-2021||India||Of 27,254 new Covid-19 cases in India, Kerala has added the most||Of the 27,254 new Covid-19 cases and 219 deaths reported in the last 24 hours in India, Kerala contributed the most number of infections and fatalities, according to data. Kerala recorded 20,240 Covid-19 cases and 67 deaths on Sunday, which have taken the southern state's tally to 43,75,431 and death toll to 22,551.India on Monday logged a slight dip in cases of Covid-19 after reporting 28,591 infections on Sunday. The country's infection tally stands at 33,264,175 and the number of active cases has declined to 374,269, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The death toll due to the disease has risen to 442,874 with 219 daily fatalities, the data updated at 8am showed.The Kerala government said that the test positivity rate (TPR) was recorded at 17.51 per cent after 115,575 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, according to a state government release. The release added that among the 14 districts, Ernakulam recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases with 2,572 followed by Thrissur 2,451, Thiruvananthapuram 1,884, Kozhikode 1,805, Kottayam 1,780, Kollam 1,687, Palakkad 1,644, Malappuram 1,546, Kannur 1,217 and Alappuzha 1,197.Also read | Traffic moves without restrictions in Kochi as Kerala repeals Sunday lockdownOf the new Covid-19 cases in Kerala, 101 were health workers, 114 from outside the state and 19,251 infected have been through contact, it said. The source of the contact is not clear in 774 cases, it added. There are 603,315 people under surveillance in various districts, of whom 5,72,761 are at home or institutional quarantine and 30,554 in hospitals currently. The bulletin also said that since Saturday, 29,710 people recovered from the infection taking the total number to 41,30,065 and the number of active cases to 2,22,255.Also read | Kerala begins seroprevalence study on Covid-19 situationMeanwhile, Kerala health minister Veena George said on Sunday that the samples of four close contacts of the 12-year-old child who succumbed to Nipah virus infection on September 5 have returned negative. However, the source was yet to be identified and the government was giving top priority to it, George added. "Four samples of the close contacts of the child were tested again for confirmation. All were tested negative. Our field surveillance is continuing along with the fever surveillance. The sample testing is also continuing in the epicentre of the infection," she told reporters.The minister said that it was important to identify the source of infection and the surveillance team from the National Institute of Virology, Pune, has been collecting samples from various areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/of-27-254-new-covid-19-cases-in-india-kerala-has-added-the-most-101631510187677.html
13-09-2021||India||Don’t pass consequential orders, Assam directs foreigners’ tribunals||The Assam government has asked foreigners tribunals (FTs), which have the power of declaring a person a foreigner or not, to desist from passing consequential orders. The September 4 letter by the political department of the government to members of all 100 FTs in the state followed a ‘performance assessment exercise’ by the state judicial department on the basis of randomly selected opinions given by FT members. FTs are quasi-judicial bodies established in Assam under provisions of Foreigners (Tribunals) Order, 1964 and Foreigners Act, 1946. They are entrusted with the task of declaring whether anyone whose name is missing from the National Register of Citizens (NRC) or has been declared a ‘doubtful voter’ because of questions about their citizenship, is a foreigner or not. In order to arrive at their opinion, FTs can summon and ask for attendance of any person and examine them under oath and ask appellants to submit required documents and examine witnesses. Consequential orders are generally made by courts following orders on cases directing government departments to take some action. But FTs don’t have the power to pass directions such as ordering someone’s arrest, removal or name from voters’ list, deportation etc. “The judicial department has viewed with seriousness the passing of consequential directions/orders by learned members while rendering opinion,” said the letter by Parijat Bhuyan, deputy secretary in the department. The letter cited the judicial department’s assessment where it noted “consequential order for deletion of names from voters list, arrest and detention of declared foreigners” have been passed by FTs. “This may not be necessary,” it said. “FTs have been empowered to give opinion and not pass consequential orders. Therefore, the government move is a correct one. Sometimes, due to consequential orders passed by FTs appellants are immediately arrested and sent to detention centres,” said advocate Santanu Borthakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-pass-consequential-orders-assam-directs-foreigners-tribunals-101631509886328.html
13-09-2021||India||Karnataka CM Bommai to head to Gujarat for Bhupendra Patel’s swearing-in today||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday afternoon is likely to travel to Gujarat to attend the swearing-in ceremony of Bhupendra Patel. According to the communication from the chief minister’s office, Bommai’s “tentative” plans will include travelling via a special flight to Ahmedabad at 12pm and return at around 5.30pm. Bommai, who faces the monsoon session of the state legislature for the first time since taking oath on July 28, is likely to miss the first day of proceedings where his government is under pressure in the caste census and reservation row. Patel will take oath as the 17th chief minister of Gujarat replacing Vijay Rupani who unexpectedly stepped down past Saturday. Also Read | Karnataka reports 803 new Covid cases, 17 fatalitiesIn Karnataka, the Bommai-led BJP government continues to face pressure over both backward and dominant caste’s demands for reservation and the release of the 2015 caste census data. Bommai also faces a tough task in trying to keep the Panchamasali from going ahead with their agitation from September 15 if the government does not include them in the 2A category for reservation. Then CM BS Yediyurappa had assured to help them with their demands to be pushed up to 2A category (most backward) from their current category of 3B (backward). The Congress is trying to corner the BJP on the issue of price rise and caste census. Siddaramaiah, the Congress’s leader of the opposition, is expected to arrive at the Vidhana Soudha on a bullock cart today as a symbolic protest against the rising prices of fuel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cm-bommai-to-head-to-gujarat-for-bhupendra-patel-s-swearing-in-today-101631509586312.html
13-09-2021||India||India records 27,254 new Covid-19 infections and 219 deaths; active cases stay below 400,000||Daily infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country remained below the 30,000-mark for a second straight day on Monday, as 27,254 people tested positive for the contagious disease, pushing the nationwide infection tally to 33,264,175, data released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) showed. In the same period, 219 related fatalities were also recorded, taking the cumulative toll to 442,874, comprising 1.33% of the overall caseload, the health ministry’s dashboard showed.Also Read | India sees further decline in daily Covid-19 cases with 28,591 infectionsHowever, after rising for two consecutive days, active cases registered a fall, and were recorded at 374,269, down 10,652 from the corresponding figure on September 12. These constitute 1.13% of the total cases. Total recoveries, meanwhile, mounted to 32,447,032, as an additional 37,687 patients were discharged, with the recovery rate comprising 97.54% of the cumulative tally.Also Read | With 3,623 fresh cases, Maharashtra’s Covid tally reaches 6,497,877As the latest positive cases were from 1,208,247 samples which were tested on Sunday, the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.25%, which means that for the last 14 days, it has been below the 3% mark. Weekly positivity rate stood at 2.11%, making it 80 consecutive days when it has been under 3%.The total number of samples tested for Covid-19 has risen to 543,014,076. COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/0HL3RvLbibMeanwhile, India’s cumulative vaccination coverage has surpassed 740 million, as more than 743 vaccine doses have been administered since January 16, when the nationwide vaccination drive was launched. Of these, 5,338,945 doses were administered in the last 24 hours. “More than 727 million doses have been provided to states and Union territories, while more than 49 million balance and unutilised doses are still available with state and UT governments,” the health ministry informed.Three states and an equal number of UTs have vaccinated 100% eligible beneficiaries with at least first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-27-254-new-covid-19-infections-and-219-deaths-active-cases-stay-below-400000-101631508564029.html
13-09-2021||India||Closely monitoring developments in neighbouring countries: BSF as Taliban tighten grip||The Border Security Force (BSF) is closely monitoring the developments in neighbouring countries, inspector general NS Jamwal said on Sunday, amid the Taliban tightening its grip over Afghanistan, prompting fears that it might become a safe haven for terrorist activities. "BSF is keeping constant vigilance at the border areas of Jammu and Kashmir. We have a firm belief in our capabilities and are ready to act towards any untoward activity if any," news agency ANI quoted Jamwal as saying.Speaking about the mounting tension at the border, the senior BSF official said, "The danger at the border areas was there, is there and we will continue to monitor the situation at the border areas."Afghanistan plunged into crisis after the Taliban seized power in a military takeover following the US drawdown. Since last month, the situation in the neighbouring country has been deteriorating, prompting a mass exodus of Afghans trying to flee violence and the Taliban. The group has been designated as a terrorist organisation by the United States over the years, it is responsible for carrying out major attacks in Afghanistan.Last Thursday, the BRICS grouping called for an inclusive intra-Afghan dialogue to ensure stability and peace in Afghanistan. The leaders also asserted that Afghanistan’s territory shouldn’t become a sanctuary for terror groups to mount attacks on other nations.The Delhi Declaration was issued after a virtual summit of Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (BRICS) expressed concern at developments in Afghanistan and made a call for “refraining from violence and settling the situation by peaceful means”. The grouping highlighted the importance of fighting terror and upholding human rights, including those of women and minorities.Meanwhile, the Taliban unveiled a "caretaker" government in Kabul, which will be led by Mullah Mohammad Hassan Akhund and dominated by 17 leaders sanctioned by the UN Security Council.The new regime comprised mainly members of the group’s veteran leaders and top military commanders such as Sirajuddin Haqqani. This came despite the global calls by leaders to have an inclusive government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/closely-monitoring-developments-in-neighbouring-countries-bsf-as-taliban-tighten-grip-101631508295126.html
13-09-2021||India||India has administered at least 738 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 738 million Covid vaccine doses by Sunday, September 12. By the day, the Centre has provided 722,117,085 vaccine doses to the states and Union Territories. Another 5,756,240 doses are in the pipeline. As many as 51,666,835 balance and unutilized doses were still available with states and UTs as on Sunday morning.Meanwhile, by 7am on Sunday, 738,207,378 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 7,286,883 doses were administered on the day.In the 18-45 age group, 296,771,856 people have been given the first dose while 42,838,102 have got their second shot as well.Also Watch| ‘No room for complacency’: PM reviews Covid situation as third wave threat loomsAmong the healthcare workers, 10,363,703 have been given the first dose while 8,587,937 have got their second dose as well. Among the frontline workers, 18,336,456 have got their first dose and 13,991,469 have got their second dose too.
13-09-2021||India||With 3,623 fresh cases, Maharashtra’s Covid tally reaches 6,497,877||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 3,623 fresh Covid-19 cases, pushing the count to 6,497,877. The tally of active cases again increased to 50,400. However, there is no sign of a rise in Covid-19 cases.The state also saw 46 deaths, taking the toll to 138,142. Pune and Ahmednagar reported the highest toll with nine deaths each. Around 2,972 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours.The state has been reporting between 4,000 and 5,000 cases for the past 12 days, except four days when daily cases dropped to fewer than 4,000. On Saturday, it reported 3,075 cases, the lowest since February 9. In the past 12 days, it has reported 48,067 cases against the 69,344 cases reported in the corresponding period last month.Also Read | Covid: 6 states, UTs have achieved 100% first dose vaccination. Check list hereAmid the threat of a potential third wave, the state government is not considering re-imposing fresh curbs anywhere in the state as of now, as there is still no rise in daily figures. At the same time, it is also taking decisions on lifting restrictions in a gradual manner, according to the state authorities.According to health experts, the impact of the festivals will be seen only after a period of two weeks and the third wave may hit the state by December or January. State health minister Rajesh Tope said the decision on reopening religious places will be taken only after Diwali.“As the head of the state disaster management authority, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will take the decision on reopening religious places. Ganesh Chaturthi is going on and will be followed by Dussehra and Diwali. Even if the daily cases fall, the decision on religious places will be taken if the situation will be under control after Dussehra and Diwali,” Tope told reporters in Jalna on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-3-623-fresh-cases-maharashtra-s-covid-tally-reaches-6497877-101631506345766.html
13-09-2021||India||'Won't let BJP down': Bhupendra Patel promises as he is chosen to be Gujarat CM||Bhupendra Patel, who has been chosen by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as the next Gujarat chief minister to replace Vijay Rupani, said he would take the development journey of the state forward. In his first media address after being nominated by the party as the new chief minister, Patel also thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several other senior BJP leaders. "First of all, I want to thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi, JP Nadda and Amit Shah from the bottom of my heart. I also want to thank all the leaders of Gujarat BJP, including CR Patil and the team of Vijay Rupani," Patel in his first media address after being nominated by the party as the new chief minister.Patel said he will not let the party down. "The faith that party showed me, I will not let it break. I will take forward the incomplete development work in the state. We will move forward by keeping the organisation along," he added.A BJP spokesperson told news agency PTI that PM Modi called Patel on Sunday and congratulated him. Bhupendra Patel, who is known to keep a low profile, will take oath on Monday at Raj Bhavan. "No one else will take the oath with him as the name of Deputy Chief Minister is not decided yet," Gujarat BJP chief CR Paatil said on Sunday.Also read | ‘New energy to Gujarat’s development’: BJP leaders wish CM-elect Bhupendra PatelBhupendra Patel's predecessor Vijay Rupani, who stepped down as Gujarat chief minister on Saturday, praised him. "Bhupendra Patel is capable. He has a very gentle personality which surely helps in this development work ahead," Rupani told reporters soon after Patel was elected as the new Gujarat chief minister in the BJP's legislative party meeting held on Sunday. "We believe the BJP will win the upcoming elections in the state under his leadership," Vijay Rupani added.Also read | Bhupendra Patel: How first-time MLA rose up political ranks to helm GujaratWith assembly polls in the state scheduled to take place in late 2022, the BJP opted for Patel, a Patidar face as the Gujarat chief minister. The Patidars are a dominant caste in the state Also watch | Bhupendra Patel new Gujarat CM: A surprise pick as Vijay Rupani's successor
13-09-2021||India||Bengal: BJP, CPIM candidates to file nomination for Bhabanipur bypolls today||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate Priyanka Tibrewal and CPIM candidate Srijib Biswas are scheduled to file their nominations for the coming Bhabanipur by-elections in Kolkata today. Today is the last day for filing of nomination for the bypoll scheduled on September 30. The results would be announced on October 3. As of now, only West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has filed her nomination. The Congress has decided not to field any candidate. While Tibrewal is a BJP youth leader and an advocate who played a pivotal role in the legal battle in the Calcutta high court on post-poll violence which led a five-judge bench to order for a CBI probe, CPIM’s Biswas is also a lawyer. Even though the TMC returned to power by winning 213 out of the 292 seats in the recent assembly elections, Banerjee was defeated by her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram in Purba Medinipur by a narrow margin of 1,956 votes. Banerjee took oath as the state’s chief minister on May 5, and needs to win the by-election before November 5 to retain the post. The constituency, in the heart of south Kolkata, is TMC citadel and Banerjee’s home turf. She won the assembly elections twice in 2011 and 2016 from the seat. It has round 206,300 electors out of which 951,43, or around 46%, are women voters. Also Watch | BJP pits Bengal post-poll violence petitioner against Mamata in Bengal by-pollsThe TMC has put senior leaders such as Firhand Hakim, Subrata Mukhrjee and Partha Chatterjee in charge of the campaign in the eight civic wards that come under Bhabanipur. Party MP Mala Roy has been asked to consolidate the women votes. “If you sit at home thinking that Didi would win hands down, the web of conspiracy would have far reaching effects. Don’t blame me then. Everyone has to work as a party worker and ensure 100% voter turnout,” Banerjee said at a recent organisational meeting. The BJP too has hinted that it won’t be a cakewalk for the TMC and has drawn up its own strategy. An election management team with party MP Arjun Singh has been set up. A list of 20 star campaigners, including Union ministers Smriti Irani and Hardeep Singh Puri, has also been prepared. “This fight is against injustice. The chief minister doesn’t belong to any party. She is the chief minister of West Bengal. Despite that, she kept quiet during post-poll violence. I am sure the people of Bhabanipur will understand why Nandigram didn’t vote for Mamata,” Tibrewal told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-bjp-cpim-candidates-to-file-nomination-for-bhabanipur-bypolls-today-101631504905935.html
13-09-2021||India||Police officer's killers identified, action will be taken against them: J&K DGP||Police said they have identified the killers of probationary sub-inspector Arshid Ahmad at Khanyar, Srinagar, hours after the officer was shot dead by suspected militants on Sunday.While they did not reveal the identity of the assailants or the group behind the attack, director general of police Dilbag Singh told media said the perpetrators of the crime have been identified and they will be brought to justice. Police have formed a team to investigate the killing of Ahmad who was laid to rest at Kalmona village in Kupwara district late Sunday night. A large number of people participated in his funeral.Also Read | Vaccination rate to be doubled in J&K districts with higher Covid caseloadAhmad was posted at Khanyar police station. A CCTV footage showing an attacker carrying a small weapon and firing at Ahmad from a close range went viral on social media. Ahmad, a resident of Kupwara district, was shot at after he was coming back from a hospital where he had taken an accused for a check up. Ahmad was rushed to SKIMS in Soura, but he succumbed to injuries, officials said.Last few months have seen multiple attacks on policemen in Kashmir, especially in Srinagar city.On August 3, a cop and a civilian were injured in the same area when militants opened fire on a police’s Rakshak vehicle parked at Sheraz Chowk.On August 7, a police personnel was killed in a militant attack in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district, some 70km from Srinagar.On June 22, inspector Pervaiz Ahmad, who worked with the Criminal Investigation Department wing of police, was killed after militants opened fire on him at Nowgam near his home in Srinagar outskirts. On June 17, an off-duty Jammu and Kashmir police personnel was shot dead near his house in the Old City’s Saidapora area. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/those-involved-in-cop-s-killing-identified-says-jkdgp-101631503346792.html
13-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Deep depression crosses Odisha coast; rain likely in central, west India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Deep depression crosses Odisha coast; heavy rain likely in central, west IndiaA depression had formed over northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining Odisha coast on Sunday evening which intensified and crossed the Odisha coast as a ‘deep depression’ close to Chandbali early Monday morning between 5.30 and 6.30am. Read MoreBhupendra Patel to take oath as 17th Gujarat CM today, Amit Shah to attend ceremonyBhupendra Patel will on Monday take oath as the 17th chief minister of Gujarat, replacing Vijay Rupani, who unexpectedly stepped down from the top post in the state, ahead of the assembly elections in 2022. Read MoreCovid-19: 3 states, 3 UTs have achieved 100% first dose vaccination. Check list hereIndia’s vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is in full swing, with more than 740 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines administered since January 16, when the nationwide drive began with two vaccines, Covaxin and Covishield. Read MoreUS Open: Daniil Medvedev beats Novak Djokovic to lift maiden Grand Slam title; denies Serb the Calendar SlamNovak Djokovic’s bid for the first calendar-year Grand Slam in men’s tennis since 1969 ended one victory short with a 6-4, 6-4, 6-4 loss to Daniil Medvedev in the U.S. Open final on Sunday. Read MoreMegan Fox dares to bare in bold see-through dress for 2021 MTV VMAs with Machine Gun KellyThe MTV Video Music Awards 2021 red carpet saw the fiercest looks by the biggest celebrities from the industry on Sunday, September 12 (September 13 morning IST) at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn, New York. Read MorePriyanka Chopra on reviews suggesting she 'didn't speak the truth' in Unfinished: 'You wanted gossip in my book'Priyanka Chopra caught everyone's attention with her memoir Unfinished. While the actor shed light on her journey, from growing up in India and the US, from Miss India to Miss World and to becoming a Hollywood star, she chose to not drop names. Read MoreWatch | Qatar's deputy premier & foreign minister holds high-level talks with Taliban||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-deep-depression-crosses-odisha-coast-heavy-rain-likely-in-central-west-india-and-all-the-latest-news-101631502674332.html
13-09-2021||India||Deep depression crosses Odisha coast; heavy rain likely in central, west India||A depression had formed over northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining Odisha coast on Sunday evening which intensified and crossed the Odisha coast as a ‘deep depression’ close to Chandbali early Monday morning between 5.30 and 6.30am. The deep depression is likely to bring heavy rain in its track, covering several parts of central India and west coast, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned.It is likely to move west-northwestwards across North Odisha and north Chhattisgarh and weaken gradually into a depression during the next 24hrs.Deep depression is an intense low pressure system with wind speed from 55 to 61kmph.Also Read | Delhi weather: Cloudy sky with a chance of light rainfall todayAnother low pressure area is lying over southwest Rajasthan and the adjoining Gujarat region. The monsoon trough is lying south of its normal position. It is very likely to be south of its normal position during the next 3-4 days. In association with the depression and its west-northwestward movement , lower level westerlies are very likely to strengthen along the west coast during the next 4-5 days.Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely over north Konkan, north Madhya Maharashtra, Gujarat, east Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh during the next five days and over Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh qnd Odisha during the next five days. Isolated extremely heavy rain (over 20cm) is likely over Odisha, north Konkan, madhya Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh today. Scattered to fairly widespread rainfall likely to continue over peninsular India during the next five days. Isolated heavy rain is likely over coastal & south interior Karnataka, Tamilnadu, Puducherry, Karaikal and Kerala during the next three days. Scattered rainfall activity is likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh Delhi and Uttar Pradesh during the next five days. Widespread and isolated heavy rain is likely over Uttarakhand during 12th-16th September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deep-depression-crosses-odisha-coast-heavy-rain-likely-in-central-west-india-101631501785574.html
13-09-2021||India||Covid-19: 3 states, 3 UTs have achieved 100% first dose vaccination. Check list here||India’s vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is in full swing, with more than 740 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines administered since January 16, when the nationwide drive began with two vaccines, Covaxin and Covishield.Till now, over 565 million beneficiaries have received their first shot, while more than 177 million people have received both doses of a Covid-19 jab.According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), there are three states and an equal number of Union territories (UT) where 100 per cent eligible population (18 years and above) have been vaccinated with at least the first dose: Congratulations to these States & UTs for administering the first #COVID19 vaccine dose to 100% of the adult population.Special appreciation for the health workers in these regions for their diligence & commitment 👏 pic.twitter.com/pH89J7lhtFAlso Read | 6 states, UTs vaccinate 100% adult population with at least 1 dose; Health minister Mandaviya lauds feat(1.) Himachal Pradesh: The hill state was the first in the country to achieve this distinction. According to figures provided by the Union health ministry, more than 5.57 million such doses have been administered here thus far. CM Jairam Thakur said last week that all beneficiaries would be fully vaccinated by November 30.Also Read | Himachal administers first dose of Covid vaccine to 100% of its population(2.) Goa: As per official data, over 1.18 million beneficiaries here have been jabbed at least once, though opposition parties in the state have questioned the state government’s claim.(3.) Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu: In the UT, more than 626,000 beneficiaries have received their first shot of a Covid-19 vaccine.(4.) Sikkim: The northeastern state achieved this feat by administering over 510,000 doses.In addition to these, the UTs of Ladakh and Lakshadweep have vaccinated 100 per cent beneficiaries with at least first jab, from 197,000 and 53,499 doses respectively.Thus far, six vaccines have received Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). Of these, two are indigenously developed: Covaxin and ZyCoV-D.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-3-states-3-uts-have-achieved-100-first-dose-vaccination-check-list-here-101631500402671.html
13-09-2021||India||Goa makes quarantine mandatory for visitors from Kerala||The Goa government has extended the state-level Covid-19 “curfew” by another week up to September 20 and mandated five day quarantine for persons travelling to the state from Kerala. In an order issued by the two district magistrates under Section 144 of the CrPC, “all students and employees coming from Kerala should be subjected to institutional quarantine of five days.” Other visitors from Kerala will have to mandatorily produce a negative RT-PCR test certificate and undergo home quarantine for five days, as per the order. “The arrangement for quarantine of students will be done by the administrators/principals of the educational institutions. For the employees, it shall be done by the respective offices/ companies/firms,” the order reads. “At the end of five days, they shall be tested by RT-PCR,” the order states. The order shall, however, not be applicable to constitutional functionaries, healthcare professionals and their spouses, children below two years, those in a dire emergency like a death in the family and those passing through the state via train or road. Prior to this order, all persons entering the state were required to produce a Covid negative certificate except those who had received their 2nd dose of Covid vaccine at least 14 days ago. As per the order, casinos, auditoriums, community halls, river cruises, water parks, entertainment parks and water sports continue to remain closed. The “curfew” has been in place in Goa since the first week of May as cases and deaths began to mount, but has gradually been relaxed with each passing week until now, when the restrictions on persons arriving from Kerala have been imposed. Late last week Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said the state had administered 100% of its eligible population with the first dose of Covid vaccine and would achieve full vaccination by October 31. Goa has recorded 174,837 cases of Covid-19 since the pandemic began and 3,217 people have lost their lives to the disease. The state is now recording around 100 cases per day with a positivity rate between 1-2% each day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-makes-quarantine-mandatory-for-visitors-from-kerala-101631498665276.html
13-09-2021||India||Farmer unions in Himachal Pradesh to protest today against falling apple prices||Apple growers in Himachal Pradesh, reeling due to the plummeting price of the fruit in the wholesale market, will on Monday hold a statewide agitation against the government over what they allege is its failure to protect the interests of apple cultivating farmers in the hill state.Also Read | Apple price slide: Farmer unions to stage protest in HP on Sept 13Samyukt Kisan Manch (SKM), an umbrella body of various farmer unions, announced on August 30 that a protest will take place on September 13 against falling prices of apple in the state, as well as various issues pertaining to apple cultivation here. The decision to stage this protest was taken in a meeting which was attended by representatives of around 20 farmer unions and politicians from across party lines, including members of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).While today’s demonstrations will be held at block and subdivisional levels, the SKM has warned of a “mega protest” on September 26 if the Himachal Pradesh government fails to take corrective measures.The SKM has also raised 10 main demands, which include the implementation of the market intervention scheme (MIS) to prevent apple cultivators from being exploited. The forum has demanded that under the MIS, grade A, B and C apples should have a support price of ₹60, ₹44 and ₹24 per kg respectively.Withdrawal of increase in transportation charges, permission to allow sale of apple and other fruit crops on the basis of weight, and reinstating subsidy on fretilisers, seeds, insecticides, fungicides and farm tools are also among the demands raised by farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmer-unions-in-himachal-pradesh-to-protest-today-against-falling-apple-prices-101631495032406.html
13-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu to bring bill seeking exemption from NEET today||The Tamil Nadu government will on Monday introduce a bill in the assembly that seeks the President’s assent to exempt the state's medical aspirant from taking the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), a day after the death of a 19-year-old sparked a political storm. Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin said on Sunday that NEET is a major issue in the country. "Another death at the altar of NEET…Tomorrow we will bring a permanent exemption bill for NEET. Let us take NEET as an issue of the Indian subcontinent," Stalin said in a Twitter post in Tamil.The remarks by Stalin came after a 19-year-old medical aspirant was found dead at his home in Salem hours before he was to appear for the NEET exam a third time. The Tamil Nadu government recently said in a policy note that an official committee suggested the enactment of a fresh law to provide for admission to professional degrees like medicine on the basis of marks obtained in the qualifying exam and to get exemption from NEET. Bills adopted in 2017 during the previous AIADMK regime to exempt Tamil Nadu from NEET did not get the President's assent.The student’s death led to a blame game with the AIADMK holding the DMK regime responsible and Stalin targeted the Centre for being "obstinate" on the matter. Stalin alleged that the Centre does not understand the huge difficulties caused by NEET to students and its 'negligence' and 'obstinacy' continues to be responsible for the death of students by suicide.Also read | Tamil Nadu NEET aspirant kills self, CM says will move bill against examCondoling the aspirant's death, Stalin said "our legal struggle against NEET starts now after taking over the reins of the government." The state government has the responsibility and duty to build a good future for students and realising this, "our struggle will continue till the Union government rescinds NEET," he said. The Tamil Nadu chief minister said his government would drum up support of all other states on this issue by reaching out to his counterparts. “I have the confidence that we will win,” he said.Leader of the Opposition K Palaniswami said in the run-up to the April 6 assembly election, the DMK claimed that the party was aware of the ways and means to "cancel NEET." He said the DMK targeted the AIADMK government over this issue, "diverted the people and also won the polls." Palaniswami, who is the AIADMK co-coordinator, said in a statement that the DMK made “tall claims” of getting Tamil Nadu exempted from NEET, mocked his party over the issue and campaigned in a way that deceived the students.Also read | Madras high court sets aside order allowing 16-year-old girl to write NEET this yearThe AIADMK leader said he had time and again asked the government to clarify whether NEET would be conducted in Tamil Nadu since the DMK had made such an assurance. He said that, unlike the DMK, his party is not interested in politicising the NEET issue. "Please tell the students about the true status of NEET," he said.A number of aspirants from Tamil Nadu have allegedly died by suicide fearing the outcome of the national test for admission to medical colleges and opposition to NEET has grown.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-to-bring-bill-seeking-exemption-from-neet-today-101631494532679.html
13-09-2021||India||Bhabanipur by-polls: BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal to file her nomination papers today||The Bharatiya Janata Paty's Priyanka Tibrewal will on Monday file her nomination papers for the by-election to the Bhabanipur seat. A lawyer, Tebriwal has been fielded against West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee, who has already filed her nomination papers.Tibrewal kickstarted her campaign on Sunday by painting the BJP’s symbol of lotus on a wall in Bhabanipur. "I will file my nomination tomorrow. The people of West Bengal have the right to live. This right is being taken away from them by the Trinamool Congress led by Mamata Banerjee," she said on Sunday. "I am fighting for the people of Bengal," Tibrewal also said.She is currently the state vice president of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), the BJP's youth wing. She joined the BJP in 2014.Also Read | Why BJP pit youth leader Priyanka Tibrewal against CM Mamata in Bhawanipore?On Saturday, Tibrewal visited the Kalighat Temple in Kolkata, where she offered her prayers to Goddess Kali ahead of the Bhabanipur fight. During the visit, Tibrewal asserted that her fight is "against the members of the ruling party as they have done injustice to the people of West Bengal."By-polls for Bhabanipur will be held on September 30 along with two other constituencies of Jangipur and Samsherganj. The counting of votes will take place on October 3—the week before Durga Puja celebrations kick off in Bengal.The by-poll at Bhabanipur were necessitated after Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, who originally won the Bhabanipur seat in the assembly elections held this year, vacated the seat to facilitate Banerjee's continuous rule the state following her defeat in Nandigram. Chattopadhyay won from Bhabanipur by a margin of more than 28,000 votes.Banerjee lost to her former aide Suvendu Adhikari by a close margin of 1,956 votes from the Nandigram constituency in the assembly elections. As the TMC came back with a thumping majority, Banerjee was sworn in as the chief minister for the third time. However, as per the Constitution, Mamata has to win on any seat in the state to have the chance of becoming a member of the state assembly. In fact, she has to win before November 5 to remain the chief minister’s position.Meanwhile, Congress has announced that the party will not be fielding any candidate for the Bhabanipur by-polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhabanipur-by-polls-bjp-s-priyanka-tibrewal-to-file-her-nomination-papers-today-101631492980272.html
13-09-2021||India||Light intensity rain in Delhi, neighbouring states today: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday projected light intensity rain/drizzle in parts of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh while in Odisha, for which the weather department issued a red alert on Sunday, the depression over northwest Bay of Bengal will cross north Odisha coast by early morning body, the IMD said.Also Read | Low pressure over Bay of Bengal to turn into depression, IMD predicts heavy rains in Odisha, Chhattisgarh“Light intensity rain/drizzle would occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of north Delhi, Garhmukteshwar, Khekra, Baghpat, Narwana, Kaithal, Rohtak, Kharkhonda during the next two hours,” the IMD said in a 4am bulletin. This forecast is for till 6am after which fresh updates are likely to be issued. 13-09-2021; 0400 IST; Light intensity rain/drizzle would occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of North Delhi, Garhmukteshwar, Khekra, Bagpat, Narwana, Kaithal, Rohtak, Kharkhonda during next 2 hours. pic.twitter.com/yayuyMpbslRain lashed national capital and its adjoining areas for two straight days on Saturday and Sunday. The spell of rain on Saturday was particularly intense, as it led to waterlogging not only on roads, but also at the Indira Gandhi International airport. Also Read | Intense 3-hour rain spell brings Delhi to a grinding halt yet againAccording to the weather body, the city is likely to receive light intensity rain throughout this week.Also Read | Light spells of rain likely in Delhi this week, Met forecastsMeanwhile, for Odisha, the weather bulletin said, “The depression over northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining Odisha coast moved west-northwestwards at a speed of 5 kmph. It is very likely to move west-northwestwards and cross north Odisha coast close to south of Chandbali by early morning of today, the 13th September, 2021.”
13-09-2021||India||Bhupendra Patel to take oath as 17th Gujarat CM today, Amit Shah to attend ceremony||Bhupendra Patel will on Monday take oath as the 17th chief minister of Gujarat, replacing Vijay Rupani, who unexpectedly stepped down from the top post in the state, ahead of the assembly elections in 2022. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s choice of the 59-year-old as the chief minister at a legislative party meeting on Sunday came as a surprise for many as the low-profile, first-time legislator was not seen to be among the top contenders for the post. The BJP has said the decision regarding the new Gujarat cabinet will be taken later.Gujarat Governor Acharya Devvrat invited Bhupendra Patel to take oath as the new Gujarat chief minister of Gujarat at 2:20pm on Monday. "The newly appointed leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party's Legislature Party, Bhupendrabhai Patel, presented a proposal to form a new government under his leadership at the Raj Bhavan. Accepting the proposal, he was invited to take oath as the Chief Minister on September 13, 2021, at 2:20 pm," tweeted the Governor.Also read | Not at least in next 25 years…: Hardik Patel has a message for new Gujarat CMAccording to news agency ANI, Union home minister Amit Shah is scheduled to attend the swearing-in ceremony of Bhupendra Patel in Gandhinagar as Gujarat CM. “I believe that under the guidance of Narendra Modi, the state’s sustainable development will keep up its momentum,” Amit Shah tweeted on Sunday.Patel met Devvrat at Raj Bhavan in Gandhinagar on Sunday to stake a claim to the top post in the state and was accompanied by his predecessor Vijay Rupani and a delegation of BJP leaders.Also watch | Bhupendra Patel new Gujarat CM: A surprise pick as Vijay Rupani's successorBorn in Ahmedabad, Bhupendra Patel is an MLA from the Ghatlodia seat, previously held by former chief minister and now Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel. Patel is known to be close to Amit Shah as well as Anandiben Patel. Patel won his seat by over 117,000 votes in 2017, the largest margin in that poll defeating Congress candidate Shashikant Patel. Ghatlodia is part of the Gandhinagar Lok Sabha seat represented by Amit Shah.Also read | Who is Bhupendra Patel, Gujarat CM, first-time MLA and minister?Bhupendra Patel has served as the Ahmedabad municipal councillor. Patel, who holds a diploma in civil engineering, also served as the chairperson of the Standing Committee of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation and Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority (AUDA). He is also a trustee at Patidar organisations Sardar Dham and Vishwa Umiya Foundation.With assembly polls in the state scheduled to be held in 2022, the BJP is banking on Bhupendra Patel, a Patidar, to lead the party. In the last assembly elections held in 2017, the BJP won 99 of the state's 182 seats and Congress got 77.The Patidars are a dominant caste in Gujarat with a sizeable control over the electoral votes and they also dominate the political economy with a stronghold over education, realty and cooperative sectors.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhupendra-patel-to-take-oath-as-gujarat-cm-today-amit-shah-to-attend-ceremony-101631491440141.html
13-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu NEET aspirant kills self, CM says will move bill against exam||A 19-year-old NEET aspirant appeared to have died by suicide in Tamil Nadu’s Salem district on Sunday, prompting chief minister MK Stalin to say that the legal battle against the national entrance exam was just beginning, and promised to bring a bill against it on Monday.The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) 2021 for admission in undergraduate medical courses was conducted across 202 cities on Sunday, after the Supreme Court recently rejected a plea by a group of students to postpone the exam. The top court said that it did not want to interfere with the process and it will be “very unfair” to reschedule the test.The medical aspirant, who was the son of a farm labourer, was found dead in his room hours before he was slated to take the exam for the third time in a row, said a senior Salem police officer who asked not to be named.“There is no suicide note, but circumstantial evidence points to suicide due to exam fear as he has failed twice in the past and couldn’t get a medical admission... His parents were compelling him to prepare and clear NEET today and not go for any other course. The family also says that he was under pressure,” the official said, adding that a case of unnatural death under Section 174 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered.The death triggered a political storm, with the Opposition blaming the ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), and the state government attacking the Union government.Chief minister MK Stalin appealed to students to not lose hope and assured them that the DMK government will pass a bill in the state assembly on Monday, seeking permanent exemption from NEET. “Let the injustice end,” he said in a statement, adding that “our legal battle against NEET is just beginning.”“The Union government’s indifference and adamant attitude over NEET continues to be the reason for suicide by promising students,” he added.Since NEET was introduced in Tamil Nadu in 2017, at least a dozen aspirants have died by suicide in the state.Former AIADMK chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami, however, blamed the DMK for not fulfilling its election promise to abolish NEET. “What happened to the promise of the DMK?” he tweeted.The Bharatiya Janata Party’s state unit chief, K Annamalai, said that the DMK should stop playing with students’ lives when the Supreme Court has made the exam mandatory. “Students’ lives are being lost for playing politics,” he said. The BJP is the only party in the state that supports NEET.The National Testing Agency (NTA), which conducts NEET, recently received approval from the Supreme Court to conduct it as per schedule. The court rejected a plea filed by some students, saying NEET was clashing with other exams.Tamil Nadu abolished NEET for nearly a decade, saying that it puts children from rural and poor background at a disadvantage. Before NEET, the state considered Class 12 board exam marks for admissions to medical colleges. However, on August 2017, the Supreme Court directed the TN government to conduct MBBS/BDS admissions solely on the basis of NEET marks. The verdict came after the Centre informed the court that there was no ordinance in the pipeline to exempt Tamil Nadu from the ambit of NEET, even as a one-time measure.Since then, the state has been trying to get exempted from the exam through an ordinance, inside the court halls and through negotiations with the Union government. Protests against the exam have spilt over to the streets, but to no avail. Tamil Nadu has one of the highest medical aspirants in the country--one in eight doctors from India is from Tamil Nadu, according to the data provided by former Union health minister Harsh Vardhan in Parliament in 2019.The staunch resistance to NEET originated from the plight of disadvantaged students from Tamil Nadu’s hinterlands who have to compete with urban and affluent students who have more access to resources. Like any other exam, NEET, too, is marred by the tragedy of students dying by suicide. S Anitha, a Dalit teenager, who died by suicide in 2017 after failing in NEET though she was a school topper with 98% continues to be the face to rally against the exam for politicians.Anitha’s death led to widespread protests across Tamil Nadu. On 22 August, 2017, the Supreme Court did not give Tamil Nadu an exemption from NEET in a case in which Anitha had impleaded herself.Voices opposing NEET have argued that the exam has not led to more meritorious students but it has only helped to mushroom private centres charging exorbitant fees.The AIADMK last year during its regime introduced a 7.5% horizontal reservation in medical colleges for government school students who clear NEET.The DMK government after taking over in May constituted a committee chaired by Justice A K Rajan to study the adverse impact of NEET on socially and economically backward students. The state BJP challenged this in the Madras high court which was disposed of.(If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-neet-aspirant-kills-self-cm-says-will-move-bill-against-exam-101631486772220.html
13-09-2021||India||4 of family killed in Baramulla cloudburst, one missing: Officials||Four members of a nomad family, including three minors, were killed and one person went missing when a cloudburst hit Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials familiar with the matter said on Sunday.The cloudburst occurred in the upper belt of Dangiwacha at Hamam Marcoot in Sopore area of the north Kashmir district on Saturday night, the officials said.Police and state disaster response force (SDRF) teams rushed to the spot and four bodies have been recovered, they added.The deceased were identified as Mohammad Tariq Khari (8), Shahnaza Begum (30), Naziya Akther (14) and Arif Hussain Khari (5), all residents of Kalsiyan Nowshera area of Rajouri in Jammu region, police said.Another family member, Mohammad Bashir Khari (80), is still missing, and efforts are on to trace him, they added.Deputy Commissioner (DC) Baramulla Bhupinder Kumar reviewed the ground situation and directed authorities concerned to provide every type of assistance to the family members, news agency ANI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-of-family-killed-in-baramulla-cloudburst-one-missing-officials-101631486960057.html
13-09-2021||India||Forces shoot dead terrorist in J&K gunfight||An unidentified terrorist was killed in an encounter with security forces on Sunday following a search operation in the upper reaches of Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district, officials said.The encounter started when terrorists opened fire on a joint search party of the Army and police in the forest area of Dori Maal near Barote Gali in Manjakote area, they said.The encounter was still going on when last reports were received, the officials said.They said the search operation was launched in the area and in parts of Thanamandi in the early hours of Sunday after intelligence inputs suggested movement by a fresh group of terrorists who managed to sneak into this side and were hiding in the forest area.The identity and group affiliation of the slain terrorist were yet to be ascertained, the officials said.The twin districts of Rajouri and Poonch in Jammu region have witnessed a spurt in infiltration attempts since June this year, resulting in the killing of nine terrorists in separate encounters.Three soldiers also laid down their lives in the earlier operations.The Sunday’s encounter was the latest in a series of gunfights as security forces intensified counter-insurgency operations in the Valley, killing 94 terrorists so far this year. It also comes at a time when Jammu & Kashmir is witnessing a spike in violence and attacks on political leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forces-shoot-dead-terrorist-in-jkgunfight-101631475443636.html
13-09-2021||India||Sidhu writes to captain, urges him to take action on farmers’ demands||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday wrote to chief minister Amarinder Singh, seeking action on farmers’ demands including cancellation of “unfair” FIRs registered against growers during their agitation.Asserting that the Congress stood by farmers’ agitation against the farm laws at every stage, Sidhu, however, asked the state government, “we must do more” and “not let the three black laws be implemented in Punjab at any cost.” Sidhu wrote to the chief minister two days after meeting representatives of 32 farm bodies which had raised their demands with him.In a letter to the CM, Sidhu wrote, “This is to bring to your attention and request for necessary action, upon the demands raised by 32 farmer unions at the meeting called by them.” Sidhu said farmer leaders demanded “the cancellation of unjust and unfair” FIRs registered against the farmer unions due to cases of violence during the agitation in the state.” “We must take steps ahead from the farmer agitation’s fight against the three black laws to do more and present the vision for Punjab agriculture, to increase Punjab’s farmers’ income using every resource and power we have to stand with the farmers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sidhu-writes-to-captain-urges-him-to-take-action-on-farmers-demands-101631475149069.html
13-09-2021||India||SC to hear petitions calling for probe into Pegasus row today||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Monday a batch of pleas seeking an independent probe into the alleged snooping on certain people in India involving Israeli spyware Pegasus.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana had on September 7 had granted more time to the Centre to decide on filing a further response on the petitions after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said that due to some difficulties he could not meet the officials concerned to take a decision on the filing of the second affidavit.The Centre had earlier filed a limited affidavit in the apex court saying the pleas seeking an independent probe into the Pegasus snooping allegations are based on “conjectures and surmises or on other unsubstantiated media reports or incomplete or uncorroborated material”.On August 17, the top court had issued notice to the Centre on the pleas, making it clear that it did not want the government to disclose anything which compromises national security.In its short affidavit filed in the court earlier, the Centre had said the position on the issue has already been clarified in Parliament by Information Technology Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw.With a view of dispelling any wrong narrative spread by certain vested interests and examining the issues raised, the government will constitute a committee of experts, it had said. The top court, while issuing notice on the pleas, had said that it did not want the government to disclose anything related to the national security and had asked the Centre what is the “problem” if the competent authority files an affidavit before it on the issue.“Our considered response is what we have respectfully stated in our last affidavit. Kindly examine the issue from our point of view as our affidavit is sufficient,” the law officer had told the bench, adding, “The Government of India is before the highest court of the country.” The law officer had said if the government of any country divulges information about which software is used and which is not used, then those involved in terrorist activities may take preemptive measures.The pleas are related to reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli firm NSO’s spyware Pegasus. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware. PTI ABA ABA NSD NSD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-petitions-calling-for-probe-into-pegasus-row-today-101631474843545.html
13-09-2021||India||Terrorist guns down J&K cop||A Jammu & Kashmir policeman was killed on Sunday after a suspected terrorist fired at him in Srinagar’s old city area, police said.Probationary sub-inspector (SI) Arshid Ahmad was shot at twice from behind in Khanyar area, police said. He was immediately rushed to Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) in Soura where he succumbed to injuries, they added.“It is a very tragic incident. We have lost a young and brave officer who was just at the threshold of his service. He was learning the nuances of policing. He was deputed at a hospital for a check up of an accused and while he was coming back, he was shot at. He was rushed to a hospital where he succumbed to injuries. The perpetrators of the crime involved in this case have been identified and they will be brought to justice,” J&K director general of police Dilbag Singh said, refusing to disclose any details on the accused.SKIMS medical superintendent Dr Farooq Jan also said the cop succumbed to injuries during treatment.Ahmad was a resident of Kupwara in north Kashmir and was posted at Khanyar police station.CCTV footage of the incident showed the terrorist using a small weapon to fire at Ahmad from a very close range before fleeing the spot.Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti and National Conference leader Omar Abdullah were among those who condemned the attack on the cop.“Saddened to hear about the death of Jammu and Kashmir Police sub inspector Arshid Ahmed killed by militants at Khanyar today. May his soul rest in peace and condolences to his family,” Mufti tweeted.“Sorry to hear about the death in the line of duty of sub inspector Arshid Mir of Jammu and Kashmir Police in a dastardly attack in the heart of Srinagar city. A young life with so much promise, another grieving family. May Allah grant Arshid a place in Jannat,” National Conference leader Omar Abdullah posted on the micro-blogging site.Peoples Conference leader Sajad Lone said: “SI Arshid Ahmed martyred. May Allah grant him Jannat. The terrorists have yet again made an addition to the army of orphans.”Sunday’s incident comes amid an increasing attack on police personnel in the Valley.On August 3, a cop and a civilian were injured when suspected terrorists opened fire at a police rakshak vehicle at Sheraz Chowk.Four days later, another cop was killed in a terrorist attack in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district.In June, inspector Pervaiz Ahmad, who worked with the Criminal Investigation Department (CID), was killed after terrorists opened fire at him at Nowgam, near his residence in the outskirts of Srinagar.Meanwhile, a gun fight between security forces and terrorists broke out in Rajouri district earlier during the day, officials familiar with the matter said.The incident took place after security forces launched a security operation in the upper reaches of the district following inputs about the possible presence of terrorists in the area.The terrorists opened fire on the joint search parties of the Army and police in the forest area of Dori Maal near Barote Gali in Manjakote area, the officials cited above said.The gunfight lasted for several hours but there was no immediate report of any casualty on either side.“The encounter is going on and further details are awaited,” a senior police officer said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-guns-down-j-k-cop-101631472325382.html
13-09-2021||India||There were issues that tested patience': TN’s outgoing Governor in farewell note||Tamil Nadu’s outgoing Governor Banwarilal Purohit released a farewell message on Sunday acknowledging that there were issues and divided opinions during his four-year-long tenure.“Yes, there were many issues that tested everybody’s patience and perseverance as well as a sense of commitment and goodwill, but the end, the result was always positive for all sections,” Purohit’s farewell note released by the Raj Bhavan read. “Yes, there were points at which different sections stood on the opposite sides of the divide. The State also saw major electoral battles for the Lok Sabha elections and then for the Legislative Assembly elections. Despite all that political acrimony, I found the State of Tamil Nadu and its people very warm and welcoming.”On late Thursday night, the Rashtrapati Bhavan made new appointments and shuffled Governors. Purohit, who held additional charge as Governor of Punjab was appointed regular Governor in poll-bound Punjab. To replace him, RN Ravi, Governor of Nagaland, was appointed the Governor of Tamil Nadu.In October 2017, Purohit was appointed the 14th Governor of Tamil Nadu when the state was reeling under a political crisis following J Jayalalithaa’s death in office as chief minister in December 2016. He has been embroiled in several controversies during his stint. He also leaves the state office having avoided taking a decision on the clemency plea of one of the convicts serving a sentence for former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination, and handing the decision over to the President of India stating that he was the right person to rule on this. “Evasion is not a constitutional act,” said political commentator, Ramu Manivannan.In his farewell note, Purhot said, “As custodian of the Constitution in the State’s context, I took certain positions as per the word of the statute. But I am very happy to place on record that the people of all walks of life -- from the streets of Tamil Nadu to the haloed chambers of politics -- understood the correct position and lent their support to my decisions in whatever manner.”Incoming Governor, Ravi, was born in Bihar and joined the Indian Police Service (IPS) in 1976 and was allotted the Kerala Cadre. He has also held positions in the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Intelligence Bureau (IB). He was appointed the Centre’s Interlocutor for the Naga peace talks in August 2014 and Nagaland’s Governor in 2019.There have been mixed political reactions to Ravi’s appointment. Tamil Nadu’s Congress unit has raised doubts over the BJP-led Union government’s “intention”, wondering if the appointment of an ex-IPS officer was an attempt to target the MK Stalin-led DMK government.On Friday, state Congress chief KS Alagiri referred to the case of another former IPS officer Kiran Bedi who, he said, as Lieutenant Governor (L-G) of the neighbouring Union territory of Puducherry, interfered with the functioning of the Congress government there. The Congress government eventually fell earlier this year owing to a spate of resignations of MLAs, some of whom jumped ship to the BJP.The Congress had often met the President to recall Bedi, accusing her of running a parallel administration and not allowing for welfare schemes to be implemented. She was eventually replaced by former Tamil Nadu BJP-chief Tamilisai Soundararajan who was given additional charge as the L-G of Puducherry while she was also the Governor of Telangana.“The appointment of a retired police officer as Tamil Nadu Governor has raised suspicion,” Alagiri said in a statement. “I suspect that Ravi has been appointed to create problems for Chief Minister MK Stalin,” he said.However, Stalin and former chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami expressed gratitude towards Purohit and welcomed the new Governor for the state.“Governors are being seen as instruments of the central ruling party,” Manivannan said, adding, “This office seems to be functioning against the tenets of a federal system and we should address the office of the Governor through political and constitutional reforms to bring in accountability for their actions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-were-issues-that-tested-patience-says-tn-s-outgoing-governor-in-farewell-note-101631472144664.html
13-09-2021||India||Bhupendra Patel: How first-time MLA rose up political ranks to helm Gujarat||First-time legislator Bhupendra Patel was on Sunday named the next chief minister of Gujarat, a day after the unexpected resignation of Vijay Rupani. Popularly known as Bhupendrabhai Patel, the 59-year-old is believed to be a close confidante of Union home minister Amit Shah and Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel.The proposal to elect Patel as the legislative party leader was moved by CM Vijay Rupani, whose resignation just 15 months ahead of the state assembly elections, has surprised many. Most of the 112 MLAs of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 182-member Assembly were present at Sunday’s legislative party meeting.Patel has never held a ministerial post before.The Patidar leader, who holds a diploma in civil engineering, contested his maiden assembly election in 2017 and won the Ghatlodia constituency in Ahmedabad by over 117,000 votes -- the highest victory margin in the state during that election. Ghatlodia is part of the Gandhinagar Lok Sabha seat represented by Shah.“Patel is very soft-spoken, gentle and gels with everyone,” said a BJP functionary, who did not want to be named. But some in the party have apprehensions about his governance abilities, citing a lack of administrative experience.In the past, Patel served as the chairman of Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority (AUDA) between 2015 and 2017. Before that, he was also the standing committee chairman of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), the largest urban local body in Gujarat, between 2010 and 2015. People close to him know Patel as someone well-connected to the grassroots.Before contesting the assembly election, he was active in local politics and became a member of Memnagar Municipality in Ahmedabad district, serving as its president twice. Patel is also a trustee of the Sardardham Vishwa Patidar Kendra, an organisation dedicated to the socio-economic development of the Patidar community.As per the affidavit filed in the last assembly polls, Patel has no criminal case pending against him.Amid allegations and speculations that Bhupendra Patel will be a “remote-controlled” CM, Amit Shah expressed confidence in his leadership. “I believe that under the guidance of Narendra Modi, the state’s sustainable development will keep up its momentum,” Amit Shah said in a Twitter post.“He represents the builder lobby, which is a big source of funding for the BJP. He is also a consensus candidate of Amit Shah and Anandiben groups. And then was chairman of AUDA,” says chief Gujarat Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi.Names of Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya and deputy chief minister Nitin Patel were also doing the rounds as the argument was that the BJP might want to replace soft-spoken Vijay Rupani with a strong, more mainstream politician. Patel’s name was not among the front runners. But in the meeting, his name was unanimously accepted while he was sitting in the last row.Experts termed Patel as someone who “knows how to get things done”.“Bhupendra has a clean slate and has a spotless reputation. His quality is that he is a soft-spoken person and knows how to get things done,” said political analyst Vishnu Pandya.With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-first-time-mla-rose-up-political-ranks-to-helm-gujarat-101631472085040.html
13-09-2021||India||Assam announces new rules for ferry services after boat accident on Brahmaputra||GUWAHATI: The Assam government on Sunday announced a new set of regulations for passenger vessels on the Brahmaputra and other rivers in the state in the wake of the accident on September 8 in which two people died and another went missing after two boats collided between Nimatighat (Jorhat) and Majuli and one of them went down. The regulations were drawn up at a review meeting held on Saturday evening by chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma in Guwahati. Overall, these aim to streamline the ferry services and make them safer, but for additional security, two magistrates — one each in Majuli and Jorhat — will have to be present during the arrival and departure of the ferries from now on. According to a statement issued by the government, the ban on single-engine vessels, announced immediately after the accident, will stay. But those boats having ‘marine’ engines — two engines with reverse gear — will be allowed to ply. Boats having marine engines are safer because if one engine fails, the other kicks in. They also have outboard motors and are easier to manoeuvre in difficult conditions. The regulations also said that six vessels operated by the inland water transport department will continue to ferry passengers between Majuli and Jorhat, and a dredging vessel will also be in operation in the dry season to keep the channel clear. The government informed in the statement that all 19 private, single-engine vessels that ply between Majuli and Jorhat will be retrofitted with marine engines within six months, the cost of which will be borne by the government. Altogether the government will provide free marine engines to 850 private passenger vessels in the state under the Jibondinga Scheme, provided these clear the fitness survey. The scheme by the inland water transport department provides financial incentives to registered boat owners to provide safe, secure and sustainable ferry operations.The new rules make it mandatory for all passengers to wear life jackets. There will also be at least two ramps or temporary jetties at each ‘ghat’ (port) of Majuli and Jorhat. Every passenger will be issued a ticket, and his/her name and contact details will be recorded in a separate register. Basic amenities like toilets, drinking water, waiting area, etc., will be provided at each ghat, and safety audits on all vessels will be carried out regularly. Every vessel will need to have a first-aid box and a minimum of two anchors with flexible manila rope that will need replacement if they are more than 10% damaged. There should be one carbon dioxide and one foam-type fire extinguisher in the engine room. Each vessel must have a signboard prominently displaying the load capacity of passengers, bicycle, motorcycle, car, truck, and other permissible items, etc. Overloading will not be allowed under any circumstances, the government decided in the meeting.The vessels will also be inspected for overall fitness, availability of fire-fighting and lifesaving equipment, competence of crew members, etc. These certifications will be recorded in the surveyor declaration form before issuing certificates. Among other measures for safety, a State Disaster Relief Force team will be stationed at Majuli at all times to respond to any emergency. Meanwhile, the police have registered a criminal case in connection with the September 8 incident and arrested six officials of the inland water transport department and four others, including the owner and operators of the capsized private boat. An inquiry by an additional chief secretary has also been instituted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-announces-new-rules-for-ferry-services-after-boat-accident-on-brahmaputra-101631471724841.html
13-09-2021||India||Karnataka reports 803 new Covid cases, 17 fatalities||Karnataka reported 803 new Covid-19 cases and 17 deaths on Sunday, taking the total number of infections to 29,61,735 and the toll to 37,504. The day also saw 802 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 2,907,548.Out of the 803 new cases reported on Sunday, 255 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 107 discharges and six deaths. The total number of active cases in the state stood at 16,656. While the positivity rate for the day was 0.80%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 2.11%. Coming behind Bengaluru Urban in number of deaths was Dakshina Kannada, Belagavi, Hassan and Mysuru (2 each), followed by others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-reports-803-new-covid-cases-17-fatalities-101631471723212.html
13-09-2021||India||CSIR transfers saline gargle RT-PCR testing tech to MSME industry||The Nagpur-based National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), under the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), has transferred the technology of indigenously developed saline gargle reverse transcript polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) technique for testing Covid-19 samples, the government announced on Sunday. The technology that also provides instant test results and is well-suited for rural areas with poor connectivity, given its minimal infrastructure requirements, has been transferred to the Union ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME). It is supposed to be simple, cost-effective, patient-friendly, and comfortable.“…the innovation developed by the institute has been ‘dedicated to the nation’ to serve the society. The knowhow has been transferred to the Union Ministry of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSME), on a non-exclusive basis. This would enable the innovation to be commercialized and licensed to all capable parties, including private, government and various rural development schemes and departments,” said a statement issued by the Press Information Bureau (PIB), government of India. As part of the technology transfer deal, the licensees are expected to set up manufacturing facilities for commercial production in the form of compact, easy-to-use kits. The technology transfer was expedited in view of the pandemic and a probable third wave of Covid-19 coming, said the PIB statement. The principal inventor of this is NEERI scientist Dr Krishna Khairnar and a team of research scholars of environmental virology at CSIR-NEERI, Nagpur.The government had in May announced the development of this technology that was also approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).“Swab collection requires time. Moreover, since it is invasive, it is a bit uncomfortable for patients. Time is also lost in transporting a sample from the collection centre to the laboratory. The saline gargle RT-PCR method is instant, comfortable and patient-friendly. Sampling is done instantly and results are generated within three hours,” Khairnar had said in May. The method is non-invasive and simple enough for a patient to collect his/her own sample for testing. A simple collection tube filled with a saline solution is used. The patient gargles with the solution and rinses it inside the tube. The sample is then taken to a laboratory where it is kept at room temperature in a special buffer solution prepared by NEERI. An RNA template is produced when this solution is heated, which is further processed for RT-PCR test.“This particular method of collecting and processing the sample enables us to save on the otherwise costly infrastructural requirement of RNA extraction. People can also test themselves, since this method allows self-sampling. The method is environment-friendly as well, since waste generation is minimised,” Khairnar had said.The team is hopeful that this innovative testing will be especially beneficial for people living in remote areas that are hard to reach. Experts have welcomed the development, but they also fear that monitoring self-sampling will be a challenge.“What the sensitivity levels of this kind of technology will be remains to be seen as we know with both nasal and oral samples together we get sensitivity levels of close to 70%. Also, a lot will depend on the conscience of the people when the onus of providing test samples lies on them. Monitoring whether the sampling is done as per the rules can be difficult,” said Dr Navin Dang, founder and chairman, Dr Dangs Lab, which was one of the first laboratories to be approved for Covid-19 testing in the country last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/csir-transfers-saline-gargle-rt-pcr-testing-tech-to-msme-industry-101631471484516.html
13-09-2021||India||30-year-old repeat offender hacked to death inside football stadium||A 30-year-old man was hacked to death on Sunday by assailants in Bengaluru’s central business district (CBD), police officials said. “At around 4 pm, a rowdy sheeter of Bharti Nagar police station has been hacked to death by 4-5 assailants. He was managing a football team and had come to play in a 6-a-side football tournament at a BBMP ground located opposite the KSFA (Karnataka State Football Association) stadium,” MN Anucheth, the deputy commissioner of police (central), said.“After 4 to 5 persons surrounded him to assault him, he fled from the spot and entered the KSFA football stadium and went inside the referee’s room and locked himself. The accused then broke the door and hacked him to death using deadly weapons,” Anucheth said. He said a case of murder has been registered and two teams have been formed to nab the accused. The incident happened when the qualifier matches were taking place for the Karnataka senior women’s football teams.The violent murder, especially in one of the busiest localities of Bengaluru, adds to the growing crimes in India’s IT capital. On July 29, four masked men had attacked D Shashi Kumar, the general secretary of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka (KAMS). In June this year, former Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) corporator Rekha Kadiresh was brutally murdered outside her home in Cotton pet area, a commercial locality in Bengaluru. In October last year, Manish Shetty (Savatham), a bar owner, was shot and killed with a Single Barrel gun at around 9 pm on Rest house road, one of the biggest commercial shopping spaces in Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30yearold-repeat-offender-hacked-to-death-inside-football-stadium-101631471425013.html
13-09-2021||India||Karnataka CM Bommai faces 1st assembly session amid caste census, quota row||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai will face the state legislature on Monday, when the monsoon session begins, for the first time since he took oath on July 28.The session, expected to go on at least till September 24, comes at a time when the Bommai government continues to face increasing pressure over both backward and dominant castes’ demands for reservation and the release of the 2015 caste census data.Bommai has so far played it safe by pandering to both sides with assurances to look into their demands. The dominant caste groups, such as Lingayats and Vokkaligas, have demanded that the findings of the 2015 socio-economic and educational survey not be released as it would adversely impact the standing of the two communities, believed to be the two largest in the state.A group of extremely backward castes has also gone to court in August and is demanding that Bommai release the data of the survey, conducted by the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government at a cost of ₹160 crore. The extremely backward caste groups have also demanded that Panchamasali, the biggest sub-sect within the Lingayats, not be included in the 2A category of the state reservation list as it would further deprive small, micro, extremely backward and invisible communities of benefits.Bommai also faces a tough task in trying to keep the Panchamasali community from going ahead with their agitation from September 15, if the government does not include them in the 2A category.The community was asked not to go ahead with its agitation by BS Yediyurappa, then chief minister, who also assured help on their demands to be pushed to 2A category.The two groups are trying to mobilise support for their causes that further adds to the pressure on Bommai who has less than two years left in the top chair before heading to the polls in 2023. Bommai is trying to carve a space for himself and come out of the shadow of his mentor, Yediyurappa, who appears to be still in charge of the government and its functioning.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) will be holding their legislature party meetings on Monday to decide the next course of action during the monsoon session.The Congress is trying to corner the BJP on the issue of price rise and caste census.Siddaramaiah, the Congress’s leader of the opposition, will come to the Vidhana Soudha on a bullock cart on Monday, his office said, as a symbolic protest against the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government over the rising prices of fuel.The JD(S) too has its problems as it faces dissent from within its ranks and is contemplating disciplinary action against at least three of its legislators.The JD(S) is in talks with the Congress and the BJP over the formation of the city administration in Kalaburagi after a hung verdict in the September 3 urban local body (ULB) polls.State Congress president DK Shivakumar on Sunday said that there were attempts by the BJP to poach its corporators.“Let them (authorities) announce the Mayor elections then we will see. They (BJP) are trying for operation lotus, let them do what they want. I don’t want to talk about it,” Shivakumar said.Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, the Speaker of the lower house of the state legislature, on had said on Wednesday that an ethics committee is likely to be formed during the upcoming monsoon session. There would also be an award for the best legislator at the end of the session.Kageri had said that the restrictions on public from attending the sessions would also be lifted after they were barred due to rising concerns over Covid-19 pandemic.He said a total of 18 bills will be tabled in the upcoming session of which 10 are new and four are to replace ordinances issued earlier. Four are pending in the assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cm-bommai-faces-1st-assembly-session-amid-caste-census-quota-row-101631471423669.html
13-09-2021||India||Erratic rain patterns mark Delhi’s monsoon this year||Delhi has recorded 33% excess rain since June 1, according to weather experts. But this did not happen because of a wholesome monsoon in the last three months but because of an abrupt spike in rain in July and September, and in the latter case, a week before monsoon is normally expected to start receding. Experts said this could be due to climate change.According to India Meteorological Department (IMD) data, Delhi’s Safdarjung observatory recorded 47% rain deficiency in June, 140% excess in July, 13% deficiency in August, and 193% excess till September 11. This monsoon, the observatory, which provides representative data for the city, logged seven heavy rainfall days (precipitation of 64.4mm and above) — the most since 1901 — on July 19, 27, and 29, August 20, September 1, 2 and 11.Weather forecasters said that this year, while there have been fewer rainy days, the intensity of the showers was more. August saw just six rainy days but September has seen eight already.“Seven heavy rain days in Delhi (Safdarjung) this monsoon are the highest ever recorded, beating the earlier record of six heavy rain days in 1964,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist at national weather forecasting centre, IMDThis skewed pattern of rain over Delhi is mainly because there were three phases of subdued monsoon in July and August.Breaks have punctuated monsoon in city this yearMonsoon entered a ‘break’ or a ‘partial break’ phase between June 29 and July 11; it was very weak in the first two weeks of August also, leading to a significant rain deficit across the country. While it revived over northwest India on August 19, it weakened again from August 24 onwards and started reviving very gradually from August 29. These partial breaks were interspersed with only a few days of very heavy rain in Delhi, leading to traffic disruptions, urban flooding and impact on other utilities.Not only were there fewer rainy days this year, Delhi also recorded intense spells of rain in only a few hours — an indicator of climate change. For example, between 5.30 am and 8.30 am on Saturday, Safdarjung station recorded 81.3mm rain while Palam recorded 98mm.“The monsoon trough is in the vicinity of Delhi, there is also a low-pressure area over eastern parts of Rajasthan. Moisture laden winds are also penetrating up to mid-tropospheric levels (8000-10,000 feet), which is aiding the formation of convective clouds. This spell is likely to continue for the next 24 to 36 hours then reduce over Delhi and its neighbourhood,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, Skymet Weather, a private weather forecasting company.He also talked about another low-pressure area forming over north Odisha, which is likely to intensify into a depression, triggering another spell of rain over central India, impacting the entire region from Odisha to southeast Rajasthan and Gujarat. “Standing crop is likely to be impacted. Pulses are particularly vulnerable to damage. However the heavy rain spell will fill reservoirs in Gujarat and Rajasthan where there was a very long dry spell in August, which will be useful for the Rabi crop,” Palawat said.Undeniable role of climate crisis: ExpertsActive monsoon conditions coupled with the climate crisis are leading to these intense spells of rain and several dry days. “Certainly, climate change has a role to play in the extreme rainfall we are seeing during a short duration of three to six hours as was the case in Delhi on Saturday morning. With air temperature increasing, the moisture-carrying capacity of the atmosphere has also increased. This mainly leads to the formation of convective clouds that bring thunderstorms, lightning, extremely heavy rain, etc.” Palawat explained.He said that earlier, such convective clouds were commonly seen during the pre-monsoon season while during monsoon, altostratus clouds or thin sheets of clouds were commonly formed. “We don’t see them forming much anymore. Altostratus clouds used to bring continuous slow rain for 2-3 days during monsoon,” Palawat added.M Rajeevan, former secretary, ministry of earth sciences, said there was a long phase of subdued rain in August due to global warming. “Rainfall was also subdued over southeast Asia. Models didn’t perform well and this deficit was not anticipated. But we have been underlining that longer dry periods with intense rain spells are becoming the norm. There is intense convective activity. Convective clouds can produce a lot of rain. Cities like Delhi should prepare for this kind of rainfall pattern,” Rajeevan said.Negative Indian Ocean Dipole over the tropical Indian Ocean — a phenomenon where the western Indian Ocean becomes colder than the eastern one and is unfavourable for monsoon — prevailed throughout August, contributing to deficient rainfall, IMD had said earlier this month. There were also fewer typhoons in the west Pacific and so there was an absence of westward movement of their remnants into the Bay of Bengal. This led to fewer low-pressure systems forming over the Bay of Bengal.Monsoon withdrawal to be delayed in 2021: Met“There were some large-scale features that we are still trying to understand. August was an anomaly for many parts of South Asia,” added Rajeevan. IMD had also acknowledged last week that the multi-model ensemble forecasting system couldn’t pick up the deficit in August rain.“Now there is heavy and widespread rain in many parts of the country because the monsoon is active and monsoon circulation is very strong. We can expect some episodes of heavy rain during such phases of monsoon. It’s also true that with climate change and more water vapour availability, severe localised convective activity takes place, bringing intense rain in a short duration similar to what you are seeing in Delhi,” explained R Krishnan, executive director, Centre for Climate Change Research.“Usually in Delhi, August is the rainiest month, but our recordings show that in July and September we saw excess rain. In August, because of two long break phases, there was a deficit. In just 11 days, the rainfall recordings in Delhi have already reached record levels. This usually doesn’t happen. For instance, in the last two years in September there has been less than 100mm rainfall,” the official said.Monsoon is normally expected to start withdrawing from northwest India on September 17, but is likely to be delayed this year, IMD officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/erratic-rain-patterns-mark-delhi-s-monsoon-this-year-101631470524341.html
13-09-2021||India||Use of plasma therapy for Covid may cause adverse events: Study||Even with doubtful efficacy, antibody-rich plasma from recovered Covid-19 patients continued to be used for the treatment of those suffering from the infection during the second wave of the pandemic, with people queuing up at plasma banks and looking for donors online. But a recent Canadian study published in the journal Nature has shown that not only did plasma therapy not help in Covid treatment, it increased the risk of severe adverse events, and the number of deaths was also higher among those who received the therapy.The study titled ‘Convalescent plasma for hospitalized patients with Covid-19: an open-label, randomized controlled trial’ and carried out among 940 patients showed that 33.4% of the participants who received plasma therapy reported serious adverse events like fall in oxygen saturation and respiratory failure as compared to 26.4% in the control group that did not receive the therapy. The proportion of deaths on day 30 was also slightly higher in the people who received plasma therapy — 23% as compared to 20.5% in the control group. But the difference was not significant, according to the study.Also Read| Convalescent plasma did not stop Covid-19 progression, show NIH trial resultsDespite a study by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) showing that the therapy did not reduce mortality or prevent progression to severe disease as early as September 2020, the therapy continued to be on the national treatment protocol till May 2021 albeit with some restrictions. It was to be used only on those with moderate disease, preferably within seven days of symptom onset, and from a plasma donor with a high concentration of antibodies.To be sure, in the Canadian study, on an average, the patients received the therapy on day 8 after showing symptoms.In Delhi, despite the therapy having been dropped from the national treatment protocol, plasma banks that were set up by the state government continue to function. However, they do not actively seek donations anymore.“The plasma bank is still running. It has benefits only if given on time – it has been used extensively not only in India but in the US as well. None of the studies from India have shown an increase in mortality, even if some of them were doubtful of the benefits. The availability of the therapy has become controlled now, but doctors may prescribe it if they think it will benefit the patient,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Lok Nayak hospital where one of the plasma banks are located.Also Read| Covid: Mandaviya lauds 6 states & UTs for vaccinating all adults with 1st doseA doctor from the All India Institute of Medical Science, on condition of anonymity, said, “We used to give plasma therapy during the first wave, however, by the second wave we realised that there was no clear-cut benefit of the therapy and stopped giving it. However, the studies we referred to did not talk about any harm from the therapy.”The ICMR’s PLACID trial conducted across 39 cities in over 400 Covid-19 patients last year showed the therapy did not prevent progression to severe disease or reduce the number of deaths on day 28 of enrolment of patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/use-of-plasma-therapy-for-covid-may-cause-adverse-events-study-101631470223165.html
13-09-2021||India||Opposition cold to panel on ruckus in House||After the Congress and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) turned down the Rajya Sabha secretariat’s request for joining a proposed inquiry committee to investigate the ruckus during the last monsoon session of Parliament, all eyes are on non-Congress and non-Bharatiya Janata Party outfits as their participation will be crucial to maintain the “neutral” character of the panel, according to officials aware of the matter.While the BJP and the Janata Dal (United) are “certain” to join the probe panel, “it is important for parties like the BJD or TRS to join the proposed panel. Otherwise, it might look like an all-NDA affair. Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu also wants it to be an impartial probe involving as many parties as possible,” a senior functionary said on condition of anonymity.But the second-largest opposition party, the Trinamool Congress, isn’t likely to be invited to the panel. “The complaints are primarily against TMC MPs. So, it is felt that other parties barring the TMC should be invited,” said another functionary, adding that the MPs in question would be given “enough opportunities” to defend themselves, if the panel is finally formed.On the last day of the monsoon session, chaos erupted in the Rajya Sabha as Opposition MPs protested against the government’s push for the general insurance amendment bill, which, according to many Opposition leaders, would pave the road for privatisation of public insurance firms.A committee was proposed to investigate the disruption that took place in the Upper House on August 11, when some opposition MPs got into a scuffle with the marshals. At least two marshals submitted a written account of their injuries to the Chairperson. Two women MPs of the Congress, Phulo Devi and Chayya Varma, also alleged being manhandled in the ruckus that broke out on the floor of the House.But Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge rejected the proposal of joining the probe panel and wrote to Naidu, saying that the investigation committee seemed like a “design to intimidate MPs into silence”.In his letter, which HT has seen, Kharge said the proposed inquiry committee will “…not only suppress the voices of the people’s representatives but deliberately brush aside all those that are uncomfortable to the government”.The government has blamed the Opposition for disrupting Parliament, deviating from parliamentary procedure and damaging House property despite the assurance that discussion on issues raised by the Opposition would be taken up.Derek O’Brien, the Trinamool Congress floor leader in the Rajya Sabha, said: “Since the government is running away from the hard questions on Pegasus, and there are still no answers, will an inquiry committee be set up to expose how this government murders parliamentary democracy?”An investigation by a consortium of media houses has alleged that phone hacking software Pegasus was used to target potentially thousands of people around the world, including Indian citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-cold-to-panel-on-ruckus-in-house-101631469983752.html
13-09-2021||India||NSUI resolution seeks appointment of Rahul Gandhi as Congress chief||The National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), the students’ wing of Congress, on Sunday passed a resolution to appoint Rahul Gandhi the national chief of the party.In its two-day National Executive ‘Sankalp’, the NSUI resolved and proposed in “one voice” that Gandhi should be appointed as the next president of Indian National Congress.“Mr. Rahul Gandhi is the foremost and honest leader who took a stand and strengthen the voice of students for their betterment, and also helped in garnering enough support by raising matters of student importance and also looking for adequate justice for the students’ fraternity on varied subjects to fight for democracy and transparency,” the NSUI’s statement read.“We recognise Sri Rahul Gandhi’s dedication to India’s student which empowers us, and re-affirm our faith in his keen leadership abilities and statesmanship under which India can reach the pinnacle of success developing into a more sustainable & peaceful society,” the statement added. The NSUI further said that students feel safe and secure under his guardianship and visionary leadership for socio-political governance.“I support the Resolution passed at the #Sankalp2021-National Executive meeting of @NSUI for Hon’ble Shri @RahulGandhi ji to become president of @INCIndia again. #MyLeaderRahulGandhi,” NSUI general secretary Vishal Chaudhary tweeted. The NSUI’s resolution comes a week after the Youth Congress passed a similar resolution to make Gandhi the party chief once again. Rahul Gandhi, who took over as Congress president from present chief Sonia Gandhi in 2017, quit the post after the party’s poor performance in the 2019 general elections.“Rahul Gandhi called us ‘Babbar Sher’ so now we have to fight the BJP by roaring out the truth and drive them out of the country, for India’s growth and everlasting development,” the NSUI statement quoted Congress national spokesperson Pawan Kheda as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nsui-resolution-seeks-appointment-of-rahul-gandhi-as-congress-chief-101631469929071.html
13-09-2021||India||Bhupendra Patel to be next Gujarat CM||First-time MLA Bhupendra Patel will be the next chief minister of Gujarat, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) announced on Sunday, replacing Vijay Rupani, who surprised many with his resignation a day earlier.The 59-year-old leader, a lawmaker from Ahmedabad, was elected as the BJP legislature party leader in Gandhinagar, a little over a year before assemble elections are to be held in the state. He will be sworn in as the chief minister on Monday, state BJP chief CR Paatil said.The proposal to elect him as the legislature party leader was moved by Rupani.Sunday’s meeting was attended by most of the 112 MLAs of the BJP in the 182-member assembly, according to people aware of the developments. Patel later met Governor Acharya Devvrat at the Raj Bhavan and presented a letter to form the government, the people said.“The BJP government has reached even the last person with its development work and I will continue to do so in coordination with the party organisation,” Patel said. He thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief JP Nadda.“I was not aware (about being picked) at all. I just told my family that I was going for the BJP meeting to decide on the new chief minister…,” Patel said.While confirming that Patel will take oath on Monday, Paatil said that no decision has been taken about the deputy chief minister’s post so far. “Only Bhupendra Patel will take oath tomorrow (Monday). The number of ministers and everything else will be decided later.”Patel contested his maiden assembly election from Ghatlodia constituency in Ahmedabad in 2017 and won by over 117,000 votes, the highest victory margin in the state during that election. His assembly constituency is part of the Gandhinagar Lok Sabha seat represented by Shah.Paatil said Patel’s work at the grassroots level, his hold on the cooperative sector, association with party workers and administrative abilities were among the factors that led to his elevation.In a tweet, Shah congratulated Patel, adding he is confident that the CM-designate will work on the path of development under Modi’s leadership.BJP’s central observers Narendra Singh Tomar and Prahlad Joshi and party general secretary Tarun Chaug were present at the legislature party meet.There was talk that Praful Khoda Patel, administrator of the union territories of Lakshadweep and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, and Mansukh Mandaviya, Union Health Minister, were among the contenders.Rupani resigned from the CM’s post on Saturday. It was not clear what prompted the development in Modi’s home state, where elections to the 182-member assembly are due in December 2022.With the sudden change of the guard, Gujarat joined a list of states where the central BJP brass opted to change the leadership ahead of assembly elections. After Karnataka, where chief minister BS Yeddiyurappa was replaced by Basavaraj Bommai ahead of the 2023 elections, and Uttarakhand, where the incumbent Trivendra Singh Rawat was first replaced by Tirath Singh and later by Pushkar Dhami, Gujarat CM Rupani on Saturday announced his resignation. Both Gujarat and Uttarakhand will pick new assemblies in 2022.“His (Patel’s) candidature from Ghatlodia was by consensus of both Amit Shah and the Anandiben Patel groups in the BJP. So it appears that, as chief minister, he is acceptable to Amit Shah as well as all others,” political analyst Prakash Shah said.With inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhupendra-patel-to-be-next-gujarat-cm-101631469862524.html
13-09-2021||India||US climate envoy John Kerry arrives for 2-day India visit||The US’s Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry arrived in India on Sunday for his two-day visit that aims to lay the groundwork for American efforts ahead of a key United Nations climate conference scheduled for November.Kerry is expected to meet Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav on Monday, and other government officials regarding New Delhi’s climate ambitions. The special envoy’s visit from September 12 to 14 will involve discussions “to raise global climate ambition and speed India’s clean energy transition,” the US State Department said on Friday, announcing Kerry’s visit.On Monday afternoon, the former US secretary of state and Yadav will also launch the Climate Action and Finance Mobilization Dialogue (CAFMD), one of the two main tracks of the US-India Agenda 2030 Partnership that US President Joe Biden and Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced at the Leaders Summit on Climate in April.Kerry has spoken of the US and allied countries raising a “huge amount” of private sector investment to help India’s efforts to mitigate global warming.On the Indian side, too, officials said talks will largely focus on financing for clean energy projects. “Our discussions will be mainly on clean energy initiatives and financing of these projects. There will be discussion on NDCs (Nationally Determined Contributions) also. We already have an ambitious plan of having 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030. There are several other initiatives that India is taking on,” a senior environment ministry official said on Saturday.Kerry’s visit to New Delhi – the second since his appointment to this role – was also described by the State Department as a part of the US initiative to bolster climate efforts ahead of the 26th Conference of the Parties (COP26) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). A lot hinges on the COP26 summit, which will be held from October 31 to November 12 in Glasgow, UK.The 1.5°C-global warming threshold is almost certain to be breached by 2040, and it is likely to surpass the mark by 2050 even if carbon emissions rapidly drop to net-zero, scientists warned in the latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report released last month. The world needs to act now if there is any hope of mitigating the devastating effect of the climate crisis, they said. Ahead of the summit, several countries such as Denmark, Germany and UK climate chief Alok Sharma have nudged New Delhi to commit to a net-zero carbon emissions target by 2050, and enhance its Paris deal goals.Under the 2015 Paris Agreement, India has pledged to reduce emissions intensity of GDP by 33%-35% below the 2005 level by 2030 and raise the non-fossil share of power generation capacity to 40% by 2030, among other pledges.The Indian government, however, maintains that the developed countries which have historically contributed the most to global warming and reaped the benefits of industrialisation should bear a larger responsibility of battling the climate crisis.The IPCC report “vindicated India’s position that historical cumulative emissions are the source of the climate crisis that the world faces today”, Gaurav Khare, spokesperson of the environment ministry, said last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-climate-envoy-john-kerry-arrives-for-2-day-india-visit-101631469802533.html
13-09-2021||India||Uttarakhand sees rise in weather-linked calamities: Data||Uttarakhand has reported an increase in weather-related calamities over the years with the state registering 7,750 extreme rainfall events and cloud bursts since 2015, most of them over the last three years, that have killed 230 people, state government data revealed. .Data also showed that at least 161 people were killed in over 1,961 landslides reported in the last six years, leading experts to suggest that deteriorating geological conditions, besides climate crisis, were the reasons behind a spike in such incidents in the state.Geologists said that conditions such as an altitude of over 1,200 metres, cliffs, ridges and funnel-shaped valleys with steep slope, cultivated land on the downhill side and dense forest cover on the uphill side prove to be favourable for cloudburst incidents and are found in plenty in the Himalayan state.Geologist CC Pant, a retired professor from Kumaon university said cloudburst incidents, extreme rainfall events and landslides have definitely increased in Uttarakhand Himalayas over the years.“One of the main reasons is climate change which is leading to heavy rain in short durations. When intense rainfall occurs in steep Himalayan terrain, it leads to landslides and cloudbursts. Sometimes, cloudbursts also happen because of heavy rain in a wide area over a hill which has a steep slope. As water and muck funnels towards a particular stream, it creates havoc downstream. The same rain in the plains may not cause that much damage. It may technically not be a cloudburst,” he said.Experts studying cloudburst incidents in Uttarakhand admit that there has been a rise in such incidents, especially in the last one decade, and that such incidents continue to cause disruptions in the state.In February this year, more than 200 people were killed after a glacier burst in Tapovan area led to a sudden rise in the water level of Dhauliganga river in Chamoli district and a flash flood. Many people and structures were swept away, along with a small hydro power plant in the incident.On May 3, several houses were damaged after heavy rainfall triggered landslides and floods in Uttarkashi and Rudraprayag districts.Days later, a cloudburst in Devprayag town in Tehri Garhwal washed away two local municipality buildings. On July 19, three persons, including a three-year-old girl, died following extreme rainfall in Uttarkashi district.Explaining the reasons behind the rise in such incidents, Pant said hill cutting across Uttarakhand for constructions, development projects or activities such as the Char Dham road building causes slope instability, making them vulnerable to landslides.“The actual (number of) landslidesmust be much higher as mostly we count the ones that happen on roads and in and around human habitations,” he said.Speaking on similar lines, Anil Joshi, founder of Himalayan Environmental Studies and Conservation Organization, a Dehradun-based NGO, said: “In the last two decades, the bearing capacity of many mountains and Himalayan regions in the state has been exhausted. Hill cutting for various development projects and roads is destabilising the hill terrains. People are working and settling in vulnerable areas, something which has to stop. The government should also invest in early warning systems in all vulnerable areas of the state,” he said, adding: “The fragile Himalayas are responding to these warnings through extreme events.”DP Dobhal, noted glaciologist and retired scientist from Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG), pointed out a change in the rainfall pattern in the Himalayas. “Over the last five decades or so, rainfall is ascending higher into the Himalayas which are witnessing less snow compared to the past. This translates into rain covering more areas in the Himalayas now,” he said.A geologist at the state Disaster Mitigation and Management Centre (DMMC) said cloudburst or cloudburst-like incidents are primarily occurring in Pithoragarh, Rudraprayag and Chamoli districts.“As I said earlier, before 2010, earthquakes were major disasters (in the region). After that, it is cloudbursts or extreme rainfall events which are claiming maximum lives in the Himalayan state,” the geologist, Sushil Khanduri, said.Prof DC Pandey, another Kumaon-based geologist, said more research is required to understand the climatic conditions in the Himalayas and its impact on the state. “Data on various fronts needs to be studied for correlations and their cumulative effect on Himalayas,” he said.However, Piyoosh Rautela, executive director Uttarakhand State Disaster Management Authority, said extreme rainfall, cloudburst events and landslides have been occuring in the Himalayas for millions of years.“Data over a few decades is not enough to arrive at a definite long-term trend in the geological sense of time. We need more data about such events over long periods to understand exactly what is happening. For example, 90 % of the landslides that are reported are road landslides. But human loss from such events can be lessened by creating awareness that people should not settle or work in such vulnerable areas,” he said.Besides the climate crisis, a surge in such weather events and death toll in the state is also partially due to lack of early warning systems, haphazard development projects, muck disposal into rivers, illegal mining activities, encroachment of seasonal streams, and population growth, experts said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-sees-rise-in-weather-linked-calamities-data-101631469743257.html
13-09-2021||India||Fresh influx of Myanmar nationals into Mizoram amid clashes||Over 100 Myanmar nationals entered two border districts of Mizoram -- Champhai and Hnahthial -- in past few days following military offensive across the border, said the state government on Sunday.“I have heard that hundreds of people from Myanmar have entered Mizoram in past few days. But I don’t have the exact figure of how many as I am under quarantine at present,” Mizoram home minister Lalchamliana said.According to news reports, “intense fighting” broke out between armed civilians opposed to the military rule in Myanmar and neighbouring nation’s army in past few days at areas close to the border with Mizoram. The fresh influx is believed to comprise Myanmarese nationals trying to flee the violence.Mizoram and Myanmar share a 510 km border. Most of the refugees who have entered Mizoram are from the Chin state of Myanmar, which borders six districts of the state—Champhai, Hnahthial, Serchhip, Saitual, Siaha and Lawngtlai. Mizos and Chins share close ethnic ties.“There has been fresh influx of Myanmar nationals into Mizoram in recent days due to fighting just across the border. These people have entered Champhai and Hnahthial districts. I believe they will return as soon as situation across the border improves,” Mizoram chief secretary Lalnunmawia Chuaungo said.Since March this year, thousands of Myanmar nationals, especially those residing close to the border with India, have entered Mizoram. According to official figures, over 10,000 of them are residing in the northeastern state at present.“Since the past few days several groups of people in small batches have entered our district through various border points. We don’t have the exact figure of influx in recent days. At present the district has around 730 people who came in during the past few months. They are being accommodated by village elders in 6-7 villages,” said Saizikpuii, additional deputy commissioner Hnahthial.“On Wednesday 35 Myanmar nationals, most of them old and infirm women and small children, have entered our district. Local NGOs have accommodated them in temporary shelters built away from Zawlsei village,” Maria CT Zuali, deputy commissioner of Champhai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-100-myanmar-nationals-enter-mizoram-following-military-offensive-across-border-101631469146136.html
13-09-2021||India||Varun Gandhi writes to UP CM for increasing sugarcane prices, doubling PM-KISAN aid||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Varun Gandhi on Sunday wrote to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, seeking more remuneration for sugarcane crop, subsidy in diesel and electricity prices, and doubling of money provided to farmers under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme.Tagging the letter on his Twitter handle, Gandhi said he has written to Adityanath indicating the problems of the farmers. “I hope issues of the sons of the soil will be heard,” he posted on the micro-blogging site. The legislator from Pilibhit pointed out that farmers in his constituency have raised the demand for re-visiting prices of the sugarcane crop on the grounds that the rates have gone up by just ₹10 per quintal in the last four years. The BJP legislator also sought increasing the minimum support price for sugarcane from the present ₹315 per quintal to at least ₹400 per quintal, keeping in view the increased input costs. Cane is mainly grown in western part of Uttar Pradesh, which is the epicentre of the farmers’ protest in the state against the Centre’s contentious farm laws.While the state government has claimed that it has cleared almost 84% of the dues owed to about 45 lakh sugar cane farmers, Gandhi said that a quantum of dues still remains uncleared.The Yogi government claims that it has paid ₹1.42 lakh crore to sugarcane farmers in the past four years.Referring to the economic distress in the farming community, the BJP MP pitched for a ₹200 per quintal-bonus for cultivators who grow wheat and rice. Seeds at cheaper costs and a subsidy of at least ₹20 per litre in diesel prices was also sought from the state government. Gandhi also pitched for doubling the amount that is paid to farmers under the PM Kisan Nidhi scheme and accepting the demand for farmers to be included in works under the MGNREGA. The farmers currently get ₹6,000 per annum under the PM Kisan scheme. This is not the first time that Gandhi has raised issues related to the farmers. Last week, while commenting on the ongoing stir against the three contentious agricultural bills, Gandhi said there is a need for “re-engagement” with the protesting farmers. Referring to farmers’ “own flesh and blood”, Gandhi insisted their hardships should be taken into consideration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varun-gandhi-writes-to-up-cm-for-increasing-sugarcane-prices-doubling-pm-kisan-aid-101631469083056.html
13-09-2021||India||Before 2017, ration went to those who used to say ‘abba jaan’: UP CM Yogi||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath triggered a fresh row on Sunday after he accused the previous governments of practising “appeasement politics” and claimed that only “people who say ‘Abba Jaan’” received ration in the state, till the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) took over the reins.“As long as appeasement existed, the country faced serious problems like terror, riots, corruption, anarchy and injustice. But today development exists and sabka sath sabka vikas is ensured. Today, the caste of a poor beneficiary is not asked,” Adityanath said at an event to launch several development projects in Kushinagar district.“Have you all got ration? (the crowd replied yes.) Before 2017, the ration for the poor was digested by those who used to say Abba Jaan,” he added.Claiming that not even a single case of death due to starvation has been reported in the state since his government took over, the CM said: “Earlier, Kushinagar’s ration used to go to Nepal and Bangladesh. But today those who dare to think of digesting the ration of the poor would not be able to do so. They will land in jail for sure.”The remarks stirred up a political slugfest, with National Conference leader Omar Abdullah terming it “blatant communalism”.“I’ve always maintained the BJP has no intention of fighting any election with an agenda other than blatant communalism & hatred with all the venom directed towards Muslims. Here is a CM seeking re-election claiming that Muslims ate up all the rations meant for Hindus,” he said in a Twitter post.Slamming the CM, Samajwadi Party spokesperson Abdul Hafiz Gandhi said: “Dozens of corruption scandals have happened during his (Adityanath’s) regime. PDS scam, 69,000 teachers recruitment scam, animal husbandry scam, corona kit scam, DHFL scam, smart meter scam, shoes-shocks scam, homeguard scam and many more were there. He must come clean first before pointing fingers on the previous governments... I would not comment on his language... He is playing divisive politics”.Congress spokesperson Surendra Rajput said chief minister Yogi Adityanath was using words like “abba jaan” to divert attention from the real issues. “Issues like hunger, poverty, unemployment and development would be issues in the polls and there would not be any communal issues,” he said, adding that the chief minister was only pursuing politics of words (Baat Bahadur) and doing nothing for development of Uttar Pradesh. He said Yogi regime has resulted in a jungle rule in the state and even policemen were not feeling secured in this regime.Elections to the 403-member assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh are scheduled for early next year. In the 2017 assembly election, the BJP won a landslide victory, bagging 312 assembly seats on its own.During the event, the chief minister also claimed that hailed his government’s Covid-19 management.“We have put the genie of corona back in the bottle,” he said, amid applause from the crowd. “If there was a Covid epidemic during the tenure of SP, BSP and Congress, then the condition of Uttar Pradesh would have been like Kerala, Maharashtra and Delhi. But we did efficient Covid management,” he added.The Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh has been criticised for its inadequate preparedness for the Covid-19 pandemic which left over 22,874 dead in the state, according to union government data. The state faced an acute shortage of hospital beds, oxygen and other essential medical supplies that exacerbated the pandemic conditions during the second wave.To be sure, UP’s current case fatality rate is, at 1.3%, on par with the national number of 1.3%, and medical infrastructure in almost all states was overwhelmed by the ferocity and intensity of the second wave – caused largely by the delta variant of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/before-2017-ration-went-to-those-who-used-to-say-abba-jaan-up-cm-yogi-101631468843980.html
13-09-2021||India||Heavy rains, flooding threaten kharif crops; food prices may rise||Moisture-propelling weather patterns across India have re-activated the monsoon system again, flooding several states and threatening key summer-sown or kharif crops, including onion, a widely consumed price-sensitive food item. A cyclonic circulation over the Bay of Bengal, dumping heavy rainfall in West Bengal, moisture drafts due to a low-pressure formation over northern states and a rainy trail across Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha has flooded large parts of several states, endangering crops. Rice fields in many districts of the food bowl states of Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh have gone underwater, growers said, while Delhi witnessed historic rains Saturday. A monsoon going into a hyperactive mode in a month when it should begin tapering off could bring misery to the farm sector, which supports half of India’s population. The India Meteorological Department, the national weather agency, said there could be “damage to horticulture and standing crops in some areas due to inundation” in an alert on Saturday. After hampering sowing of summer-sown crops such as soybean, rice, cotton and vegetables due to a long dry spell from mid-June to mid-July, flooding has now affected crops in states like Uttarakhand, parts of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh. Lower yields or output can stoke food prices, as job cuts post-Covid has impacted nearly one million Indians, according to data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, a private data firm. “Onions, a staple in most Indian households, are likely to make consumers cry again with erratic monsoon leading to an eventual delay in harvest,” Crisil Ltd, a rating firm, said in a research note Saturday. Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh are the major onion-producing states, accounting for over 75% of total summer onion output. Although harvest time is a month away, Crisil Ltd’s “on-ground report” said onion seed transplantation suffered critical lags due to on-off rains, potentially delaying the time onion crop takes to mature. Summer onions account for no more than 30% of India’s annual supply, but they are critical to prices stability because they replenish supply during the lean September-November, period. Experts hold that longer dry spells followed by short periods of heavy rainfall are tell-tale signs of a changing climate’s impact on the monsoon, which waters 60% of the country’s net-sown area. “If heavy rainfall persists, yields may be affected, although mild rainfall in September is beneficial,” said Ashok Renjen, a former agronomist with the Punjab agriculture department. The IMD on Saturday forecast predicted “fairly widespread” rainfall with “isolated heavy to very heavy falls”, which correlates to hazardous rainfall in many states until September 14, especially in parts of Konkan and Goa, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha. While rice planting stood at normal levels for the current week, at 106 million hectares, farmers have sown oilseeds over 17 million hectares, which is also considered normal, according to official data. Pulses, another essential basket of legumes, have been sown over 13.9 million hectares, marginally higher than normal. “Standing water could cause crops to wilt,” said Gambhir Singh, a farmer from Haryana’s Babbain region, speaking in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-flooding-threaten-kharif-crops-food-prices-may-rise-101631468543106.html
13-09-2021||India||Experts divided over FSSAI’s new proposal for labelling on food packets||India’s food safety authority has decided to mandate labelling on the front of food packets detailing the amount of salt, sugar and fat content and their health impact, but consensus eludes industry and consumer groups about what the labels should say, according to multiple officials and minutes of a meeting of stakeholders called by the authority.The food industry wants the label to be a guideline informing the consumer about the quantity of salt, sugar, sodium and fats in the packet without giving a health warning, saying that the aim should be to enable consumers to make an informed decision and not discourage consumption of packaged food.Consumer and advocacy groups want labels to clearly state whether the food is healthy or not, as most customers would not know how much sugar, salt or fat is good or bad for their health if only the quantity is specified.“We will get a people perception study done by the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, on what sort of label would people prefer,” Food Safety Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) chief executive Arun Singhal said on the differing views. Once that study comes, draft guidelines and then final ones on the “front of package label” (FOPL) would be issued, he said.The FSSAI has taken close to eight years to reach this stage as the food industry had been reluctant to have these labels as some other countries such as Brazil and Chile have. In those countries, the label clearly states whether consuming the product would be healthy for people or not. In India, the processed food industry is estimated to be worth $44 billion and growing at a rapid pace of about 24% every year.At a meeting with all stakeholders called by the FSSAI in June, the industry said the food safety labelling on salt, sugar and fat should be based on serving size basis rather than quantity in the packet as this is what the consumer eats, according to minutes of the meeting accessed by Hindustan Times.The consumer groups proposed that the label should inform consumers what percentage of food is salt, sugar and fat, and how much higher it is than the permissible limit. And, they said, this should be done by having a reference size of 100g/ml.The FSSAI accepted the consumer group view saying there is no information available at present on serving sizes. “The acceptability and understanding of 100g/ml as a unit is higher and it enables a rational comparison among products,” the minutes said, quoting the FSSAI.The suggestion of the food industry to have information about positive nutrients on the labels was rejected, as FSSAI scientists supported the consumer groups, who said that the “first and foremost” aim of FOPL was to inform consumers about negative nutrients in food products, the minutes revealed.A senior FSSAI scientist, who was not willing to be named, said it was no less than an “achievement” to get the food industry to agree to safety labels on the front of packages, which would be easily readable to consumers.“The reluctance on the part of the industry was high but we pulled them through,” he said.Singhal said five types of labels were being considered, including traffic light signs, nutrition score, health star ratings, warning symbols. The FSSAI asked IIM-Ahmedabad to conduct a consumer survey of which type of label would be most understandable to people after the authority found that most of the consumer surveys conducted in western countries about the impact of labels on people had a “geographical bias”.A 2018 study in Brazil and Chile on the impact of food safety labelling on people had shown that it leads to a reduction in consumption of ultra-processed food products, which are considered bad for human health. Around half of the processed food sold in the United States is ultra-processed, meaning very few natural products are used.Meeta Kapoor, executive director of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), who represented the industry body at the meeting, said they have nothing more to add than what has already been saying. Earlier, the CII had said that it would abide by the FSSAI’s decision on food safety labelling.Dr Arun Gupta, convener of the Nutrition Advocacy in India in Public Interest (NAPi), said there is a need for proper health safety labelling on processed food products as consumption was increasing and so were the related health hazards.The WHO has said high consumption of processed food can lead to obesity and non-communicable diseases, which account for 71% i.e 41 million deaths, every year, globally.“The increase in diabetes and heart ailments among young people can be directly linked with an increase in consumption of highly addictive processed foods and beverages. We are not asking for a ban on them but only to inform people about the food’s health impact. It would help people in taking a more informed decision about what they eat,” Gupta said.The FSSAI’s 2020 study on pre-packaged food products said that India would become the third biggest consumer of processed food by the end of 2021, after China and the United States, with sales volumes of over 34 million tonnes.“Factors like increase in per capita income, globalisation, lower prices, evolving preferences and beliefs of the consumer and rapid urbanisation have resulted in changes in diet patterns of the consumer and an increase in the acceptance of processed and pre-packaged foods and beverages,” the study said.It added that 53% of children consume salted packaged food such as chips and noodles and 56% sweetened ones such as chocolates and ice creams, apart from sugar-sweetened beverages. “Sugar is added to these products to make them addictive,” Gupta said.To see how many food products adhere to food safety norms, the FSSAI got an evaluation done of major processed foods with baseline nutrient value for 100g/ml, which is also the base for the food safety labels, for fats (total fats, saturated fats and trans fats), sugar (sugar produced by food and added sugar) and sodium (natural salt and added salt) for 1,306 samples of pre-packaged foods and beverages, from 36 food categories.The study found that 62.8% of the samples failed on all three counts, meaning they had higher sugar, salt and fat than the prescribed levels. If one looks at failure on one ingredient, then 90% of the samples failed to meet the threshold limit prescribed by the FSSAI. “Maximum categories failed on thresholds for energy, total sugar, added sugar, total fat, saturated fat and sodium,” the study said.Most of the processed foods being sold come under the category of ultra-processed foods, the Global Food Research Programme of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill said in a 2018 study.“UPFs have rapidly displaced unprocessed or minimally processed foods, freshly prepared meals, and traditional cooking in the diet in most countries, causing significant nutritional, social, economic, and environmental disruption and damage worldwide,” the study said, adding it accounts for roughly half or more of total calories consumed in the United States.FSSAI chairperson and retired Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer, Rita Teotia, at the meeting said the journey towards FOPL has been long and most of the aspects have been decided upon to the satisfaction of all stakeholders. “Informed choices of consumer need to be the central point in all decisions undertaken on this subject and the label should be easy to understand,” she said while concluding the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-divided-over-fssai-s-new-proposal-for-labelling-on-food-packets-101631468517594.html
13-09-2021||India||Police reshuffle before UP assembly polls: Changes in screening process likely||Changes are likely in the screening process for police inspectors and sub-inspectors (S-Is) for a reshuffle ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh (UP) assembly election, said a police official privy to the development here on Sunday.The rethink comes as some senior police officials feel that the existing screening criteria will disturb the distribution of the police force across the state before the Uttar Pradesh assembly election and affect routine police work, the official said.The official said a discussion is on among top officials for transferring sub-inspectors and inspectors from one Vidhan Sabha constituency to another. He said the present order was for shifting the inspectors and the sub-inspectors from one district to another if they complete three years of their posting till March 2022.“Only those police personnel are likely to be transferred to other districts in case there is a complaint or inquiry pending against them or there are complaints related to election duties in the past,” he said.Also Read| Before 2017, ration went to those who used to say ‘abba jaan’: UP CM YogiHe also said the amendments in the screening process were being discussed as the primary screening suggested that almost 90 per cent of the police personnel in every district across the state will be new police if the existing criteria is applied and it may cause a major problem in routine policing as well as the election process.Earlier, the state government constituted two committees to screen officers from sub-inspector to ASP rank posted in different districts, said senior police officials here.One committee headed by additional director general (law and order) Prashant Kumar and comprising two other members will screen inspectors and S-Is.The purpose of the screening committee is to list the police personnel who have remained posted in one district for three or more years as well as those who have inquiries and complaints pending against them. Police personnel with an allegedly tainted background would be shunted out from the districts (of their current posting), said the official. Another three-member screening committee headed by director general (intelligence) DS Chauhan will screen ASPs and deputy superintendents of police (DySPs) on the same lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/police-reshuffle-before-uttar-pradesh-assembly-election-changes-in-screening-process-likely-101631467523605.html
13-09-2021||NA||Breaking news highlights: IMD issues red alert in 7 districts of Odisha||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Vaccination rate to be doubled in J&K districts with higher Covid caseloadThe Jammu and Kashmir government on Sunday asked the administration to double the vaccination rate in districts reporting a higher number of coronavirus cases. Read moreVice President dedicates Puducherry solar power plant ‘to the nation’Vice President Venkaiah Naidu dedicated a 1.5MW solar power plant in Puducherry “to the nation”. "Solar power generation is eco-friendly and should be tested by all federal, state, and local government departments," he said on Sunday, reported news agency ANI. Assam reports 259 Covid-19 cases, 11 deathsAssam reported 259 cases of Covid-19 on Sunday after the state conducted 31,906 tests in the last 24 hours. A total of 11 deaths were also reported in the state, said the government health bulletin.IMD issues red alert in 7 districts of OdishaThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued red alert in 7 districts, orange alert in 6 districts, and yellow alert in 8 districts  of Odisha, for the next 24 hours predicting heavy rains. NSUI elects Rahul Gandhi as Congress president In a resolution of its two-day national executive 'Sankalp', the National Students' Union of India (NSUI) proposed to appoint Rahul Gandhi as Congress president. pic.twitter.com/oYm6euUdiCDelhi and NCR might witness light to moderate intensity, thunderstorm: IMDThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday that Delhi and the adjoining areas of Noida, Greater Noida, Hapur, Ghaziabad, Indrapuram, Dadri, Gurugram are likely to receive light to moderate rainfall and thunderstorm.Kerala reports 20,240 Covid-19 cases, 67 deathsKerala recorded 20,240 cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 4,375,431. In the last 24 hours the state also reported 67 fatalities, the death toll now stands at 22,551. Number of active cases in state now stands at 222,255 according to the state health bulletin.Karnataka reports 803 Covid-19 cases, 17 deathsKarnataka recorded 803 cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 2,961,735. In the last 24 hours the state also reported 17 deaths, the death toll now stands at 37,504, according to the state health bulletin.Bhupendra Patel to take oath as Gujarat CM tomorrowGujarat CM-elect Bhupendra Patel to take oath tomorrow, no one else: State BJP chief CR Patil in a press conference pic.twitter.com/pPO9Yg16OSDelhi records 22 Covid-19 cases, zero deathsDelhi recorded 22 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total tally of cases to 1,438,233. The national capital did not record any fatalities in the last 24 hours, the death toll currently stands at 25,083, according to the government health bulletin.BJP Legislative Party elects Bhupendra Patel as new Gujarat CMGujarat | Bhupendra Patel elected as the new leader of BJP Legislative Party, says Union Minister & BJP leader Narendra Singh Tomar pic.twitter.com/myVKiW8VB5Officer shot by terrorists in Srinagar succumbs to injuriesProbationary sub inspector Arshid Ahmad, who was fired upon by the militants in Srinagar on Sunday, succumbed to his injuries at Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Science, Soura, where he was shifted for treatment. Russians in Thiruvananthapuram vote to elect their state DumaRussian nationals cast their votes in the federal assembly elections to elect their state Duma. A Voting booth set up at Honorary Consulate of Russian Federation in Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday." It's the legislative body of our country. The main day of the election is scheduled on Sept 19. It is generally held in Chennai. But due to COVID, we decided to hold several preliminary voting campaigns in different states," Sergey Lagutin, Consul, Russian consulate in Chennai told news agency ANI.  4 killed, 1 missing in cloudburst in J&K's Baramullah districtFour people, including three minors were killed and one is reported to be missing due to a cloudburst that occurred in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir, Disaster Management Authority, J&K government told news agency ANI.NH 5 blocked due to landslide at Badhal, Shimla districtHimachal Pradesh | National Highway 5 blocked due to landslide at Badhal in Shimla district. The highway is also blocked at Jeori in the district. pic.twitter.com/G2F3WGqiccZydus Cadila to seek approval for two-dose regimen of its approved three-dose Covid-19 vaccine in IndiaConsidering the burden on healthcare and the expense of buying three doses, Zydus Cadila is planning to seek approval for the two-dose regimen of its needle-free Covid-19 vaccine, ZyCoV-D, days after the vaccine was approved by India's drugs regulator for emergency use in India on August 20.Terrorists attack police party at Khanyar in Old Srinagar: PoliceTerrorists attack police party at Khanyar in Old Srinagar city, details awaited: Police.UK PM to set out Covid winter strategy next week, says health ministerBritish Prime Minister Boris Johnson will this week set out plans to manage the Covid-19 pandemic over the colder months, his health minister said on Sunday, suggesting the government could remove some restrictions by relying on vaccines.Afghan police return to work alongside Taliban at airportAfghan police at Kabul airport have returned to work manning checkpoints alongside Taliban security for the first time since the Islamists seized power, officers said Sunday.Women can study in universities, in gender-segregated classrooms: TalibanTaliban set higher education policy, say women can study in universities, in gender-segregated classroomsShiv Sena will contest UP, Goa Assembly polls: Sanjay RautShiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said his party will contest the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh and Goa due early next year, and claimed farmers' organisations in western UP are willing to support his party.2 killed, 3 injured after slab falls from 3rd floor of a building in Thane westThree persons received injuries, later rescued by the fire department after a slab fell on them from the third floor of an apartment building in Thane West.Two people lost their lives in the incident. As a precautionary measure, the C wing (24 Rooms out of 73 Rooms) of the Khatri apartment was evacuated. All residents of the C wing temporarily shifted to Khandeshi masjid, Rabodi: Thane Municipal Corporation.One killed, another missing as result of ships collision off Southwestern JapanA dry cargo ship has collided with a small vessel off the coast of the Japanese city of Sasebo in the southwestern Nagasaki prefecture, leaving one person dead and another one missing, the NHK broadcaster reported on Sunday.Arvind Kejriwal has been re-elected as Aam Aadmi Party National ConvenorArvind Kejriwal has been re-elected as Aam Aadmi Party National Convenor in the party's National Executive Meeting. Pankaj Gupta was re-elected as National Secretary and ND Gupta was re-elected as National Treasurer during Aam Aadmi Party's National Executive Meeting today.Cloud burst reported at Kafarnar BahakCloud burst reported at Kafarnar Bahak, in upper reaches of Baramulla district. Five Bakarwals from Rajouri district were reported missing. Details awaited: Disaster Management Authority, J&K Govt.Koo to raise headcount to 500 in 1 yr; hiring for engineering, product, community managementHomegrown microblogging platform Koo expects to raise its headcount to over 500 people in the next one year, as it looks to hire across engineering, product and community management teams.245 children among 1,089 new Covid-19 patients in MizoramMizoram's Covid-19 tally breached the 70,000-mark on Sunday as 1,089 more people, including 245 children, tested positive for the infection, which is 364 more than the previous day's count, a health official said.Teacher held for sexually assaulting girl student in UP's RampurA teacher at a private school has been held and booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act on Saturday for allegedly sexually assaulting a girl student on September 5 during Teachers' Day celebrations.BJP legislative party meet to be held at 2.30pmGujarat: BJP legislative party meet to be held at 2.30pm to discuss probable CM candidates.National Highway 305 blocked due to landslide at Shojha in Kullu districtNational Highway 305 blocked due to landslide at Shojha in Kullu district; Road restoration work underway.Covid-19: Gujarat nurse to be conferred Florence Nightingale AwardA nurse of Sir Sayajirao General Hospital of Vadodara, Gujarat will be conferred with the Florence Nightingale Award.Over 72.21 crore doses of vaccines have been provided to States/UTsOver 72.21 crore doses of vaccines have been provided to States/UTs. More than 5.16 crore balance doses are still available with States/UTs with over 57 lakh doses in the pipeline: Government of IndiaWildfire forces closure of part of freeway in CaliforniaA wildfire near Castaic Saturday has led to the closure of a part of a major freeway in Southern California, officials told local media.India logs  28,591 fresh Covid-19 cases, 338 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia recorded 28,591 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 33,236,921, while the death toll climbed to 442,655 with 338 daily fatalities, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday. Australia buys additional 1 million doses of Moderna's Covid-19 vaccineAustralia has purchased an additional 1 million doses of Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine from the European Union, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said, as the country accelerates its inoculation programme to fight record high infections.China sends health team to Fujian province after Covid casesChina’s National Health Commission sent a special team to the city of Putian in eastern China’s Fujian province after Covid-19 cases were reported, according to broadcaster CGTN.FBI releases newly declassified record on September 11 attacksThe FBI late Saturday released a newly declassified 16-page document related to logistical support provided to two of the Saudi hijackers in the run-up to the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.US former president Bush calls on Americans to confront domestic 'violent extremists'Former US President George W Bush on Saturday called on Americans to confront domestic violent extremists, saying there is "growing evidence that the dangers to our country can come not only across borders but from the violence that gathers within."BJP legislative party meeting to be held todayUnion Ministers Prahlad Joshi and Narendra Singh Tomar will visit Gujarat today as BJP's central observers; BJP legislative party meeting to be held today.Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani submitted his resignation to the Governor on Saturday.Jharkhand reports 7 new Covid-19 cases, zero deathJharkhand reported seven fresh Covid-19 infections and zero deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the state health department on Saturday.John Kerry in India for 3 days; clean energy transition in agendaUS Special Presidential Envoy for Climate, John Kerry will travel to India from September 12-14 in a bid to engage with Indian counterparts to address the climate crisis.SAD to observe September 17 as 'black day' to mark one year of enactment of three farm lawsShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday decided to observe September 17 as 'Black Day' on completion of one year of enactment of three farm laws.Australia's Victoria state records small decline in Covid-19 infectionsAustralia's second most populous state said on Sunday daily Covid-19 infections fell slightly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-september-12-2021-101631403107271.html
13-09-2021||India||In Telangana, BJP pitch to mark ‘Liberation Day’ gets louder||Ever since Telangana was carved out of Andhra Pradesh in 2014, the Bharatiya Janata Party has been demanding that the state government officially observe ‘Liberation Day’ on September 17 -- the day the princely state of Hyderabad (of which Telangana was a part) was annexed to India in 1948.With each year, BJP’s voice to observe ‘Telangana Liberation Day’ is getting shriller. This year, Union home minister and former BJP national president Amit Shah has been invited to address a public meeting in Telangana’s Nirmal district for the same reason. “There would be a mega rally at Yedi Udala Marri in Nirmal district which the home minister will address and we would again demand celebration of September 17 as Liberation Day from the Nizams,” Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay said on September 8.The Hyderabad princely state was the last to join the Indian union on September 17, 1948. It was made a part of India through Operation Polo, a military operation led by JN Choudhuri from the Indian army. What the BJP primarily raises is the violence unleashed on people by the Razakars, a militia led by Qasim Razvi, the then president of the Majilis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (MIM), especially in certain parts of the state before its annexation to India.The demand to observe ‘Liberation Day’ comes from the BJP though the party did not exist at the time of the annexation; nor did its parent organisation, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), have any major role to play in what transpired then. The BJP has been celebrating September 17 as Liberation Day since creation of separate Telangana state and claiming that a large number of Hindus were killed in clashes with militia.Soon after independence, the last Nizam of Hyderabad, Osman Ali Khan (1888-1967), began negotiating with the Indian government about his state’s future. During his rule, the erstwhile state of Hyderabad (which was trifurcated in 1956 on linguistic lines) comprised 16 districts, half of which were in Telangana, five in Maharashtra and three in Karnataka.It was a multilingual state, with half the population speaking Telugu (Telangana). Hindus in the state comprised about 85% of the population, while about 10% were Muslims (with a Muslim elite occupying a good chunk of the administration). Problems arose when Khan refused to join India or Pakistan and tried to stay independent in 1947, a provision which the British government allowed for rulers of princely states. What complicated the matters was a Communist Party of India-led peasant uprising against state-appointed jagirdars (feudal landlords) in 1946, which is called the Telangana Armed Struggle. This continued even after Operation Polo till 1951, when the CPI leadership called it off and decided to participate in the first general elections of 1951-52.“What is this liberation day? Where was the BJP then in 1948? What right do they have to even speak about that? Police action was also set forth as the Nizam and the Indian government stuck a deal, because the Nizam’s government could not handle the Telangana Communist movement. They are now trying to create communal tensions,” said Mohd Khaja Moinuddin, a 93-year-old CPI veteran from Siddipet.Moinuddin had gone underground in 1947-48, as the CPI was banned (along with the Congress) by the Hyderabad state government in the days preceding Operation Polo. The senior citizen, who is a freedom fighter, recalled that Telangana Armed Struggle was very successful, and said that the CPI was banned till 1951. “The Indian army’s troops remained in Telangana after 1948 to suppress the CPI’s movement,” he added.The Armed Struggle (1946-51) is also something that is largely forgotten though it was the CPI which actually fought against the ruling landlords under the Nizam, especially in rural areas, said Moinuddin, who fought alongside CPI legends from Telangana like Ravi Narayan Reddy (former Lok Sabha MP) and Makhdoom Mohiuddin. “In fact, we were the ones fighting with the Razakars in the districts of Telangana,” he claimed.The Indian government, led by then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru and then home minister Sardar Vallabhai Patel, were wary of the situation with Hyderabad after independence. In fact, both sides even signed the ‘Standstill Agreement’ on November 29 to sort out the issue through negotiations. The Indian government was also aware of the Communists’ challenge in Telangana.Historian and author of ‘VP Menon: The Unsung Architect of Modern India (2020)’, Narayani Basu, whose book goes into the annexation of princely states into India, said everyone on the Indian side, ranging from Nehru to Patel, was wary of the issue regarding Hyderabad.“In fact VP Menon was one of the trustees of the Nizam’s wealth on behalf of the government of India. Sardar Patel deeply mistrusted the Nizam, who was also too weak to deal with what was happening. He had allowed the MIM (and Razakars) to gain a lot of power.,” Basu said. On the discussions between India and Hyderabad that preceded Operation Polo, Basu pointed out that there were several proposals in the early stages during negotiations after independence in 1947.The BJP in Telangana has been taking an aggressive stance, and is now being looked at as a challenger to the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), led by K. Chandrasekhar Rao (KCR).“In Karnataka and Maharashtra, September 17 is celebrated officially, and we are demanding the same be celebrated here. Many people were affected under the Nizam, so officially it should be held as Telangana Liberation Day. People who were killed should be remembered,” said NV Subhash, BJP spokesperson from Telangana.He added that be it CPI leaders or anyone else, whoever fought in the “struggle” for Hyderabad should be remembered. “The whole of Telangana was part of Hyderabad state, so why not? When we come into power…” Subhas added.In the aftermath of Operation Polo, Hyderabad state had a military governor for 18 months, after which the state went to polls during the first general elections of 1951-52. While the Congress, with Burgula Ramakrishna Rao as chief minister, came to power in the 175-member assembly of the state, the CPI (which contested under the banner of People’s Democratic Front) won as many as 42 of 77 seats in Telangana.The Hyderabad state was, however, trifurcated in 1956 on linguistic basis, and Telangana was merged with the Telugu-speaking coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema regions of the Madras Presidency to create the joint Andhra Pradesh state. The joint state of AP existed till 2014, till Telangana was bifurcated as a new state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-telangana-bjp-pitch-to-mark-liberation-day-gets-louder-101631299381541.html
