14-09-2021||India||Top Maoist leader held in Odisha’s Koraput||A top Maoist leader has been arrested in Odisha’s Koraput district during a search operation by security forces, and cash and arms were seized from his possession, the police said on Tuesday.The Odisha government had announced a reward of ₹20 lakh for any information leading to his arrest.Dubashi Sankar, a leader of the state military commission (SMC) of the outlawed CPI(Maoist), was apprehended on Monday morning from a forest area adjoining Noaro village by jawans of the district voluntary force, special operations group and the BSF, DGP Abhay said.“This is the first time a Maoist leader of such high rank has been arrested in Odisha,” the DGP stated.One Insas Rifle, 10 rounds of ammunition, a mobile phone, radio and cash of ₹35,500 were recovered from Sankar’s possession among other items.The Maoist leader went by multiple names such as Mahender, Ramesh and Mahesh.Amitabh Thakur, Inspector General (operations), when contacted by PTI, said Sankar, during interrogation, admitted that he was involved in multiple criminal cases, including a landmine blast in Koraput in 2010 that claimed lives of 11 police personnel.Sankar had joined the Maoist organisation in 1987. He was promoted to the rank of special zonal committee member (SZCM) in 2003. He looked after the outfit’s operations along the Andhra-Odisha border, Thakur said.He joined the state military commission of the CPI(Maoist) in 2010, Thakur added.In a related development, a Maoist cadre surrendered before the police in Koraput district on Tuesday.He will get assistance in accordance with the Surrender and Rehabilitation Scheme of the Odisha government.Sonal Madvi alias Kiran, an area committee member of the CPI(Maoist), claimed that he was not in favour of the “unnecessary civilian killings” by the outfit, a police officer in Koraput said.Madvi also stated that Odiya cadres of the banned organisation are “looked down upon by their Telugu and Chhattishgarhi counterparts”, the officer added. PTI AAM RMS RMS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-maoist-leader-held-in-odisha-s-koraput-101631643999802.html
14-09-2021||India||SC rejects plea over aid to kin of lawyers who died due to Covid||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a petition seeking compensation for lawyers who died of COVID-19 as bogus and imposed cost of ₹10,000 on the lawyer who filed the public interest litigation (PIL) terming it as publicity interest litigation.The PIL filed by advocate Pradeep Kumar Yadav demanded ₹50 lakh compensation for family of lawyers aged less than 60 years who died due to COVID-19 or any other reasons.Not willing to make an exception for lawyers, the bench of Justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and BV Nagarathna said, “Just because you wear a black coat does not mean that your life is precious than others…A lot of people died due to COVID-19, you cannot be an exception.”Dismissing the petition with a cost of ₹10,000, the bench held, “We see no reason to make an exception for members of the bar who suffered from COVID.” On a plain reading of the petition, the bench said that the lawyer had done a “copy and paste” job as none of the grounds mentioned in the petition were relevant to the issue raised in the petition. “In the present circumstances, we dismiss the petition with a cost of ₹10,000 to be payable within a period of one week from today.”The bench was of the view that time had come to stop lawyers from approaching the Court with bogus PILs.Advocate Yadav sought permission from the Court to withdraw the Court and file a better petition. The bench said, “This is publicity interest litigation. It can’t be that lawyers keep filing PILs and demand compensation from judges in the hope they will allow.” The bench pointed out that another bench of the Supreme Court on June 30 had held that all persons who died due to COVID will be entitled to compensation under the National Disaster Management Act 2005.The PIL had made the Centre, Bar Council of India and Supreme Court Bar Association as parties to the petition demanding that in times of pandemic, additional monetary help should be provided to surviving families of lawyers who were the sole earning member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rejects-plea-over-aid-to-kin-of-lawyers-who-died-due-to-covid-101631642978371.html
14-09-2021||India||Attorney General gives consent for contempt against derogatory video against SC judges||The Attorney General for India KK Venugopal on Tuesday gave consent to initiate contempt of court proceedings against journalist Ajeet Bharti in connection with a video posted by him on YouTube accusing Supreme Court judges of bribery, favouritism, and nepotism.Terming the expressions used by Bharti as “vituperative, gross” and “highly derogatory”, AG Venugopal said, “There can be no doubt that the statements in question would lower the authority of the Court in the eyes of the public and obstruct the administration of justice.” The top law officer was responding to a letter written by a lawyer Kritika Singh who wrote to AG on July 1 highlighting the derogatory comments made by Bharti in his videos watched by about 1.7 lakh viewers.For initiating contempt proceedings in the Supreme Court under Section 15 of the Contempt of Courts Act, one is required to obtain the consent of the Attorney General under Rule 3(c) of the Rules to Regulate Proceedings for Contempt of Supreme Court, 1975.Singh in her letter provided English translations of Bharti’s statements along with the video link. After going through the material, AG Venugopal said, “The allegations made by Ajeet Bharti against the Supreme Court are, among other things, of bribery, favouritism, nepotism and abuse of power... I find that the contents of the video, which has been watched by about 1.7 lakh viewers, are vituperative, gross and are highly derogatory to the Supreme Court of India and the judiciary as a whole, being clearly intended to denigrate the courts.”He proceeded on the basis that the video is authentic and said, “I have no hesitation in granting my consent for the initiation of contempt proceedings against Mr Ajeet Bharti based on the contents of the video posted by him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attorney-general-gives-consent-for-contempt-against-derogatory-video-against-sc-judges-101631642557838.html
14-09-2021||India||‘Unwarranted remarks’: India rejects UN rights chief’s criticism of situation in Kashmir||India on Tuesday rejected UN human rights chief Michelle Bachelet’s criticism of the situation in Jammu and Kashmir, saying her “unwarranted remarks” do not reflect the ground reality. In her opening statement at the 48th session of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva on Monday, Bachelet had criticised restrictions on public assembly and frequent communication blackouts in Jammu and Kashmir. Responding to the statement, secretary (West) Reenat Sandhu of the external affairs ministry said India’s approach to global promotion and protection of human rights is based on “our own experience as a pluralistic and inclusive society and vibrant democracy”. She added, “We believe that promotion and protection of human rights are best pursued through dialogue, consultation and cooperation among states and through the provision of technical assistance and capacity building.” Pointing to the references to India in Bachelet’s statement, Sandhu expressed India’s “disappointment over her unwarranted remarks on the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, which do not reflect the ground reality”. “Any shortcomings in upholding human rights must be addressed in a transparent and impartial manner, anchored in respect for national sovereignty and non-interference in internal affairs of states,” Sandhu said. India’s Constitution enshrines basic human rights as fundamental rights, and the Parliament, independent judiciary, media and civil society ensure full enjoyment of human rights by the people, she said. As part of a development agenda, the Indian government has undertaken targeted policy measures to empower the most vulnerable segments of society and had followed this approach despite challenges posed by the Covid-19 to save lives and livelihoods, she added. Sandhu also referred to the situation in Afghanistan and said it continues to be of grave concern. The UN Security Council resolution 2593 should guide the world community’s approach to Afghanistan as it reaffirms the importance of upholding human rights, including those of women, children and minorities, allowing safe passage for those wanting to leave the country and ensuring unhindered access for humanitarian aid. “The international community must stand with the people of Afghanistan in their desire to live in peace and dignity,” she said. Sandhu also said India is seeking re-election to the UN Human Rights Council for 2022-24, and looks forward to the continued support of member states for its candidature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unwarranted-remarks-india-rejects-un-rights-chief-s-criticism-of-situation-in-kashmir-101631639857814.html
14-09-2021||India||‘Brought shame to humanity’: Man sentenced to death for rape, murder of 3-yr-old||RAIPUR: A Chhattisgarh fast track special court awarded death penalty to a man convicted for raping and killing a three-and-half-year-old girl in Rajnandgaon district last year, a crime that the judge said had brought ‘shame to humanity’. Additional sessions judge Shailesh Sharma convicted Shekhar Korram (28) under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, special public prosecutor Parvez Akhtar said.The special court, notified under the POCSO Act, delivered its verdict on Monday. Its details were, however, made available on Tuesday.Apart from the death penalty, the court also sentenced the 28-year-old to rigorous imprisonment for seven years each under IPC sections 363 (kidnapping) and 201 (causing disappearance of the offence), and 10 years under IPC section 366 (kidnapping or abducting a woman to compel her for marriage or to cause her defilement), the prosecutor said. “The offence is of a heinous nature and the accused deserves no leniency. The accused has committed a crime which brings shame to humanity. There is no possibility of any reformation and rehabilitation of the accused in the society,” sessions judge Sharma said in his verdict.Punishing the accused with such harsh punishment will strengthen the faith of society and the relatives of the deceased on the court, and in future, those who commit such heinous crimes will not be spared under any circumstances,” the court said. On August 22, 2020, the accused abducted the girl, a resident of his native village in Rajnandgaon district, while she was playing near her house. The man took the girl to his house, where he raped her and later smothered her to death with a pillow cover, the prosecutor said. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brought-shame-to-humanity-chhattisgarh-man-sentenced-to-death-for-rape-murder-of-3yrold-101631637816622.html
14-09-2021||India||'Need more scientific data to clarify’: Centre on mixing of Covid-19 vaccines||A couple of studies have been initiated on the mixing of Covid-19 vaccines in Christian Medical College in Vellore, Tamil Nadu, said Renu Swarup, secretary of the Centre's department of biotechnology. However, she added that additional data is needed to get better clarity on the mixing of vaccines.“DCGI has given permission to CMC Vellore to start a trial on the mixing of vaccines. A couple of such studies have been initiated. We need more scientific data to get more clarity,” she told news agency ANI.
14-09-2021||India||Karnataka HC dismisses PIL against privatisation of Mangaluru airport||Karnataka High Court on Tuesday dismissed a public interest litigation (PIL) filed against the privatization of Mangaluru International Airport. The state-run airport operated by the Airports Authority of India (AAI), was taken over by the Adani Group on October 31 and has commenced commercial operations there. The PIL filed by the Airports Authority Employees Union had sought to quash a 2019 cabinet decision approving the leasing of three airports including the one at Mangaluru, terming the same as “illegal, arbitrary and beyond the scope of the Airport Authority Act, 1994.” A Division Bench of Acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum however said that since the leasing Mangaluru airport was done based on a Government of India policy, there was no scope for the HC’s intervention. In 2018, the Union government had announced an in-principle approval for leasing out six airports in India —Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Lucknow, Guwahati, Thiruvananthapuram, and Mangaluru Airports through Public-Private Partnership (PPP). Adani groups, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Adani Enterprises Ltd, was the highest bidder, the Union government announced later. The bench’s order copy is awaited. Senior Advocate Ashok Haranahalli, appearing for the petitioners, referred to Section 12 of the Airports Authority of India Act and argued there was no revenue sharing with the government and that the entire fixation of the lease is on per passenger fee. He added that even though it is called a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) project, there is no revenue generated for the formulation of a PPP partnership. “The airport is given to a third party, which is not in consonance with the policy of Public-Private Partnership model. This is not a partnership but just giving away,” Haranahalli submitted. Additional Solicitor General MB Nargund, appearing for the Union government, said that a branch of the same petitioner union had filed a plea before the Kerala High Court, which was rejected. The present petition is thus not maintainable, it was contended. Meanwhile, on Saturday, following protests, the tag ‘Adani airports’ was removed from the name boards of the Mangaluru International Airport. Following the takeover of operation on October 31, the logo of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) was replaced with the Advani groups logo. Changes were also made on Google Map where it was listed as ‘Mangaluru International Airport by Adani Airports’. A reply received under the Right to Information (RTI) also revealed that there was no provision to change the airport name as per the agreement for operations and maintenance of the airport. A legal notice was served in March this year to the AAI and the MIA director questioning the ‘Adani’ tag attached to the name boards based on this RTI reply by activists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-hc-dismisses-pil-against-privatisation-of-mangaluru-airport-101631636318966.html
14-09-2021||India||Tripura cops decline permission for Abhishek Banerjee’s roadshow again, says TMC||AGARTALA: The Trinamool Congress (TMC) has deferred its September 16 roadshow proposed led by party’s general secretary Abhishek Banerjee after the police declined to permit the padyatra for the second time, a senior party leader said.According to the TMC, the police didn’t give permission on the grounds that they would be busy with law and order duties on the eve of the Vishwakarma Puja on September 16.“We earlier deferred our padayatra programme on September 15 and again on September 16. It is clear that the BJP is scared of our increasing popularity. Our leaders want peace and so we have deferred our programme to September 22,” TMC leader Kunal Ghosh said on Tuesday.Ghosh said if the police declines them permission again, the TMC will go to court.Inspector General of Police ( Law and Order) Arindam Lodh said, “There is Viswakarma puja on September 17 here. The puja is celebrated here in grand way and preparations for the puja, like, buying idols etc., will be on September 16. And police will be busy in looking after law and order. So, the permission was not given for conducting any political activity on that day.”He also said that the Trinamool Congress has applied for their programme on September 22. “ We will convey our decision to them soon, “ he said. The ruling BJP defended the police decision, accusing the TMC of planning to create unrest in the state by bringing people from Kachhar, Karimganj, Silchar in Assam for the roadshow.Ghosh trashed the allegation, insisting that the TMC had enough supporters in Tripura and didn’t need to bring people from outside.The roadshow, the first big ticket event planned by the Trinamool Congress in Tripura, was seen to indicate the opposition party’s effort to scale up its campaign pitch ahead of the 2023 state elections.Already, Trinamool leaders claim that the TMC, and not the CPM had emerged as the lead opposition party in the state. The CPM is silent over public issues and former chief minister Manik Sarkar could not enter his own constituency, Dhanpur in these three and half years, said Susmita Dev who quit the Congress in August and joined the TMC. On Tuesday, Dev was named as the TMC candidate for the Rajya Sabha elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-cops-decline-permission-for-abhishek-banerjee-s-roadshow-again-says-tmc-101631633016284.html
14-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mumbai police to create ‘Nirbhaya Squad’ to prevent crimes against women and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mumbai police stations to have Nirbhaya Squad to bolster women’s safetyAgainst the backdrop of the Sakinaka rape and murder case, the top brass of the Mumbai police has decided to create a dedicated ‘Nirbahaya Squad’ in every police station to prevent crimes against women, officials said. Read moreAndhra Pradesh extends Covid-19 night curfew till September 30The Andhra Pradesh state government on Tuesday extended the existing night curfew in the state till September 30 from September 16, according to an order from the chief minister's office. Read moreGujarat CM Bhupendra Patel visits flood-hit areas as IMD forecasts more rainThe newly sworn-in chief minister of Gujarat Bhupendra Patel on Tuesday visited some of the flood-affected areas in Jamnagar to take stock of the situation. Read moreAfter Firozabad, IMA official warns about ‘bad’ dengue situation in this UP districtAmid heightened concern over Dengue in many north Indian states, a top official of the Indian Medical Association, Agra, said that 40-50% of patients in the district are suffering from dengue or viral fever. Read moreSri Lanka great Lasith Malinga retires from all forms of cricketSri Lanka fast bowler Lasith Malinga has announced his retirement from all forms of cricket. He made the announcement through a post on Twitter. Read moreKangana Ranaut to play lead role in Sita in The Incarnation, not Kareena Kapoor KhanKangana Ranaut is all set to play the role of Sita in a film titled Sita: The Incarnation. This is the same film that was reportedly offered to Kareena Kapoor Khan. Read moreAhead of iPhone 13 launch event, Apple Store goes downWe are just a few hours away from the iPhone 13 launch. And ahead of the official unveiling Apple Store has gone down. It happens every year -- to refresh the home page and add the latest products to the Apple Store, the company brings down its official online store ahead of launch. Read moreExplained: New US Bill to ease Green Card norms set to benefit IndiansAfter reports of a bill that might remove per-country limits for visa in the US, another bill might ease getting a Green Card or the permanent resident card in exchange of a super fee. In the United States, there is a serious backlog of Green Card applications. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mumbai-police-to-create-nirbhaya-squad-to-prevent-crimes-against-women-and-all-the-latest-news-101631632103321.html
14-09-2021||India||Hindi Diwas: How love for language and a Bollywood movie helped carpenter become Wikipedia editor||A boy who had quit school in class 10 to support his family by working as a carpenter became a Wikipedia Editor, thanks to his love for Hindu and Bollywood movies. Humans of Bombay, which catalogues stories of humanity and journey of individuals, shared an inspiring story of that person on the occasion of Hindi Diwas.Hindi was the favourite subject of Raju Jangid, the carpenter-turned-Wikipedia editor who wanted to pursue a career in writing. In his own words, Jangid worked till 9pm every day and earned ₹7,000 a month to support his family but the thought of working as a carpenter for the rest of his life made him sad.Once, Jangid watched a Bollywood movie and wanted to read about it afterwards. He took his sister-in-law’s phone and ended up finding Wikipedia. Everytime he searched for other topics or people, Google threw a Wikipedia page most of the time. But Jangid couldn’t read English and wondered why the online encyclopedia isn’t available in Hindi when a majority of Indians, according to him, speak the language.“There wasn’t a page about my village either. That’s when I thought, ‘Mujhe likhna chahiye!’ (I should write) I wrote about my village and with every story, my reach increased to those who were more comfortable with Hindi! I also began editing Wiki pages and made them more resourceful. To see my words published online made me want to write more!” Humans of Bombay quoted Jangid as saying.Also Read: Hindi Diwas: Lyricists talk about the evolution of Hindi in Bollywood musicGradually, the boy from Rajasthan started writing on different topics in Hindi, including history and cricket, that helped him educate himself. As Jangid’s monthly income increased, he used to save some amount to resume his high school education. He continued to write after passing board exams and made friends with other online editors.“When Wikipedia learnt about my challenges back home, they provided me with my own laptop and a free internet connection! They told me, ‘Thank you for keeping Hindi alive and inspiring other Hindi writers too’,” he said, adding that Wikipedia also paid for his graduation studies.He finally decided to quit carpentry and got a job as a writer in 2017. Jangid has now a steady income and has made at least 57,000 edits on Wikipedia.“And now whenever I mentor writers to contribute their work in Hindi, I always say, ‘If one’s mother tongue is forgotten, one’s value will also be forgotten’,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindi-diwas-how-love-for-language-bollywood-helped-carpenter-become-wikipedia-editor-101631632005836.html
14-09-2021||India||Central Vista revamp: 7,000 defence ministry officials to move to new offices||More than 7,000 defence ministry officers and staff are set to move into brand new offices at Africa Avenue and Kasturba Gandhi Marg from their existing decades-old workplaces in a clutch of pre-Independence era hutments in the vicinity of the North and South Blocks to make way for the Central Vista revamp, people familiar with the developments said on Tuesday.Some of these hutments served as stables for British Army horses more than 75 years ago. As many as 27 wings of the defence ministry, including a navy station INS India, the Armed Forces Clinic and a medical wing of the armed forces have been operating from these hutments for several decades.On September 16, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the new defence ministry office complex at Africa Avenue, paving the way for the relocation to begin, said one of the officials cited above, asking not to be named.“The shifting of offices will free 50 acres of land for Central Vista development. The defence ministry will vacate 9.2 lakh square feet of space in these hutments and take up 9.6 lakh square feet in two new multi-storeyed complexes that are spread over a total area of 13 acres,” said a second official. The complex at Africa Avenue is scattered across four blocks and offers a space of 5.08 lakh square feet while the KG Marg set up has three blocks and an office area of 4.52 lakh square feet.The new office complexes have been constructed at a cost of ₹775 crore provided by the defence ministry, with the work carried out by the ministry of housing and urban affairs as part of the Central Vista project, the second official said. The two complexes together have parking space for 1,500 cars. Instead of being spread out in various hutments and old buildings (A, B, E, G, H, J, L& M Block, Plot No 30 and Plot No.108 and Jodhpur House), co-location of these buildings will ensure greater efficiency and working, he said. The new buildings will also provide modern amenities, connectivity and welfare facilities like canteens and banks. The construction of the new complexes did not involve uprooting of trees, he added.According to the Central Vista plan approved by the Centre, the North and South Block office complexes will be turned into national museums, the Indira Gandhi National Centre will be relocated, and the National Archives will be remodelled. The Prime Minister’s residence will be shifted behind the existing South Block complex while the residence of the Vice President is proposed to be relocated behind North Block.On June 30, HT reported the vice president’s enclave and the new Parliament House will be the first buildings to be completed, and work on shifting the national museum to the North and South Block will commence last, in the elaborate plan for the Central Vista revamp that requires moving people and offices over the course of the next six years....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-vista-revamp-7-000-defence-ministry-officials-to-move-to-new-offices-101631631338663.html
14-09-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh extends Covid-19 night curfew till September 30||The Andhra Pradesh state government on Tuesday extended the existing night curfew in the state till September 30 from September 16, news agency ANI reported citing an order from the chief minister’s office. Earlier, the state government decided to continue with the night curfews in view of the increasing daily Covid-19 infections in the state and also the festival season.Following a review meeting on Covid-19 situation in the state, held previously on September 3, chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy had decided to continue the night curfew in the state between 11pm to 6am.Also read | Gujarat extends night curfew in 8 cities till September 25On Tuesday, Andhra Pradesh reported 1,125 new Covid-19 infections and nine fatalities, taking the state’s total caseload so far to 2,031,974 and the death toll to 14,019, according to a bulletin from the health department. Meanwhile, the active caseload in the state was recorded at 14,412. Among its districts, Chittoor with 210 cases followed by SPS Nellore with 184 cases, Krishna with 164 cases, West Godavari with 161 cases and Prakasam with 110 cases contributed the most to the state’s tally in the past 24 hours.Earlier on Monday, the state government informed that 35 million vaccine doses have been administered in the state under the Covid-19 vaccination drive. Also, 10 million beneficiaries in AP have been fully immunised with both doses of the vaccine against the disease.“During this (COVID vaccination) drive, the state has also surpassed two milestones: 3.5 crore total doses of vaccination done, one crore people got both doses in the state,” ANI reported, quoting an official communique from the state government. The state previously achieved 100% vaccination of all its healthcare and frontline workers and people above the age of 45 with at least one dose of the vaccine. Following this, it took up a special immunisation drive to inoculate people between 18 and 44 years of age.Between September 11 and 13, more than 2.8 million people in the above-mentioned age group were vaccinated against the pandemic under a special drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-extends-covid-19-night-curfew-till-september-30-101631629041573.html
14-09-2021||India||IndiGo CEO says restarting international flights impractical, explains why||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation has been improving in India, with most of the states reporting a downward trend in daily cases. From the peak of the second wave in April-May, the cases have been brought under control and vaccination coverage increased. But despite this, many restrictions have still not been lifted.This includes the ban on international flights. And the chief executive office (CEO) of low-cost carrier IndiGo feels that it would be impractical to restart scheduled international flights right now.Ronojoy Dutta said on Tuesday that gradually increasing the number of air bubble flights with various countries is the way forward."I think this process of 'let's have more and more bubble flights' and increasing it slowly is a good graduated way of opening up. We did it domestically also, right? We started from 33 per cent, went to 50 and then further. So, a graduated approach is a good approach," he told news agency PTI.Dutta said it is not up to India to unilaterally open up scheduled international flights and the other countries have to agree."There are, of course, health concerns, which I won't minimise in any way. Different countries are on different points of managing Covid-19. Then all these testing issues are sort of confusing the passengers," he added.The central government last month extended the suspension on international scheduled commercial flights till September 30 in the face of a looming threat of the third wave of infection.In its circular, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said that scheduled international flights might be allowed on selected routes on a case-to-case basis.The Indian government banned international commercial flights since March 23, 2020, to check the spread of the Covid-19 infection. It eased the restrictions on flights in certain countries with which India has had an air bubble arrangement during the past year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/restarting-international-flights-indigo-ceo-suggests-correct-way-forward-101631628581692.html
14-09-2021||India||Kerala records 15,876 fresh Covid-19 infections, active cases below 2 lakh mark||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Kerala saw a slight uptick on Tuesday when the state recorded 15,876 fresh infections in the last 24 hours, according to state government's health department.The state also registered 25,654 recoveries and 129 deaths in the said period, the health department data showed. With this, the death toll in Kerala has reached 22,779.Also Read: Kerala officially makes Saturday a working day as Covid cases declineOf the new cases, 95 were health workers, 44 from outside the state and 14,959 infected through contact, with the source of the contact not being clear in 778 cases.Among the 14 districts, Thrissur recorded the highest with 1,936 fresh cases followed by Ernakulam (1,893), Thiruvananthapuram (1,627), Palakkad (1,591), Malappuram (1,523), Kollam (1,373), Alappuzha (1,118), Kozhikode (1,117), Kannur (1,099) and Kottayam (1,043), the health department said.The number of active cases in the state went below the two lakh mark - at 1,98,865. The positivity rate has come down to 15.12 per cent as compared to Monday's data. However, 91,885 samples were tested till yesterday, whereas the number went up to 1,05,005 today.There are currently 5,75,668 people under surveillance in various districts, of whom 5,46,791 are in home or institutional quarantine and 28,877 in hospitals.On Monday, Kerala recorded 15,058 Covid-19 cases and the test positivity rate stood at 16.69 per cent. It also reported 99 deaths on Monday and the active cases were 2,08,773.The state had seen close to 30,000 cases daily during the first week of September, when a resurgent Covid-19 wreaked havoc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-records-15-876-fresh-covid-19-infections-active-cases-below-2-lakh-mark-101631625290951.html
14-09-2021||India||After Firozabad, IMA official warns about ‘bad’ dengue situation in this UP district||Amid heightened concern over Dengue in many north Indian states, a top official of the Indian Medical Association, Agra, said that 40-50% of patients in the district are suffering from dengue or viral fever. Calling the Dengue situation “bad”, IMA Agra president Rajeev Upadhaya said that 60% of the patients suffering from the viral disease are children, reported news agency ANI.“The situation is bad. 40-50% patients suffer from dengue and viral fever. 60% of the patients are children,” ANI quoted Upadhaya as saying.Agra chief medical officer Arun Kumar Srivastava said that the district has reported 35 cases of dengue. of which 14 cases are still active. Srivastava further stated that fogging activities are being conducted in medical colleges and hospitals to contain the spread of Dengue while hospitals have been instructed to inform immediately about the arrival of any patient.With 60 deaths related to viral fever till Monday, UP’s Firozabad has been the worst-hit district. Firozabad’s chief medical officer Dinesh Kumar Premi said that five of the 60 deaths are confirmed cases of dengue while the rest are linked to viral fever, reported ANI.The Aedes aegypti mosquito is considered the primary vector of dengue and their eggs hatch when they are in contact with water. Delhi-NCR, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh have also been witnessing an uptick in cases of dengue amid the ongoing monsoon season.On Monday, HT reported that Madhya Pradesh recorded 2,510 dengue cases and five related deaths in the past twelve days. Jabalpur was the worst-affected area with over 399 reported cases so far. The same day, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said that the authorities were on alert to check the dengue outbreak and were particularly monitoring the situation in districts adjacent to Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-firozabad-ima-official-warns-about-bad-dengue-situation-in-this-up-district-101631624739359.html
14-09-2021||India||World taking note of India’s defence manufacturing prowess: PM Modi in Aligarh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said India is shedding its image of being a major importer of military hardware and carving an identity for itself as a defence exporter, at a time the government has taken several measures to boost self-reliance in the key sector as well as tap the potential of defence markets globally.The PM said the world had taken note of the strides made by the country in defence manufacturing with locally produced equipment ranging from modern grenades, assault rifles and drones to fighter jets and warships. The PM made the comments during a ceremony to lay the foundation stone of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh State University at Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh.Aligarh, once famous for its locks and lock-making skills (a fact acknowledged by the PM during his speech), is one of the six nodes of the UP’s government’s ambitious defence industrial corridor project aimed at boosting indigenous defence production and the Make in India initiative. The other five nodes in the state are Agra, Jhansi, Chitrakoot, Kanpur and Lucknow. In the Aligarh Node, land has so far been allotted to 19 firms who will together invest ₹1,245 crore. The Centre has also set up a defence corridor in Tamil Nadu.India is wooing foreign partners to invest in the defence corridors for co-development and co-production of equipment.The PM said the hundreds of crores of rupees being invested in the Aligarh node will create thousands of jobs. He said the new industries coming up to support the manufacture of small arms, armaments, drones and aerospace-related products would give a new identity to Aligarh and its nearby areas.Also Read | India-UK to sign early harvest deal by March 2022The defence industrial corridors will go a long way in creating much-needed manufacturing hubs in the country that will further help India’s transition from a weapons importer to exporter, said Air Marshal Anil Chopra (retd), director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.“These corridors, along with other steps taken to boost self-reliance, will not only provide fillip to the Make in India initiative but also create an ecosystem that will allow us to strengthen our position as an exporter globally,” Chopra said.The PM’s comments come at a time when the domestic defence sector is poised for big leaps in several areas including fighter jets, helicopters, airborne early warning systems, missiles, drones and other weaponry.State-run plane maker Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) has set a March 2022 deadline to carry out the first flight of the LCA (light combat aircraft) Mk-1A jet. The defence ministry awarded a ₹48,000-crore contract to HAL for 83 LCA Mk-1A jets for the Indian Air Force (IAF) in February. The first Mk-1A aircraft will be delivered to the air force by March 2024, with the rest slated to join its combat fleet by 2029.Earlier this month, the PM-headed Cabinet Committee of Security (CCS) cleared two big Make in India projects worth ₹33,000 crore. It cleared the much-delayed purchase of 56 C-295 medium transport aircraft to replace the IAF’s ageing fleet of Avro-748 planes. The C-295 project is estimated to be worth ₹22,000 crore.It also cleared a Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) proposal to develop new airborne early warning and control (AEW&C) aircraft for the IAF using Airbus jets bought from Air India. This project is estimated to be worth around ₹11,000 crore.Last week, the IAF inducted a medium range surface-to-air-missile (MRSAM) system capable of knocking out aerial threats such as enemy fighter jets, missiles, helicopters and unmanned aerial vehicles at a range of 70 km. India and Israel have jointly developed the MRSAM or the Barak 8 air defence system.Last month, the Indian Army accepted the delivery of the first batch of multi-mode hand grenades manufactured by a private sector firm. The defence ministry signed a contract with Nagpur-based private firm Economic Explosives Ltd (EEL) last October for supplying 1 million hand grenades to the army. These will replace a World War-II vintage hand grenade design being used by the army.The government has taken several measures to boost self-reliance in the defence sector over the last two years. These include raising foreign direct investment (FDI) in defence manufacturing, creating a separate budget for buying locally made military hardware and notifying two lists of 209 defence items that cannot be imported (ban to be implemented progressively from 2021 to 2025).The items that cannot be imported include AEW&C systems (Airborne early warning and control systems, light combat aircraft, missile destroyers, ship-borne cruise missiles, long-range land attack cruise missiles, basic trainer aircraft, specified types of helicopters and artillery guns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-taking-note-of-india-s-defence-manufacturing-prowess-pm-modi-in-aligarh-101631621735478.html
14-09-2021||India||Kerala officially makes Saturday a working day as Covid cases decline||The Kerala government on Tuesday restored Saturdays as working days, in view of the dip in the number of daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. The announcement from Disaster Management Department came after a review of Covid-19 situation in the state."All employees are instructed to report for duty (on Saturdays) accordingly," the department said in its order today.It said that on August 4, all government offices, quasi government, public sector undertakings, companies, autonomous bodies and commissions were allowed to work from Monday to Friday with full attendance. "After assessing the present Covid-19 scenario and the restrictions imposed in the State to contain the same, the government is pleased to restore Saturdays also as working days, wherever applicable," an order from the department added.When cases peaked, government employees were directed to come to their offices on alternate days which was later increased to five days a week.The biometric system will also be restored from September 16, the order from the disaster management department said. It said that the employees can use their identity cards to access the biometric entry system. The biometric entry system was stopped since March last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Kerala reported 15,058 Covid-19 cases on Monday with a test positivity rate of 16.69 per cent after 91,885 samples were tested, according to state health ministry data. It also reported 99 deaths, taking the total toll to 22,650 while active cases came down to 2,08,773. Among two lakh-odd patients, about 13 per cent are hospitalised and 40 per cent of the state’s ICU beds are vacant.The Covid-19 cases in Kerala started dipping last week after a peak. About two weeks back, the state reported 28,000 average cases weekly, contributing about 70 per cent of India's total cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-officially-makes-saturday-a-working-day-as-covid-cases-decline-101631619843889.html
14-09-2021||India||Trinamool Congress nominates ex-Cong leader Sushmita Dev for Rajya Sabha bypoll||The Trinamool Congress on Tuesday named Sushmita Dev, who recently joined the Mamata Banerjee-led party after quitting the Congress, for bypoll to the Rajya Sabha seat.Taking to Twitter to announce Sushmita Dev's nomination, the Trinamool Congress said “Mamata Banerjee's vision to empower women and ensure their maximum participation in politics shall help our society to achieve much more.”The bypoll, which would be held on October 4, was necessiated after Trinamool Congress leader Manas Bhunia vacated the Rajya Sabha seat after winning the assembly polls from Sabang in West Midnapore district. The Trinamool Congress controls 12 of 16 Rajya Sabha seats, while Congress has two and CPI(M) one.We are extremely pleased to nominate @SushmitaDevAITC to the Upper House of the Parliament.@MamataOfficial's vision to empower women and ensure their maximum participation in politics shall help our society to achieve much more!The Trinamool Congress has entrusted Sushmita Dev with the charge of looking after the party''s functioning in Assam and Tripura.Reacting to the news of her nomination for the bypoll to Rajya Sabha, Sushmita Dev thanked West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee as she took to Twitter to say the party supremo's "conviction to see more women in parliament is exemplary.”I am overwhelmed. I Thank my leader @MamataOfficial from the bottom of my heart. Her conviction to see more women in parliament is exemplary. To give someone from North East is path breaking. I will do my very best. 🙏🏻 https://t.co/tuTSYwrjnmShe called her nomination a “strong message to the northeast.”“By giving someone from northeast an RS seat where West Bengal MLAs will be voting, means she (Mamata) has serious plans for northeast. I am a Bengali from Assam... I assure that I will not let her down,” Dev told news agency ANI.A former national spokesperson for the Congress and the chief of the party's women wing, Sushmita Dev joined the Trinamool Congress in the presence of senior party leaders Abhishek Banerjee and Derek O'Brien in Kolkata in August.The former MP from Assam's Silchar was associated with the Congress for over three decades. She sumbitted her resignation to Congress president Sonia Gandhi a day before joining the Trinamool Congress.Even though Sushmita Dev did not offer any reason for her leaving the Congress, political experts saw the process of her exit during the Assam assembly elections this year when Dev and then APCC president Ripun Bora disagreed on seat distribution for Barak Valley region of the state. She pointed out that APCC did not give her proper respect during the state assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trinamool-congress-nominates-ex-cong-leader-sushmita-dev-to-rajya-sabha-101631618121510.html
14-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: BJP's Tibrewal objects to Mamata Banerjee's nomination and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP’s Priyanka Tibrewal objects to Mamata Banerjee's nomination for Bhabanipur bypollsA day after filing her nomination for the Bhabanipur assembly bypolls, Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Priyanka Tibrewal on Tuesday filed an objection against Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nomination for the seat. The saffron party candidate has alleged that Banerjee did not reveal the pending criminal cases against her. [Read more…]Owaisi dares Centre to declare Taliban a terrorist outfitAll India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) leader Asaduddin Owaisi on Tuesday dared the Centre to declare Taliban a terrorist organisation even as he said his party was willing to contest 100 seats in Uttar Pradesh. [Read more…]China slams upcoming in-person Quad summit in WashingtonChina on Tuesday said regional cooperation cliques formed to target a third country will not be popular and have no future, in its first warning shot against the upcoming US-led first in-person meeting of the Quad countries including India, Japan and Australia to be held in Washington on September 24. [Read more…]Global vaccine coverage dropped to 1/2 of what was anticipated: Gates FoundationThe global vaccine coverage dropped to just half of what was anticipated, finds Gates Foundation’s fifth annual Goalkeepers report, adding that the world stepped up to avert some of the worst-case scenarios amid the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. [Read more…]Gujarat extends night curfew in 8 cities till September 25The Gujarat government on Tuesday extended the night curfew in eight major cities of the state till September 25 to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. The state administration announced restrictions on the movement of people and non-essential vehicles in eight major cities. [Read more…]Top BCCI official addresses reports of Rohit replacing Kohli as India's ODI, T20I captain after T20 WCOn Monday, reports surfaced in Indian media that Rohit Sharma will be taking over as India's ODI and T20I captain from Virat Kohli after the T20 World Cup. The report, first out in a leading newspaper daily, sent the country into a frenzy as the concept of split captaincy is one that has been heavily debated but no action seems to have been taken by the BCCI towards it. [Read more…]Aishwarya Rai comforts crying baby, salutes elephant in rare video after Miss World 1994 winA rare video of actor Aishwarya Rai after winning the Miss World 1994 pageant has been shared online by one of her fan clubs. It is a montage of various clips and began with her standing next to her mother Vrinda Rai, as someone held an umbrella over their heads. She was also seen interacting with school students and comforting a crying baby. [Watch here…]Coming soon: Hydrogen-powered Kia military vehicles may become realityHyundai has a lead in the global automotive market when it comes to hydrogen-powered mobility options but Kia, part of Hyundai Motor Group appears to be in no rush to bring the technology to its passenger vehicles just yet. In fact, reports in the South Korean media state that Kia is looking at first offering the technology to military vehicles it supplies the country's defense forces. [Read more…]Tiger Shroff's barbell jump squats, 140 kgs-180 kgs back squats make jaws dropJust a random Tuesday and who better to brush aside our workday blues than Bollywood hunk Tiger Shroff who not only inspired fitness enthusiasts but also made jaws drop with his barbell squats. Raising the bar of powerlifting goals with his damn strong look during cardio workout, Tiger performed 100 kgs barbell jump squats and 140 kgs-180 kgs back squats at the gym. [Read more…]||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bjp-s-tibrewal-objects-to-mamata-banerjee-s-nomination-and-all-the-latest-news-101631617915113.html
14-09-2021||India||Plans afoot to add ZyCoV-D Covid-19 vaccine to national vaccination programme, says Dr VK Paul||With more than 750 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country so far, experts are planning to include the ZyCoV-D vaccine in the national vaccination programme, said Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul. He also said that a decision regarding the price of the vaccine is currently ongoing and would be taken soon.“The discussion on its pricing is ongoing, a decision will be taken soon. We are looking to include this vaccine in the national vaccination program,” news agency ANI quoted Dr Paul as saying regarding the ZyCoV-D vaccine.Currently, Covishield manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Russia’s Sputnik V vaccines are being used in India for immunisation against the Covid-19 pandemic.Also read | Booster dose of Covid-19 vaccines not needed yet, says review in LancetThe comments from Dr Paul came as the needle-free ZyCoV-D vaccine is expected to be available by early October. The vaccine is based on the plasmid DNA technology and follows a three-dose regimen with a 28-day gap between each dose. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) gave its nod to the vaccine earlier on August 20. It is also India’s first indigenously developed vaccine and is also the first vaccine in the country that has received emergency use authorisation (EUA) for being administered in the 12 to 18 age group.Further, the company has also planned to seek approval for a two-dose regimen of its vaccine due to the burden on healthcare and the cost factor of three doses. Previously, 2mg of the vaccine would be prescribed in three doses each but now the company is planning to administer 3mg of the vaccine in two doses each, according to a report by ANI.Earlier in June, the Union government had capped the price of all the three vaccines, currently being used in the country’s vaccination drive, at private hospitals. It directed the private hospitals to charge a maximum of ₹150 as service charge for administering the vaccines. Inclusive of the service charge, the maximum price that can be charged for a dose of Covishield vaccine would be ₹780, ₹1,410 for a dose of Covaxin and ₹1,145 for a dose of Sputnik V.Meanwhile, more than 750 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in the country, of which over 7.8 million doses were administered in the last 24 hours. As of 7am on Tuesday, 752,238,324 doses have been administered, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plans-afoot-to-add-zycov-d-covid-19-vaccine-to-national-vaccination-programme-says-dr-vk-paul-101631616739363.html
14-09-2021||India||Hunt for Tiger that killed youngster in Karnataka’s Hunsur intensifies||The hunt for a Tiger in the Nagarhole National Park in Mysore has intensified after it killed a 19-year-old from a tribal community on September 8 in Hunsur, Karnataka forest officials said.The Tiger, possibly aged between 3 and 4 years, is believed to be on the prowl in the range and at least 50 personnel are trying to track its movements using various tools including 70 camera traps and thermal drones that have managed to take pictures of other animals in the area but not of the predator responsible for killing the teenager from the Jenu Kuruba community, a forest dweller tribe, officials said.“We are trying to collect data from the ground and three are no signs of the individual (Tiger) which was involved in the conflict. We are getting signs and data from other individuals (Tigers),” D Mahesh Kumar, deputy conservator of forests and director, Karnataka forest department told Hindustan Times on Tuesday.There has been an increase in human-animal conflict in Karnataka mainly since animals are getting pushed out of their territory due to encroachments for farming and other purposes. According to the forest department data, 17,561 human-animal conflicts took place in the state in 2020-21 compared to 16,314 in 2019-20. At least 434 cases of Tigers attacking cattle or humans were also reported in 2020-21, a 37% increase from 316 such encounters in 2019-20, as per the data, which puts the figure of loss of human lives in these two years at least nine.Wild animals straying into human settlements, agricultural lands and plantations in search of food outside the forest is also a major reason for growing conflicts.With 524 Tigers estimated to be in Karnataka following the last official count, the state has the second largest population of these majestic big cats spread over forest ranges such as Bandipur, Nagarhole, Biligiri Ranganatha Swamy Temple (BRT) and Bhadra among other reserves.According to a Right to Information (RTI) response by the ministry of environment, forest and climate change and the National Tiger Conservation Authority on September 3 to a Kerala-based activist, RK Govindan Nampoothiry, ₹50 lakh was paid as compensation for deaths caused by tiger attacks in Karnataka between 2014 and 2020. Maharashtra with ₹998.20 lakh followed by ₹169 lakh in Uttar Pradesh and ₹128.53 lakh in Madhya Pradesh topped the compensation amount for deaths caused by tigers during that period.This March, a tiger was found dead in Karnataka’s coffee growing district of Kodagu after it had killed four and critically injured at least one other person apart from killing at least 25 cattle.On February 21, the forest department captured a Tigress lurking in the locality.A 2018 report titled, Status of Tigers, Co-predators & Prey in India, shows that only around 1923 of these big-cats live within the reserves while around 35% of them live outside the protected forests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hunt-for-tiger-that-killed-youngster-in-karnataka-s-hunsur-intensifies-101631616320292.html
14-09-2021||India||Child dies of fever in North Bengal's Jalpaiguri, says report; 130 in hospital||North Bengal is grappling with increasing cases of viral fever among children. Jalpaiguri has been the epicentre, with majority of the cases being reported from the district.Hindustan Times' sister publication HT Bangla reported that a six-year-old died due to fever. It quoted doctors as saying that the young one was brought from Mekhliganj on Monday and reported breathing difficulty along with symptoms of pneumonia.At least 130 children has been admitted to Jalpaiguri Sadar Hospital with high fever and dysentery, a health department official said on Monday.The development came amid warning by experts that the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic might pose a greater risk to children."We are keeping a tab on the situation and trying to develop the hospital's infrastructure so that no one is denied admission. The situation is quite worrisome," the official told news agency PTI.Two of these children were later shifted to North Bengal Medical College as their condition worsened, the official further said.District Magistrate Moumita Godara Basu, who also visited the hospital, held back-to-back meetings with authorities to assess the situation and find a way ahead.Meanwhile, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Monday wrote to all states and union territories (UTs) for accelerating activities for prevention and control of vector-borne diseases such as dengue and calling for sustained efforts to reduce the vector density to control these diseases.He emphasised that rapid response teams should be kept ready with all necessary logistics. "Entomological surveillance, source reduction activities and prompt vector control measures must be implemented for minimising the risk of transmission," Bhushan said in his letter.The Union Health Secretary also said that a multi-sectoral approach is necessary for controlling the vector-borne diseases. The role of departments other than health, such as urban and rural development and panchayati raj, is crucial, said the Union health secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/child-dies-of-fever-in-north-bengal-s-jalpaiguri-130-in-hospital-101631614028220.html
14-09-2021||India||Another senior Kerala Congress leader quits to join CPI(M)||Another senior Kerala Congress leader KP Anil Kumar, who was suspended from the party for criticising the state leadership in public, resigned and joined the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) CPI(M) on Tuesday. Announcing his decision in Thiruvananthapuram, Kumar, also a former Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) general secretary, said most of the present office-bearers of the state unit behaved in an “authoritarian” manner. He also made some other serious allegations against state Congress president K Sudhakaran. Later, CPI(M) politburo member Kodiyeri Balakrishnan inducted Kumar at the party headquarters at AKG Centre. Soon after Kumar’s press conference, the PCC chief said Kumar had been expelled from the party and the CPI(M) was similar to a “waste bin” collecting disgruntled leaders from other parties. Earlier, another expelled Congress leader PS Prashant had joined the CPI(M). Dissension was simmering in the state unit of the Congress party after the elevation of new leadership and it came to a boil after the announcement of district Congress presidents on August 28. Anil Kumar and another senior leader K Sivadasan Nair then criticised the state leadership during a discussion on a news channel, resulting in their suspension. After announcing his resignation, Kumar said the Congress had lost direction and it was in the wrong hands in the state. “We have a PCC president who threatened to join the Sangh Parivar outfits on a number of occasions. I never tried to pressurise the party like this. Disciplinary action should be applicable to all,” he said. Even former CM Oommen Chandy and senior Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala had expressed their displeasure publicly over the new appointments but no action was taken against them, he alleged. “I have a 42-year-old relationship with the party. Hailing from a freedom fighter’s family, I used to attend party programmes at a tender age of eight. I faced many sacrifices for the party but no point in continuing in the party,” Kumar said. Sudhakaran, however, denied the allegations made by Kumar saying it was natural for an expelled leader to make such wild charges. Opposition leader VD Satheesan also decried his statement. The latest round of infighting in the Kerala Congress began with the appointment of K Sudhakaran, a tough leader from Communist heartland of Kannur, as PCC chief and VD Satheesan, a grassroots leader, as the Leader of the Opposition in the state assembly.The move sidelined two powerful blocs, led by former CM Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala, who dominated the state unit for more than a decade-and-a-half. The announcement of new district presidents added to the internal conflict, but more fireworks are expected when the list of PCC office-bearers is announced, as the new PCC president is expected to prune the jumbo committee. The party has 150-odd secretaries and many other office-bearers now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-senior-kerala-congress-leader-quits-to-join-cpim-101631613155578.html
14-09-2021||India||Supreme Court dismisses PIL for Covid-19 compensation to lawyers||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a petition seeking compensation for lawyers who died of Covid-19 as bogus and imposed a cost of ₹10,000 on the lawyer who filed the public interest litigation (PIL) terming it as publicity interest litigation.The PIL filed by advocate Pradeep Kumar Yadav demanded ₹50 lakh compensation for family of lawyers aged less than 60 years who died due to Covid-19 or any other reasons.Not willing to make an exception for lawyers, the bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and BV Nagarathna said, “Just because you wear a black coat does not mean that your life is precious than others…A lot of people died due to Covid-19, you cannot be an exception.”Also Read | Pegasus vs Privacy: What the government can expect from the Supreme CourtDismissing the petition with a cost of ₹10,000, the bench held, “We see no reason to make an exception for members of the bar who suffered from Covid.” On a plain reading of the petition, the bench said that the lawyer had done a “copy and paste” job as none of the grounds mentioned in the petition were relevant to the issue raised in the petition. “In the present circumstances, we dismiss the petition with a cost of ₹10,000 to be payable within a period of one week from today.”The bench was of the view that time had come to stop lawyers from approaching the court with bogus PILs.Advocate Yadav sought permission from the court to file a better petition. The bench said, “This is publicity interest litigation. It can’t be that lawyers keep filing PILs and demand compensation from judges in the hope they will allow.” The bench pointed out that another bench of the Supreme Court on June 30 had held that all persons who died due to Covid will be entitled to compensation under the National Disaster Management Act 2005.The PIL had made the Centre, Bar Council of India and Supreme Court Bar Association as parties to the petition demanding that in times of pandemic, additional monetary help should be provided to surviving families of lawyers who were the sole earning member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-dismisses-pil-for-covid-compensation-to-lawyers-101631610275067.html
14-09-2021||India||Delayed by Covid, NATGRID likely to be implemented soon. Check details||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to launch the National Intelligence Grid (NATGRID), which will enhance India's capabilities to fight terror and crime through technology. The NATGRID was mooted after the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks in 2008.News agency PTI reported that final "synchronisation and testing" of the ambitious electronic database is going on after which it is expected to go live.Union home minister Amit Shah had said earlier this month that NATGRID was delayed due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. "I am hopeful that the Prime Minister will dedicate NATGRID to the country in some time," Shah had said during the 51st Foundation Day event of the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD) on September 4.What it NATGRID?It is a master database of 21 databases designed to provide real-time information to fight terror and crime. According to people aware of the matter, NATGRID will include data related to credit and debit cards, tax, telecom, immigration, airlines and railway tickets, passports, driving licenses.It has been envisaged as a robust mechanism to track suspects and prevent terrorist attacks with real-time data and access to classified information.How will NATGRID work?The NATGRID will involve high-end algorithms designed especially for the database. The programme has been designed by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) and will be capable of analysing data and behaviour to generate trends and leads for the agencies to follow up.The Union Cabinet cleared the NATGRID in 2011 and allocated ₹3,400 crore for it but the work slowed down after 2012. PM Modi, who came to power for the first time in 2014, later gave directions for its revival.Who will have access to NATGRID?PTI reported that 10 central agencies - including the Intelligence Bureau, Research and Analysis Wing, the Enforcement Directorate and Department of Revenue Intelligence - and 21 service providers will be connected with the the master database in the first phase. In later phases, about 950 additional organisations will be brought on board, it further reported.The government finally plans to integrate more than 1,000 organisations in NATGRID, the news agency said.According to PTI, other agencies that are expected to be integrated in the programme are Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs, Cabinet Secretariat, Directorate General of GST Intelligence, Narcotics Control Bureau, Financial Intelligence Unit and the National Investigation Agency.26/11 and NATGRIDThe 26/11 terrorist siege in Mumbai back in 2008 exposed the deficiency that security agencies had no mechanism to look for vital information on a real-time basis.Lack of quick information was considered to be one of the major hurdles in detecting David Headley's movement across the country during his multiple visits between 2006 and 2009.Headley had provided key information and videos of terror targets to Pakistan-based terrorist group Lashkar-e-Taiba that carried out the Mumbai attacks that killed 166 people, including foreigners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delayed-by-covid-natgrid-likely-to-be-implemented-soon-check-details-101631609979429.html
14-09-2021||India||At least 4 civilians injured in grenade attack by terrorists in J&K’s Pulwama||Terrorists on Tuesday hurled a grenade at security forces in the Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir, injuring at least four civilians, multiple news agencies reported. According to the reports, the terrorists hurled the grenade towards a vehicle of security forces as they were travelling through Pulwama Chowk. However, it exploded on the roadside and injured at least four civilians. They have been rushed to a nearby hospital.The area has now been cordoned off by security officials.Lately, the valley is witnessing a spurt in grenade attacks by terrorists. Last week, three people, including two women, were injured in a grenade attack in the Chanapora area of Srinagar.On Monday, security forces detected and defused six grenades planted by terrorists on the busy Parimpira-Panthachowk axis of National Highway 44.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-4-civilians-injured-in-grenade-attack-by-terrorists-in-j-k-s-pulwama-101631607328552.html
14-09-2021||India||No fresh Covid cases in UP's 59 districts; Australian MP praises Yogi govt||The number of daily cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have been on a downswing in Uttar Pradesh. In the last 24 hours, no new case was identified in 59 of the state's 75 districts, according to UP a government release.Moreover, recoveries continue to outnumber new cases in the state. Out of the 1,91,446 samples tested in the last 24 hours, 33 samples tested positive for the Covid-19 infection and as a result the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) slumped to lower than 0.01 per cent in Uttar Pradesh, the state government data showed.In the same period, 25 patients recovered from the infection. The active caseload in the country's most populous state has been reduced to 187 from a high of 3,10,783 in April, pushing the recovery rate up to 98.7 per cent, the state government said in a release.The state government's turnaround has been appreciated globally. Australian MP Jason Wood heaped praises on chief minister Yogi Adityanath for effectively managing the Covid-19 outbreak in the state. He also expressed desire of working with UP government."Many thanks to Hon. CM of UP Yogi Adityanath for his kind message to me. We look forward to working with U.P. Government for enrichment of culture and development. Appreciate UP Government’s Covid control efforts in this difficult time," Wood wrote on Twitter on Tuesday.Many thanks to Hon. CM of UP @Myogiadityanath for his kind message to me. We look forward to working with U.P. Government for enrichment of culture and development. Appreciate @UPGovt's Covid control efforts in this difficult time. @shashiawasthi @cmofficeUP @AusHCIndia pic.twitter.com/mCHOl1s0f2The key parts of UP government's plan to tackle Covid-19 included contact tracing, early detection, isolation and free and timely provision of medicine kits and treatment to the rural populace.In June, Australia’s federal independent Member of Parliament Craig Kelly had praised Uttar Pradesh for successfully "smashing" the "scary" Delta variant of Covid-19.Patrick Brauckmann, a Canadian Investor, also lauded the UP model of Covid management in July, referring to the effective leadership of Yogi Adityanath in "crushing the curve".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-fresh-covid-cases-in-up-s-59-districts-australian-mp-praises-yogi-govt-101631606229422.html
14-09-2021||India||On Hindi Diwas, Amit Shah makes aatmanirbhar connect, says PM Modi has made the language global||On Hindi Diwas, Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday said India needs to be aatmanirbhar or self-reliant even with languages and urged the people of the country to take a pledge to use Hindi along with their mother tongue. “Being aatmanirbhar is not just about the production of goods within the country or e. We have to be aatmanirbhar even with languages and only then our imagination of Aatmanirbhar India will be fulfilled. If we don't become aatmanirbhar in terms of our language, self-reliance would not mean anything," Amit Shah said while addressing a gathering on the occasion of Hindi Diwas. "If the Prime Minister can speak Hindi on international fora, what are we embarrassed about? Gone are the days when speaking in Hindi was a matter of embarrassment,’’ Amit Shah said.He also said that all Indian languages complement each other. "When we accepted the Constitution, we also accepted a decision on September 14, 1949, that this country's rajbhasha will be Hindi and the script will be Devanagri... Along with Hindi, we also took a decision to accept regional languages," Amit Shah said.
14-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Air India cancels Delhi flight after plane hits bird and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Air India cancels Delhi flight after plane hits bird before take-off from RaipurA Delhi-bound didn’t take off after hitting a bird while ascending on runway at Chhattisgarh’s Swami Vivekanand Airport in Raipur on Tuesday, officials said. Read MoreSaudi foreign minister visiting India, Taliban and Afghanistan are prioritySaudi Arabia foreign minister Prince Faisal bin Farhan Al Saud is expected to visit India this weekend to discuss the unfolding situation in Afghanistan even as Qatar has taken lead in diplomatically engaging Kabul and towards legitimising the Taliban. Read More'Can't make exception': SC junks plea seeking Covid ex-gratia for lawyers' kinThe Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a petition seeking a direction that compensation of ₹50 lakh each should be granted to family member of lawyers below 60 years of age who died due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) or any other manner. Read More‘There have been no talks on split captaincy, let's focus on the T20 World Cup’: Rajeev ShuklaBCCI vice-president Rajeev Shukla has reacted to the rumours about changes in Team India’s leadership in the shorter formats. Read MoreMet Gala 2021: Megan Fox burns the red carpet in sexy red lace-up gown with thigh-slitMet Gala 2021: After serving one of her most iconic sartorial moments at the MTV Video Music Awards with boyfriend Machine Gun Kelly, Megan Fox arrived at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City to attend the annual Met Gala 2021. Read MoreKaun Banega Crorepati producer Siddhartha Basu reacts as viewer claims ‘wrong question and answer’ were shownKaun Banega Crorepati producer Siddhartha Basu responded to a viewer who claimed that the ‘wrong’ answer to one of the questions asked on Monday’s episode of KBC 13 was shown as correct. Read MoreKia Sonet finds one lakh takers in a year since launchKia Sonet subcompact SUV has hit a major sales milestone within a year of its launch. The Korean carmaker has announced that it has sold one lakh units of the Sonet SUV so far since its launch last year. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-air-india-cancels-delhi-flight-after-plane-hits-bird-before-take-off-from-raipur-and-all-the-latest-news-101631604399460.html
14-09-2021||India||NHRC seeks reports from Centre, 4 states over farmers' stir, says industries and people are suffering||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Tuesday issued notices to the Centre and the Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan governments over complaints that the ongoing farmers’ protests have severely affected industries and adversely impacted commuters. "There are allegations of adverse impact on the industrial units, seriously affecting more than 9000 micro, medium and large companies. Allegedly transportation is also adversely impacted, causing the commuters, patients, physically challenged people and senior citizens to suffer due to the heavy congestion on roads," the NHRC stated in the notice. It also took note of reports that people have to travel long distances to reach their destination due to the ongoing farmers' agitation and barricades that have been put on the borders."Since the agitation involves the issue of human rights, the right to agitate in a peaceful manner is also to be respected. The commission needs to take care of various human rights issues," it stated in the letter as it also asked for action taken reports from chief secretaries of the respective state governments, director generals of police and commissioner of police.Since November last year, farmers from Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan have been protesting against the three central laws that opened the agriculture sector to the private players of the country. Agitating farmers say the laws, introduced in September 2020, would erode a longstanding mechanism that ensures farmers a minimum guaranteed price for their produce but the government says this will help growers get better prices.Over the months, the Union government has had several rounds of discussions but they have failed to bring any resolution to the impasse, as farmers remain firm on their demands of complete repeal of laws.The NHRC has also asked the Institute of Economic Growth to examine the adverse impact of the farmers' agitation on industrial and commercial activities, production and disruption of transport services on commercial and normal consumers including inconvenience and additional expenditure etc. The institute has given a deadline of October 10 to send the report.It has also directed the Delhi School of Social Work of Delhi University to conduct a survey and assess the disruption of livelihood, lives of people impacted due to the agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrc-seeks-reports-from-centre-4-states-over-farmers-stir-says-industries-and-people-are-suffering-101631603786715.html
14-09-2021||India||In UP's Aligarh, PM Modi praises CM Yogi's ‘double-engine' government||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday lauded Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath under whose leadership, the former said, UP was benefitting from a “double-engine’ sarkar,” referring to the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) governments at the Centre and in the state. “The central and UP governments are working together to develop the state. We have to fight together all the forces that are against development here,” PM Modi said.Taking a swipe at the opposition Samajwadi Party (SP), which was in power here from 2017, the Prime Minister said that people cannot forget the scams that took place before the BJP came to power. He also pointed to “lawlessness” that prevailed while the SP was in power. “However, with Yogiji in power, criminals think twice before committing a crime,” PM Modi said.He made these remarks while laying the foundation stone of a university named after Jat king Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh in Uttar Pradesh's Aligarh. On this occasion, he also inspected exhibition models of the Aligarh node of the Uttar Pradesh industrial defence corridor.Also Read | PM Modi to lay foundation of university named after Jat king in Aligarh today“As we celebrate Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav, honest efforts are being made to make the young generation aware of contributions of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh and others in our independence struggle,” Prime Minister Modi remarked, also highlighting that the late king allotted land for the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU).“As a prime minister, I consider it my good fortune that I am laying the foundation stone of a university named after such a visionary,” PM Modi said.Talking about the defence corridor, he said that India is moving ahead with an aim to carve its identity as a global defence exporter, unlike earlier when the country only used to import defence goods.He also made an analogy between the famous locks of Aligarh and the defence corridor, saying that the city is now contributing towards protection of country's borders as well. PM Modi then announced ₹9000 crore for the development of BrahMos missile at the defence corridor's Lucknow node.The Prime Minister's visit to Aligarh is being seen as the launch by the ruling  BJP of its campaign for the upcoming assembly elections in the country's most populous state, likely to take place early next year.UP governor Anandiben Patel, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma were among dignitaries who attended the ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-lays-foundation-stone-of-raja-mahendra-pratap-singh-university-in-up-s-aligarh-101631599978032.html
14-09-2021||India||'Can't make exception': Supreme Court dismisses plea seeking Covid compensation for lawyers' kin||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a petition seeking a direction that compensation of ₹50 lakh each should be granted to family member of lawyers below 60 years of age who died due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) or any other manner.The bench of justices DY Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and BV Nagarathna said that the court cannot make exception for lawyers.The petition was filed by advocate Pradeep Kumar Yadav. The Supreme Court called it 'publicity interest litigation'.The bench said a lot of people died due to Covid-19 and a lawyer's life can't be more precious than others, observing that the top court had upheld compensation for all persons who died due to the deadly infection."Are other people of the society not important," the bench asked Yadav.The top court, which observed that "cut-copy-paste" has been done in the plea, said it would not happen that lawyers will file PIL like this to demand compensation and the court will allow it.The bench dismissed it with a cost of ₹10,000 and said that the court will soon take steps to prevent lawyers from filing such petitions.This came as Yadav requested the bench that he will withdraw the plea and file it with better grounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-make-exception-supreme-court-dismisses-plea-seeking-covid-compensation-for-lawyers-101631600332160.html
14-09-2021||India||Several kids die due to high fever in Haryana, govt rushes health teams: Report||Several children have contracted a high fever and died in the Palwal district of Haryana, prompting the state government to rush teams of the health department to the area, according to news agency ANI on Tuesday. Dr Vijay Kumar, the senior medical officer of Hathin, said that the efforts to contain the spread of fever are in full swing in Chilli village in the city, according to the news agency."We got news of some cases of fever and 1-2 deaths. Taking notice of that, our health teams have come here. We are doing surveys. Medicines are being provided and an Out Patient Department (OPD) is being run. Spraying is being done,” Kumar said, according to ANI. “Testing for Covid-19, dengue, malaria has been started. We are also testing for other causes of fever. We have taken samples of 80 people who are having fever. No malaria cases have been reported. Four to five children have died due to dengue and several children are ill," Kumar added.Kumar added that people were being made aware of dengue and malaria and ways to control them. He requested people to ensure that water does not stagnate anywhere, their surroundings are clean and they wear full-sleeved clothing.Also read | Delhi has recorded 34 cases of dengue this month; no deathsThe prevalence of fever over the last few days in the village has become a cause of concern even though the actual cause of fever has not been confirmed by the health department as yet."Doctors are telling that deaths are happening due to dengue. Even my child passed away at 6am in the morning. He was seven years old. He had a fever from August 27," a local resident was quoted as saying by ANI. “There are some children here who are ill, some are admitted to the hospital while some have died. There must be 30 cases of dengue at least. No health workers, teams from the health department have visited here,” he added."At least 12 have died from dengue. Deaths are being reported since August 25. Most of the deceased are children aged 3-12 years. There are children and some adults in every house of this village who are suffering from illness,” another villager said. “No one from the health department visited this village earlier except for a few very recent visits. Everyone in the village is terrified,” the villager alleged.Also read | Dengue, malaria up in Noida, Uttar Pradesh health dept takes stockNaresh, the sarpanch of the village, said the cases of fever are being reported for the last 15 days or so and is due to “contaminated water.” “There are no malaria cases though. During testing in government hospitals, some dengue cases have been revealed. There are no healthcare centres in this village. Health teams have come here."Meanwhile, the Centre has directed states and Union territories to step up ways to prevent and control activities for vector-borne diseases such as dengue, “without cutting any corners for safety” from Covid-19 as several states reported a rise in viral fevers. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said in his letter to chief secretaries and administrators of all states and UTs that entomological surveillance, source reduction activities and prompt vector control measures must be implemented to minimising the risk of transmission.Also read | Bihar on alert over rise in viral fever cases: CM Nitish KumarBhushan also underlined the need for keeping rapid response teams ready with all necessary logistics for timely deployment to combat any fever outbreak. All hospitals must be alerted for preparing contingency plans, ensure the availability of necessary diagnostics, drugs and other supplies for treatment or management of vector-borne disease cases. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/several-kids-die-due-to-high-fever-in-haryana-govt-rushes-health-teams-report-101631600115537.html
14-09-2021||India||Chhattisgarh to bring Bapu’s Sevagram to state with similar ashram||The Chhattisgarh government will be developing an ashram in Nava Raipur along the lines of Mahatma Gandhi’s Sevagram ashram in Wardha, officials said on Tuesday. This ashram will promote the ideals of Bapu.The government has started the process of identifying land for the ashram in Nava Raipur, an official said. “Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has given instructions to identify 75-100 acres of land in Nava Raipur for the project. He has also directed the officials to submit an action plan before October 2, 2021,” a statement issued by government said. Also Read | Conversion in C’garh: Aggressive BJP, silent Congress, insecure community“Rural art, craft , folk music and other artisans will be promoted and experts will also visit the ashram to provide guidance. The government is also planning to open an old-age home and a school for underprivileged kids,” the official said. To ashram will be built using clay, wood and limestone, he added. The project is inspired by the Sevagram situated in Wardha, Maharashtra, which was established in year 1936 as the residence of Mahatma Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-to-bring-bapu-s-sevagram-to-state-with-similar-ashram-101631600856091.html
14-09-2021||India||5 challenges for joint committee on Personal Data Protection Bill||The Joint Parliamentary Committee on the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019 will be meeting on Wednesday and Thursday to finalise its long-pending report. This will be the first meeting under the leadership of PP Chaudhary.The committee was formed in 2019 to deliberate on the nuances of the data protection legislation.Five members, including chairperson Meenakshi Lekhi, were inducted into the Council of Ministers in July this year. Following this, PP Chaudhary took over.Here are some key considerations for the committee while formulating the data protection legislation: Limitations to govt control and access of public data While some national security concerns may require the state to access and maintain records of public data, it is important that the Bill does not make the citizens’ right to privacy secondary to the nation’s security interests. A deliberate elevation of the nation’s security over the right to privacy will vest power with the government to collect and use public data as it deems fit. Effective limitations on giant firms The Cambridge Analytica data breach row saw the Central Bureau of Investigation file a case against the British data analytics firm for allegedly accessing and misusing the personal data of 562,000 Indian Facebook users in 2018. The firm allegedly used the data to influence elections in India. Thus, ensuring effective regulations on data mining strategies of giant corporations must be a key focus of the legislation. Also Read | China passes robust legislation on data protectionCentrality to citizens’ right to privacyAny legislation on data privacy and protection must be premised on the Supreme Court’s 2017 judgement regarding right to privacy. In August 2017, a nine-judge Constitution Bench of the apex court ruled that right to privacy is “intrinsic to life and liberty” and thus, is inherently protected under the various fundamental freedoms enshrined in the Indian Constitution. The government should strike a balance between personal data protection and the nation’s national security interests. Preventing cyber attacks and surveillanceIndia reported 1.16 million cyber security cases in 2020, that’s 3 times more than those of 2019, as per government data presented in Parliament. Recently, allegations over the usage of Pegasus spyware for surveillance by several governments have also surfaced. In India, it is unclear whether the spyware was deployed by the Centre or if it was used by a secondary entity. The Bill must take into consideration data security and privacy risks posed by such modern surveillance technologies. Focus on proactive implementation The committee must identify potential challenges in the implementation of the legislation, and incorporate specific strategies to target the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-challenges-for-joint-committee-on-personal-data-protection-bill-101631599834503.html
14-09-2021||India||Engineers Day 2021: Remembering M Visvesvaraya on his 160th birth anniversary||Every year September 15 is celebrated as Engineers’ Day in India to commemorate one of India’s finest engineers, Mokshagundam Visvesvaraya. M Visvesvaraya is considered one of the foremost nation-builders, creating marvels upon which modern India was built. He was referred as the ‘precursor of economic planning in India’, according to the Institution of Engineers India (IEI). M Visvesvaraya is also known as ‘VM Sir’ due to his various contributions to the field of engineering and being a pioneer of education.Born on September 15, 1861, in a small village called Muddenahalli in Karnataka, Visvesvaraya received a degree in civil engineering from Pune College of Engineering. His expertise was in the fields of irrigation and flood disaster management. He rose to fame with his groundbreaking works in these fields with modern irrigation techniques as well as flood control and mitigation.He designed the ‘automatic barrier water floodgates’ which was installed in Pune in 1903 at the Khadakvasla reservoir. He was the chief engineer responsible for the construction of the Krishna Raja Sagar dam in the Mandya district of Karnataka and the chief engineer of the flood protection system for Hyderabad. He also established the famous Government Engineering College, now known as University Visvesvaraya College of Engineering in 1917.He was knighted as a Knight Commander of the British Indian Empire (KCIE) by King George V for his contributions towards public good. M Visvesvaraya received India’s highest honour, the Bharat Ratna, in 1955.Greeting engineers on Engineers Day last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, “…We remember Sir M. Visvesvaraya on his Jayanti. India is proud of the contribution of our engineers towards nation building." In 2019, PM Modi said engineers are synonymous with diligence and determination. "Human progress would be incomplete without their innovative zeal. Greetings on #EngineersDay and best wishes to all hardworking engineers. Tributes to the exemplary engineer Sir M. Visvesvaraya on his birth anniversary,” he added.In 2018, PM Modi commended the engineers of the country. He took to Twitter to honour engineering genius M. Visvesvaraya. "On #EngineersDay, I congratulate our hardworking engineers and appreciate their dexterity as well as dedication. Their role in nation building is extremely vital. I also pay tributes to the noted engineer, Shri M Visvesvaraya, on his birth anniversary," he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/engineers-day-2021-remembering-m-visvesvaraya-on-his-160th-birth-anniversary-101631589709128.html
14-09-2021||India||8.22-carat diamond, ₹40 lakh: 4 labourers find a diamond in Panna after 15-year hunt||Fours labourers have found an 8.22-carat diamond worth at least ₹40 lakh from a mine in Madhya Pradesh's Panna district after looking for the gems for more than a decade, news agency PTI reported citing an official. Panna collector Sanjay Kumar Mishra told reporters that Ratanlal Prajapati and others found the diamond from leased land in the Hirapur Tapariyan area of the district. The diamond will be put up for auction later this month along with other gems, Mishra said.Officials have said the proceeds from the auction of the raw diamonds would be given to the respective miners after deduction of government royalty and taxes, according to PTI. Officials also said that the auction of the latest precious stone found by the labourers and 139 other diamonds will start from September 21. Local experts say the diamond found by the labourers may fetch up to ₹40 lakh, it reported.Also read | Diamond excavation plummets in Madhya Pradesh’s PannaRaghuvir Prajapati, one of the labourers who found the gem, told reporters that they spent the last 15 years quarrying in various mines in their quest to find diamonds. “We leased small mines in different areas for the past 15 years but did not find any diamond. This year, we have been mining on leased land at Hirapur Tapariyan for the past six months and were pleasantly surprised to find a diamond weighing 8.22 carat,” he said.Also read | Diamond believed to be world's third-largest unearthed in BotswanaRaghuvir Prajapati said he and his partners will use the money from the auction of the diamond for providing a better life and education to their children.PTI cited officials as saying that Panna district, which is more than 380km from the state capital of Bhopal, has reserves estimated to be containing diamonds totalling 12 lakh carats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-labourers-find-8-22-carat-diamond-in-panna-after-a-15-year-hunt-101631597438218.html
14-09-2021||India||Nitin Gadkari says rare to find a happy politician||The road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari said it was rare to find a happy politician since they were mostly insecure about power and position. Gadkari’s comments, made in a light vein in a seminar on Parliamentary System and People’s Expectations in Jaipur on Monday, didn’t appear to be aimed at any particular political party.“The MLAs were unhappy as they couldn’t become a minister; ministers were unhappy as they didn’t get a good department; those who got a good department were unhappy as they couldn’t become the chief minister. And the CMs were unhappy as they were not sure how long they will stay in office,’” Gadkari said at the concluding session of the seminar organised by the Rajasthan branch of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. Gadkari’s statement comes close on the heels of Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani’s replacement and during the ongoing friction in Rajasthan Congress over delayed cabinet expansion.Gadkari cited well-known satirist Sharad Joshi’s comments that politicians of no use in the states were sent to Delhi and those of no use in Delhi were made governors and those who couldn’t become governors were made ambassadors. “When I was the BJP President, I have not found anyone who was not sad. A journalist once asked me how to stay happy, and I replied that those who do not worry about the future remain happy,” he said.Drawing a parallel with cricket, Gadkari said politics is also a skill and should be played like one day cricket.Gadkari said a Congress leader from Nagpur, who was his good friend, once asked him to jump ship to Congress after Gadkari lost one election when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was not as strong as it is today. “I politely declined, since ups and downs come in life, but you must remain loyal to the ideology,” Gadkari said, underlining the core principles of good politics.He said social service was the main objective of politics, an effective tool to bring about socio-economic change through welfare of the last person in the society.He said democracy was meant to ensure welfare of the society for qualitative changes in the lives of people and its strength depended on people’s representatives. He said honesty and credibility were a politician’s biggest asset and his/her aim should be welfare of the poor while keeping faith in democracy.Rajasthan assembly speaker CP Joshi said democracy will be strong only if our ideology is strong. “We have to work together to strengthen democracy. It is the responsibility of the government to make policy and work for the people, while the opposition has the responsibility to draw the government’s attention to people’s problems.”Leader of Opposition in Rajasthan assembly Gulab Chand Kataria said a structure of democracy could not be built in the last 70-75 years.“In today’s era the individual and the party have become dominant while the country has become secondary. Our thinking should be to take the country forward by doing welfare works in every area of the country,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitin-gadkari-says-rare-to-find-a-happy-politician-101631597374285.html
14-09-2021||India||Kerala continues to account for more than 50% of daily Covid cases||India's Covid-19 tally further dipped on Tuesday as the country logged 25,404 cases in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The Covid-19 cases on Tuesday saw a fall of 1,850 cases against Monday when there were 27,254 infections. The major chunk of the infections came from Kerala, which accounted for more than half of the total daily cases. On Monday, Kerala recorded 15,058 Covid-19 cases, 28,439 recoveries, and 99 deaths in the last 24 hours.The death toll due to Covid-19 has climbed to 443,213, with 339 daily fatalities recorded across the country, the data updated at 8am showed. Meanwhile, active cases have declined to 362,207.A report published in Lancet has said that there is currently no need for a booster dose for those who are already vaccinated with two shots of the jab. It added that the available vaccine supply will save far more lives if given to those who haven’t been vaccinated at all.The paper co-authored by two scientists who recently quit the US Food and Drug Administration--Philip Krause and Marion Gruber--also noted that unnecessary boosting might lead to some adverse events, which can then reduce vaccine acceptance.The researchers conclude that booster doses might eventually be needed because of waning immunity from the current vaccination or the virus evolving to escape the immune response generated by current vaccines and infections. In such a case, vaccines developed based on the newer variants are likely to be more effective.The government said on Monday that those who died at home or a hospital within 30 days of testing positive for Covid-19 will be considered Covid fatality. People who continued being treated for the infectious disease at hospitals beyond 30 days but died subsequently can also show the cause of their fatality as Covid-19.The new rules were formed as part of the simplified regulations issued jointly by the ministry of health and family welfare and the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) on September 3 following the Supreme Court judgment directing the Centre to consider expanding the scope of Covid-19 deaths to such people who were admitted initially for the viral disease but subsequently died due to related complications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-continues-to-account-for-more-than-50-of-daily-covid-cases-101631597138306.html
14-09-2021||India||Tribal welfare among top priorities of govt: J&K L-G||Jammu & Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Monday handed over individual and community rights certificates to the beneficiaries of Gujjar-Bakerwal, Gaddi-Sippi communities under the Forest Rights Act, 2006.Describing the occasion as “historic”, Sinha expressed gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for making it possible to implement the Act in the Union Territory (UT), and said the move will usher a new era of empowerment and prosperity for the deprived tribal population here.“I thank the PM Modi because of whom on December 1, 2020, we implemented the Forest Rights Act. Before 2019, many central laws were not implemented here. “The J-K administration, especially the forest department and the tribal affairs department, has started the endeavour to do something for the development of these communities,” he said. The L-G said about 20,000 applications were received and while several people have been given the certificates, all those eligible will be given the rights. “Apart from the Forest Rights Act, the administration has programmes for their education and health, and I am satisfied that we will be successful in joining the community with the mainstream,” he said.Also Read | PM Modi to lay foundation of university named after Jat king in Aligarh today“I want to assure that the UT administration is continuously working to protect the interests of tribal people, including their land; attention will be given to the maintenance of forests,” he added.The L-G noted that the community also needed to be sensitive to their responsibility towards forests and other natural resources. “As we embark on this new journey, I urge my tribal brothers and sisters in J&K to also fulfil their responsibility to protect the wildlife, the forests like a member of their family, and maintain the biodiversity,” Sinha said.In areas were community rights have been granted, ₹10 crore will be provided immediated for infrastructure development, he said, adding that work on roads, power supply, aanganwadi centres etc. will be started soon.Sinha said that development of tribal communities of the UT is among the top priorities of the government, “this year, the highest ever allocation of ₹73 crore has been made for cluster tribal model village.” The L-G further announced that 1,500 mini sheep farms will be established for livelihood; and 500 young people will be selected for skill development programmes.He said ‘Mission Youth’, with tribal department, has started the process of setting up 16 milk villages to connect at least 2,000 youngsters to the dairy sector at the cost of ₹16 crore, besides providing training, branding, marketing and transport facilities.Sinha added that the tribal communities will also be getting rights over minor forest produce. The government, in coordination with the Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India Limited, will establish infrastructure for collection, value addition, packaging, and distribution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tribal-welfare-among-top-priorities-of-govtjklg-101631596654209.html
14-09-2021||India||On Hindi Diwas, PM Modi says the language is making 'strong identity' globally||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday greeted the nation on Hindi Diwas and said that it is the result of the people's efforts that the language is "continuously making a strong identity globally". “Wishing you all a very Happy Hindi Diwas. People from different regions have played a remarkable role in making Hindi a capable language. It is the result of all your efforts that Hindi is continuously making a strong identity on the global stage,” PM Modi tweeted in Hindi. आप सभी को हिन्दी दिवस की ढेरों बधाई। हिन्दी को एक सक्षम और समर्थ भाषा बनाने में अलग-अलग क्षेत्रों के लोगों ने उल्लेखनीय भूमिका निभाई है। यह आप सबके प्रयासों का ही परिणाम है कि वैश्विक मंच पर हिन्दी लगातार अपनी मजबूत पहचान बना रही है।Union home minister Amit Shah also extended his wishes on the occasion of Hindi Diwas, calling it a part of Indian culture. “Hindi has been an effective and powerful medium of national unity and identity.”
14-09-2021||India||UAE embassy in India cautions against suspicious websites||The UAE embassy in India has issued an advisory alerting people against visiting suspicious sites and said they must only access its official website to get information. "Disclaimer!! @UAEembassyIndia advises all its visitors & clients to visit it’s official website for any necessary information by clicking on below link: http://mofaic.gov.ae/en/missions/new-delhi Pls avoid visiting suspicious sites," the UAE embassy has tweeted. "@UAEembassyIndia shall not be responsible if any damage occurs," it added.
14-09-2021||India||PM Modi to attend Quad summit in Washington on Sept 24: MEA||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to travel to the US during September 23-25 to participate in the first in-person summit of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad and to address the United Nations General Assembly. Modi, who will be making only his second visit abroad since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic last year, is expected to begin his visit with a bilateral meeting with US President Joe Biden in Washington. This will be the first in-person meeting between the two leaders since Biden assumed office earlier this year, though they have interacted at virtual events and spoken on phone several times. The Prime Minister will join Biden and his Australian and Japanese counterparts, Scott Morrison and Yoshihide Suga, for the Quad Leaders’ Summit at the White House in Washington on September 24 – six months after their first virtual summit held on March 12.“The Biden-Harris administration has made elevating the Quad a priority, as seen through the first-ever Quad Leaders-level engagement in March, which was virtual, and now this summit, which will be in-person,” White House spokesperson Jen Psaki said. Hosting the Quad leaders demonstrates the US administration’s “priority of engaging in the Indo-Pacific, including through new multilateral configurations to meet the challenges of the 21st century”, she said. The in-person summit will be an opportunity to review progress made since the virtual summit and to discuss regional issues of shared interest, the external affairs ministry said in a statement. Among the issues that are expected to figure prominently in the Quad Summit are the situation in Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover on August 15, and ways to given fresh impetus to the ambitious Quad vaccine partnership, which was announced in March and envisages the distribution of one billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines across the Indo-Pacific. Also Read | For the Taliban, why the Afghanistan of 2021 is different from 1996At their first 2+2 ministerial dialogue on September 11, India and Australia insisted Afghan soil must not become a safe haven for terrorists or be used for attacks on other nations, and called for steps to ensure an inclusive governing structure in Kabul. The US has said it intends to hold the Taliban to its counter-terrorism related commitments, including severing ties with al-Qaeda and other terror groups active in Afghanistan. The deliberations at the Quad Summit are expected to shape the approach of the four countries on the crucial issue of any recognition of the Taliban setup in Kabul. The statement from the external affairs ministry said the Quad leaders will “review the Quad vaccine initiative” as part of their ongoing efforts to contain the pandemic. Under the vaccine partnership, the four countries were to supply US-developed vaccines, such as the Johnson & Johnson shot, that would be manufactured in India with funding from American and Japanese financial institutions. Australia will provide logistics support to deliver the doses to countries across the Indo-Pacific. The initiative stalled after India was hit by a devastating second wave of Covid-19 infections in March-April and the country restricted vaccine exports. Under a new timeframe, the vaccines are expected to be rolled out next year. The four leaders will also exchange views on global issues such as critical and emerging technologies, connectivity and infrastructure, cyber security, maritime security, humanitarian assistance and disaster relief, climate change, and education, the statement said. Also Read | India, Australia share concerns on AfghanistanAt the maiden virtual summit, the four leaders had agreed to work towards setting global standards for critical technologies such as 5G and artificial intelligence, and to take further steps to ensure the Indo-Pacific remains a free, open and inclusive region with trade activities conducted under the framework of international rules. These steps were perceived as efforts to counter China’s aggressive and assertive actions across the region. The statement also said the upcoming summit will “provide a valuable opportunity for dialogue and interactions among the [Quad] leaders, anchored in their shared vision of ensuring a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region”. Psaki said the Quad Leaders will focus on deepening ties and advancing practical cooperation in areas such as combating Covid-19, the climate crisis, and partnering on emerging technologies and cyberspace. Modi is scheduled to address the general debate of the high-level segment of the 76th session of the UN General Assembly in New York on September 25. The theme for this year’s debate is “Building resilience through hope to recover from Covid-19, rebuild sustainably, respond to the needs of the planet, respect the rights of people, and revitalise the United Nations”. There had been some uncertainty regarding the holding of the Quad Summit following Suga’s recent decision to step down and not seek re-election as leader of Japan’s ruling Liberal Democrat Party (LDP) in the face of mounting criticism of his handling of the Covid-19 crisis. Suga took over just under a year ago after Shinzo Abe resigned citing ill health. The Japanese side had proposed holding the Quad Summit in a hybrid format, with Suga joining virtually. There were also suggestions for holding the summit after the election of a new Japanese prime minister at the end of this month, but the four countries ultimately decided to go ahead with the summit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-attend-quad-summit-in-washington-on-sept-24-mea-101631594253925.html
14-09-2021||India||India has administered at least 750 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 750 million Covid vaccine doses by Monday, September 13. By the day, the Centre has provided 727,048,325 vaccine doses to the states and Union Territories. Another 825,000 doses are in the pipeline. As many as 49,036,525 balance and unutilised doses were still available with states and UTs as on Monday morning.Meanwhile, by 5.30pm on Monday, 751,041,391 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 6,704,768 doses were administered on the day.In the 18-45 age group, 302,612,416 people have been given the first dose while 45,287,346 have got their second shot as well.Also Read | Wearing masks not going away for some time: Dr VK PaulAmong the healthcare workers, 10,364,684 have been given the first dose while 8,611,479 have got their second dose as well. Among the frontline workers, 18,338,713 have got their first dose and 14,101,351 have got their second dose too.
14-09-2021||India||Booster dose of Covid-19 vaccines not needed yet, says review in Lancet||There is currently no need for a booster dose against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in fully inoculated individuals as they continue to be protected even against hospitalisation and death even from the Delta variant, said a review of current evidences. It added that the available vaccine supply will save far more lives if given to those who haven’t been vaccinated at all.Earlier, the World Health Organisation had called for a moratorium on booster doses till the vaccines reach more people across the globe.“The limited supply of these vaccines will save the most lives if made available to people who are at appreciable risk of serious disease and have not yet received any vaccine. Even if some gain can ultimately be obtained from boosting, it will not outweigh the benefits of providing initial protection to the unvaccinated,” said the report, co-authored by WHO chief scientist Soumya Swaminathan, published in Lancet on Monday.The paper was co-authored by two scientists who recently quit the US Food and Drug Administration, Philip Krause and Marion Gruber.ALSO READ: Hesitant about getting the Covid-19 vaccine, ladies? An expert clears your doubtsThe report cautions against believing that a dropping titre of neutralising antibodies predicts a decline in efficacy of a vaccine. The ability of vaccines developed using proteins of the original Wuhan variant of the virus to protect against the current variants shows that the virus hasn’t evolved to the point of escaping the memory immune response induced by the vaccines.In addition, unnecessary boosting that might lead to known adverse events can reduce vaccine acceptance. “There could be risks if boosters are widely introduced too soon, or too frequently, especially with vaccines that can have immune-mediated side-effects (such as myocarditis in mRNA vaccines, or Guillain-Barre syndrome (a condition where the body’s immune system mistakenly attacks its nervous system leading to numbness and paralysis), which has been associated with adenovirus-vectored Covid-19 vaccines). If unnecessary boosting causes severe adverse reactions, there could be implications for vaccine acceptance that go beyond Covid-19 vaccines.”The researchers conclude that booster doses might eventually be needed because of waning immunity from the current vaccination or the virus evolving to escape the immune response generated by current vaccines and infections. In such a case, vaccines developed based on the newer variants are likely to be more effective.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/booster-dose-of-covid-19-vaccines-not-needed-yet-says-review-in-lancet-101631592514365.html
14-09-2021||India||‘Will have to continue wearing masks through next year’: Dr VK Paul||Dr VK Paul, NITI Aayog member (health), has said that people will have to continue wearing masks for as long as until next year against Covid-19 and warned that a third wave of the coronavirus pandemic cannot be ruled out.“Wearing the mask will not go away for some time, we will have to continue to wear the mask even through the next year,” he told NDTV in an exclusive interview. This, according to the senior doctor, is because the fight against Covid-19 will require a studied combination of disciplined social behaviour, vaccines and effective drugs.“I am of the view that this combination will finally see us through this pandemic,” he further said.Disciplined social behaviour in context of the coronavirus disease refers to what is known as Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, which includes wearing masks, washing hands with sanitisers, practicing social distancing etc. Wearing masks is considered as one of the most effective ways to guard against this contagious disease.Questioned on the possibility of a third wave of infections of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country, Dr Paul was emphatic in his response, saying that it cannot be ruled out. “The next three-four months are very important when the vaccine is rolling up to build the Great Wall of herd immunity. We need to protect ourselves and avoid the outbreak,” he remarked.Dr Paul also cautioned against lowering guard during the upcoming festive season. Doing so, he warned, could lead to massive spread of the infection. “We have a risky period in front of us, and guidelines should be invoked when the time cones. Timely intervention from the administration is likely to prevent any significant outbreak of the disease,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wearing-masks-not-going-away-for-some-time-dr-vk-paul-101631592043125.html
14-09-2021||India||Saudi foreign minister visiting India, Taliban and Afghanistan are priority||Saudi Arabia foreign minister Prince Faisal bin Farhan Al Saud is expected to visit India this weekend to discuss the unfolding situation in Afghanistan even as Qatar has taken lead in diplomatically engaging Kabul and towards legitimising the Taliban. India’s close allies in the Middle East, Saudi Arabia and the UAE are worried about the security ramifications of the medieval theocratic Afghanistan state and the ties of the global jihadist network with the Taliban regime. The two countries are also perturbed with the active role played by Qatar, Turkey and Pakistan in engaging the Sunni Islamist regime with Islamabad sending its first commercial flight to Kabul. Qatar is handling the technical side of the Kabul airport operations, while the Taliban is still considering handing over perimeter security to the Turkish military.While Prime Minister Narendra Modi discussed the Afghanistan situation with UAE crown prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan on September 3 over the telephone, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar hosted Dr Anwar Gargash, Diplomatic Advisor to UAE President, on August 30 and exchanged notes on the Kabul crisis.It is in this context that the Saudi foreign minister is scheduled to arrive in India on September 19. Prince Faisal is expected to hold meetings with EAM Jaishankar, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and call on Prime Minister Modi. Jaishankar departs for New York for UNGA and QUAD summit the next day.Even though Qatar has been the lead player in the rise of Taliban in Afghanistan with Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdul Rahman Al Thani and Special Envoy Mutlaq bin Majed Al Qahtani visiting Kabul last Sunday, the global community is a long way off in legitimizing the ultra-conservative Kabul regime. It is quite evident to the international community that the present Taliban regime has full military and political support of Pakistani ISI with its chief playing the kingmaker in government formation in Kabul.However, the international community is worried about the fall-out of Sunni Pashtun force usurping power through military means with no less than 17 out of the 33 ministers designated as global terrorists by the UN and sanctioned against. As per the UN 1267 list, the following ministers of the Taliban cabinet are on the UN list with interior minister Sirajuddin Haqqani being the crown prince of terror with a bounty of $5 million on his head by the US State Department. The head of Haqqani Network, the most lethal of terrorist groups operating in Afghanistan, is also the head of intelligence.1. Mullah Muhammad Hassan Akhund, Prime Minister2. Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, First Deputy PM3. Maulvi Abdul Salam Hanafi (Uzbek), Second Deputy PM4. Mullah Mohammed Yaqoob Omari, Defence Minister5. Mullah Sirajuddin Haqqani, Interior Minister.6. Maulvi Ameer Khan Muttaqi, Foreign Minister7. Mullah Khairullah Khairkhwa, Minister of Information and Broadcasting8. Qari Din Mohammed Hanif (Tajik) Minister of Economic Affairs9. Mullah Noorullah Noori, Minister for Border and Tribal Affairs10. Mullah Abdul Latif Mansoor, Minister of Water and Power11. Najibullah Haqqani, Minister of Communications12. Zabiullah Mujahid, Deputy Minister I and B13. Mullah Mohammed Fazil, Deputy Defence Minister14. Sher Mohammed Abbas Stanakzai, Deputy Foreign Minister.15. Maulvi Noor Jalal, Deputy Interior Minister16. Mullah Abdul Haq Wasiq, Intelligence Chief17. Mohammed Nabi Omani, Governor, KhostWhile countries like China, Pakistan, Turkey and Qatar are engaging the Taliban, the international community is measuring the Sunni Islamists with UNSC resolution 2593 before taking a call on towards legitimising the male-dominated regime with no space for women and minorities. This time Afghanistan apart from Indo-Pacific and coronavirus will resonate at the UNGA high segment sessions next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saudi-foreign-minister-visiting-india-taliban-and-afghanistan-are-priority-101631589301984.html
14-09-2021||India||Tourism can bring socio-economic change in N-E: Union minister Reddy||Union tourism minister G Kishan Reddy said on Monday that tourism can bring socio-economic change in the nation, especially in North East (N-E) region. Reddy was addressing the inaugural session of a conference of the tourism and culture ministers of the N-E states.Reddy said under the Swadesh Darshan scheme, which focuses on the integrated development of theme-based tourist circuits, the ministry has sanctioned 16 projects in the region. He added that his ministry is putting special emphasis on developing infrastructure, ground capacity and skills in the region.Under the PRASHAD schemes, the ministry has sanctioned several projects in the region. Approximately ₹200 crore has been sanctioned for these projects, he added.Also Read | Bridging the gap between the sciences and artsTalking about the initiatives under the DoNER ministry, Reddy said budgetary allocation to N-E states in 2021-22 is ₹68,020 crore. He urged all the state governments to submit viable proposals so that the full amount across various ministries can be successfully utilised.Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, Union minister of state for culture and parliamentary affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal and Union minister of state for tourism and defence Ajay Bhatt also attended the inaugural session.Senior officials from various ministries, state governments in the region as well as industry representatives participated in the conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tourism-can-bring-socio-economic-change-in-n-e-union-minister-reddy-101631590293819.html
14-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to lay foundation stone of university in Aligarh today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to lay foundation of university named after Jat king in Aligarh todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of a university named after Jat king Mahendra Pratap Singh in Uttar Pradesh's Aligarh on Tuesday. Read moreAAP to hold ‘Tiranga Yatra’ in Ayodhya today; Sisodia, Sanjay Singh to lead chargeThe Aam Aadmi Party will on Tuesday take out a “Tiranga Yatra” in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya, under Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh. Read more'If Ravi Shastri did step out, where were the concerned authorities?': Salman ButtFormer Pakistan captain Salman Butt, while addressing the criticism on Ravi Shastri and his book launch, questioned the level of security arrangements in England. Read moreMet Gala 2021: Jennifer Lopez and Ben Affleck kiss with masks on, see photosJennifer Lopez and Ben Affleck shared a Covid-19 friendly kiss at the event on Monday. Pictures were widely shared online by fan clubs. Read moreJennifer Lopez dazzles in Ralph Lauren high-leg slit dress, cowgirl hat at Met Gala 2021Jennifer Lopez arrives at the Met Gala 2021 in a custom Ralph Lauren high-leg slit dress and a cowgirl hat. Read moreIndian Army display combat ability at ZAPAD 2021; China, Pak remain ‘observers’The Indian Army has sent a 200-member contingent to Zapad 2021. The contingent has men from Naga regiment, mechanised infantry & IAF commandos. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-university-in-aligarh-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101631587515743.html
14-09-2021||India||Rain, floods killed 6,800 people in India in last 3 yrs; Bengal tops list||India has lost 6,811 people in the last three years to hydro-meteorological disasters such as heavy rain, lightning, flood and cyclones till March this year, according to government information to Parliament. West Bengal topped the list of states with at least 964 such deaths, revealing the state’s vulnerability to climate change. This means one in every seven such deaths were reported from the state between April 2018 and March 21, according to data placed in the Lok Sabha in August this year. Madhya Pradesh came a close second with 917 deaths and Kerala was placed third with 708 deaths during the same period. Madhya Pradesh alone recorded 674 deaths in 2019-20, mostly due to floods. Data of some states like Jharkhand, Andhra Pradesh, Telengana and Bihar were missing for some years. Hydro-meteorological disasters include heavy rains, lightning strikes, cyclones, floods, droughts, avalanche, heat wave and cold wave. Also Read | Next month, air pollution will be back“Intensity and frequency of extreme weather phenomenon, such as heavy rain, lightning, thunderstorms, heat waves and cyclones have increased in the last two decades triggered by climate change. Recent Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) assessment says that for every 1°C rise in temperature, the water holding capacity of the atmosphere will increase by 7%. So the quantum of high intensity precipitation in each of the events is going up and we are seeing the consequences,” said KJ Ramesh, former director of India Meteorological Department (IMD). Data available with the Union ministry of earth sciences also show that while in 2016, at least four cyclones had hit the Indian coast, out of which only one was a severe cyclone, in 2020 the country was battered by five severe cyclones. Likewise, events of very heavy rainfall and extremely heavy rainfall have also been increasing, ministry data have shown. While in 2016, around 1,864 IMD stations across India recorded very heavy rain and 226 stations recorded extremely heavy rain, in 2020, 1,912 stations registered very heavy rain and extremely heavy rain was recorded in 341 stations. The data, however, do not include deaths reported this year during the monsoon season. Data released by the Union government showed that this year between June 1 and September 1, at least 680 people have died in rain related accidents. Around 75 such deaths were reported from West Bengal alone till September 1. In May 2021, cyclone Yaas killed 14 people in West Bengal and Odisha. Also Read | Climate action dialogue: US envoy lauds India’s leadership on renewable energyIn 2020, cyclone Amphan killed 98 people in West Bengal, while cyclone Tauktae, which hit the western coast this year, killed 118 people. West Bengal has been hit by three back-to-back very severe cyclones in November 2019 (Bulbul), May 2020 (Amphan) and May 2021 (Yaas), which together killed around 153 people. The ‘Assessment of climate change over the Indian region’ – a report published by the Union earth sciences ministry in 2020 – suggests that the frequency of daily precipitation extremes with rainfall intensities exceeding 150 mm per day increased by about 75% during 1950-2015 in central India. The report also suggests that the country’s average temperature has shot up by 0.7% between 1901 and 2018. “Our analysis of IMD data of a century says that the number of depressions intensifying into cyclones has dropped in the Bay of Bengal. But when a cyclone develops its intensity is very high. Similarly, the overall rainfall in the monsoon season has increased but the number of rainy days has dropped, resulting in intense spells. The latest IPCC report has already pointed out that Kolkata recorded the highest rise in surface air temperature within the studied cities and regions across the world in 1950-2018. Except for desert, West Bengal has everything -- from mountains to sea and river floodplains -- and so it is also vulnerable to the effects of climate change. What aggravates the situation is that while on one hand, alteration of nature is going on in an unbridled way, we lack mitigation and preparedness,” said Tuhin Ghosh, director of School of Oceanographic Studies at Jadavpur University in Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-floods-killed-6-800-people-in-india-in-last-3-yrs-bengal-tops-list-101631589513739.html
14-09-2021||India||Nipah virus in Kerala: 17 more samples test negative, hunt on to find source||The samples of 17 people, who were in the contact list of the 12-year-old boy who succumbed to the Nipah virus disease on September 5, have tested negative, Kerala health minister Veena George has said. According to Veena George, of the 17 results, five were tested at the Pune NIV and the rest at the special laboratory set up at the Kozhikode Medical College. "Currently, the samples of 140 close contacts have tested negative," the minister said in a release.The Kerala health minister said a total of 115 samples were tested within six days in the special laboratory set up at the medical college. The lab was set up on September 6, a day after the 12-year-old boy succumbed to Nipah, the minister also said. The Kerala government has ramped up testing of samples after the first case of the Nipah virus this year was reported in Kozhikode. Nipah virus is a zoonotic virus and can also be transmitted from human to human.Also read | Nipah outbreak: Karnataka to keep close eye on arrivals from KeralaLast Sunday, the minister said that the samples of four close contacts of the 12-year-old boy returned negative, but the source was yet to be identified. "Our field surveillance is continuing along with the fever surveillance. The sample testing is also continuing in the epicentre of the infection," she told reporters.She said it was important to identify the source of infection and the surveillance team from the National Institute of Virology in Pune has been collecting samples from various areas. "The high-risk contacts have been isolated in the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital. Their health condition is stable. It's important that we identify the source of the infection. We are trying to. The Pune NIV team is collecting samples from various parts to identify the source," she said.Also read | What Kerala learnt from third outbreak of Nipah virusOn Saturday, a team of health officials from NIV collected samples from fruit-eating bats to find the source of the Nipah virus in Kozhikode.After the boy succumbed to the Nipah virus on September 5, the Kerala government conducted a complete house-to-house survey within a three-km radius from his house as part of its fever surveillance. Around 15,000 houses from the containment zone were included in the survey and details were sought from around 68,000 people, it has also said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nipah-virus-in-kerala-17-more-samples-test-negative-hunt-on-to-find-source-101631587905461.html
14-09-2021||India||Monsoon’s first depression brings heavy rain over central, west India||This monsoon’s first depression brought extremely heavy rain (over 20cm) to several parts of Odisha and Gujarat on Monday. The deep depression had formed over northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining Odisha coast. Normally, around 5 to 6 depressions form during monsoon season, bringing extensive rainfall to central and west India.Puri’s Astranga station reported 53cm; Kakatpur reported 52cm and Jagatsinghpur’s Balikuda reported 44cm between 8.30am on Sunday to 8.30am on Monday while Lodhika in Gujarat’s Rajkot recorded 50cm; Visavadar in Junagarh recorded 35cm; Kalavad in Jamnagar recorded 29cm from 8.30 am on Monday to 5.30pm.Also Read | Generally cloudy sky in Delhi today; expect light rainsThe deep depression over north Odisha moved further west-northwestwards on Monday and lay centred over north interior Odisha, close to Jharsuguda early morning on Tuesday. It is very likely to continue to move west-northwestwards across north Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh during the next 48 hours. The deep depression is very likely to weaken into a depression during the next 12 hours. There is also a low pressure area lying over Gujarat region with an associated cyclonic circulation. It is very likely to become less marked during the next 12 hours. The monsoon trough is lying south of its normal position. It is very likely to remain south of its normal position during the next 3-4 days.Widespread rainfall over Odisha and Chhattisgarh with isolated extremely heavy rain is likely over these areas till Tuesday. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rain is very likely over north Konkan, north Madhya Maharashtra, Gujarat, east Rajasthan, and Madhya Pradesh during the next 3-4 days. A fresh spell of heavy rain is likely over northwest India from September 16 at isolated places over Haryana, Rajasthan and west Uttar Pradesh.“Normally, 5-6 depressions form in monsoon but this year we have had only well marked low pressure areas this year. This deep depression will weaken during next 12 hours. The depression will move west-northwestwards and reach west Madhya Pradesh and adjoining Rajasthan region. But a trough will form which will get a moisture feed from Arabian Sea which is why we are likely to experience thundershowers and rain around September 16,” said Sunitha Devi, in charge of cyclones at IMD.Normally, monsoon starts withdrawing from northwest India around September 17 but IMD’s extended range forecast shows widespread rainfall till September 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoons-1st-depression-brings-widespread-heavy-rain-over-central-west-india-101631588373729.html
14-09-2021||India||IMD projects weakening of deep depression in Odisha||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) projected on Tuesday that a deep depression, which is present over north Odisha, would weaken into a depression. “Deep depression over north Odisha lay centred at 2330 hours IST of 13th September 2021, over north interior Odisha about 80 km southeast of Jharsiguda. To weaken into a depression during the next six hours,” the IMD said on its Twitter handle.
14-09-2021||India||Maharashtra registered lowest single-day Covid count in over 7 months||Maharashtra on Monday added 2,740 fresh Covid-19 cases-- the lowest single-day count in 219 days or over seven months. The state also reported 27 deaths in the past 24 hours, which is its lowest in 190 days. While the dip in cases is also due to lower number of testing on weekends, the state is seeing an overall downward trend in daily infections, as per official data.To be sure, the lowest single-day infection figure in the last seven months coincides with the lowest one-day testing figure since March 22. On that day, Maharashtra reported 105,830 tests with 24,645 new cases at a positivity rate of 23.29%. Monday’s positivity rate was 2.54% of the 108,216 samples tested for Covid over the last 24 hours.However, a month after suburban train services in Mumbai were opened up for the fully vaccinated population, Covid-19 cases in Mumbai and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) have seen an increase in the number of daily infections. While the state health department officials are concerned about the rise, they will be able to assess the situation better by early October, when a pattern is likely to emerge.Mumbai logged 345 Covid cases on Monday and six fatalities, taking the infection count in the city to 735,400 and the death toll to 16,028. The city and its surrounding areas in MMR logged over 22% of the state’s total cases on Monday.The state’s active case count has dropped to 49,880, while overall positivity rate stood at 11.59%. The overall case tally in the state went up to 6,500,617, and the death toll rose to 138,169.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-registered-lowest-single-day-covid-count-in-over-7-months-101631585613547.html
14-09-2021||India||Hindi Diwas 2021: How Mahatma Gandhi promoted the language||Hindi Diwas or Hindi Day is observed across the country every year on September 14 and its main objective is to preserve and maintain this language. Mahatma Gandhi called Hindi the language of the masses and talked about making Hindi the national language of the nation. “Using Hindi in national practice is necessary for the progress of the country," he said.Role of Mahatma Gandhi in promoting HindiWhen Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi came to India from South Africa in 1915, his first movement started from Champaran in Bihar. When Gandhi went to Champaran, the biggest problem he faced was the language. Some local colleagues helped him in this matter, but Gandhi himself learned Hindi very diligently.Before joining the freedom movement, Gandhiji travelled all across India and found that Hindi is the only language that can connect the whole country. That is why he talked about making Hindi the national language and linked the entire national movement with it. After Independence, a foreign journalist asked him to give a message to the world. To that, Gandhi said that the entire world does not know English.Gandhi's association with HindiGandhi's relationship with Hindi writers and poets also remained very close. Poet Premchand admitted that his association with Hindi and the national movement was possible only because of Gandhi. The Hindi that Gandhi used to write and speak was not called Hindi, but Hindustani. It was different from the Sanskritised Hindi of that time. It was simple Hindi, which Gandhi used as a communication language.Gandhi also brought out several newspapers in Hindi, English and Gujarati languages. He brought out two newspapers in Hindi - Navjeevan and Harijan Sevak. Gandhiji preferred to answer most of his letters in Hindi only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindi-diwas-2021-how-mahatma-gandhi-promoted-the-language-101631582546436.html
14-09-2021||India||Nizamuddin Markaz case has cross border implications: Centre to Delhi HC||The case registered in relation to the alleged violation of Covid-19 protocols at Nizamuddin Markaz --  where the Tablighi Jamaat congregation was held in March last year amid Covid-19 pandemic— is serious and has “cross borders implications”, the Centre told the Delhi High Court which Monday remarked that the premises can't be kept locked forever. Justice Mukta Gupta, who was hearing the Delhi Waqf Board's plea to re-open the markaz which has remained shut since March 31 last year, questioned the Centre as to how long it intended to keep the Nizamuddin Markaz locked, saying it can't be “kept forever”.Counsel for the Centre stated that a legal action to re-open the markaz can only be initiated by the lessee of the property and a resident of the premises has already filed a plea to handover the residential portion of the markaz, which is pending final adjudication before another judge of the high court.“Only on legal view, the petition can be disposed of. The Waqf Board has no power to overstep the lessee,” said the counsel for the Centre Rajat Nair.However, the judge said “some persons were in possession of the property. Due to the pandemic, an FIR was registered.. (and) you take possession as case property. It has to be handed over. It can't be that the property is kept forever (subject to court orders). What is your stand on the facts of the case? You tell me from whom you took it. How long will you keep it locked as case property.”The court issued notice on an application filed by a member of the Managing Committee of the markaz in question for his impleadment and allowed the Waqf Board to file its reply to the Centre's affidavit and posted the matter for next hearing on November 16.Senior counsel Ramesh Gupta, representing the Board, argued that the petition has remained pending for more than a year and a half and clarified that his petition pertained to the release of the entire markaz property comprising the masjid, the madarasa and the residential portion.“Now they should release the property to us. UOI has no role to play,” he stated.Senior counsel Salman Khurshid, representing the intervening member, added that he is “on the same page as the Waqf” and when allowed to be re-opened, the markaz would adhere to the relevant protocols.In its affidavit affirmed by the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Crime, the Centre has maintained that it is “necessary and incumbent” to “preserve” the Markaz property as the investigation in the case registered for violation of the Covid-19 protocols has “cross borders implications and involves nation's diplomatic relationship with other countries.”“As such, in view of the seriousness of the case which has trans-border implication and diplomatic consideration, it is just and necessary that the case property in such a case is preserved in letter and spirit so that due process of law in dealing with such cases is followed,” the affidavit said.  “Since about 1300 foreigners were found to be residing in the said premises and cases against them have cross borders implications and involves nation's diplomatic relationship with other countries, it is necessary and incumbent on the part of the Respondent to preserve the said premises for the purpose of Section 310 of Cr.PC,” it added.It said since the issue of keeping the markaz premises locked is pending adjudication before another bench, it “cannot be agitated by the petitioner (Waqf) in guise of its power of superintendence”.It added that the right to administer the markaz is subject to law, public order and health and that the authorities have “always relaxed the entry norms upon a proper application made by the person administering the religious affair” as and when the organizers apply for a relaxation in view of any ensuing religious festival or for any other reason.On April 15, the court had allowed 50 people to offer namaz five times a day at Nizamuddin Markaz during Ramzan, saying there is no direction in the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) notification to close down places of worship.The board, in its plea filed through advocate Wajeeh Shafiq, contended that even after unlock-1 guidelines permitted religious places outside containment zones to be opened, the markaz -- comprising the Masjid Bangley Wali, Madarsa Kashif-ul-uloom and attached hostel -- continues to be locked up.It has further contended that even if the premises was part of any criminal investigation or trial, keeping it "under lock as an out of bound area" was a "primitive method" of enquiry process.Several FIRs have been registered under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act, Foreigners Act and various provisions of the penal code in connection with the Tablighi Jamaat event held at the markaz and the subsequent stay of foreigners there during the Covid-19 lockdown last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nizamuddin-markaz-case-has-cross-border-implications-centre-to-delhi-hc-101631582874078.html
14-09-2021||India||Hindi Diwas 2021: Know its history and significance||India celebrates Hindi Diwas, also known as Hindi Day, on September 14 every year to commemorate the adoption of Hindi in the Devanagari script as one of the official languages of the nation. One of the reasons behind celebrating this day is to prevent the increasing trend of the English language in the nation and the neglect of Hindi. It is to be noted that Mahatma Gandhi called Hindi the language of the masses. The Father of the Nation also talked about making Hindi the national language of the nation.History of Hindi DiwasThe Constituent Assembly of India accepted Hindi, written in Devanagari script, as the official language of India on September 14, 1949. Officially, the first Hindi Day was celebrated on September 14, 1953. The reason behind adopting Hindi as one of the official languages was to simplify administration in a nation with multiple languages. Efforts were made by several writers, poets and activists for the adoption of Hindi as the official language.Significance of Hindi DiwasHindi Diwas is celebrated every year to promote the Hindi language. In order to promote Hindi, it is advised to use Hindi in place of English in all government offices. Many literary and cultural events are organised on this day across the nation, wherein people celebrate great works of Hindi literature. Rajbhasha Kirti Puraskar and Rajbhasha Gaurav Puraskar awards are also given to ministries, departments, public sector units (PSUs), nationalised banks and citizens on Hindi Diwas for their contribution and promotion of Hindi.Many schools and colleges organise various literary and cultural programmes, as well as competitions to showcase the importance of the day and raise awareness about the language. The President of India honours people for their contributions to the language at a function held in Delhi’s Vigyan Bhawan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindi-diwas-2021-know-its-history-and-significance-101631577473141.html
14-09-2021||NA||Breaking news: Jharkhand schools for students below Class 6 to remain close||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Jharkhand schools for students below Class 6 to remain closeSchools in Jharkhand will remain closed for students below Class 6, health minister Banna Gupta announced on Tuesday as the state continues to report fewer fresh Covid-19 cases.Delhi records 38 Covid-19 cases, zero deathDelhi on Tuesday recorded 38 Covid-19 cases but no virus-related fatality, according to the government bulletin. The test positivity rate currently stands at 0.05 per cent.West Bengal reports 703 new Covid cases, 12 related deathsWest Bengal reported 703 new Covid-19 cases and 12 related deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the government data.Night curfew in Andhra Pradesh extended from September 16 to 30, reports ANI quoting CM's officeThe night curfew across the state has been extended from the 16 September to 30 September: Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister's Office (CMO)The Andhra Pradesh government has extended the night curfew in the state from September 16 to 30, reports ANI quoting CM's office.Delhi Police special cell busts par-organised terror module, reports ANIA special cell of Delhi Police has busted an organised terror module, reported news agency ANI. Delhi Police said that the suspects were planning to carry out targeted killings and blasts across the country.AAP takes out a 'Tiranga Sankalp Yatra' in Ayodhya, Sisodia presentAam Aadmi Party (AAP) takes out a 'Tiranga Sankalp Yatra' in Ayodhya. Party leader and Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia participating in the yatra. pic.twitter.com/BlAhVeRInNAndhra Pradesh reports 1,125 new  Covid cases, 9 deathsAndhra Pradesh reported 1,125 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and nine related death in the last 24 hours, according to the government bulletin. The state recorded 1,356 recoveries.Trinamool Congress nominates Sushmita Dev to Rajya SabhaTrinamool Congress on Tuesday nominated Sushmita Dev, a former Congress leader, to Rajya Sabha. “Mamata Banerjee's vision to empower women and ensure their maximum participation in politics shall help our society to achieve much more!” TMC tweeted.Night curfew to be imposed in 8 Gujarat citiesThe Gujarat government on Tuesday announced a night curfew for eight major cities, starting September 15. The curfew will be in effect from 11 pm to 6 am in order to curb the spread of Covid-19 cases.Sansad TV set to launch on Sep 15 at 6 pmSansad TV, the common platform for Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, will be launched on September 15 at 6pm. It will replace Lok Sabha TV and Rajya Sabha TV.BJP MP Arjun Singh says bombs again thrown outside his Jagaddal residence in West BengalBJP MP Arjun Singh said that bombs were again thrown outside his residence in Jagaddal, North 24 Paraganas on Tuesday. Police and bomb disposal are squad present at the spot, reported ANI. Singh alleged that attempt of creating an atmosphere of fear is being made, demanding an investigation into the matter by the National Investigation Agency.Putin to self-isolate over Covid cases in ‘inner circle’, reports AFPRussian President Vladimir Putin will self-isolate after Covid cases were identified in his inner circle, said Kremlin on Tuesday. Fire breaks out in Delhi's InderlokFire breaks out in Delhi's Inderlok area, reports ANI. Firefighters at spot to douse the blaze.Terrorists hurl grenade at police party in PulwamaThree civilians injured as terrorists hurl grenade at police party in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama.PM Modi takes veiled swipe at CongressThere was a time when the administration was run by goons, governance was in the hands of the corrupt, but now such people are behind the bars, says PM Modi in Aligarh.RBI announces project with Monetary Authority of SingaporeReserve Bank of India (RBI) and the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) announce project to link their respective fast payment systems: UPI and PayNow. Linkage likely to be operationalised by July 2022.WPI inflation rises to 11.39% in AugustWPI inflation rises marginally to 11.39% in August, against 11.16% in July, reports PTI citing govt data.PM Modi lays foundation stone of university in AligarhPrime Minister Narendra Modi lays foundation stone of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh University in Uttar Pradesh's Aligarh.No compensation for families of lawyers who died due to Covid: SCSupreme Court dismisses plea seeking compensation for family of lawyers who died due to Covid-19, says can't make exceptions.NHRC notice to Centre, 4 states over farmers' protestNational Human Rights Commission (NHRC) issues notices to Union of India, Delhi, Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and other authorities asking for reports of farmers' protest.IMD projects light rain/drizzle at isolated places in Delhi and parts of UPLight intensity rain/drizzle would occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of Delhi ( Pitampura), Saharanpur, Gangoh, Deoband, Muzaffarnagar, Bijnaur (UP) during the next 2 hours: India Meteorological Department (IMD)Narada case: Bengal assembly speaker summons CBI, ED officialsBiman Banerjee summons CBI and ED officials probing the Narada case. They have been asked to appear before Speaker on September 22, to explain why the speaker's permission was not taken before initiating action against elected representatives: ReportsPM Modi extends greetings on Hindi Dayआप सभी को हिन्दी दिवस की ढेरों बधाई। हिन्दी को एक सक्षम और समर्थ भाषा बनाने में अलग-अलग क्षेत्रों के लोगों ने उल्लेखनीय भूमिका निभाई है। यह आप सबके प्रयासों का ही परिणाम है कि वैश्विक मंच पर हिन्दी लगातार अपनी मजबूत पहचान बना रही है।“Hindi being recognised globally due to efforts from people from all over the country,” tweets PM Modi on Hindi Day.India logs 25,404 new Covid-19 cases and 339 deathsIndia records 25,404 new Covid-19 cases, 37,127 recoveries and 339 deaths as cumulative case tally mounts to 33,289,579.544,444,967 samples tested for Covid-19: ICMR544,444,967 samples tested for Covid-19 till September 13, 2021. 1,430,891 samples tested on September 13, 2021: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).Evacuated 124,000 people from Afghanistan, says United StatesThe United States completed one of the biggest airlifts in history, with 124,000 people evacuated from Afghanistan to safety. Our diplomats, our military, and our intelligence professionals achieved this under the most difficult conditions imaginable.“The United States completed one of the biggest airlifts in history, with 124,000 people evacuated from Afghanistan to safety. Our diplomats, our military, and our intelligence professionals achieved this under the most difficult conditions imaginable,” tweets Ned Price, spokesperson, US State Department.Dengue case count in Indore rises to 139Indore district reported 17 new dengue cases on Sunday. With this, the overall tally of dengue cases has increased to 139 in the district: Indore chief medical health officer Dr BS SethiaPM Modi to address UNGA on September 25: MEAPrime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to address the General Debate of the High-Level Segment of 76th Session of UN General Assembly (UNGA) on September 25 in New York: Ministry of external affairsChina 's daily Covid-19 cases rise to 92China records 92 new Covid-19 cases, up from 49 on September 12. No new death reported.UK PM Boris Johnson's mother passes away: ReportCharlotte Johnson Wahl has passed away at 79, according to a report in the Telegraph. She passed away "suddenly and peacefully" at a London hospital on Monday, the newspaper said, quoting a statement from the family.Australia's Victoria registers fall in new Covid-19 casesAustralia's Victoria reports 445 new Covid-19 cases as against the year's high of 473 from Monday. Death toll rises by two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-september-14-2021-101631579133173.html
14-09-2021||India||AAP to hold ‘Tiranga Yatra’ in Ayodhya today; Sisodia, Sanjay Singh to lead charge||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will on Tuesday take out a “Tiranga Yatra” in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya. It will be led by Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh, both of whom arrived in the temple town on Monday, and paid obeisance to Lord Ram and Lord Hanuman.Also Read | Aam Aadmi Party to take out “Tiranga Yatra” in Ayodhya on September 14The “yatra” will take place in the city from Gulab Bari to Gandhi Park. AAP’s “Tiranga Yatra” comes as it tries to make inroads into politically crucial Uttar Pradesh, where assembly elections are scheduled to take place next year, most likely in February-March. The Arvind Kejriwal-led party kicked off its statewide “yatra” in Agra on August 29, and held the event in Noida as well, on September 1. In coming days, the programme will take place in UP’s capital city of Lucknow, too.In August, the AAP announced “Tiranga Yatra” in Uttar Pradesh to mark 75th year of India’s independence.Both Sisodia and Singh, whose schedule on day 1 included a meet with seers, took to Twitter to share photos from their visit to Ayodhya. The event will take place on a day when prime minister Narendra Modi will be in Aligarh to lay the foundation stone of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh State University. PM Modi’s visit is being seen as the launch by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of its campaign for the assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aaps-tiranga-yatra-in-ayodhya-today-sisodia-sanjay-singh-to-lead-charge-101631578257025.html
14-09-2021||India||PM Modi to lay foundation of university named after Jat king in Aligarh today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lay the foundation stone of a university named after Jat king Mahendra Pratap Singh in Uttar Pradesh's Aligarh on Tuesday, according to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). PM Modi will address a gathering and then visit the exhibition models of the Aligarh node of the Uttar Pradesh defence industrial corridor and Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh State University. This will be the first of the many visits of PM Modi ahead of the 2022 assembly election in Uttar Pradesh.
14-09-2021||India||Fiscal policy not courts’ call: SC||The fiscal policy of a government cannot be dictated through the judgments of constitutional courts, held the Supreme Court on Monday while underscoring that any such order “would constitute an impermissible judicial encroachment on legislative power” of the State.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah highlighted that legislative choices and fiscal policy decisions are based on complex balances drawn between political, economic and social needs and aspirations, and are a result of careful analysis of the data and information regarding the levy of taxes and their collection.“Fiscal policy ought not be dictated through the judgments of the high courts or this court. For it is not the function of the court in the fiscal arena to compel Parliament to go further and to do more by, for instance, expanding the coverage of the legislation (to liquor, stamp duty and petroleum) or to bring in uniformity of rates. This would constitute an impermissible judicial encroachment on legislative power,” said the bench, while deciding a clutch of cases relating to Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) Act 2017.The SC was called upon to decide the validity of Section 54(3) of the Act, which contained a provision for refund of unutilised input tax credit where the rate of tax on inputs is higher than the rate of tax on output supplies.A slew of petitions stated that Section 54(3) must be rendered unconstitutional if it is to be interpreted as confining the refund only to input goods and not to input services. Further, they contended that Rule 89(5) of the Act must also be declared ultra vires in so far as it excludes tax on input services from the refund formula. The petitions added that the entire basket of unutilised input tax credit, whether traceable to goods or services, is eligible for refund.The cases reached the SC following divergent views taken by the high courts of Gujarat and Madras in the manner of interpreting the legal provisions. The Gujarat HC, by its July 2020 judgment in VKC Footsteps India Pvt Ltd case, held that Rule 89(5) is ultra vires Section 54(3) of the Act. However, Madars HC, by its September 2020 judgment in Tvl Transtonnelstroy Afcons Joint Venture case, affirmed the validity of the impugned GST rule.The bench rejected challenges to the validity of both the provisions, and upheld them on the ground that it was within the legislative competence to provide for differential regime for goods and services and confine the scope of the refund under the impugned provision only to goods. “The court while interpreting the provisions of Section 54(3) must give effect to its plain terms. The court cannot redraw legislative boundaries on the basis of an ideal which the law was intended to pursue,” said the court, pointing out that when there is no uniform rate of taxes on inputs goods, input services and outward supplies, such distinctions will have to be made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fiscal-policy-not-courts-call-sc-101631572034849.html
14-09-2021||India||Cheapest to build a solar farm in India, says Kerry||India and the US launched a clean energy financing initiative on Monday, as the US’s special envoy on climate John Kerry held discussions with Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav and nudged New Delhi to commit to net-zero carbon emission goals during his two-day visit to the Capital.After an hour-long discussion with Yadav in Delhi, the two leaders launched the Climate Action and Finance Mobilisation Dialogue (CAFMD) — an India-US initiative that aims to attract investment and technology in clean energy projects. CAFMD is part of the India-US Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership that was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden at the Leaders’ Summit held in April this year.“The dialogue will facilitate finance and technology to achieve it. Over the past six months, the six largest banks in America have all publicly committed that over the next 10 years, they will invest a minimum of $4.16 trillion in this effort to make this transition happen,” he said.Kerry also lauded India’s leadership on pushing ahead with clean energy and targeting 450GW of renewable energy by 2030. “India is a world leader in demonstrating economic development and clean energy can go hand in hand. I am confident that the 450GW goal will be reached,” he said.But the former US secretary of state, who has been laying the groundwork for a key UN climate conference in November this year, underscored the need for all Paris agreement signatories to commit to a net-zero emissions target by 2050.“No country can do this alone,” Kerry said. “And the world can’t do it if everybody doesn’t sign up to be part of the solution. That’s why we are rallying the world to address this massive challenge and to raise global ambition in the lead up to the COP26 (UN climate change conference).”“Floods, forest fires, record levels of rainfall are happening everywhere. And to keep 1.5 degree warming limit in reach, and avoid more catastrophic consequences, we must act now,” he asserted, invoking the findings of the latest report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) released last month.Based on 14,000 scientific papers studied by 234 experts, the first part of the IPCC report said the world will miss its target of keeping global warming to under 1.5°C over pre-industrial levels, and that this will be exceeded in the next two decades, resulting in a higher frequency and intensity of extreme weather events. Attributing the heating almost exclusively to human activity, it also called for immediate action, including a move away from fossil fuels if the world wants to keep global warming to under 2°C.Under the 2015 Paris agreement, India has pledged to reduce emissions intensity of GDP by 33%-35% below the 2005 level by 2030 and raise the non-fossil share of power generation capacity to 40% by 2030, among other measures.Ahead of the 26th Conference of the Parties (COP26) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) in Glasgow this November, several other countries including Germany and UK climate chief Alok Sharma have also pushed New Delhi to commit to a net-zero carbon emissions target and enhance its Paris deal goals.New Delhi, however, maintains that developed countries which have historically contributed the most to global warming and reaped the economic benefits of industrialisation should bear a larger responsibility of battling the climate crisis.On Monday, Bhupender Yadav said India was committed to fighting climate crisis, but added that he hoped the world will take into account the needs of developing countries. “I believe this dialogue will not only strengthen India-US bilateral cooperation on climate and environment, but will also help demonstrate how the world can align swift climate action with inclusive and resilient economic development, taking into account national circumstances and sustainable development priorities,” the environment minister said at the launch.An expert on UN climate negotiations too said it will be “unfair” to have a “uniform” timeline for all countries on net-zero emissions. “Keeping equity and the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities in sight, its unfair to have uniform timelines for all economies to transition to net zero. The largest polluters with historical responsibility should transition by 2030 or 2040 and give the developing world time. China has committed to net zero emissions only by 2060,” the expert, who wished to remain anonymous, said.Making his case for net-zero emissions, Kerry said it is now economically feasible for countries to transition to clean energy.“It is cheaper to build a solar farm in India than anywhere else in the world. Investors are flocking to clean energy and energy transition rebounding after worst of the pandemic… the International Energy Agency forecasts that if India seizes the clean energy opportunity, it could become the world’s largest markets for batteries and solar panels,” he said.Experts said Kerry’s two-day visit to Delhi — his second since appointment to this post — is a step in the right direction.“With COP26 around the corner, the visit of John Kerry and the launch of the Climate Action and Finance Mobilisation Dialogue, are steps in the direction of restoring trust between the developed countries and the Global South.... In 2010, India had less than 20 megawatts (MW) of solar energy. Today, it is the largest renewables market that follows market principles... For developed countries like the US, forging new partnerships with India, which would cover co-operation on climate-resilient infrastructure and green hydrogen, creating a joint platform for sustainable finance and building capacity in the Global South would be critical to accelerate the pace of the energy transition and convert climate ambition into action,” said Arunabha Ghosh, CEO of Council on Energy, Environment and Water.Earlier in the day, Kerry also met Union power minister RK Singh in Delhi and called on external affairs minister S Jaishankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cheapest-to-build-a-solar-farm-in-india-says-kerry-101631571419673.html
14-09-2021||India||Farmers earned ₹27 a day from cultivation in 2018-19||An Indian farmer earned ₹27 per day on average from cultivation in 2018-19. This is less than what they would have earned doing MGNREGS work through the year.These numbers underline the magnitude of the viability crisis in Indian agriculture.India’s inability to shift a large part of its workforce from agriculture to non-agricultural work, especially manufacturing, is considered one of the biggest failures of its economic policy. Agriculture is considered to be the employment of last resort in India. This became apparent during the lockdown last year, when share of agricultural employment increased for the first time in India (read.ht/J9kZ).Markets, however, always find a way to surprise. The latest Situation Assessment Survey (SAS) – it is the most comprehensive official survey on economic conditions of farmers in the country – published by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on September 10, and first reported by Hindustan Times on September 11, presents one such surprise.SAS – it was conducted in calender year 2019 and collected data for the July 2018-June 2019 period – shows a unique contradiction in the Indian economy. Agriculture continues to be the largest employer . The corresponding Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) for 2018-19 put the share of agricultural employment at 42.5%. But cultivation of crops – the activity considered synonymous with agriculture by most people – is no longer the largest source of income for the average Indian farmer or agricultural household (more on this later).Experts believe the declining share of cultivation in the overall income of farmers highlights the marginalisation of farming itself within the Indian economy. This is a development that does not bode well for private investment in improving farm yields and ensuring sustainability.Almost half of India’s rural households have insignificant stakes in agricultureSAS estimates that there are 93.1 million agricultural households in rural India. It also lists another 79.3 million non-agricultural households in rural India (SAS is a rural survey). An agricultural household is defined as one which produced field or horticultural crops, livestock, or other specified agricultural products worth more than ₹4,000 and had a member self-employed in agriculture in the 365 days preceding the survey.This means that almost half of India’s rural population does not even have the minimal economic stakes in agriculture, which is what it takes to qualify as an agricultural household. Almost all (99%) of non-agricultural households possess less than one hectare of land and the major source of income for almost half of them is from casual employment. Approximately one in five non-agricultural households reported having salaried work, which might be a sign of economic well-being – salaried employment is the highest paying kind of work in India – rather than distress.Cultivation incomes are losing importance even for agricultural householdsSelf-employment in cultivation and animal farming is the largest source of income for 71% of the estimated 93.1 million agricultural households . An average agricultural household earned a smaller share of its total income from cultivation (38%) than from wages (40%). Unfortunately, SAS surveys are not conducted as regularly as NSO’s employment and consumption surveys. So, a proper historical comparison of the declining importance of cultivation is not possible. However, in the last SAS round, which collected data for the July 2012-June 2013 period, the share of income from cultivation in total income was 48%. While cultivation incomes were not an overwhelming majority of farmers’ incomes even earlier, this is the first instance where cultivation is not even the largest source of income for India’s agricultural households.An MGNREGS worker can earn more than the average farmer in IndiaThe Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) provides guaranteed unskilled work for hundred days in a year in India’s villages on demand. Wages under MGNREGS are slightly below par with unskilled wages in the open market. This makes the programme very good at self-targeting. Only those who find nowhere else to work will ask for manual work under MGNREGS.In the traditional village hierarchy, an MGNREGS worker will be seen as the poorest of the poor. SAS shows that for all but five states, average income from cultivation per agricultural household is actually less than what MGNREGS work would theoretically pay in 365 days.The average wage under the MGNREGS for each month by states is available from the scheme’s public data portal. This can be used to calculate annual earnings for an MGNREGS worker if that work was available on all 365 days in the July 2018-June 2019 period, when SAS was carried out. The potential earning numbers under MGNREGS in 23 out of 28 states is higher than the average annual income from cultivation per agricultural household given in SAS. To be sure, it is higher than the total income of an agricultural household in only Jharkhand and Odisha. At the all-India level, average annual income from cultivation per agricultural household would be 0.7 times potential MGNREGS wages in 365 days. This comparison does not include income from sources other than cultivation.Whither “progressive farmer”?The SAS report gives detailed accounts of receipts and expenses for agricultural households reporting crop production. This balance-sheet, however, does not include investment spending, which is important for augmenting yields.Summary statistics present a dismal picture. Paid out expenses, as a share of receipts, rise as cultivation incomes increase with land-size. This suggests diseconomies, rather than economic of scale in farming, as it is practised in India.Net incomes, i.e. receipts less expenses, left an average of ₹816.5 per person per month or ₹27 per person per day for agricultural households. The average household size for agricultural household given in the SAS report is 4.9. Even if one person of the agricultural household worked on average MGNREGS wages of ₹179.7 a day throughout the year – farming normally occupies more than one member of the household – per person daily incomes would have been ₹36.7. This makes it clear that cultivation leaves very little surplus for long-term investment.“The latest SAS report clearly shows that farming is an economic burden rather than a gainful activity. Per person daily earnings of ₹27 from farming makes older poverty lines, which were criticised as being too low, look good” said Himanshu, an associate professor of economics at Jawaharlal Nehru University. “That this has happened under a government that promised to double farm incomes and claims to offer guaranteed returns through Minimum Support Prices, speaks volumes about the efficacy of agricultural policy. These numbers also show the pointlessness of trying to offer small cash transfers instead of focusing on the larger viability crisis in farming.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-earned-27-a-day-from-cultivation-in-201819-101631569791714.html
14-09-2021||India||TN adopts bill to scrap NEET, Centre objects||All political parties except the Bharatiya Janata Party supported a bill that the Tamil Nadu assembly passed on Monday to scrap the National Entrance cum Eligibility Test (NEET) and admit students to undergraduate programmes in medicine on the basis of their performance in their Class 12 examinations — a move that the state government said was in the interest of “social justice”.The bill, which does not have any bearing on this year’s admissions, will need the approval of the President, who denied the same to a similar law passed by the state’s previous All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam government in 2017.India’s higher education secretary Amit Khare said that if any state wants to opt out of the exam, it has to seek permission from the Supreme Court (SC), which, in August 17, mandated that Tamil Nadu must follow the practice across the country and admit students to undergraduate medical courses on the basis of their performance in NEET.In Tamil Nadu, now ruled by a Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) government, the argument against NEET has been that it disadvantages students from rural and poor backgrounds (who cannot afford coaching); and those studying in boards other than the Central Board of Secondary Education.Khare said that the syllabus covered by the National Testing Agency for NEET follows patterns of all the state education boards and not just the CBSE. “If still a state government has some other view about the NEET syllabus, which they have, it will have to seek the approval of the Supreme Court to break away from it,” he said.The bill, the Tamil Nadu Admission to Undergraduate Medical Degree Courses Act 2021 was passed by a voice vote. It said its aim is to ensure “social justice, uphold equality and equal opportunity, protect all vulnerable student communities from being discriminated (against) and bring them to the mainstream of medical and dental education, and in turn to ensure a robust public healthcare across the state particularly the rural areas.”NEET was conducted across India on Sunday; hours before that, a 19-year-old son of a farm labourer, was found dead ; he was to write the exam for a third time and police said that circumstantial evidence pointed to fear of failing. Since NEET was introduced, more than a dozen students, some of whom were toppers in class 12 have died by suicide either due to fear of failing or having failed NEET.The AIADMK on Monday wore black badges blaming the DMK for the Salem student’s suicide. Former CM and leader of the opposition Edappadi Palaniswami said, “DMK failed to provide proper and timely information about whether NEET will be held this year or not... (Chief minister MK) Stalin stated that cancelling NEET will be one of the first tasks of the DMK government. But though they have come to power, NEET still remains.” Palaniswami said that his party supports the bill.Inside the assembly, chief minister Stalin blamed the AIADMK for suicides during their regime and said they hid the fact that the President rejected the 2017 NEET Bill which was passed unanimously.After coming to office in May, the DMK set up a committee led by retired justice A K Rajan to study the impact of NEET on socially and economically backward students. This was challenged by the BJP in the Madras high court, which ruled in favour of the state.A senior NTA official said that several initiatives have been taken to help students writing competitive exams amid the pandemic. “The states rationalised their class 12 syllabus differently in view of the pandemic. To make things easier for students, NTA provided five extra questions in each category,” the official added, requesting anonymity. Judicial experts say that the state does not have the power to seek exemption from a parliamentary law. A Supreme Court order in August 2016 made NEET mandatory. However, the SC agreed to grant a one-year amnesty to several states who contended that students need time to prepare and hold the exam in the academic year 2017-18 onwards instead of 2016-17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-adopts-bill-to-scrap-neet-centre-objects-101631565356901.html
14-09-2021||India||SC to hear govt plea against Calcutta HC order on Bengal poll violence||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to hear on September 20 the West Bengal government’s plea against a Calcutta high court order directing court-monitored probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation into allegations of rape, murder and attempt to murder during the post-poll violence earlier this year.The court’s decision came after the Mamata Banerjee-led government cast aspersions on the members of the committee formed by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), on whose recommendations the high court ordered the probe.Appearing for the state, senior advocate Kapil Sibal told a bench of justices Vineet Saran and Aniruddha Bose: “Look at the committee that gathered facts about the incidents and submitted a report to the high court. It was headed by Rajiv Jain who served as the Intelligence Bureau chief under the present government at the Centre till 2019. He was earlier joint director of IB when Prime Minister Narendra Modi served as Gujarat chief minister,” Sibal said.The state’s counsel also alleged “bias” by two other members in the committee – Atif Rashid, vice chairman of National Minorities Commission and Rajulben Desai, a member of National Commission for Women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-govt-plea-against-calcutta-hc-order-on-bengal-poll-violence-101631562730539.html
14-09-2021||India||Punjab elections: Shiromani Akali Dal releases list of 64 candidates||Chandigarh: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Monday announced its candidates for 64 assembly seats for the upcoming polls in Punjab.While Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal will fight from Jalalabad, former ministers Tota Singh, Janmeja Singh Sekhon, Daljit Singh Cheema and Sharanjit Singh Dhillon will contest from Dharamkot, Zira, Rupnagar, and Sahnewal, respectively.Though the party had earlier announced names of 24 candidates, it released a complete list of 64 candidates on Monday for the 2022 state assembly polls.In June, the SAD had formed an alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) for the 2022 elections. According to the seat sharing arrangement, the Mayawati-led BSP will fight 20 of the 117 assembly seats in Punjab, while the rest will be contested by the SAD.The SAD had last year quit the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance over the farm laws issue. When the SAD had an alliance with the BJP, it contested on 94 seats, while the saffron party fought on 23 seats.Among the candidates, Adaish Partap Singh Kairon, the son-in-law of former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal has been fielded from Patti seat.From Ludhiana East, Ludhiana Central and Ludhiana West, the party fielded Ranjit Singh Gill, Pritpal Singh Pali and Maheshinder Singh Grewal, respectively. From Fazilka, Rajpura, Amritsar North, Amritsar West, Sujanpur, Jalandhar Central, Mukerian, the party named Hans Raj Josan, Charanjit Singh Brar, Anil Joshi, Dalbir Singh Verka, Raj Kumar Gupta, Chandan Grewal and Sarabjit Singh Saabi, respectively.The BJP used to field its candidates from these ten seats when it had an alliance with the Akali Dal. From Khem Karan seat, Virsa Singh Valtoha will fight, from Phillaur Baldev Singh Khaira, from Gurdaspur Gurbachan Singh Babehali, from Ajnala Amarpal Singh Bonny and from Nakodar Gurpartap Singh Wadala, the party said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-elections-shiromani-akali-dal-releases-list-of-64-candidates-101631562632141.html
14-09-2021||India||CRPF recovers 6 Chinese hand grenades in J&K||The Central Reserve Police Force recovered six Chinese hand grenades from a sandbag at Bemina in Srinagar on Monday, an official said.The grenades, however, were old and were hidden in a bag filled with sand. The CRPF spokesman said: “During routine Road Opening exercise, along NH 44, the alert troopers of 73 Battalion CRPF recovered 6 Chinese grenades from a sandbag placed on the divider of the road in Bemina.” “The alacrity of troops averted an incident on the busy highway. Considering the huge rush on the highway, the grenades were not demolished in-situ,” the spokesman added. He said the grenades were handed over to the Central Reserve Police forces Bomb Disposal squad and state police for disposal adhering to safety protocols and SOP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpfrecovers-6-chinese-hand-grenades-in-jk-101631560600764.html
14-09-2021||India||Comment against Uddhav Thackeray: Narayan Rane appears before Raigad police||Union minister Narayan Rane, who faces a case over his objectionable comment against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, appeared before the police in Raigad district on Monday as per a court order.The BJP leader arrived here, the headquarters of Raigad district located around 100km from Mumbai, at around 3 pm and went straight to the office of superintendent of police (SP).After sometime, Rane came out and told the waiting mediapersons that he appeared before the SP in accordance with an order given by a court at Mahad near here last month.He left the spot without speaking further with reporters.The Raigad BJP had put up hoardings in the coastal town to welcome Rane. Police personnel were also deployed at different spots in the town.Rane was arrested on August 25 for a comment about “slapping” Thackeray. He was granted bail hours later by the court at Mahad.A magistrate, while granting the Union minister bail, had directed him to appear before the SP on August 30 and September 13. However, Rane did not appear before the police on August 30 citing ill health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/comment-against-uddhav-thackeray-narayan-rane-appears-before-raigad-police-101631562332105.html
14-09-2021||India||J&K curbs may violate human rights; use of UAPA worrying, says UNHRC chief||UN human rights chief Michelle Bachelet on Monday criticised the use of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act across India as well as restrictions on public assembly and frequent communication blackouts in Jammu and Kashmir.In her opening statement at the 48th session of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva, Bachelet largely focused on the impact of the “triple planetary crises of climate change, pollution and nature loss” on human rights, but also raised what she described as a “number of specific and fast-moving situations”.“Indian authorities’ restrictions on public assembly, and frequent temporary communication blackouts, continue in Jammu and Kashmir, while hundreds of people remain in detention for exercising their right to the freedom of expression, and journalists face ever-growing pressure,” the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights said.“Ongoing use of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act throughout India is worrying, with Jammu and Kashmir having among the highest number of cases in the country,” she said.While acknowledging the Indian government’s efforts to counter terrorism and promote development in Jammu and Kashmir, Bachelet said that “such restrictive measures can result in human rights violations and foster further tensions and discontent”.There was no immediate response from Indian officials to Bachelet’s remarks. In the past, India has described such criticism as interference in the country’s internal matters based on inadequate understanding of the ground situation.In the case of China, Bachelet said she was unable to report progress in her efforts to seek “meaningful access to the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region”. She said her office is finalising its assessment of the situation in Xinjiang on the basis of “available information on allegations of serious human rights violations in that region” and the findings will be made public by the end of the year.Bachelet’s speech was largely focused on the impact of climate change, pollution, and nature loss on a broad range of rights, including the “rights to adequate food, water, education, housing, health, development and even life itself”.She described displacement caused by environmental disaster as a “particularly serious phenomenon” in Asia, where the Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre reported that India, China, Bangladesh and the Philippines witnessed “more disaster displacement than all other countries combined” in 2019.The displacement in these four countries amounted to 70% of the global total and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s report of last month presents a “troubling forecast for South Asia”, she said.“Combating and recovering from the Covid-19 pandemic will require billions of dollars to be spent on rebuilding and supporting national economies. Policy choices can direct that spending into new, green directions that tackle inequalities and stimulate innovative environmental solutions that also uphold and promote human rights,” Bachelet said.Several countries have issued new climate commitments and the European Union adopted a new climate law in June that creates a legal obligation to attain climate neutrality by 2050, and requires a 55% reduction of EU-wide greenhouse gas emissions from their 1990 levels.Bachelet noted it wouldn’t be easy achieving these targets as it would means that EU member states must reduce emissions in the next eight years by more than what was achieved in the last three decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-curbs-may-violate-human-rights-use-of-uapa-worrying-says-unhrc-chief-101631560531893.html
14-09-2021||India||CBI files 4 more charge sheets in case of derogatory posts on judges||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday filed four separate charge sheets against four individuals in its probe into alleged derogatory posts on social media against the judges and judiciary in Andhra Pradesh.The agency had taken over the probe in the matter in November last year against 16 accused on the orders of Andhra Pradesh high court. It was alleged that the key personnel occupying posts of prominence in the State of Andhra Pradesh by intentionally targeting the Judiciary, made derogatory posts on social media platform against Judges and Judiciary following some Court verdicts delivered by the Judges of Hon’ble High Court of Andhra Pradesh.Those chargesheeted are - Dhani Reddy Konda Reddy, Pamula Sudheer, Adarsh Pattapu alias Aadarsh Reddy and Lavanuru Samba Siva Reddy @ Siva Reddy. Earlier, on September 2, the first chargesheet was filed against another accused - Lingareddy Rajasekhar, who was arrested on July 9.CBI spokesperson R C Joshi said on Monday that after taking over the probe, CBI had got objectionable posts removed from the social media platforms, public domains and a lot of such posts/accounts were removed from internet. It was only after Chief Justice of India N V Ramana lamented the central agency last month saying it doesn’t help the judiciary, that it initiated action in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-files-4-more-charge-sheets-in-case-of-derogatory-posts-on-judges-101631560096385.html
14-09-2021||India||Supreme Court stays HP high court order to set up district Covid control committees||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court (SC) on Monday stayed an order of the Himachal Pradesh high court setting up a Covid monitoring committee in each district with a lawyer and legal services authority official to assist the district deputy commissioner in monitoring state operations to curb spread of the pandemic.Terming the Committee amorphous and lacking expertise, the bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna said, “At the Supreme Court, we also set up a National Task Force but that comprised of doctors. This kind of an amorphous committee having district bar association president and district legal services authority secretary, we do not know what is going to be the effect.”The top court was hearing an appeal by the Himachal Pradesh government challenging the July 7 direction issued by the High Court.“There was no need for the high court to constitute a district-level committee. Prima facie, we feel that the committee constituted by the high court is not an expert committee consisting of domain experts to deal with specific aspects of Covid-19 pandemic.”Issuing notice on the state’s appeal, the bench posted the matter after four weeks and ordered staying the high court’s directions. At the same time, the court clarified that the pendency of this matter will not deter high courts from exercising their power under Article 226 to monitor steps taken to specifically deal with various aspects of the pandemic.Additional advocate general Abhinav Mukherjee told the court that Himachal Pradesh is the first state in the country to administer the first dose of vaccine to 100 per cent of its adult population. By November, the state expects to achieve 100 per cent target for the second dose of vaccine too.“Such orders have a demoralizing effect on the state bureaucracy particularly when the high court has noted the work being carried out by the state government on every front of Covid management,” Mukherjee said. He said this as one of the directions of the high court required state officials to update the three-member committee on various aspects of Covid control measures.The court noticed that a state task force was constituted by Governor in November 2020 followed by four district-level committees in May this year to cater to logistics, patient and ambulance management, corporate social responsibility to involve corporate funding for welfare programmes, and media committee.The state also constituted panchayat-level monitoring committees on May 27. Mukherjee informed the court that the test positivity rate in the state was only 0.7 per cent.The directions of the high court were passed on a public interest litigation filed by a practising advocate Tarun Pathak last year highlighting various shortcomings by the state in complying with the standard operating procedures in handling Covid-19 as prescribed by Union ministry of health and family welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-stays-hp-high-court-order-to-set-up-district-covid-control-committees-101631559993093.html
14-09-2021||India||India plans space sector boost in global market||India will soon allow overseas companies to invest in the space sector with a revised foreign direct investment (FDI) policy, taking the next step in opening up the sector to not only private players within the country but also abroad, the chairperson of the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) on Monday said.At the same time, India will set targets to increase its share in the global space economy from less than 2% at the moment to 10%, said Dr Pawan Goenka, the newly appointed chairperson designate of the Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (INSPACe), the body responsible for promoting and regulating space activity in the country.“The space foreign direct investment policy is getting revised and it will open huge opportunities for space companies to invest in India. It will ensure sustained engagement between Indian and overseas companies that will greatly benefit both. With this policy, space sector will not only be open in India but also to foreign investments. ISRO on the other hand will concentrate on research and development as well as space science missions. It will work on overcoming challenges and reducing the technological gaps in a timely and more responsive manner,” Dr Sivan said at a conference.Last year, the Union government opened up the space sector to private players, announced by Union minister Prakash Javadekar in June 2020,leading to a growth in the space start-ups. Several start-ups were working on space projects but were collaborating with other countries due to a lack of framework in India. An interim INSPACe, headed by Isro’s scientific secretary Dr Umamaheshwaran, is in the process of looking at nearly 40 applications by the industry for various space missions and space-based applications.The regulatory mechanisms for INSPACe – by which it will be able to take action against erring space players – is also currently under review. “INSPACe will also have a regulatory mechanism… It is already going through departmental reviews and inter-ministerial consultations before being tabled in the parliament,” said Dr Umamaheshwaran in the conference. The government has a draft space activities bill, 2017 which provides a regulatory framework, but has not been tabled yet.In addition, the department of space is also finalising new policies on satellite-based communication and remote sensing to aid penetration of the industry in the space applications domain. The drafts of other policies to help the private sector such as satellite-based navigation technology are also being edited.Dr Pawan Goenka, a former director at Mahindra & Mahindra and the chairperson designate of INSPACe, said he will be interacting with Isro scientists and industry experts over the next few days. Although India is one of the top space faring nations, it perform poorly when it comes to the space economy, he said. “Space is a $440 billion sector globally but India has less than 2% share even though India is a leading space fairing country. I would target for India achieving a certain market share globally; I would say 10% based on my limited knowledge. I would set a time frame after learning more,” said Goenka.He added that the investment by space sector startups in India is just $21 to $22 million, which is less than 0.5% of that by global startups, and stressed that creating clarity on the regulatory policies will be his first priority as the chairperson.“There have been long-term issues with capacity constraints such as that of human resources, facilities, but mainly budgets. ISRO’s budget hasn’t significantly increased in recent times and that is an important driver of foreign investment. This step can create competition for Indian players but it is more likely to create partnerships. The newer, smaller space start-ups are always looking for various avenues for funding; youngsters are putting their money into the start-ups. This step could help in bringing in the finances and build strong partnerships with the start-ups that already have the technical know-how,” said Dr Rajeswari Rajagopalan, director of the centre for security, strategy and technology at the Observer Research Foundation.She said increasing India’s global market share to 10% is a big ask and the country will have to strengthen manufacturing as well as launching services to do so. “We will have to strengthen everything from manufacturing, infrastructure to launching in order to capture a big chunk of the market. Launches have seriously gone down during the pandemic; ISRO was significantly affected. However, it is a good sign,” said Dr Rajagopalan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-open-space-sector-for-foreign-investment-target-10-of-global-market-share-101631558791899.html
14-09-2021||India||Woman fights off gang: Mangaluru police hold mock drill to test response||In an incident caught on camera, a gang of men waylaid a middle-aged woman on Upper Bendore road in Mangaluru city on Sunday. The woman tried to fight off the gang, but they escaped in a car that didn’t have a number plate. The video soon went viral on social media, with requests to identify the gang. However, hours after the incident, Mangaluru police commissioner N Shashi Kumar issued a statement claiming that the incident was a mock drill to assess the reaction of the public and police preparedness. “Under Kadri police station limits, a gang tried to snatch a bag from a lady near St Agnes College where the lady retaliated. This was a mock drill undertaken by the police department to see how the public, police and victim respond to such a situation. The lady was Shobhalatha Kateel, Swaraksha for Women Trust, where she gives training on self-defence,” said Kumar. The officer said the local police who didn’t know about the drill responded to the incident within four minutes. “The incident took place at 11 am. Within 4 minutes, we received a call on 112 and by 11:10 am, the 112 vehicles reached the spot and took information about the incident,” he said. Kumar said that seeing the woman retaliating against the attackers, passerby joining in as well, was a good sign. “Some youth also tried chasing the car. They also gave information to the police about the accused’s faces, car and its model. I urge the public to be prepared in such situations. The victim should retaliate without any compromise on safety. Meanwhile, the public should rescue the victim and try to catch the accused,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-fights-off-gang-mangaluru-police-hold-mock-drill-to-test-response-101631558312811.html
14-09-2021||India||Don’t disturb Punjab... move to Delhi: Amarinder to farmers||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday appealed to the representatives of various farmers’ unions to stop local protests against three central agriculture laws as it was hurting the state economy. After laying the foundation stone of a government college, the chief minister said while the state stood with the farmers, cultivators should not hold protests in Punjab as it went against the interest of the state. He said the protests going on at 113 places in Punjab impacted its economic development. “I want to appeal to our farmers that it’s your state and your own people, we should not disturb our state. Whatever pressure the farmers want to build on the central government should be done in New Delhi but we should look at the development of the state as our population has been increasing with time,” said Singh. He further said that he was hopeful that farmers will accept his appeal to not protest in Punjab. “Do you know farmers are also sitting at 113 places in Punjab? What will be the gain out of it? Punjab will suffer financially. They are doing it at Delhi (borders) and in Haryana. You do it there,” Singh told the farmers. He said that the three controversial central laws, which were passed by the Union government last year, had already been rejected in the state assembly. He also listed a slew of farm-friendly policies undertaken by his government. Punjab goes to the polls in early 2022.Reacting to Singh’s statement, Haryana home minister Vij accused him of instigating farmers. “It is a very irresponsible statement of Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh to tell farmers that do whatever you want in Haryana or at Delhi borders but do not do it in Punjab,” Vij said in a tweet. “This proves that Amarinder Singh has done the work of instigating farmers,” he added. Last month, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had accused the Congress government in Punjab of fuelling farmers’ unrest in his state. The three farm laws, enacted last year, promised major reforms in the agriculture sector but farmers, primarily from Punjab and Haryana, launched massive protests blocking arterial highways in the national capital. The farmers say the new rules favour big corporations to whom they will lose business and gradually end the system of state-set minimum prices – charges refuted by the government. For roughly 10 months, farmers have been protesting at sites such as Singhu and Tikri outside the Capital. Earlier in a day, Singh accused Shiromani Akali Dal patriarch Parkash Singh Badal and his son Sukhbir Singh Badal of playing a double game on farmers, for initially backing the farm ordinances and later taking a U-turn on the issue after facing farmers’ ire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-disturb-punjab-move-to-delhi-amarinder-to-farmers-101631558258576.html
14-09-2021||India||AAP’s Manish Sisodia and Sanjay Singh offer prayers at Ayodhya||Lucknow Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and deputy chief minister of Delhi, Manish Sisodia, along with party’s Uttar Pradesh in-charge Sanjay Singh, on Monday, offered prayers to Ram Lalla in the makeshift temple in Ayodhya. The AAP is slated to carry out a ‘Tiranga Yatra’ from Gulab Bari to Gandhi Park in Ayodhya on Tuesday. They also took a holy dip in the Saryu river and had lunch with sadhus.“I prayed to Lord Rama for the establishment of the Ram Rajya in Uttar Pradesh,” Sisodia said.The AAP recently said it plans to name 100 candidates for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections.After paying obeisance, both the leaders went to Hanuman Garhi temple, where they met Mahant Prem Das, head priest of the temple.“We have sought blessings from Lord Hanuman to form party’s government in Uttar Pradesh,” said Sisodia. Attacking the BJP, Singh said, “AAP’s true nationalism will defeat BJP’s fake nationalism. AAP’s ‘Tiranga Yatra’ is getting an overwhelming response everywhere. After Ayodhya, Tiranga Yatra will be taken out in the entire Uttar Pradesh.” The Aam Aadmi Party had earlier held such yatras in Lucknow, Agra, and Noida in Uttar Pradesh to mark 75 years of India’s Independence.With PTI inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aaps-manish-sisodia-and-sanjay-singh-offer-prayers-at-ayodhya-101631558257340.html
14-09-2021||India||Panchayat secy among 12 arrested over killing of dogs in Shivamogga||Twelve people, including a gram panchayat secretary, have been arrested on charges of killing around 60 dogs at Hunasekatte village in Bhadravati taluk of Shivamogga district, around 300km from Bengaluru, police said on Monday. Though Shivamogga police are yet to release details of the arrested as the investigation is underway, officials said the suspects in custody include workers of the private firm that fed poison to the dogs, a JCB operator, two members of Kambadalu-Hosur gram panchayat, secretary and a bill collector of the panchayat. Officials of Bhadravati Rural police station, where the complaint was registered on September 7, said local residents who observed some suspicious activity in the area informed a group involved in animal rescue. Activists of the group then found carcasses of dogs. They alleged that gram panchayat officials contracted a private firm to kill the dogs and that some of them were buried alive. Police officials said the investigation confirmed the allegation, but added that only some members of the panchayat were part of the plan. Officials of the police station said the gram panchayat gave the task of catching and sterilising stray dogs within panchayat limits to private contractors. The decision was taken during a meeting of the panchayat and an amount was set aside for the task. “While the original decision was to catch stray dogs and release them after neutering them, some members of the panchayat, including the secretary, conspired with the private party to kill the dogs by giving them poison, and bury some of them alive,” a police official said on condition of anonymity. The police have got the post-mortem conducted on 60 dogs. Skin, hair and liver samples have been sent to a forensic science laboratory (FSL). However, a report confirming the use of poison is yet to be received from the FSL. “They (FSL) haven’t been able to identify the cause of the death because the carcasses are more than 5 days old. But they have said that they will be able to give a detailed report soon,” said a police official. The incident happened a month after police in Hassan district arrested seven people, including a woman, for killing 38 macaque monkeys in Chowdenahalli. On July 29, as many as 38 bonnet macaques were poisoned to death and they were found stuffed in a gunny bag at a road junction in Belur taluk in Hassan district. One monkey managed to escape and was spotted sitting near the gunny bag. The Karnataka high court on July 30 initiated public interest litigation (PIL) proceedings, after taking suo moto cognizance of media reports on the deaths. Describing the incident as ‘disturbing’, the bench of Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice NS Sanjay Gowda ordered the registrar general to register a suo motu PIL in the matter. The investigation found that the accused had not planned to kill the monkeys but had hired a couple, known to be experts in monkey-catching, to catch the monkeys after they causes damage to areca nut and coffee plantations in Ugane village in Sakaleshpur taluk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panchayat-secy-among-12-arrested-over-killing-of-dogs-in-shivamogga-101631558252712.html
14-09-2021||India||Traders demand lifting of ‘ineffective’ night curfew||Shopkeepers and business owners have voiced their dissent against the state government’s decision to continue the daily night curfew from 9pm to 5am, claiming shutting down shops while keeping the traffic movement normal at night shows the ineffectiveness of the Covid-19 regulation. Simon Anthony, a shopkeeper in Bengaluru’s Marathahalli, said police would ask to shut down his establishment at 9pm while people would continue moving around on the streets. “The traffic continues as normal till 11pm without any checks. Only shopkeepers are harassed by the police,” he said. A member of the Bangalore Commercial Street Merchants Association said that they have been given assurances that the curbs will be relaxed since the numbers have come down, but so far nothing has happened. “This night curfew has been in place for more than 200 days now. When the government announced a lockdown to control the spread of the virus, we cooperated because it was important. But we can’t understand the purpose of the night curfew now,” said the officer bearer. According to him, several shopkeepers are struggling to keep their businesses afloat since they incurred heavy losses during the lockdown. “If not anything, we should be allowed to stay open late to make up for the loss,” he said. One of the worst-hit by the night curfew are pubs, bars and restaurants, for whom post 9pm is the busiest hour. A pub owner in Indira Nagar said that attempt was made to take a delegation to the government to allow pubs to operate beyond 9pm, however, they have not been able to meet ministers in charge. “We have been following all the precautionary measures given by the government and compared to last month, people are coming out to pubs and restaurants. It is surprising that the government is hoping to get revenue from liquor sales but won’t let us operate,” said the pub owner, who didn’t wish to be named. Meanwhile, the Karnataka government said that the night curfew in the city will continue, however, a review meeting will be conducted soon. Higher Education and IT BT Minister CN Ashwath Narayan said that the government was monitoring the situation closely. “Since there is fear of an increase in the cases in October, we want to wait,” he said. Urban Development Minister Byrathi Basavaraj, however, said that the matter of night curfew will be discussed during the monsoon session and a decision will be taken soon. On Monday, Karnataka reported only 673 new Covid cases and 13 deaths, out of which 214 cases and three deaths were reported in Bengaluru city. The total active cases in the state and Bengaluru now stand at 16,241 and 7,211 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/traders-demand-lifting-of-ineffective-night-curfew-101631558192859.html
14-09-2021||India||Four held 9 months after gang rape in Yadgir||Four men have been arrested for allegedly stripping and sexually abusing a woman in Karnataka’s Yadgir district, police said on Monday. Yadgir superintendent of police CB Vedamurthy, in a video statement released Monday, said the four accused arrested on Sunday told them that the incident took place nine months ago. According to the First Information Report (FIR) registered by the police on Monday, the incident occurred between January 1 and February 25 this year. The accused were identified as Lingaraj Bevinahalli, Sharnappa Naykodi, Bhimaraya Doranhalli and Ayyappa Natekar, all natives of Shahapur and in their twenties. Police said the arrests were made after it came across a purported video on social media in which the suspects could be seen stripping, sexually abusing and assaulting the woman with sugarcane sticks.“Shahapur police have registered a suo motu case and the matter will be investigated,” Vedamurthy said in a statement. The FIR read that the woman was waiting for a bus at Shahapur New Bus Stand on the Yadgir-Shahapur state highway to go to her parents’ house on when the accused took her to Kannekolur village road in a car and raped her one after the other and threatened to kill her if she revealed the incident to anyone. The suspects were known to the woman. The case comes on the heels of another alleged gang rape in Mysuru on August 24, where seven men were arrested for gangraping a college student and assaulting her friend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-held-9-months-after-gang-rape-in-yadgir-101631558191576.html
14-09-2021||India||BJP gears up to face Congress heat in Karnataka assembly on price rise||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday issued directions to its legislators to counter protests over price rise, and other issues that the opposition parties are likely to raise during the course of the 10-day monsoon session of the Karnataka assembly.“This was a preparation meeting on the issues that the opposition will raise over petrol and other prices, and the bills that are scheduled to come up, among others. The party has said that attendance is compulsory for all legislators,” said N Ravi Kumar, MLC and state general secretary of the BJP in Karnataka.The BJP and the new Basavaraj Bommai government are gearing up to face an angry opposition who on Monday began their protests against the government over rising prices of petrol, diesel, LPG and other commodities.The three main political parties in Karnataka are hoping to make the most of the monsoon session with the BJP trying hard to defend its administration from allegations of dissent, increasing crimes against women, inadequate flood and drought relief, and an impending third wave of Covid-19 infections. The Bommai government is also staring at a possible revival of the agitation by the Panchamasali, the largest sub-sect within the Lingayats, to press for their demand of being pushed to the 2A category of the state reservation list.The Congress is also trying to corner the BJP government over steep price rise in petrol, diesel, LPG and other essential commodities.Former chief minister BS Yediyurappa sat in the last row of the assembly on Monday when the session was convened mostly for obituaries.“I was the chief minister. I had requested the speaker to get me a seat next to the chief whip which he had agreed to,” Yediyurappa said.The 78-year-old said that he would undertake a state-wide tour in about 15-20 days and after consultation with the state BJP president and other leaders.“In the coming days, we want the BJP to return to power in Karnataka and if Siddaramaiah does win, we hope that he sits in the opposition,” Yediyurappa said.Siddaramaiah, the leader of the opposition, has also demanded the release of the socio-economic and educational survey or caste census, conducted by the Congress government in 2015 to help revive his AHINDA (Kannada acronym for minorities, backward classes and Dalits) support base to counter the dominant caste-political narrative in Karnataka.The Janata Dal (Secular) too is trying to keep a neutral stance and attack the government to quell speculations of the regional outfit getting closer to the BJP.The JD(S) is yet to decide who it will back in Kalaburagi where the September 3 urban local body (ULB) polls have thrown up a hung verdict and given the party another chance to play “kingmaker”.Both the BJP and Congress have reached out to the JD(S) seeking support of its four corporators who will become the deciding factor in the yet-to-be announced mayor elections of the border district and divisional headquarters.The JD(S) has said that both parties have reached out to the regional outfit and added that it will take all factors into account before taking its decision.HD Kumaraswamy, the former chief minister and JD(S) leader, on Monday said that they will raise issues against both the Congress and the BJP over its failed promises.“In the nine days (of the session till September 24) we want to honestly have an issue-based discussion on all the problems in the state. I request that all three parties do not waste time,” Kumaraswamy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjpgears-up-to-face-congress-heat-in-karnataka-assembly-on-price-rise-101631558132777.html
14-09-2021||India||Malayalam actor Rizabawa dies of heart related ailments||Malayalam film actor Rizabawa died of heart-related ailments on Monday, family sources said. He was 54.The actor became popular for his role ‘John Honai’ in the movie ‘In Harihar Nagar’. He was admitted to a private hospital here three days ago. His end came this afternoon.Rizabawa appeared on the silver screen in 1990 through ‘Doctor Pashupathi’. Later, he acted in ‘Chambakkulam Thachan’, ‘Kaaboolivala’, ‘Aniyan bava Chettan bava’, ‘Niram’ and ‘Nasrani’, among others. He had acted in around 150 movies and over 20 television serials. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Opposition Leader of the State Assembly V D Satheesan and ministers expressed condolences over the death of the actor.Vijayan, in his message, said Rizabawa was a noted actor who won hearts of Malayalam movie-goers.“He is an artist who won the hearts of the Malayalees...He was also a popular face in television serials,” Vijayan said.Higher education minister R Bindu said villain John Honai, the character Rizabawa is known for, carved a special place in the hearts of film buffs.“...Adieu, Shri Rizabawa. You will forever be remembered through your work,” Bindhu tweeted.Satheesan said Rizabawa came into cinema world at a time when he was a busy dramatist.“Around 150 films in which he proved his talent as a villain and a character actor. He was active in television serials, too. He was noted for his dubbing and received a State award,” Satheesan said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malayalam-actor-rizabawa-dies-of-heart-related-ailments-101631558074101.html
14-09-2021||India||Tamil is a language of Gods, says Madras high court||The Madras high court observed that every language spoken by people is God’s language, contending that “the country is made to believe that Gods will listen to only the Sanskrit language.” Hailing Tamil as the “language of Gods,” the Madras high court has said temple consecration should be done reciting Tamil hymns composed by saints like Azhwars and Nayanmars, besides others like Arunagirinathar besides Sanskrit. A division bench in Madurai of the Madras high court comprising of Justice N Kirubakaran (since retired) and Justice B Pugalendhi, in a recent order, said that across the world, local languages are used for services of worship. “However, in our country, it is made to believe that Sanskrit alone is Gods language and not any other language is equivalent,” the bench said. “No doubt, Sanskrit is an ancient language with enormous ancient literature. The belief is spread in such a way that only if the Sanskrit Vedas are recited, the Gods will listen to the prayers of the devotees. However, every language spoken by the people is God’s language.” The order was passed on August 19, based on a petition seeking directions to government authorities to conduct the consecration of a temple in Tamil Nadu’s Karur district – Arulmigu Pasupatheshwara SwamyTirukovil by chanting Thirumuraikal, Tamil Saiva Manthiram (hymns) and also songs of Saint Amaravathi Aatrangarai Karurar. The court referred to ancient literature on how Tamil hymns were used in temples. “Tamil is not only one of the earliest ancient languages of the world, but also a ‘Language of Gods’,” the court said. “If God could not understand Tamil, how was it possible for the die-hard devotees, who were committed to worshipping Lord Shiva, Lord Thirumal, Lord Muruga etc., to compose so many hymns in praise of them. Therefore, the theory that God understands only one language cannot be believed.” Further, using mythical references of the Tamil language to Lord Shiva and Lord Muruga, the court added that it “would only mean that the The Tamil language is connected with Gods”, and that has to be used while performing Kudamuzhuku.” Using Tamil hymns and verses is a long pending demand by devotees as well as Tamil enthusiasts and Dravidian leaders who have ruled the state since 1967. The court’s observations come at a time when it’s often debated whether Sanskrit or Tamil is the oldest language. The DMK which formed the government in May has also been accusing the BJP-led union government of imposing Hindi and Sanskrit as superior languages. The court directed the state government to form a committee of Tamil scholars, devotees and believers of God to consolidate the important ancient Tamil hymns composed by Saints like Nayanmars and Alwars, Arunagirinathar, Pattinathar and other Siddhars. After a report is filed, the state has been asked to decide on the date, from which Kudamuzhuku would be conducted in Tamil or equal importance is given along with Sanskrit. “The The committee should be reconstituted periodically so that if any other worthy hymns are found, they could also be recited along with other verses which are recited at the time of performing Kudamuzhuku,” the court said and disposed of the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-is-a-language-of-gods-says-madras-high-court-101631558073116.html
14-09-2021||India||‘Narcotics jihad’ row: Kerala BJP writes to Centre||Amid a raging row over the Pala bishop’s ‘narcotic jihad’ jibe, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders said they would take up the issue at the national level even as the Nair Service Society (NSS), a socio-cultural wing of the Nair community, supported the religious leader. A worried Congress has asked the Kerala government to convene a meeting of community leaders before the controversy reaches a flashpoint. Leader of Opposition V D Satheesan alleged that the government was waiting for Sangh Parivar outfits to hijack the issue. Many BJP leaders asked the Centre to investigate the nexus between drug and terror activities and bring a law to check it. A senior BJP leader, wishing not to be named, said the party will make it a national issue, citing the disappearance of 21 people from north Kerala in 2016 who reportedly joined the Islamic State. “Many BJP-ruled states have laws to check illegal conversion activities and we want a similar law to contain drug-induced terror,” he said. The BJP state unit has written a letter to Union home minister Amit Shah to provide security to the bishop, citing the case of chopping of palm of a college teacher in Idukki district in 2010 who prepared a controversial question paper. BJP national spokesman Tom Vadakkan decried the move to isolate the bishop and Goa governor Sreedharan Pillai urged the government to address his concern. “He has voiced a genuine concern prevailing in the community. It is the voice of the victims of ‘love jihad’ and narco-terrorism. The state government can’t remain in denial mode always,” Vadakkan said, adding that rising drug cases triggered serious socio-economic issues in the state. The Goa governor supported the bishop. “It seems the bishop has aired his concern and no one needs to go beyond what he said. I hope CM Pinarayi Vijayan will talk to him and clear his concern,” said Pillai, hailing from the state. Last year he was instrumental in the Centre’s move to buy peace between two warring Christian sects, Jacobites and Orthodox. Though the NSS supported the bishop, the organisation said it was not proper to give a communal colour to the issue. “It is fact that girls are being lured by using the weapon of love and converted subsequently. It is a criminal and terror activity. But it is not fair to attribute it to any religion,” NSS said in a statement, urging the government to constitute an independent investigation into charges made by the bishop. Addressing a religious congregation in a church in Kuravilangad (Kottayam) last Thursday, Bishop Mar Joseph Kallaranghatt said Catholic girls and youth were becoming victims of a ‘narcotic jihad’, perpetrated by a section and decried authorities for turning a blind eye towards it. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and the Congress criticised the bishop for making a sweeping comment, but the Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council (KCBC), the highest body of Catholics in the state, and the BJP rallied behind him. Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan, hailing from the state, also criticised the attack on the bishop. “It seems he spoke based on conviction, not emotion. The term narcotic jihad is not new. Even world bodies say proceeds from narcotics were a major source of terror funding,” he said, adding that there was a planned move to silence the bishop. Meanwhile, four nuns, who took part in the agitation seeking action against rape- accused former Jalandhar Bishop Franco Mulakkal, walked out of a Sunday mass in a chapel in Kottayam when the local priest made some alleged disparaging comments against Muslim during his sermon to justify the Pala Bishop’s statement. “Christ said Love our neighbour as yourself. The priest was churning out disparaging comments against Muslim to justify the Bishop’s statement. It was really painful to hear him and we protested and walked out,” said Sister Anupma, one of them. She said earlier also the priest made such comments. In one of the earlier sermons he said Christian believers were given a particular medicine to ensure that children are not born to them. “We could not digest it so we stormed out. The priest was going out of way to defend the Bishop. We feel the Bishop should have avoided such a statement. Religious leaders will have to take everyone along. Such statements will trigger animosity between different sections,” she said. All four nuns along with the victim are staying in a convent in Kottayam and there were many attempts to forcibly vacate them and they lead a solitary life in the convent as other inmates are barred from interacting with them, they said. The case against Mulakkal surfaced in 2018 after a 43-year-old nun had complained to the police in Kottayam in central Kerala that he had raped her several times between 2014 and 2016. The nun is a member of the Missionaries of Jesus congregation based in Punjab. But Mulakkal denied it saying he was implicated after he took action against her for financial irregularities in the convent. Later a special investigation team was formed and it arrested him in Sept 2018. The case is in trial stage now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narcotics-jihad-row-kerala-bjp-writes-to-centre-101631558071924.html
14-09-2021||India||Covid-19 cases on a rise in Tamil Nadu, state reports 1,580 new infections||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Tamil Nadu continued its upward graph on Monday, while 1,580 new cases pushed the cumulative tally beyond 2.6 million.New cases outnumbered the 1,509 recoveries on Monday, while 22 persons succumbed to the virus, according to a government medical bulletin.The number of active cases stood at 16,522, 43 more than Sunday’s tally.Active cases have been showing an increasing trend for the past few days, with new infections outnumbering daily recoveries.The overall cases stood at 2,635,419 while 2,583,707 persons have been cured of the virus so far, the bulletin said. The total fatalities stood at 35,190.Among the districts, Coimbatore clocked the maximum of 204 cases, followed by Chennai (185), Erode (137) and Thanjavur, at 109.Most districts reported double-digit daily additions while three – Ramanathapuram, Perambalur and Tirunelveli, logged the lowest of five new cases each. Among the deceased, two had no comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-cases-on-a-rise-in-tamil-nadu-state-reports-1-580-new-infections-101631558014856.html
14-09-2021||India||AAP leader Pankaj Gupta gets ED notice in PMLA case, party hits out at BJP||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has issued summons to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national secretary Pankaj Gupta in connection with alleged foreign funds raised by the party in the run up to 2017 Punjab assembly elections -- a move that the AAP on Monday described as a witch-hunt at the behest of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Officers familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity that the agency came to know about the funds while investigating former Punjab leader of Opposition Sukhpal Singh Khaira, who is under investigation for money laundering in at least two cases. Gupta has been asked to join the ED probe on September 22. A senior ED officer alleged that Khaira, who is in the Congress now, visited the US in 2016, when he was in the AAP, and raised funds totaling $119,000 from the non-resident Indians (NRIs) in the run-up to Punjab state assembly elections. ED recovered the documents pertaining to this funding during a raid in March this year, and when he was questioned about it, he disclosed entire fund-raising trip was organized by the AAP, and that he had no knowledge of the funding, the officer added. “Gupta has been summoned to elicit details about these foreign funds,” said a second officer. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal described the summons as part of the BJP’s “tactics”. “In Delhi, they tried to defeat us with the I-T department, CBI, Delhi Police – but we won 62 seats. As we grow in Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand, Gujarat – we get an ED notice! The people of India want honest politics- these tactics of BJP will never succeed; they will make us stronger”. AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha said the summons were not based on facts.“We have just got a two-page notice, which says that Raja Ram Meena, assistant director, has summoned Pankaj Gupta as part of a PMLA investigation on September 22. There is no information about which case this is. ED can give notices under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, Fugitive Economic Offenders Act and the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The notice has been issued under the last one,” Chadha said.“A series of witch-hunts have been launched against AAP and this started even before the party was formed. In 2012, during the Anna Andolan (the anti-corruption protests), MHA sent notices to leaders but said later in court that there were no irregularities. Different agencies, such as IT Department, CBI, ED and Delhi Police have been unleashed on us between 2013 and now but no one has found any wrongdoing,” he added. Prior to Gupta, former AAP leader Vishwas Kumar was questioned last month to know more about the funding. He informed ED team that he is no longer associated with the party and the necessary details would be available with the incumbent office bearer, said a second officer.Khaira, was elected to the state assembly in 2017 from Bholath in Kapurthala district on an AAP ticket. Two years ago, he quit the AAP and formed the Punjab Ekta Party (PEP), which he merged with the Congress in June this year.“I was officially asked by the AAP high command, (Arvind) Kejriwal himself, to make a tour to the US for a fund-raising for the party. I toured about 18 US cities and funds were collected directly for the AAP. During my questioning recently, the ED asked me about this. I told them that I was sent by the party. The AAP teams there organised the meetings and took funds directly from them (participants). I am aware that the money came back here to them, but not how they sent it,” Khaira said. ED is probing him in two money laundering cases registered earlier this year – one based on a transborder drugs smuggling network unearthed in Fazilka, Punjab in 2015, and the second pertaining to a fake passport racket in Delhi. The agency even raided Khaira and his son-in-law Inderveer Singh Johal this March. In the Fazilka drugs case, 1,800 grams of heroin, 24 gold biscuits, two weapons, 26 live cartridges, and two Pakistan SIM cards were seized by Jalalabad police in 2015. Khaira’s name cropped up in the case in 2017. Though he was not named in the Punjab Police charge sheet, a Fazilka court issued summons to him on November 30, 2017. He was Punjab’s leader of opposition and an AAP MLA at that time. The Supreme Court granted him relief by quashing proceedings the following month. In June, ED examined three fashion designers -- Manish Malhotra, Sabyasachi and Ritu Kumar -- in the case against the Punjab legislator as some cash payments were made to them by Khaira.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-leader-pankaj-gupta-gets-ed-notice-in-pmla-case-party-hits-out-at-bjp-101631558012638.html
14-09-2021||India||Bring a ‘logical end’ to 2018 anti-Sterlite protest case: HC||The Madras high court on Monday said that the investigation into the police firing during anti-Sterlite protests in May 2018, that killed 13 persons in Tamil Nadu’s Thoothukudi district, should come to its logical end. A bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice TS Sivagnanam observed while hearing a plea, filed by Henri Tiphagne, executive director, People’s Watch, a human rights organisation seeking directions for the National Human Right Commission’s (NHRC) to reopen a probe into the matter. Tiphange, in a previous hearing, had informed the court that the NHRC had closed the case in October 2018 since compensation was paid to the victims’ family, and a judicial commission (retired justice Aruna Jagadeesan) was probing police excesses. The police firing happened on the 100th day of the protests demanding permanent closure of the Vedanta-owned Sterlite copper smelting plant in Thoothukudi, alleging that it caused severe pollution. The NHRC had taken suo motu cognisance of the incident the following day. The previous AIADMK regime ordered the plant to shut, and Vedanta’s plea for reopening is still pending before the Supreme Court.Taking a note that the CBI is also probing the case, the court said, “The matter should be brought to its logical end, as expeditiously as possible, to give a meaningful closure to the matter, and the circumstances in which firing had to be resorted to against unarmed citizens must come out in the report.” The NHRC had submitted its report with recommendations to the court in a sealed cover. “Since the report did not see the light of the day or may not have been forwarded to the state, the recommendations have not been implemented,” the court observed. “To the extent that the recommendations remain relevant and it may be possible to implement the same, all agencies should carry the matter forward.”One of the NHRC’s recommendations was to provide enhanced compensation to victims of the police firing and their families. The court said that the state must be on the side of the families and not be seen as an adversary. “The state is requested to play the real parental role in providing counselling and psychiatric assistance to the members of the bereaved families, if necessary,” the court said. “The state needs to walk the extra mile for such a purpose.” The court requested the Advocate-General, R Shunmugasundaram to ensure that appropriate measures are taken to assuage the feelings of the families of the victims.The court added that the matter before the NHRC should also be brought to its logical end, and the court directed NHRC to report on what steps have been taken based on a report from its Investigation Division when the matter appears next on October 25. Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu government granted the Jagadeesan committee an extension to complete its probe before February 22, 2022, after submitting an interim report to chief minister M K Stalin in May when the DMK assumed office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bring-a-logical-end-to-2018-anti-sterlite-protest-casehc-101631558011456.html
14-09-2021||India||Living together is not a compulsory exercise: SC||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Monday held that living together was not a compulsory exercise as it invoked its constitutional powers to separate a couple through a decree of divorce even as the woman resisted dissolution of the marital tie. A bench, headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, noted that divorce was “inevitable” since the marital tie was not working under any circumstances while the woman continued perpetrating cruelty on the husband by filing cases after cases and trying her best to see that he loses his job too. “Filing of such complaints seeking removal of one’s spouse from job has been opined as amounting to mental cruelty... these continuing acts of the respondent would amount to cruelty. This conduct shows disintegration of marital unity and thus disintegration of the marriage,” held the bench, which also included Justice Hrishikesh Roy. The court also took note of the fact that the couple had not lived together even for a day after their marriage in February 2002 and they were separated for the last 20 years during which the man married another woman after a trial court in Tamil Nadu granted a decree of divorce in 2008 on the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage. However, the divorce decree was set aside by the Tamil Nadu high court in February 2019, after which the man to approach the Supreme Court to save his second marriage. The court at first suggested mediation after noticing that they had already been living separately for two decades, but the woman remained firm that she will not give her nod for ending the marriage. She also opposed any endeavour by the court to give a decree of divorce on account of irretrievable breakdown of marriage in the absence of her consent. The bench, in its judgment, noted that irretrievable breakdown of marriage is not a ground available under the law for couples seeking separation but the Supreme Court has granted decrees of divorce exercising its unique jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution of India, to do complete justice between the parties. It said the law commission had made recommendations in 1978 and again in 2010 to add irretrievable breakdown of marriage as a new ground for divorce in both the Hindu Marriage Act and the Special Marriage Act, but a draft law prepared in 2013 by the Union government was never passed. The court asserted that societal stigma for a woman after getting divorced coupled with the law’s failure to guarantee economic and financial security to women is stated to be the reason for the legislature’s reluctance to introduce irretrievable breakdown as a ground for divorce. “Living together is not a compulsory exercise. But marriage is a tie between two parties. If this tie is not working under any circumstances, we see no purpose in postponing the inevitability of the situation...” said the bench, emphasising that a marriage is more than a seemingly simple union between two individuals “As a social institution, all marriages have legal, economic, cultural, and religious ramifications... Families are arranged on the idea of a mutual expectation of support and amity which is meant to be experienced and acknowledged amongst its members. Once this amity breaks apart, the results can be highly devastating and stigmatizing,” it added. The court noted that the marriage between the parties never took off and this is one case where both the grounds of irretrievable breakdown of marriage as well as cruelty by woman against her husband would entitle the man a decree of divorce to put an end to continued allegations and litigative proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/living-together-is-not-a-compulsory-exercise-sc-101631557952651.html
14-09-2021||India||Telangana plans drive to inoculate 300k daily||Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao has instructed Health department officials to take up a special drive of vaccination against Covid-19 and inoculate 300k people daily as there is a possibility of the state getting required quantities of the vaccine following augmented production.An official release issued on Sunday night, quoting KCR said, though the Covid-19 spread is in control in the State, the special drive of the vaccination should be taken up so that people should not suffer in future due to the pandemic.“Chief minister Sri K Chandrashekhar Rao has instructed the senior officials of the medical and health department to take up a special drive to vaccinate 300k people daily to save people in the Telangana State from coronavirus,” it said.The medical and health department officials brought to the notice of the CM that despite government and private educational institutions having opened, there is not much impact of the virus and there is no chance of increase of Covid-19 cases.The officials informed Rao that there are 28 million people above the age of 18 and are eligible for vaccination in the state. So far 14.2 million people were administered the first dose of the vaccine while 5.3 million completed their second dose also and 13.8 million people are yet to be inoculated.The chief minister also instructed the officials concerned to utilise buildings of schools, colleges and other government and private infrastructure as vaccination centres.Rao urged the people to go to the nearest PHC and get them examined if they have any symptoms and take precautions such as wearing masks.According to the release, Rao has instructed the medical and health officials to be on high alert to help people in any eventuality due to Covid-19 or any other seasonal diseases besides setting up oxygen plants and beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-plans-drive-to-inoculate-300k-daily-101631557951506.html
14-09-2021||India||India will stand by Afghans as it has in past: Jaishankar||New Delhi: India on Monday reiterated its commitment to stand by the people of Afghanistan and called for “non-discriminatory” and direct distribution of humanitarian assistance through the UN at a time when the war-torn country is going through a critical phase. Addressing a high-level meeting on the humanitarian situation in Afghanistan convened by UN Secretary-General António Guterres, external affairs minister S Jaishankar underlined the need for humanitarian assistance providers to be given “unimpeded, unrestricted and direct access” to the country. “Once relief materials reach that country, the world will naturally expect a non-discriminatory distribution of humanitarian assistance across all sections of the Afghan society. Only the United Nations has the capacity to monitor such endeavours and reassure donors,” Jaishankar said. “Today, I wish to underline that in the face of a grave emerging situation, India is willing to stand by the Afghan people, just as in the past,” he added. The world community must come together to create the “best possible enabling environment” for helping the Afghan people and addressing challenges such as efficient logistics in the current situation. With no formal recognition yet of the interim setup created by the Taliban following their takeover of Afghanistan on August 15, India and other countries are reluctant to see aid being sent directly to the Taliban. Several nations have called for all aid to be routed through the UN and international bodies. “As the picture becomes clear in respect of the legitimate concerns I am confident that the world will step forward and assist the Afghan people in their hour of need,” Jaishankar said without giving details. He noted that India has “consistently supported a central role” for the UN in the future of Afghanistan. “A multilateral platform is always more effective than small groups in building global consensus and encouraging united action,” he said, adding that India, as an immediate neighbour, is monitoring developments in Afghanistan with “understandable concern”. Jaishankar noted the issue of travel and safe passage “can emerge as an obstacle to humanitarian assistance” and should be “immediately sorted out”. He said: “Those who wish to travel into and out of Afghanistan should be granted such facilities without obstruction. “The normalisation of regular commercial operations of Kabul airport would not only assist in that regard, but then become the basis for a regular flow of relief material.” Jaishankar said UN Security Council resolution 2593, which was passed at a meeting held under India’s presidency of the body last month, should guide the world community’s approach towards Afghanistan in the coming days. He also recalled India’s role as the largest regional donor for reconstruction and development efforts in Afghanistan, with pledges totalling $3 billion in recent years. India’s approach to Afghanistan has always been guided by its “historical friendship with its people” and this will continue to be the case, he said. India’s contributions to the humanitarian requirements of Afghan society have included providing more than one million metric tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan over the past decade. Last year, India shipped 75,000 metric tonnes of wheat to Afghanistan via Iran’s Chabahar port. India’s efforts are also reflected in some 500 development projects in all 34 provinces of Afghanistan in critical areas such as power, water supply, road connectivity, healthcare, education, agriculture and capacity-building.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-stand-by-afghans-as-it-has-in-past-jaishankar-101631557892808.html
14-09-2021||India||SC to hear Bengal’s plea against HC order on CBI probe into poll violence||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to hear on September 20 the West Bengal government’s plea against a Calcutta high court order directing court-monitored probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation into allegations of rape, murder and attempt to murder during the post-poll violence earlier this year. The court’s decision came after the Mamata Banerjee-led government cast aspersions on the members of the committee formed by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), on whose recommendations the high court ordered the probe. Appearing for the state, senior advocate Kapil Sibal told a bench of justices Vineet Saran and Aniruddha Bose that the appeal raised questions on the procedure adopted by five-judge high court bench before directing a CBI probe, monitoring of remaining offences by special investigation team (SIT) and payment of compensation to the victims. “Look at the committee that gathered facts about the incidents and submitted a report to the high court. It was headed by Rajiv Jain who served as the Intelligence Bureau chief under the present government at the Centre till 2019. He was earlier joint director of IB when Prime Minister Narendra Modi served as Gujarat chief minister,” Sibal said.The state’s counsel also alleged “bias” by two other members in the committee – Atif Rashid, vice chairman of National Minorities Commission and Rajulben Desai, a member of National Commission for Women.“Is this a BJP investigation committee,” remarked Sibal, as he told the court, “Rashid served as president of BJP Minority Morcha, was a student leader of BJP’s youth wing ABVP in Satyawati College and later contested the Delhi municipal elections in 2021 on a BJP ticket.” On Desai, Sibal said, “She was associated with Gujarat BJP Mahila Morcha in 2017 and was in charge of Gujarat BJP Beti Bachao and Beti Padhao project.”When the bench said “if somebody has held a political post in the past, can we say that he is still biased”, Sibal pointed out that Rashid continues to make social media posts in favour of the BJP. The court also sought to know if the Beti Bachao project to which Desai was linked was a party project or a state project. Stating that it was a party project, Sibal said: “From any objective standpoint, can you pick up such persons for investigating and picking facts, knowing the sensitivity attached to the case.”Raising questions over the procedure to collect inputs on the violence, Sibal said: “The procedure was left to the committee as the court did not lay down the procedure for collection of facts.”In the appeal, the state government further highlighted that the high court did not define what constituted “post poll violence”, giving instances of cases reported by the committee which were prior to May 2 (date of announcement of election result) and later than July, almost two months after the result declaration.“Never before has en masse, the police force in a state lost confidence in the court,” Sibal said. Though the decision of the high court bench was unanimous, the state government cited two contradictions on facts noted by one of the judges. The state referred to justice Soumen Sen’s remarks which said, “I felt that having regard to the antecedents of Rajulben Desai and Atif Rashid, the inclusion of the said two members could have been avoided as it might raise reasonable likelihood of bias.” Further, justice Sen had also said that post-poll violence must refer to incidents that occurred in the immediate aftermath of the election results.The top court adjourned the matter to next week as one of the documents relied upon by state was not made available to the court in a reader-friendly format. Sibal pressed for an earlier date, saying the CBI was proceeding ahead with the case. However, the top court said that by next week, it will have more time to go through the documents filed.Pursuant to the direction by the high court on August 19, the CBI has initiated its probe and registered more than two dozen cases.The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) has been asked to provide security to members of the four CBI teams, comprising seven members in each team.A three-member SIT is probing cases of arson and loot under the court’s supervision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-bengal-s-plea-against-hc-order-on-cbi-probe-into-poll-violence-101631557771919.html
14-09-2021||India||Covaxin may get WHO nod this week: Expert||Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is likely to receive the emergency use listing (EUL) by the World Health Organization (WHO) this week, a top expert in India’s official vaccination planning body has said.The EUL will pave the way for a wider recognition of Covaxin in documentation sought by many countries that have made an inoculation mandatory for entry into their borders. In the past, students who sought to study abroad were left in the lurch because Covaxin is recognised as a coronavirus vaccine only in few countries.“I hope this week we get the WHO EUL. The company has submitted all the relevant documents; the vaccine safety data has also been submitted to WHO. So, we are hoping this week we should get it,” said Dr NK Arora, chairman, Covid-19 working group of National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation. On July 12, Bharat Biotech announced that it submitted all documents required for EUL to WHO on July 9. “The review process has now commenced with the expectation that we will receive EUL from WHO at the earliest ,” said Krishna Ella, chairman and managing director of Bharat Biotech, in a statement earlier.Bharat Biotech also attended a pre-submission meeting with representatives of WHO on June 23.While the Indian regulator has approved six coronavirus vaccines for emergency use, Covaxin and Serum Institute of India-manufactured Covishield are the mainstay of the country’s inoculation campaign. Covishield, the India-manufactured version of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine AZD1222, accounts for close to 90% of the 750 million doses administered till Monday. Covishield has already received a WHO EUL.Covaxin has been developed by the Hyderabad-based vaccine major and the Indian Council of Medical Research. According to people familiar with the matter, WHO began a rolling review of Covaxin on July 6, 2021, and even though the review is still ‘ongoing’, it is a matter of time before an approval is granted.According to the UN health body, WHO EUL is a risk-based procedure for assessing and listing unlicensed vaccines, therapeutics and in vitro diagnostics with the ultimate aim of expediting the availability of these products to people affected by a public health emergency. This will assist interested UN procurement agencies and member states in determining the acceptability of using specific products, based on an essential set of available quality, safety, and efficacy and performance data. On June 22, the subject expert committee of the central drugs standards control organisation (CDSCO) assessed Bharat Biotech’s phase 3 clinical trials data of Covaxin, and found the inactivated whole virion vaccine to be 77.8% efficacious in preventing symptomatic Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-may-get-who-nod-this-week-expert-101631557412171.html
14-09-2021||India||IMD alerts: Deep depression to bring heavy rain in 13 states till September 18||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday made a forecast that as many as 13 states across India will witness widespread rainfall over the next five days due to a deep depression over north Odisha. This comes after the weather department recently cautioned against the monsoon withdrawing late this year after entering an active phase from Saturday because of a low-pressure system that will move over central and northwest India.In its latest bulletin, the IMD said that the deep depression over Odisha has moved further west-northwestwards in the previous six hours with a speed of 13kmph. “It is very likely to move west-northwestwards across north Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh during next 48 hours,” the bulletin forecasted, though adding that the deep depression will likely weaken into a depression in the next 12 hours.Meanwhile, the other low pressure lies over Gujarat and its neighbourhood now, and is likely to become “less marked during next three to four days,” according to IMD.The commissioner of Rajkot municipal corporation said that in the past 24 hours, the Gujarat city has received 13 inches of rainfall. “There’s high rainfall warning for tomorrow also.  [A total of] 1,400 people [have been] shifted to shelters and over 300 people rescued,” the commissioner told news agency ANI, adding that no casualties have been reported yet. Here are the 13 states where heavy rainfall is expected till September 18:1.     Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy downpour over central Maharashtra, Gujarat, east Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and north Konkan is likely till September 17. Isolated extremely heavy rainfall is likely over Gujarat, and Madhya Pradesh on September 15.2.     The IMD bulletin said that scattered rainfall is expected to continue over peninsular India till September 18. Meanwhile, isolated heavy rain is likely over coastal and south interior Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Puducherry and Karaikal (also in Puducherry) till September 15.3.     There will be an increase in rainfall over parts of plains of northwest India with a fresh spell of heavy rain at isolated places in west Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, and Rajasthan from September 16 onwards.4.     The IMD has also forecasted a cyclonic circulation over north Bay of Bengal on September 17. The bulletin said that the circulation is likely to move west-northwestwards towards Odisha-West Bengal coast during the next 48 hours, thereby causing an enhanced rain-related activity in the states and also the eastern part of India.5.     Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall over Odisha and Chhattisgarh isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall and isolated extremely heavy downpour are expected for the rest of today. However, this condition will see a reduction thereafter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-alerts-deep-depression-to-bring-heavy-rain-in-13-states-till-september-18-101631556845051.html
14-09-2021||India||‘Will bring new energy’: Bhupendra Patel sworn in as Gujarat CM||First-term MLA Bhupendra Patel was on Monday sworn in as the 17th chief minister of Gujarat by governor Acharya Devvrat at a simple ceremony at Raj Bhavan in Ahmedabad. The 59-year-old was unanimously elected BJP legislature party leader on Sunday, a day after former chief minister Vijay Rupani and his cabinet surprised many with their resignations just 15 months before the assembly elections in the Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled state. The proposal to elect Patel as the legislature party leader was moved by Rupani.Union home minister Amit Shah, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant,Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai, Rupani and former deputy chief minister Nitin Patel were among those present at the event.As decided by the BJP, only Patel was administered the oath of office on Monday. The council of ministers are likely to be sworn in during the next few days after their names are finalised, according to people familiar with the developments. Extending his wishes to the new chief minister, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: “Congratulations to Bhupendra Bhai on taking oath as CM of Gujarat. I have known him for years and have seen his exemplary work, be it in the BJP Organisation or civic administration and community service. He will certainly enrich Gujarat’s growth trajectory.” Responding to this, Patel said: “I will always work for giving new energy and momentum to the sustainable development journey of the state and for the welfare of the people.”Devvrat and Shah congratulated Patel after the ceremony. Shah was the first to congratulate Patel after he took the oath.“My wishes to Bhupendra Patel for taking oath as Gujarat chief minister. I believe under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he will take Gujarat’s development journey to new heights by working with full devotion and dedication for the welfare of the poor, farmers and underprivileged sections of the state,” Shah tweeted. BJP president JP Nadda congratulated Patel for taking the chief minister’s chair. He also lauded Rupani for making every effort for the “development of the state and service of the people” in the previous five years.“I have full confidence that under the guidance and leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the pace of Gujarat’s journey of sustainable development will accelerate,” his tweet in Hindi read.Rupani also “conveyed congratulations” to his successor Patel, according to news agency ANI. He said that he has “full faith” in the BJP and the welfare of the state moving forward under Patel’s leadership. “Gujarat will become a role model for all states,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.Hours after the ceremony, Patel held a high-level meeting with top officials to review the flood-like situation in some parts of Saurashtra region and instructed the authorities to airlift stranded people in rain-hit Jamnagar district.Incessant rains battered parts of Saurashtra region on Monday, leaving three people dead in Rajkot and Jamnagar as rivers overflowed and low-lying areas got flooded. The situation also prompted authorities to issue alerts and deploy National Disaster Response Force and state disaster response force for evacuation and relief.Prior to the swearing-in ceremony, Patel instructed Jamnagar district authorities to make necessary arrangements to airlift around 35 stranded persons of three villages, which were inundated and cut off from other parts of the district due to incessant rain on Sunday.According to Jamnagar district’s disaster management wing, the Indian Air Force (IAF) has been requested to airlift people stranded in some of the villages of Kalavad and Jamnagar talukas.The newly-sworn chief minister is the fifth politician from the Patidar community to occupy the top post since the state’s formation in1960, indicating the clout wielded by the influential social group. The state has had five Patel chief ministers out of total 17 since the state was formed 61 years ago.Patel’s elevation is being seen as an attempt by the BJP to woo the Patidars ahead of the 2022 polls and retain its grip on Gujarat, which has been under saffron rule for more than two decades. The Patidars are a dominant caste in Gujarat with a sizeable control over the electoral votes and dominate the political economy with a stronghold over education, realty and cooperative sectors. They constitute around 15 per cent of the state’s population.In the 2017 Assembly elections, BJP won 99 of the 182 seats and Congress got 77.The chief minister is considered to be close to former Gujarat chief minister and current Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel who quit the post in 2016 following the statewide Patidar quota agitation which had turned violent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-bring-new-energy-bhupendra-patel-sworn-in-as-gujarat-cm-101631557234477.html
14-09-2021||India||Oscar Fernandes: Soft-spoken, diligent workaholic who got Congress battle ready||In the spring of 2009, as the Congress party was getting ready to face the national elections, party president Sonia Gandhi told Prime Minister Manmohan Singh that some ministers were required to move to the party organisation . The first name in the list was Oscar Fernandes, then the Union minister of labour and employment. Those who didn’t know the soft-spoken Fernandes, a lifelong Congressman from Udupi in Karnataka, may have been surprised at the choice. After all, he possessed neither the political skills of someone like Kamal Nath nor the electoral management abilities that Pranab Mukherjee or Ghulam Nabi Azad did. Yet Fernandes, a Rajya sabha member, who died on Monday at the age of 80 in Mangaluru from age-related illnesses, was a diligent backroom man. He would work for 16-17 hours a day, day after day, on all the small details that got a party battle-ready. Senior Congress leader BK Hariprasad remembers that when Fernandes was around, “the AICC office wouldn’t close before 3am.”  “We are deeply saddened by the demise of Shri Oscar Fernandesji; our heartfelt condolences to his family. A Congress stalwart, his vision for an inclusive India had a huge influence on the politics of our times. The Congress family will deeply miss his mentorship & guidance,” tweeted the Congress. Expressing his condolence, PM Narendra Modi said, “Saddened by the demise of Rajya Sabha MP Shri Oscar Fernandes Ji. In this sad hour, my thoughts and prayers are with his family and well-wishers. May his soul rest in peace.” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted that it was his “personal loss”. “He was a guide and mentor to many of us in the Congress Party. He will be missed and fondly remembered for his contributions.” During his tenure as the labour minister, Fernandes maintained a cordial ties with trade union leaders even from the other spectrum of political ideology. “He was a different labour minister. His biggest contribution was that he prepared the entire groundwork for abolition of the fixed-term employment in the factories that was brought in by the (Atal Bihari) Vajpayee government. When Mallikarjun Kharge succeeded him, the notification was issued,” said CITU general secretary Tapan Sen. His tenure also saw the maternity benefits law being strengthened with its coverage expanded to women in factories, mines, plantations, performance establishments, even stores with more than 10 employees. Fernandes, whose mother was India’s first female magistrate, joined the youth Congress in his district and made is name in 1980, when he defeated Tonse Ananth Pai, a legendary political leader and a banker (responsible for the rise of the Syndicate Bank) in the 1980 Lok Sabha elections from Udupi. He served in the Lower House till 1996; then moved to the Rajya Sabha in 1998. Interestingly, in an earlier election, Fernandes was the election agent of Pai. Oscar Fernandes’s entry into the Lok Sabha took him straight to then PM Rajiv Gandhi’s office where the young leader (he was only 39 at the time) was appointed the parliamentary secretary to Gandhi for a year. Fernandes, who started his career as a member of Udupi municipal council, went on to serve the Lok Sabha for five terms and was the sitting member of the Rajya Sabha in his third term. A trained Kuchipudi dancer, Fernandes and his colleague Veerappa Moily have even performed on stage in a dance recital. While his last outing as the minister was in labour and employment ministry, Fernandes really enjoyed organisational work. His aide BP Singh is now a secretary of the party. Organisational responsibility took him to several places, including the hinterlands of Bihar. Many Congress leaders remembered that in one such meeting, people asked him to speak in Hindi when he introduced himself as “Oscar Fernandes”! A sharp political mind, Fernandes restarted his speech saying, “Main hoon Oscar. Aur meri biwi (Blossom Fernandes) ka naam hai Phoolkumari.” When he was a minister, he once called this correspondent to meet him at 10 pm for a short meeting. The meeting eventually started at 11.50pm and ended at 12.10am. As this correspondent was about to leave the minister’s chamber, a smiling Fernandes said: “Remember, you came here yesterday and are leaving today.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oscar-fernandes-soft-spoken-diligent-workaholic-who-got-congress-battle-ready-101631556991936.html
14-09-2021||India||Add suicide cases to Covid-19 death tally, SC tells Centre||The Supreme Court on Monday told the Union government that persons who died by suicide after suffering Covid-19 should also be considered to have died from the viral disease in the latter’s new guidelines for recognising deaths from the coronavirus disease in death certificates.It also wanted some clarifications in the procedure for issuing death certificates. Still, the bench said that it was largely satisfied with the guidelines. “Around 80% has been achieved. There are some creases that need to be ironed out,” the bench observed.Suggesting some other “grey areas” in the guidelines, the top court directed the Centre to consider its suggestions and file a detailed affidavit by September 23; the government is also expected to disclose the quantum of ex-gratia compensation payable to persons who died due to Covid-19.The guidelines presented to the apex court ahead of the hearing on Friday said any death within 30 days of a positive Covid test would be considered a Covid death, irrespective of whether this happened at home or a hospital. But deaths occurring due to poisoning, suicide, homicide, or accident were not to be treated as Covid deaths among people suffering from the disease, the guidelines added. They also clarified that the deaths of Covid patients who spent more than 30 days in hospital would also be treated as Covid deaths. The bench of Justices MR Shah and AS Bopanna, said: “If the government is paying compensation to a particular class (of persons who died due to Covid), what about those who died by suicide because they were suffering from the illness. Ultimately, we have to consider suffering of people. Nobody will commit suicide without reason.”The guidelines were filed pursuant to a Supreme Court judgment of June 30 allowing ex-gratia compensation for those who died from Covid under the National Disaster Management Act 2005. These guidelines were meant to identify those eligible for such compensation.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the government said: “The guidelines need to be revisited. The cause of death may be suicide, but the cause of suicide can be Covid. Suppose a person is Covid positive and immediately dies by suicide, it can be considered.” Mehta further pointed out that the Centre had also complied with the scheme for ex-gratia compensation under the 2005 Act. He agreed to file a comprehensive compliance affidavit by the next date of hearing on September 23.The bench said, “Your guidelines suggest that irrespective of the fact that Covid is an accompanying condition, death due to suicide will not be treated as a Covid death.” Advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal, one of the petitioners at whose instance the June 30 order was passed, told the Court that as according to a recent research study by NIMHANS, Bengaluru, Covid - related suicides were recorded to be well above the average national suicide rate. He said the Centre’s exclusion of suicide deaths linked to Covid was “irrational, arbitrary and illogical”.The bench told the petitioner, “Let the Centre apply their mind, or else we are here. It is a larger issue that affects suffering of people.”The Court also examined the other aspects of the guidelines which talked about the procedure for issuance of fresh death documents by a district-level committee comprising Additional District Collector, Chief Medical Officer of Health (CMOH), Additional CMOH/ Principal or HOD Medicine of a Medical College (if one exists in the district) and a subject expert. Requests for issuance of death certificate were to be disposed within 30 days, the guidelines added.The bench asked Mehta: “What about death certificates already issued by the authorities and where family members have dispute about the cause of death being Covid? We find that the district-level Committee is concerning future applications only. Also, what about documents from hospital certifying cause of death as Covid? Suppose any dispute arises, how will the family members prove the death was due to Covid?”The court put other pertinent questions to the Centre. “When will you constitute the Committee. There has to be a timeframe within which the states have to set it up.” In its June 30 order, the bench gave six weeks to the government to comply with its directions on ex-gratia compensation, death certificate guidelines and a national health insurance scheme for disaster-related deaths as envisaged by the Fifteenth Finance Commission. On August 16, the Centre was granted an extension of four weeks to frame the ex-gratia scheme under Section 12 (iii) of the 2005 Act as Covid was notified as a disaster under the same Act in March 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/add-suicide-cases-to-covid-19-death-tally-sc-tells-centre-101631556811958.html
14-09-2021||India||Jet to resume domestic operations in early 2022||Jet Airways plans to resume operations from the first quarter of 2022, the airline’s new management said on Monday, announcing plans to soon hire 1,000 people, and a shift to Delhi as the base of its operations.The airline stopped flying in April 2019 after it ran out of funds for its operations and debt. It is now controlled by an investor consortium of UAE-based businessman Murari Lal Jalan and London-based Kalrock Capital after a resolution plan was approved by a bankruptcy court this year.“Jet Airways 2.0 aims at restarting domestic operations by Q1-2022, and short-haul international operations by Q3/Q4 2022,” Jalan, the lead member of the Jalan Kalrock Consortium and the proposed non-executive chairman of Jet Airways said.The company also said it has applied for a revalidation of its air operator certificate (AOC), although allocations of flight slots are still pending. The new management is working with authorities and airport coordinators on slot allocation, required airport infrastructure, and night parking, it said.The company has already hired 150 employees, it said.“We received the NCLT approval in June 2021 and since then we have been working closely with all concerned authorities to get the airline back in the skies,” Jalan said.“Our plan is to have more than 50 aircraft in three years and more than 100 in five years which also fits perfectly well with the short-term and long-term business plan of the consortium. The aircraft are being selected based on competitive long term leasing solutions,” Jalan added.At one point, Jet, promoted by the founder Naresh Goyal, operated over 120 planes and flew to several major international hubs such as Singapore, London and Dubai, in addition to a wide domestic network. At its peak shortly after 2010, its business accounted for well over a fifth of the aviation sector in India as it operated over 300 flights a day. But the company slowly began to lose the market share as low-cost carriers IndiGo and SpiceJet grew. By 2018, Jet was running into losses and was unable to meet operational costs, such as payments to aircraft lessors and settling fuel bills.“The revival plan for Jet Airways is being implemented as approved by NCLT and all the creditors will be settled as per the plan in the coming months,” Kalrock Consortium said.Sudhir Gaur, the acting CEO, said that the airline will now be headquartered in the Delhi-NCR region and its senior management will work from the Corporate Office at Gurugram.“However, Jet Airways will continue to have strong and significant presence in Mumbai where it will work from its Global One office in Kurla. Jet Airways also has a state-of-the-art training centre located at Global One, which will be retained and used for in-house training for the Jet Airways team,” said Gaur.Domestic operations will be restarted with a narrow-body aircraft fleet that will be leased from major global aircraft lessors, he added.India’s aviation sector, like the global industry, was dealt a blow by the Covid-19 pandemic as all but essential travel ground to a halt for much of 2020. In India, the second wave took the wind out of a recovery in the first quarter of 2021 -- prompting some companies to talk of a government bailout.Experts said Jet’s revival in the time period disclosed by the company was achievable but some things will be key. Dhiraj Mathur, former partner at PwC, a global consultancy firm said: “Jet Airways 2.0 can be revived in the first quarter of 2022 if they are successful in acquiring slots. Everything else is doable.”Kapil Kaul, chief executive officer of Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation (CAPA-India) said: “ Jet’s resumption in early 2022 is feasible post the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) approval. It also depends on their level of preparedness.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jet-to-resume-domestic-operations-in-early-2022-101631556450831.html
14-09-2021||India||Govt won’t reveal if it used Pegasus, SC told||The Union government on Monday told the Supreme Court that it cannot make public whether its agencies used Israeli spyware Pegasus for mounting surveillance on Indian citizens since such disclosure will be against national interest, returning to a position it articulated on August 17, before suggesting last week that it could reconsider its stand.This prompted the court to remark that the Centre is “beating around the bush”.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, reserved its order on a clutch of petitions demanding a court-monitored probe into the alleged surveillance using Pegasus spyware after an 80-minute hearing during which the government refused to share any information on the use of Pegasus or the alleged snooping on some of the petitioners.The bench, which included justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, said that the court will pass an interim order in the next 3-4 days on the constitution of an expert committee and other ancillary issues related to an independent inquiry after considering the materials placed by the petitioners and the submissions made by their lawyers.After seeking time last Tuesday to reconsider its previous stand against filing a detailed response on the bunch of petitions, solicitor general Tushar Mehta reiterated on Monday that the use of a particular software like Pegasus cannot be a subject matter of any affidavit or a public debate.The government is open to having a committee of independent domain experts who can go into all aspects of the controversy and submit its report before the bench, Mehta said, but the use of a particular software “cannot be made a part of the public discourse in the larger national interest and in the interest of the security of the nation”.The law officer said the government stands by its August 16 affidavit filed on the Pegasus snooping matter, which neither confirmed nor denied the use of the military-grade spyware to hack phones of ministers, politicians, businessmen, activists, and journalists, and which offered to set up an expert committee instead.The bench remained unimpressed with S-G’s contentions. “We said it very clearly even on the last date that nobody is interested in the disclosure of information that could compromise national security. We wanted a limited affidavit from you because we have petitioners before us, citing violation of their privacy...In the face of the allegations that some software was used to snoop on certain individuals like lawyers and journalists, it had to be made known whether there are methods of interception other than lawful means,” the court told Mehta.Observing that the S-G was “going in circles” despite the court’s repeated clarification on issues of national security, the bench added: “In your affidavit, you could clarify whether there was a lawful interception of the petitioners or not. And if there was any unlawful interception that was not in your knowledge, then it should be a matter of your concern too. Then, we can pass some directions on guidelines, legislative measures, etc.”Mehta, however, repeated that the government would not disclose whether it used Pegasus or not because that would have its pitfalls and such information could be used by terror groups to hamper the security of the nation.“You are going in circles again and again as if we want to know everything that the government is doing. These are serious allegations that phones were tapped through software and entire privacy was taken. Your minister also took note of the use of this software in his statement in the Parliament in 2019. We wanted a further affidavit to know where we stand...beating around the bush is not an issue here,” the court retorted.It further observed: “If the allegations are true, there are definitely effects (of such surveillance). There are different issues involved here. There is one issue about the technology; then there are issues of legal provisions of interception; there are issues of NSO making such services available to entities...We wanted a further affidavit and depending on that we could proceed. But now you have chosen not to do so, we will pass some interim orders.”Mehta, on his part, maintained that a facade is sought to be created that the government is hiding the truth whereas its stand is clear that it is not evading any inquiry but is rather willing to have it done on its own through a committee of independent experts.This submission was strongly objected to by petitioners’ lawyers, including senior counsel Kapil Sibal, Shyam Divan, Rakesh Dwivedi, Dinesh Dwivedi, Colin Gonsalves and Meenakshi Arora. All these lawyers condemned the Centre’s refusal to come clean on the use of Pegasus while also urging the court to reject the government’s proposal to form a committee by itself.Sibal referred to a statement made by Ravi Shankar Prasad, the then Union law and IT minister, in Parliament in response to a question by AIMIM chief and lawmaker Asaduddin Owaisi. Prasad admitted that WhatsApp had notified the government about attempts to hack the phones of more than 100 users in India. Sibal said that the government is impeding the course of justice by keeping relevant information hidden from the highest court of the land and it indicates that the government has been using Pegasus against the citizens without any legal sanction.Most of the lawyers for petitioners pointed out that the government, being the “wrongdoer”, cannot be allowed to have a committee by itself and that the court should set up a panel consisting of members of its choice to go into the issue and report back.While Divan pressed for a directive to the cabinet secretary to file a “disclosure affidavit”, Dinesh Dwivedi asked for an interim order to restrain the government from using Pegasus against anyone.Mehta, at this point, reiterated that the court should allow the government to set up a committee, which, he said, will have experts completely unconnected with the government.“Suppose a committee examines it and places its report before us, then also everything will come into public domain...but ultimately it is your prerogative and you have decided not to file anything. We will now pass an interim order that we have to pass,” replied the bench, reserving its order.The Pegasus row erupted on July 18 after an international consortium of media outlets and investigative journalists reported that the phones of Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 that were potentially targeted by Pegasus, Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software. According to this consortium, Pegasus can switch on a target’s phone camera and microphone, as well as access data on the device, effectively turning the phone into a pocket spy.Responding to a bunch of petitions filed by lawyers, politicians, journalists and civil rights activists, the Union ministry of electronics and information technology filed a three-page affidavit on August 16 that refused to confirm or deny whether it had used Pegasus spyware for surveilling Indians. The Centre instead offered to set up an expert committee to look into the controversy and “dispel any wrong narrative spread by certain vested interests”.On August 17, the court observed that it is “not averse” to set up an expert committee to look into the alleged surveillance of Indian citizens with Pegasus spyware but that it expects the government to bring sufficient facts on record regarding the interception regime in India.The government, however, replied that any disclosure on its using or not using Pegasus spyware would come at the cost of national security and insisted that it will divulge such information only before the proposed committee, which, it said, can report to the top court.It also added that all interceptions were being done per the statutory procedure, and it would not wish to put out in the public domain details of the software used for lawful surveillance by filing any additional affidavit.Following the Centre’s refusal, the court on August 17 issued a formal notice to the government on the batch of pleas filed by petitioners in the case, a list that includes advocate ML Sharma, former minister Yashwant Sinha, Rajya Sabha MP John Brittas, the Editors Guild of India, journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar, journalists Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, Rupesh Kumar Singh, Ipshita Shatakshi, SNM Abdi, and Prem Shankar Jha, and civil rights activists Jagdeep S Chhokar and Narendra Mishra.Deferring the matter for September 7 , the bench had once again asked SG Mehta to consider filing a detailed reply while observing that the court would ponder over the future course of action in the meantime. On September 7, the S-G asked for some time to reconsider its earlier stand, following which the matter was fixed for hearing on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-won-t-reveal-if-it-used-pegasus-sc-told-101631556090841.html
14-09-2021||India||A different set of rules for ‘special’ Facebook users: Report||Social media company Facebook maintains a special list of users for whom its rules apply differently, at times leaving up content that it would otherwise pull down, according to a news report published on Monday.The Wall Street Journal cited an internal report from the review of a programme known as XCheck, or cross-check. The programme included 5.8 million politicians, celebrities and journalists for whom the rules applied differently. The disclosures contradict the company’s public stand that its rules apply to everyone equally. Today, the story said, XCheck shields millions of VIP users from normal enforcement process, the documents show, with some users “whitelisted”—rendered immune from enforcement actions—while others are allowed to post rule-violating material pending Facebook employee reviews that often never come.The WSJ report, citing the review, gave the example of a post by international football star Neymar, who put up nude photos of a woman who had accused him of rape.While no Indian example was cited in the report, the disclosures tie in with the news broken by WSJ in August, 2020 that Facebook left up an inflammatory post by a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader in Telangana since its India-based executives feared blowback from the government.The issue since snowballed into a larger controversy that rang out in Parliament.In Monday’s report, WSJ quoted Facebook spokesperson Andy Stone as saying that XCheck was “designed for an important reason: to create an additional step so we can accurately enforce policies on content that could require more understanding.” Stone, however, accepted that the criticism of the programme was fair, the American newspaper said.The news report also characterised Facebook’s routine content moderation as dispensing “rough justice” – “the automated systems summarily delete or bury content suspected of rule violations without a human review. At other times, material flagged by those systems or by users is assessed by content moderators employed by outside companies”, it said.People on the XCheck list were exempted from these and the internal review of the controversial programme, which took place in 2019, found that most Facebook employees could add users into the system. According to an audit at the time, at least 45 teams around the company were involved in whitelisting users.The WSJ also quoted Facebook employees aware of the matter as saying that pulling VIP content at times required approval from senior executives on communications public policy teams, such as the company’s founder and chief executive Mark Zuckerberg and chief operating officer Sheryl Sandberg.It also cited discussions on the company’s internal messaging board for employees to say that a product manager involved with XCheck had agreed with the fairness concerns but said “we have to balance that with business risk”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-different-set-of-rules-for-special-facebook-usersreport-101631554950753.html
14-09-2021||India||Hathras rape: A year on, still living in fear, buried under social stigma||Hathras: His phone was buzzing. It was two days after his sister, 19, allegedly raped, died, with her body being consigned to flames with the administration watching. The stream of visitors was constant, from neighbours, to politicians, to an intrusive press. Most had never stepped into his mud and brick home before. There had been no peace. He was used to the ping, almost as if it was now a dirge for his loss.Yet, this alert was different. Ominous. Unsigned and from a number unknown to him. “Accept the reality and stop lying for money. Otherwise you won’t be able to hide anywhere in the country. All of you will be in jail,” read the text in Hindi, dated October 1. His sister was dead, his life torn asunder, but that message was a warning, that trouble was only just beginning. In a four-part series, HT returns to the scenes of crimes against women in rural India that have shaken the country over the past two decades, launched protests, and affected the course of law, to examine what has happened since, and if the social conditions that allowed for, and perpetuated these crimes, have changed at all. The first: Hathras, where exactly one year ago, on September 14, 2020, a 19-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly raped and assaulted. Days later, amid national outrage, her body was cremated in the dead of the night. The dramatic sequence of incidents once again put under the spotlight one of India’s stark realities -- the striking vulnerability of Dalits, especially women, in the countryside where upper caste power permeates every interaction and forces marginalised castes to be dependent on them for survival. The botched probe and police missteps also showed how caste dominance can shape government machinery, and how difficult it is for vulnerable communities to challenge perpetrators, even when the law is technically on their side. In the village, even as the rape-and-murder sparked nationwide protests, forced politicians to make a beeline for the village, and prompted the state government and the Supreme Court to step in and steer the investigation, the family has fought a separate, invisible battle -- against fear. Their trust in the local administration was shattered, and every time they stepped out, it was clear that the villagers had coalesced in support of the four accused – all Thakurs. “People would look at us like we had done something wrong, and said we targeted innocent boys,” said the mother of the victim. “My bacchi (child) was dead. But nobody believed us.” On October 27 that year, the Supreme Court ordered that central paramilitary forces be posted for the family’s security. Today, a year after the incident, roughly 35 personnel guard the family through the day. The Central Bureau of Investigation took over the case on October 10 and indicted the four accused men – Sandeep Singh, Ram Kumar Singh, Ravi Singh and Lavkush Sisodia – in a trial ongoing in the Hathras district court. Yet, attitudes, and theories in the village remain unchanged – the relatives did this for money, the girl was dating one of the accused, this is a family dispute, an attempt to tarnish the government. There is, above all, outrage at how impoverished Valmikis (the caste of the victim) defied local strictures to accuse people many stations above them. This worldview has spilled over into even the legal proceedings, alleged the victim’s sister-in-law. “We go to the courts to bear witness, they treat it like it’s their fief. Hamari beti bas hamari reh gayi, but woh char ladke pure gaon ke ho gayein hain (Our daughter is just ours, but it’s as if the four boys belong to the entire village).” 2 Roughly 20 minutes from the bustle of Hathras town, crop fields ring the village where the Valmiki family lives. Mud tracks branch off from the state highway, cutting through the fields to the village. In the monsoon, the fields flood and the one pucca road in the village turns into an island – where men set up charpoys and children wade through the muddy slush to get to the fields. The village of roughly 350 people has just four Dalit families – all hailing from the Valmiki caste, which is often forced to perform sanitation duties. One shares a mud wall with the victim’s family and another a front courtyard, used for buffaloes to rest and eat, but now occupied by CRPF personnel. Almost every family in the village works in agriculture – the higher castes as owners and cultivators and the rest as sharecroppers or farm labourers. It was in these fields that the victim’s mother first noticed her missing. Around 7.30am on September 14, the family was out cutting grass in the fields when the mother found her daughter injured and barely conscious, her clothes bloody and torn. They rushed to the police station, and then to the local hospital and finally the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital in Aligarh. On September 19, she gave a statement naming the accused and recorded her dying declaration on September 22. After she died in Delhi on September 29, the police rushed her body back to the village and at 2:30am the next day, forcibly cremated her. The administration later claimed that it took the consent the family and wanted to ward off law and order problems – but the family denied this and said only a distant relative was present. “I ran behind the van carrying her but couldn’t stop it. They didn’t let us see her one last time,” said the sister-in-law. 3 The Hathras district court sits atop a hill that it shares with a 200-year-old temple dedicated to Lord Krishna’s elder brother, Balaram. Like many small towns in the heartland, the district court premises is the nerve centre of the dusty town, and rows of tables with black-robed lawyers line the five-minute drive up the hill. It is here, in the special SC/ST court, that the trial has progressed over the past year. Of the 104 witnesses mentioned in the CBI charge sheet, the statements of 16 have been recorded. The victim’s elder brother is currently giving his statement in court. Hearings have grown increasingly acrimonious and things came to a head on March 5. The lawyer for the family, Seema Kushwaha said a drunk lawyer interrupted her during arguments and others barged into the courtroom and threatened her. “Seema, stay in your seema (boundary), they told me,” she said. She lodged a complaint and asked the high court to shift the trial. On August 26, the high court refused the request. Kushwaha has appealed to the Prime Minister and home minister for additional security. The defence case rests on three prongs: Establish that the victim and accused Sandeep had a relationship, question the lack of medical evidence, and blow holes in the dying declaration of the victim – which the CBI used to indict the four men. “They shared 105 calls. The girl’s brother says he didn’t see the murder happen, the mother says she was at a distance. Where is the medical evidence?” asked Munna Singh Pundhir, who represents the four accused. “They remain in jail only due to media.” Kushwaha rubbished this and pointed out that the girl had mentioned “zabardasti” on September 14, named the accused on September 19 before saying “balatkar” on September 22 -- without the police acting on it. “The medical examination was done eight days later, and after many changes of clothes. Moreover, the change in rape laws after 2013 don’t need semen to establish rape. These are all distraction tactics.” 4 The victim family’s refusal to obey to social hierarchies by fighting the case has galvanised the Thakurs and other upper castes. They agree on one thing: that the family brought a bad name to the village. “Before the murder, the upper castes in the village were divided and would fight among themselves. Now, they have united to fight because this is their honour,” said the sister-in-law. The village chief, Narendra Sisodia, said the villagers were united in seeking justice but cautioned that if anyone other than Sandeep (it’s a popular theory that he committed the crime and the others have been framed) was punished, or if the men were given the death penalty, the region will erupt in protest. “We are Thakurs, we will support them,” he said. Sisodia was one of the organisers of a controversial upper-caste mahapanchayat days after the crime in favour of the accused. Sandeep’s father, Narender, pointed to a 2001 case filed by the victim’s grandfather against his family for criminal intimidation, hurt and under the SC/ST Atrocities Act. That case was settled in 2015. “Has anyone seen the murder happen? Has anyone asked them if they did it? They’re out to destroy us,” he said. The village is split into two contrasting worlds: The upper castes believe nothing is amiss and it is only a matter of time till the Thakur men are acquitted. They say the region has never seen any caste disturbance, and take pride that they share space with the Valmikis. “We even invite them for our events,” said a young villager. Among the four Dalit families, however, there is despair. They say their children are hit when they take animals out for grazing, and threatened with police cases. They avoid local shops. “They say once the faujis (forces) leave, we’ll barge into our homes and thrash you,” said a woman neighbour, also Valmiki. A young Dalit boy said he is abused with slurs every time he ventures out of the house. His mother, a distant relative of the victim, said the children are often told they’ll be killed. The victim’s family has sold six of their seven buffaloes because they can’t go out and collect fodder. They live on the ₹25 lakh received as compensation, because they can’t hold down jobs due to court dates and stigma. Their kin say they are not allowed in local temples, are asked to stand away from the others at village shops, and their turn at the water pumps comes last. Villagers often refer to them as “basera” (settlers). “No one came to see us, know about our daughter. Now, even the other Dalits are scared of the villagers because they’re dependent on lands (largely owned by Thakurs and other upper castes),” said the victim’s father. The family feels that the tragic circumstances that upended their lives in October last year haven’t changed much -- the upper castes still control village life, the Valmikis are still vastly outnumbered, and though some policemen were suspended, the political and administrative set-up is still bereft of influential Dalit people. “The initial focus on Hathras ensured that things moved but over the past year, the pace has slowed, the trial is sluggish and things are back to being difficult for the family. There is hardly any improvement in the condition of local Dalit women, and the power structure continues to be dominated by the upper castes,” said Manjula Pradeep, director of the Dalit Human Rights Defenders Network.There is a sense of fragile security for now – thanks to 35 men and eight CCTV cameras – but they know that one day the CRPF will leave. “We have put our future at stake but at least our future generations will be treated better,” said the father. The sister-in-law offered less hope. “We know we will never be safe. Their mindset will never change.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-rape-a-year-on-still-living-in-fear-buried-under-social-stigma-101631551530968.html
