15-09-2021||India||15-yr-old gang-raped in MP; three arrested||Raisen (MP) A 15-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped by three men, who also filmed the act on a mobile phone in Madhya Pradesh’s Bhopal district, police said on Wednesday.The police have arrested the accused for the incident that took place under Gunga police station area in Bhopal district on September 12, while the complaint was registered at Raisen women’s police station, an official said.The victim, a Class 10 student, had gone to Gunga from her home in Raisen district to help her ailing sister, additional superintendent of police (ASP) Amritlal Meena said. The victim was alone at home, as her sister was admitted to Bhopal’s Hamidia Hospital, and on the day of the attack, the accused came home asking for her brother-in-law, he said. The accused entered in the house by force when they found out that the victim was alone and raped her and filmed the act on a mobile phone, ASP said.The girl narrated her ordeal to her father after she went back home to Raisen, following which a complaint was lodged, he said. A case under the relevant sections of the IPC and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act has been registered against the accused, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15yrold-gang-raped-in-mp-three-arrested-101631729459900.html
15-09-2021||India||US presses India to resume Covid-19 vaccine export: Report||Washington The Biden administration has been pressing Prime Minister Narendra Modi reportedly to let India resume exporting Covid-19 vaccines, and is tying it to a possible prominent role for him at a global summit US President Joe Biden plans to hold on the sidelines of the UN general assembly meetings.“We have regularly been communicating with (the) government of India in bilateral and multilateral channels to discuss vaccine supply and inquire about timeline for exports,” a US official told Aixos news publication, insisting, at the same time, that “these conversations are not tied to a specific summit or engagement,”.Prime Minister Modi’s participation in the summit will not be incumbent upon his agreeing to resuming export of vaccines.The summit has not been announced yet.Prime Minister Modi will be joining his counterparts from Australia and Japan — Scott Morrison and Yoshihide Suga — and President Biden for the first in-person summit of the Quad here at the White House on September 24, according to announcements by the ministry and external affairs and the White House. And the pandemic is on the agenda, along with climate change and the Indo-Pacific.India ceased export of Covid-19 vaccines earlier in the year after it faced internal criticism for not inoculating enough Indians locally in the wake of a massive surge in cases caused by the more virulent Delta variant.India is in a far better place with half of its eligible populating having received at least one shot of a vaccine.Axis reported that Biden administration officials have said they understand this is a sensitive issue and ave thus decided to adopt a “soft approach” to Modi and it added, citing officials, the administration has “decided against trying to strong-arm Modi by conditioning his participation on his willingness to release vaccines to COVAX. He’ll be welcomed regardless of his decision.”The United States had itself forbade the export of Covid-19 vaccines as it sought to marshal all available resources for to vaccinate Americans and build a stockpile of vaccines for use domestically, by invoking special wartime powers of the president. This had created a shortfall of raw material for vaccines in India, as supplies were blocked from shipping.The United States lifted the curbs as part of a relief package it announced for India to help it deal with the crippling surge in cases fueled by the Delta variant, along with oxygen converters, therapeutics such as remdesivir and personal protection equipment for healthcare workers.The Biden administration plans to push participants at the summit to contribute vaccines to the WHO-run COVAX initiative, which is trying to ensure equitable distribution of vaccines around the world. Some countries have distributed vaccines through bilateral arrangement to earn and build diplomatic equity.Axios reported that the Biden administration plans to invite Russia, which has stayed away from COVAxX, to the summit, as well as China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-presses-india-to-resume-covid-19-vaccine-export-report-101631729224371.html
15-09-2021||India||Delhi Police hunting uncle of Pak ISI-trained man who aided in transporting IED||In the latest development in the case of the arrest of six accused who were part of Pakistan’s ISI-trained terror module, the Delhi Police are on the hunt for the uncle of one of the men for assisting them in transporting Improvised Explosive Device (IED).Delhi Police Special Cell told news agency ANI that Osama alias Sami’s (22) uncle, Humaid, was assisting the terror module which was allegedly planning to carry out serial blasts and targetted killings in at least three states or Union territories (UTs) of India, including Delhi, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh, during the upcoming festive season.Earlier in the day, it was reported that Pakistan Army officers had trained Osama and another of the accused, Zeeshan Qamar (28), after they reached the country’s Gwadar port following several short sea-journeys. Two Pakistani nationals, Hamza and Jabbar, were from the country’s army unit and imparted training to the accused duo. People familiar with the development told ANI that the army men were subordinates of a Major or Lieutenant-rank officer in the Pakistan Army named Ghazi.Also Read | Delhi Police captured ISI-backed terrorists trained by Pak Army officers: ReportApart from Zeeshan and Osama, four others - Mohamed Abu Bakr (23), Mohammed Amir Javed (31), Jaan Mohammad Shaikh (47), and Moolchand alias Saaju (47) -- were held by Delhi Police on Tuesday.Delhi Police said that after interrogation, the captured terrorists said the module was being managed by Anees Ibrahim, younger brother of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim – currently believed to be hiding in Pakistan.The terror module was busted with the arrest of six persons including two Pakistani-trained terrorists who were planning to set off bombs in various parts of the country during the upcoming festival season.  What do we know so far about the six accused’s background?Zeeshan is an MBA holder and he was forced to return back to India from Dubai due to the Covid-19-induced lockdown in the city. He had worked as an accountant in Dubai. Zeeshan was arrested from Allahabad.Amir, who was held in Lucknow, is Zeeshan’s relative and had spent time in Saudi Arabia’s Jeddah. Jan Mohammed, arrested in Rajasthan’s Kota, was a driver and had recently lost his job. He was also held in 2001. Earlier, Maharashtra ATS chief Vineet Agarwal said that Jan Mohammed belongs to Mumbai’s Dharavi area and that he had D-company links.In the new ANI report, people familiar with the development said that Moolchand was a farmer and a D-company operative while Abu Bakar – who had lived in Jeddah too before returning to India in 2013, had trained in a Madrasa from Deoband, Uttar Pradesh. While Moolchand was captured in Uttar Pradesh’s Rae Bareilly, Abu Bakar was arrested in Delhi’s Sarai Kale Khan.Osama is the only one among the captured terrorists who haild from a business family dealing with dry fruits due to which he had frequent trips to the Middle East. He was held in Delhi’s Okhla region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-hunting-uncle-of-pak-isi-trained-man-who-aided-in-transporting-ied-101631727825043.html
15-09-2021||India||Kochi needs robust action plan to meet climate threat: Experts||The port city of Kochi is vulnerable to extreme climate conditions and a robust action plan which blends disaster management strategy, nature-based solutions and proper awareness for the local community will be needed to meet this, experts said at a virtual conference ‘Connect Karo’ organised by the World Resources’ Institute (WRI). “About 31% of the city’s population is exposed to temperatures above 30 degrees Celsius and about 26% of the population live within flood plains,” they pointed out in a session on resilience planning against climate disasters in cities. The panellists said Kerala can take the lead in localised action plans on climate proofing and it can be a model for others. The draft guidance document of the city disaster management plan also highlighted the need for many carbon-neutral local bodies in the state. Part of a five-day conference, the session also discussed ways and means to make the city inclusive and resilient, have access to water, sanitation, hygiene, healthy spaces and peaceful co-existence. The Hindustan Times is the media partner of the conference being organised by the WRI. Inaugurating the event, Kochi Mayor A Anil Kumar said the city is feeling the pinch of climate change for quite some time now as water level had gone up in the backwaters and sea erosion is quite rampant in many areas. He said the corporation has taken many measures to reduce carbon emission by introducing water metro service, e-auto, reducing use of plastic and proper waste management. Some of the panellists include Shabna Seemamu, Project Associate, WRI India, KJ Sohan, state convener of INTACH and Anita Mohandas, Associate Environmental Engineer, Cochin Smart Mission Limited. “Putting people at the centre and making them part of the solution is the main thought behind our initiative. A set of minimal but smart interventions with immense capabilities to impact the quality of life of Kochi and its residents is our aim,” said Shabna Seemamu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kochi-needs-robust-action-plan-to-meet-climate-threat-experts-101631727540523.html
15-09-2021||India||Goa CM Pramod Sawant doubles down on 100% vaccination claim after Oppn barbs||PANAJI: Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday responded to barbs from the opposition over his recent announcement that the state has been able to achieve 100 per cent vaccination of its adult population with at least one dose, saying that this figure had since then risen to 102 per cent.“Altogether there are 11.66 lakh persons eligible for vaccination in Goa. Till date, we have vaccinated 11.88 lakh people. We have, in fact, covered 102 per cent vaccination of the first dose,” Sawant said at a press conference on Wednesday.On Friday last, the chief minister declared that the state had achieved 100 per cent coverage for the first dose, prompting a congratulatory message tweeted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi who attributed the feat to the “collective spirit and the prowess of our doctors as well as innovators”.The opposition, however, was not convinced and rushed to punch holes into the claim, underlining that more than 1,000 people were still getting their first dose every day.Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat called the claim “one more lie”, saying the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party-led government has also claimed in the past that the state was “open defecation free” and that every household is connected with tap water.On Wednesday, Sawant brushed aside the criticism.“There are many who refuse to take the vaccine. There are others who are yet to complete 90 days from having tested positive, but on the other hand, there are migrant labourers, foreigners, etc. who have taken the vaccine here,” the chief minister said. He added that “if we wait until everyone has taken the vaccine, then we will never reach 100%.”Sawant added that on September 18, PM Narendra Modi will interact with Goa health officials, beneficiaries, health department workers, cabinet ministers, panchayat and members of the public to congratulate them on 100 per cent completion of the first dose of vaccination.The chief minister also announced that the state will launch a fresh version of Tika Utsav 3.2 on September 16 to encourage people to take their second dose of the vaccine. Goa aims to achieve 100% vaccination with the second dose by October 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-cm-pramod-sawant-doubles-down-on-100-vaccination-claim-after-oppn-barbs-101631727373651.html
15-09-2021||India||Over 80% of eligible population in Kerala given 1st Covid vaccine dose: CM||More than 80% of Kerala’s vaccine-eligible population have been administered with the first dose, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Wednesday, adding 32% of the eligible population has received both doses.Addressing a press conference, Vijayan said his government is striving to ensure that all people above the age of 18 are given the first vaccine dose by the end of September and both doses in another two to three months.Over 31.8 million doses have been administered in Kerala so far. In order to achieve the target of giving the first dose to all beneficiaries above 18 years by September, the state government in the first week of this month flagged a shortage of doses and urged the Centre to provide more for smooth continuation of the inoculation drive.Speaking on the pandemic situation in Kerala, chief minister Vijayan also said during the press conference that there is an uptick in the number of Covid-19 patients who were getting hospitalised later after being infected and this situation is not heartening. He pointed out that a large percentage of the people who died due to the viral disease in Kerala did not take the vaccine. Vijayan urged those above 60 years to get themselves fully vaccinated as a significant number of people in this age group have not taken the jab yet.Pointing out that people, despite being vaccinated, were testing positive for Covid-19, the chief minister said that such people might not be severely affected, they could pass on the virus to the unvaccinated. Hence, he urged the vaccinated people of the state to follow the Covid-appropriate behaviour including maintaining social distancing and wearing masks.After recording a little over 15,000 cases for the past two days, Kerala’s daily Covid tally went up again on Wednesday, as 17,681 people were detected Covid-19 positive, taking the caseload to 4,424,046, according to the state health department’s bulletin. The toll also increased on Wednesday as 208 patients succumbed to the viral disease, while 25,588 patients were discharged. The active cases in the state continued to remain below the 200,000-mark.Even though the daily tally in Kerala has not peaked since the first week of September, when over 30,000 infections were being recorded in a single day, the situation still remains critical as the state is contributing the maximum towards the fresh infections being recorded across the country.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-80-of-eligible-population-in-kerala-given-1st-covid-vaccine-dose-cm-101631726920496.html
15-09-2021||India||India may start issuing tourist visas only to vaccinated travellers after 1.5 years of suspension||With the daily cases of Covid nosediving and the vaccination gathering pace, the Centre is considering to resume issuing tourist visas soon, but only to vaccinated individuals., news agency ANI reported. The Centre stopped issuing tourist visas in March 2020, when the nationwide lockdown was announced. As the situation improved, the government made some relaxations in the visa rules but it never resumed issuing tourist visas. Now the proposal is being considered as it will also open an avenue to boost the economy.A senior MHA official confirmed to ANI that things have been formalised and a meeting has been called in the home ministry that will be chaired by the home secretary on Thursday to discuss plans to resume tourist visas. In October 2020, the home ministry permitted all OCI and PIO cardholders to visit India for any purpose except on a tourist visa.The official said that it will be done in a phased manner and as per the feasibility, it will be open to all those who are vaccinated. With this, the Centre may come up with a list of international vaccines which will be approved in India. Before the suspension of tourist visas, around 7-8 lakh tourists used to come to India every month. Several countries have resumed issuing tourist visas, though negative RT-PCR tests remain the criteria for international travel as the proposal of a vaccine passport did not receive any unanimous support from the countries. The issue of vaccine restrictions stipulated by some European Union countries posed a challenge to Indian travellers which was taken up by the highest level of the external affairs ministry and India raised the issue in diplomatic channels making it clear that if countries do not recognise vaccines being administered in India, India too will impose similar restrictions on people coming from other countries. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-may-start-issuing-tourist-visas-only-to-vaccinated-travellers-after-1-5-years-of-suspension-101631721238236.html
15-09-2021||India||PM Modi, Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, SII’s Adar Poonawalla on Time’s 100 most influential people list||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and the chief executive officer of the Serum Institute of India (SII) in Pune Adar Poonawalla were listed in the Time magazine’s 100 most influential people of the year, according to the list released by the magazine on Wednesday.Among global leaders, US President Joe Biden, US Vice President Kamala Harris, Chinese President Xi Jinping, Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi, Israel’s Naftali Bennett, Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi were also listed among the 100 most influential people this year. Former US President Donald Trump and the Taliban government’s deputy PM Abdul Ghani Baradar of Afghanistan also were among the leaders.PM Modi, who has found himself in the list a few times in previous years, was called one of the pivotal leaders of the country by the magazine. “Despite mishandling COVID-19—the death toll has been estimated to be much higher than the official count—his approval rating has slipped to a still sky-high 71%,” wrote Fareed Zakaria, of US news channel CNN, in the magazine.Also read | Taliban leader Mullah Baradar on Time's list of 100 most influential people of 2021SII CEO Poonawalla has been listed among the 15 people whom the magazine called “Pioneers” inside the influential 100 list. “Vaccine inequality is stark, and delayed immunization in one part of the world can have global consequences—including the risk of more dangerous variants emerging,” the Time said while briefing on how Poonawalla could help the world in its fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee was also among the list of leaders after her victory in the state assembly elections earlier this year, which her party the Trinamool Congress won. The election was tightly contested between her and Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Taliban’s Abdul Ghani Baradar, the current deputy PM of Afghanistan, was called “a charismatic military leader and a deeply pious figure,” by the magazine. Further the magazine also said “Now he stands as the fulcrum for the future of Afghanistan” and “represents a more moderate current within the Taliban.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-sii-s-adar-poonawalla-in-time-s-100-most-influential-people-list-101631719937066.html
15-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: HC pulls up Delhi govt for delay in constructing 100-bed hospital and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Court pulls up Delhi govt for ‘lethargy’ in constructing 100-bed hospitalThe Delhi high court on Wednesday pulled up the Delhi government and cited its ‘lethargic approach’ as the reason behind its failure to process a forest clearance to construct a 100-bed hospital in the city’s Najafgarh area despite the Centre’s nudge. Read moreBengal BJP MP Arjun Singh’s armed security cover upgraded to ‘Z’ categoryThe Centre on Wednesday upgraded the armed security cover of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from West Bengal Arjun Singh from ‘Y’ category to ‘Z’ category, following the recent incidents of bombing outside his house ‘Majdoor Bhavan’ at the North 24 Parganas district of the state. Read moreAssam announces SOPs for Durga Puja; organizers, priests must be vaccinatedAssam on Wednesday announced a fresh set of guidelines for the upcoming festival season allowing organizing of ‘pujas’ by following safety and social distancing protocols. Read moreIrked by Moon's remark, Kim Jong Un's sister warns of 'destruction' of tiesThe powerful sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un on Thursday criticised the speech of South Korean President Moon Jae-in in which he had termed Seoul's growing missile capabilities as a “sure deterrence" against provocations from Pyongyang. Read more'Michael Holding told me that BCCI didn't want the last Test': Ex-India spinner reveals details of 5th Test cancellationSeveral theories have popped up following the cancellation of the 5th Test between India and England in Manchester. BCCI chief Sourav Ganguly made it clear that the reason Indian players were reluctant in taking the field for the series-deciding Test was due to Covid-19 fears as assistant physio Yogesh Parmar had tested positive, while many from the English media believe Indian players prioritised the IPL over Test cricket. Read moreZeenat Aman reacts after Dum Maro Dum is played at iPhone 13 launch: '1971 music still resonating'Veteran actor Zeenat Aman has reacted after a tune inspired by her hit song Dum Maro Dum was played by Apple for the iPhone 13 series launch. The popular song from the film Hare Rama Hare Krishna was picturised on Zeenat and Dev Anand. Read moreBrain Diet: Foods to keep Alzheimer's disease at bayAlzheimer's disease, a neurological disorder, can make your brain shrink or brain cells die over the period of time. The person suffering from this disease may initially start forgetting everyday events, recent conversations and misplace things. Read moreiPhone 13 vs iPhone 13 Mini vs iPhone 13 Pro vs iPhone 13 Pro Max: What's differentApple hosted the Apple Event 2021 last night. At the event, Apple introduced two new iPad models -- a 10.2-inch iPad and an 8.3-inch iPad Mini. In addition to that, Apple also launched the Apple Watch Series 7 with new watch faces, fall detection for cycling, e-bike support, Retina display and a keyboard. Read moreDoordarshan shares post on 62 years of ‘nostalgic journey’. Seen tweet yet?Doordarshan holds a special place in people’s hearts. There are many who grew up watching the various iconic shows aired on the channel. Be it Chitrahar, Malgudi Days, Ramayan, or Mahabharat, the channel aired different shows that are still etched in the memories of people. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-hc-pulls-up-delhi-govt-for-delay-in-constructing-hospital-101631718493416.html
15-09-2021||India||Assam announces SOPs for Durga Puja; organizers, priests must be vaccinated||Assam on Wednesday announced a fresh set of guidelines for the upcoming festival season allowing organizing of ‘pujas’ by following safety and social distancing protocols. “The fresh set of guidelines is for the coming Durga Puja, Lakshmi Puja, Kali Puja and Diwali festivals. The steps are being taken to ensure that the people are able to observe the festivals while controlling the Covid-19 spread at the same time,” said health minister Keshab Mahanta in Guwahati while announcing the rules. Puja committees would have to take permission from offices of deputy commissioners of all districts—all committee members and those involved in organising the festivals will have to be vaccinated with at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine before seeking permission to organize events. “We would prefer committee members to be fully vaccinated. People who have taken one dose of either Covishield or Covaxin, but have not taken the second dose within the stipulated time break won’t be considered as vaccinated,” Mahanta said. Puja ‘mandaps’ would have to be in open spaces with adequate space for social distancing, must have separate entry and exit points for public, anyone found having symptoms of Covid-19 would have to be immediately reported to health authorities for proper follow up. Committees would have to keep sanitizers and face masks at entry points and organizers, priests and others involved would have to get tested for Covid-19 a day ahead of Durga Puja and again after the festival is over. Committee members will have to ensure social distancing is followed at all places. “We appeal to all committees to ensure that the idols of the gods and goddesses are not very large so that many people aren’t needed for their immersion. Cultural programs at puja venues won’t be allowed and only a select few shops and outlets will be allowed to operate near the venues,” said Mahanta. He added that in order to control the spread of Covid-19 we are focused on the testing, tracing and treating method as well as mass vaccinations of all eligible people. A mass vaccination drive is being organised in Guwahati on September 17 to bring all eligible people under vaccine cover. “Durga Puja will start from October 12. Our goal is to administer at least one dose of vaccine to all eligible persons in the state by October 10. We are making all efforts to ensure that in all districts,” said Mahanta. Assam has been recording around 500 fresh Covid-19 cases and 5-10 deaths daily for the past two weeks. The test positivity rate has remained below 1% for most days during this duration. There are around 4,000 active cases in the state at present. Till Wednesday evening, Assam had administered over 20.7 million Covid-19 vaccine doses (16.8 million first doses and 3.9 million second doses).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-announces-sops-for-durga-puja-organizers-priests-must-be-vaccinated-101631717878723.html
15-09-2021||India||HT This Day: Sept 16, 2008 — Lehman Bros files bankruptcy, 2,500 Indians may lose jobs||US Investment giant Lehman Brothers on Monday said it has gone bankrupt amid a worsening credit crisis in the home country, while rival Merrill Lynch, also bitten by the same bug, managed to find a buyer.The news roiled markets worldwide, including India where the Bombay Stock Exchange’s Sensex plunged 850 points, or 6.1 per cent, in intra-day trading. It later recovered half-way to close at 13, 531 points.But Lehman and Merrill Lynch’s India connection goes much beyond stock swings. Both companies have been rapidly expanding operations here, besides hiring aggressively in India to shore up talent for such key bases as New York and London.Lehman currently employs about 2,500 people in India, most of whom run the risk of losing their jobs. Merrill has about 600 people here. “We have not been told anything as yet, but everyone thinks it’s a matter of weeks before we are asked to pack up,” said a Mumbai based Lehman executive, who oversees back-office support for the company’s operations in Sydney and Tokyo.Lehman’s decision to file for bankruptcy came after talks for either possible merger with British bank Barclays or a bailout from the US Federal Reserve failed during the weekend. Under US laws, a company filing for bankruptcy protection faces either reorganisation or liquidation. Liquidation will drive down share prices of the 18 companies, including Spice Telecom and Edelweiss Capital, where Lehman holds more than 1 per cent in equity.The jolt comes just as easing crude prices and softening inflation were beginning to instill confidence in investors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-sept-16-2008-lehman-bros-files-bankruptcy-2-500-indians-may-lose-jobs-101631715238920.html
15-09-2021||India||Much to learn from discussions in Parliament: PM Modi at launch of Sansad TV||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said that if there is better behaviour and better debate in Parliament, then it will have a better connect with the people of India—an essential impetus for democracy to reach the grass root level. Inaugurating the new Sansad TV that will replace the existing Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha TV, PM Modi said, “We always say that ‘content is king’ but in my experience content is connect. When you have better content, more people will get connected.” “This applies to Parliament as well. Our Parliament is not just about politics but also policies. When we discuss issues or policies, there’s so much to learn. If there is better behaviour and better debate, common people can connect to proceedings of the Parliament. And if more people get connected, public representatives will get inspiration for better performance,” the Prime Minister said. Backing the new integrated platform, Modi said, it will act as a new voice of parliamentary democracy. “In these fast changing times, the role of media and TV channels are also changing quickly. Our parliamentary channels also required transformation. In its new avatar, Sansad TV will be on social media, apps and on the OTT platform. It will reach more people.” Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla noted that the launch of the new Parliament channel coincides with the anniversary of Doordarshan. “Sansad TV will help the country to watch the entire democratic system from Parliament to panchayat. This will show the positive and inspiring work of our elected reps and make young people aware of our parliamentary work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/much-to-learn-from-discussions-in-parliament-pm-modi-at-launch-of-sansad-tv-101631713858365.html
15-09-2021||India||Kerala govt hiding Covid death toll, case should be filed against CM: Cong MP||Benny Behanan, a Congress MP, hit out at the Kerala government on Wednesday over the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic by alleging that the latter is hiding the death toll due to the viral disease and demanded that a case should be filed against chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, according to news agency ANI.Being one of the worst-affected states from the pandemic across India, Kerala has till now recorded 22,987 deaths. On Wednesday, 208 more patients succumbed to Covid-19.Addressing reporters on Wednesday, Behanan alleged that the death toll announced by chief minister Vijayan is “absolutely wrong”, adding that “In every hospital, there is a census. The reports have to be countersigned by the hospital Superintendent and the CMO.”Citing the example of Kottayam district to explain his point about the Kerala government hiding deaths, the Congress MP said he visited the Kottayam medical college where he received information that in 177 days, the deaths due to Covid-19 in the institute were 1,326. However, the government list showed the total deaths in the Kottayam district stood at 926, Behanan said.He also pointed out that all hospitals are required to submit a report to a medical body in Thiruvananthapuram but there are no medical experts in this body. “The list is being scrutinised by the medical body as it is working in the favour of the government,” Behanan further said.The Covid-19 situation in Kerala has been seeing an improvement for the past few days. Since Monday, the state’s daily tally has been a little over the 15,000-mark, which is much lower from the first week of September when over 30,000 people were getting infected daily.However, the daily cases went up again on Wednesday when 17,681 people were detected Covid-19 positive while 208 patients died and 25,588 recovered from the viral disease. With this, the caseload has climbed to 4,424,046 including 22,987 deaths, 4,209,746 recoveries and 190,750 active cases. Of Wednesday’s case count, Thiruvananthapuram added highest with 2,143 fresh cases followed by Kottayam (1,702), Kozhikode (1,680), Ernakulam (1,645) among others.Even though the situation is not as severe as it was in the first week of September, Kerala continues to contribute the maximum towards the fresh infections across India. On Tuesday, a professor of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), told news agency ANI that Kerala had passed its peak and a decline in cases should start in the next two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-govt-hiding-covid-death-toll-case-should-be-filed-against-cm-cong-mp-101631712569991.html
15-09-2021||India||UN refugee agency reveals how many Afghans recorded for registration in India since Aug 1||A total of 736 Afghans were recorded for new registration from August 1 to September 11, the UNHCR said here, adding that it is scaling up its capacity to meet increasing requests for registration and assistance of Afghans in India.The UN refugee agency said it is in constant dialogue with the government on matters pertaining to Afghan nationals, including issuance and extensions of visa, assistance, and solutions.According to the data, the total number of persons of concern to UNHCR in India stands at 43,157. Among them, 15,559 refugees and asylum seekers are from Afghanistan."From August 1 until September 11, 736 Afghans were recorded by UNHCR for new registration," the UN body said in a fact sheet.Among those who have approached the UNHCR are Afghan individuals who have newly arrived in 2021, those seeking reopening of previously closed asylum cases, students, businessmen, or people on medical or other types of visa who are unable to go back due to the current situation in Afghanistan.The UNHCR further said that it is scaling up its capacity to meet the increasing requests for registration and assistance of Afghans in India."UNHCR is increasing its humanitarian response programme for vulnerable new arrivals from Afghanistan. Basic assistance such as food, cash-based assistance and core relief items are being provided to the most vulnerable new arrivals from Afghanistan and those already in India," the UN body said.The UNHCR said it has also set up an Afghanistan emergency cell and a dedicated help page for Afghans with comprehensive information on registration and assistance available."Additional 24/7 helplines were established to answer queries around the clock and direct engagement with Afghan communities scaled up. Over 130 calls are received per day, mainly enquiring about assistance and registration," it said.The UNHCR said it is appealing to partners, UN agencies, and the wider donor community to respond to the increased needs for solutions and assistance to Afghans in India.The immediate needs include continued food assistance for 6,000 individuals, sanitary items for 3,000 women and girls, cash-assistance for 500 most vulnerable people, and winterisation support for 1,000 most vulnerable people, it added.The Taliban swept across Afghanistan this month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities, including Kabul, against the backdrop of the withdrawal of US forces from the country.India also evacuated people on military transport aircraft of the IAF under the government's 'Operation Devi Shakti'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-refugee-agency-reveals-how-many-afghans-recorded-for-registration-in-india-since-aug-1-101631707375863.html
15-09-2021||India||Indo-US cooperation will boost economic dynamism amid Covid-19 challenges: Rajnath||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday highlighted the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic that has disrupted businesses globally and said that Indo-US cooperation would go a long way in boosting “economic dynamism.” “Covid-19 pandemic has brought newer challenges in terms of disruption of supply chains, downturn in industrial activities, negative growth in travel and tourism industry and there is no doubt Indo-US cooperation will go a long way to restore normalcy and further boost economic dynamism,” Singh said. He was speaking at the Indo-US Economic Summit organised by the Indo-American Chamber of Commerce. Singh said various measures taken by the government had helped put economic activities back on track, and the first quarter of the year recorded a 20% growth compared to a 24% contraction last year. He said the recovery was a sign of India’s “sound economic fundamentals.” The minister said the country was preparing for “dynamic growth” not just in the financial year 2022 but through the entire decade. “Over the last 100 months, the government has brought many major structural and procedural reforms which have prepared India to make a quantum jump in terms of growth in this decade,” Singh said, enumerating the steps taken by the government to boost the Make in India initiative, enhance ease of doing business and to make the country an investor-friendly destination. Red tape has given way to red carpet, the minister said, inviting the US industry to participate in the government’s vision of “Make in India and make for the world.” On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India was shedding its image of being a major importer of military hardware and carving an identity for itself as a defence exporter. Modi said the world had taken note of the strides made by the country in defence manufacturing with locally produced equipment ranging from modern grenades, assault rifles and drones to fighter jets and warships. “We have formulated progressive and investor friendly tax policies. We have said goodbye to retrospective taxation and corrected the mistake of previous governments,” the defence minister said. Talking about labour reforms, he said dozens of laws had been compressed into four sets of codes. Singh said the government’s decision to notify two lists of 209 defence items that cannot be imported (ban to be implemented progressively from 2021 to 2025) would boost business opportunities. “It may appear that this list will reduce business opportunities for the world. But I want to make it clear, that this list is actually an invitation to increase business collaboration,” the minister said. The items that cannot be imported include AEW&C (airborne early warning and control) systems, light combat aircraft, missile destroyers, ship-borne cruise missiles, long-range land attack cruise missiles, basic trainer aircraft, different types of helicopters and artillery guns. Singh said foreign original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) can set up manufacturing facilities on their own or forge partnerships with Indian companies through joint ventures or technology agreements to capitalise on the Make in India opportunity. “There is a lot of scope for the American and Indian defence industries for co-production and co-development. Indian industry can also supply components to the American industry,” he said. The Indo-US bilateral relationship had made good progress during the last five to seven years, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indous-cooperation-will-boost-economic-dynamism-amid-covid-19-challenges-rajnath-101631711758313.html
15-09-2021||India||Sansad TV goes LIVE. Modi launches channel jointly with Venkaiah Nadu, Om Birla||The much awaited Sansad TV, that replaced the Lok Sabha TV and Rajya Sabha TV, went live on Wednesday evening after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla launched the integrated platform.Speaking at the inaugural ceremony of the Sansad TV, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the launch of the channel on the International Democracy Day makes it more relevant.“In a fast-changing world, the role of television and the media is rapidly evolving. The 21st Century is witnessing a revolution through news and broadcast. At a time like this, it is natural for the channel associated with Indian parliament to undergo transformation,” Modi said while delivering a keynote speech at the launch of the Sansad TV.हमारी संसद में जब सत्र होता है, अलग अलग विषयों पर बहस होती है तो युवाओं के लिए कितना कुछ जानने सीखने के लिए होता है।हमारे माननीय सदस्यों को भी जब पता होता है कि देश हमें देख रहा है तो उन्हें भी संसद के भीतर बेहतर आचरण की, बेहतर बहस की प्रेरणा मिलती है: PM @narendramodiObserving that “content is connect”, the Prime Minister stressed, “If you have quality content then the people get naturally connected to you. This is as true for the media as it is for our parliamentarty system, because the parliament nt only deals with politics but also with policies."Speaking at the launch, Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu said that timely flow of authentic information about the functioning of legislatures and elected representatives enhances accountability and transparency in the functioning of public institutions. “This is what RSTV and LSTV have been providing till now and the Sansad TV will be offering henceforth," Naidu said.Parliament and legislatures have a key role to play. We need to have meaningful debates echoing people’s aspirations. The loud disruptive noise should not drown the voice of people. #SansadTV pic.twitter.com/ob6IXJEvs5Naidu used the opportunity to comment that separating ‘truth’ from ‘falsehood’ has become a real challenge, at a time when ‘speed’ and the ‘compulsion' to be the first with breaking news occasionally overides all other considerations.“The media should function as a means of empowerment for development through informed actions by the citizens,” Naidu said.The programmes on Sansad TV will primarily be in four categories — functioning of Parliament and democratic institutions, governance and implementation of schemes and policies, history and culture of India and issues, interests and concerns of contemporary nature.The Prime Minister announced that Sansad TV will be available on social media and OTT platforms as well as a mobile application.The Sansad TV has planned a series of programmes under ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’, a government initiative to celebrate 75th year of India's Independence.The integrated platform was conceptualised nearly two years ago after a panel led by Prasar Bharati CEO Surya Prakash submitted a report approving a common platform for two channels.Hindustan Times first reported the launch on August 4.Former textiles secretary Ravi Kapoor has been appointed as the CEO of the new entity on contract for a period of one year, an internal order of the Lok Sabha secretariat said. During the recess, the channels will run current affairs programmes in English and Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sansad-tv-goes-live-modi-launches-channel-jointly-with-venkaiah-nadu-om-birla-101631709838272.html
15-09-2021||India||I-T survey on premises linked to actor Sonu Sood in Mumbai, Lucknow||Income tax department officials surveyed at least six properties in Mumbai and Lucknow, all linked to Bollywood actor Sonu Sood on Wednesday, a PTI report said. The visit of the I-T officials, which was not termed as raid, was in connection with an alleged tax evasion probe, the report said. It was not immediately known whether the I-T officials visited Sonu Sood's residence as well. Reports said a real estate deal is also under the scanner of the income tax department.The I-T survey comes soon after the actor became the brand ambassador of the Delhi government's mentorship programme after receiving national and humanitarian acclaim for helping people during the pandemic. Starting with providing busses for the migrant workers in 2020, the Bollywood actor ensured oxygen supply during the peak of the second wave of the pandemic. The 48-year-old was hailed as a real-life hearo and was conferred with a special humanitarian action award by the United National Development Programme.AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha termed this I-T action as a witchhunt and said Sonu Sood's only crime is to stand by people who were orphaned by the government. "This is nothing but a witch hunt by an insecure government against a giant philanthropist considered a 'messiah' by millions. His only crime is that he worked for the welfare of the downtrodden when they were orphaned by the state," Raghav Chadha tweeted.AAP MLA Atishi issued a video statement slamming the survey and said this is a clear message by the BJP that they will victimise anyone who does any good work in the country. The ‘survey’ of actor-and-philanthropist @SonuSood by the IT Dept is a clear message by BJP that they will victimise anyone who does good work for the country? Was it a crime for @SonuSood to help migrants during the lockdown? Was it a crime for him to help those in difficulty? pic.twitter.com/oA47wes9VvIn 2012, the I-T department conducted raids on the premises of several Bollywood personalities which included Sonu Sood, At that time, there were some allegations against his Mumbai property that he had bought in ₹30 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-survey-on-premises-linked-to-actor-sonu-sood-in-mumbai-lucknow-101631707279004.html
15-09-2021||India||In Goa, crimes against foreigners show sharp decline, says NCRB data||Goa has seen a sharp fall in crimes against foreigners between 2018 and 2020 in line with a larger national trend, but remains a significant contributor to the country’s statistics of crimes against foreigners, data from the Crime in India Report 2020, published by the National Crime Records Bureau has revealed. Across the calendar year 2020, Goa witnessed 11 crimes against foreigners which is a steep fall from the 34 that was recorded back in 2018 and is also around half the number when compared to the 21 cases that were recorded across 2019. The fall in cases is in keeping with a larger national trend which has seen crimes against foreigners fall from 517 in 2018 to 191 in 2021 largely on account of fewer people travelling as tourists across the globe due to Covid-19, which was declared a global pandemic in early 2020. Despite its small size, Goa is among the top five states when it comes to crimes against foreigners after Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Karnataka and ahead of several states like Kerala, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh which also witness a lot of foreign arrivals. The countrywide statistics indicate that theft is the most common form of crime against foreigners followed by rape which comes in at a distant second followed by human trafficking, molestation, assault and attempted murder in that order. Prior to the pandemic, Goa received around 0.8 million foreign tourists each year according to Goa government estimates mainly from countries like Russia, Ukraine, other CIS countries as well as from mainland Europe. However, since the pandemic hit--- the Union government cancelled all existing tourist visas and has not granted fresh tourist visas resulting in a complete halt on new arrivals for the past one and a half years. The state has earlier made headline for several high profile crimes against foreigners, including the murders of British teenager Scarlett Keeling who was raped and left to die on the Anjuna beach in early 2008 and the rape and murder of Irish youngster Danielle McLaughlin in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-goa-crimes-against-foreigners-show-sharp-decline-says-ncrb-data-101631707497621.html
15-09-2021||India||Delta remains main variant of concern in India; Mu, C.1.2 variants not found yet: INSACOG||The Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG), a group of 28 laboratories in India to monitor the genomic variations of the Covid-19, has said that the Mu variant and the C.1.2 variant — the newer variants of coronavirus — have not been seen in India so far. Further, the consortium also said Delta variant and its sub-lineages remained the main variant of concern (VOC) in India and globally.In its latest bulletin, the INSACOG said, “Neither Mu, nor C.1.2 are seen in India so far. Delta and Delta sub-lineages continue to be the main VOC in India. AY.4 is the most frequently seen sub-lineage in recent sequences from India, as well as globally."Also read | Apart from Delta, which other coronavirus variants are on the radar?Noting that the Delta variant and Delta sub-lineages continue to be the main VOC globally, the bulletin also showed that AY.4 was the main global sub-lineage. The INSACOG also said that no further rise in cases pertaining to the C.1.2 variant has been noted and it seemed to have plateaued at around 2% in South Africa, where it was originally detected. Regarding the Mu variant, the INSACOG said that it remained “mostly confined” to South America.In its previous weekly bulletins too, the INSACOG has made similar observations regarding the Delta variant and its sub-lineages. On August 23, the consortium had said, “Delta variant is the major VOC in India at this time. AY.12, a reassigned sub-lineage of Delta is being seen in many states, but the numbers need closer examination.”The World Health Organization (WHO) added the B.1.621 variant, including B.1.621.1 variant, to the list of variants of interest (VOI) on August 30 and labelled it as “Mu.” Also, the C.1.2 has been listed along with variants that have been currently designated alerts for further monitoring by the WHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-remains-main-variant-of-concern-in-india-mu-c-1-2-variants-not-found-yet-insacog-101631706489268.html
15-09-2021||India||Most cases of rapes of minor and crime against children recorded in MP: NCRB||Madhya Pradesh continued to report most cases of rape of minors with 3,259 incidents followed by 2,785 in Maharashtra and 2,630 in Uttar Pradesh, according to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report for 2020, released on Wednesday. Not only cases of rape of minors, according to NCRB report, MP also recorded 17,008 incidents of crime against children- the highest in the country during the period. At 17, the most number of foeticide was also reported from MP and the state also registered the most number of rapes of tribal women with 339 cases followed by Chhattisgarh (195) and Maharashtra (129). It is hardly any solace that the 2020 figures were just 1% lower than 2019. However, the number of rapes of adults in the state has decreased. With 2,339 such cases, MP was behind Rajasthan -5310 and UP-2,769. According to police, most of the rapes and other crimes against children were committed by relatives and known people. “The children are most unsafe at their homes. As per NCRB data, 3,189 minor children were raped by known persons. It is not a problem of law and order but a social problem,” said a senior officer of the police department, who didn’t wish to be named. On crime against women, additional director general of police (ADGP), Pragya Richa Shrivastava said, “We are holding different campaigns to recover missing girls. Most of the missing minor girls were taken to other places by men on the pretext of marriage, and we have to register a rape case against the men after their rescue. The number is high because of 100% reporting of cases.” However, women and child rights activists feel that a lower conviction rate is one of the major reasons behind the high crime rate against children in the state. “Despite making strict laws including capital punishment for raping a minor under 12 years of age, the number of cases is not coming down significantly. One of the major reasons is delay in justice and a lower conviction rate. Only in high profile cases, police files a charge-sheet in record time, in many other cases, it gets delayed for months. Similarly, in the absence of enough special courts for Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso), the pendency of cases is high. Till January 2021, more than 300 cases were pending in courts. The state government should also pay attention to the conviction rate,” said Sarika Sinha, convener of Action Aid, MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-cases-of-rapes-of-minor-and-crime-against-children-recorded-in-mp-ncrb-data-101631706658980.html
15-09-2021||India||Monsoon conditions active, likely to cause rain over NW India for next 2 days||Monsoon has picked up this month with the formation of the season’s first depression on Sunday. The system brought widespread rains to central India and the west coast bringing down monsoon deficiency from 9% at the end of August to only 5% on September 15. Monsoon rains are nearing the normal category which is 104% to 96% of the long period average.The long period average considered for the period of 1961 to 2010 is 88cm. Rainfall between 96% -104% of long period average is considered ‘normal’; between 90% – 96% is considered ‘below normal’ and 104 -110% is considered ‘above normal’ by IMD. Widespread and intense rainfall activity is likely over many parts of the country including northwest India at least for a week. Monsoon is normally expected to withdraw from northwest India September 17 onwards. “Monsoon has been very active in September. The well marked low pressure area over north Madhya Pradesh is moving towards northwest India. The monsoon trough is also expected to move northwards. The combination of these factors will bring widespread rain and thundershowers to Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh etc. Meanwhile, another cyclonic circulation is likely to develop over Bay of Bengal on Friday which is also likely to bring rain to east and central India. We don’t see any indication of monsoon withdrawal at least for a week,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology, Skymet Weather.Also Read | Excess rainfall in September result of climate change in Odisha, say experts“The synoptic conditions are very good for rain this month. Three low pressure systems have developed out of which one was a deep depression which has now weakened to a well marked low pressure area over central parts of north MP. This system will bring widespread rains to northwest India. Some models are indicating an other cyclonic circulation developing over Bay of Bengal. These features have led to a reduction in monsoon deficit bringing it close to normal category,” explained K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.A well marked low pressure area is lying over central parts of north Madhya Pradesh and neighbourhood. It is likely to move west-northwestwards during the next two days and weaken thereafter. A cyclonic circulation is lying over south Gujarat region and neighbourhood. The monsoon trough is lying south of its normal position. It is very likely to remain south of its normal position during next 3 days. A cyclonic circulation is likely to develop over north Bay of Bengal on Friday. It is likely to move west-northwestwards towards Odisha- West Bengal coast during subsequent three days.Due to movement of the well marked low pressure areas and the cyclonic circulation over south Gujarat, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rain is likely over Gujarat, West Madhya Pradesh, East Uttar Pradesh and East Rajasthan till Friday; over East Madhya Pradesh, Gangetic West Bengal, Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand rain is likely to reduce from Friday.Isolated extremely rain (over 20cm) is also likely over East Uttar Pradesh on Thursday. Scattered to widespread rainfall is very likely over all of northwest India (excluding Jammu, Kashmir & Ladakh and Himachal Pradesh) on Thursday and Friday. Isolated heavy rainfall is likely over Uttarakhand, West Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, and West Rajasthan till Saturday.Very heavy rain is also very likely over Uttarakhand and west Uttar Pradesh on Thursday. Rainfall activity is likely to increase over Odisha & Gangetic West Bengal with widespread and heavy rain likely over the weekend.There is a 5% rain deficiency over the country since June 1; 12% excess over peninsular India; 4% deficiency over central India; 11% deficiency over northwest India and 12% deficiency over east and northeast India. In June there was 9.6% excess rain; in July there was a 6.8% deficiency; 24% deficiency in August; in September there is 30.4% excess rain so far making it the rainiest month this monsoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-conditions-active-likely-to-cause-rain-over-nw-india-for-next-2-days-101631706297730.html
15-09-2021||India||L-G’s powers under new Act unconstitutional: AAP govt to SC||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government has told the Supreme Court that the Amendment Act introduced by Centre to give overriding powers to the Centre’s nominee – Lieutenant Governor over Delhi legislature and executive is unconstitutional as it has in effect “disenfranchised” the people of Delhi by taking away power from their elected representatives, striking at the root of representative democracy and violating the law-making power of Delhi assembly recognised under the Constitution and decisions of the Supreme Court.The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act, 2021 and the Transaction of Business of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) Rules, 1993 came into effect from March 28, 2021 by which four crucial provisions of the Act stood amended.By the new law, the term ‘government’ as referred to in any law passed by Delhi assembly was amended to mean “Lieutenant Governor” (by adding a new clause (3) to Section 21 of the GNCTD Act) and opinion of L-G was made mandatory for executing any decision of the minister or council of ministers on certain matters under any law in force (by adding a proviso to Section 44(2) of the Act). A host of other amendments were also introduced in the Rules.Also Read | DDCA appoints retd judge Indu Malhotra as new Ombudsman cum Ethics OfficerThe petition was filed on August 9 and was mentioned by the Delhi government represented by senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi on Monday before the Chief Justice of India (CJI) for an urgent listing. The CJI agreed to list the matter without specifying a date. The copy of the petition was made available only on Wednesday.Terming the amendments unconstitutional, the Delhi government petition filed through advocate Shadan Farasat said, “The impugned provisions as amended by the amendment Act have in effect disenfranchised the people of Delhi, and violated their political rights under the Constitution in as much as the amendment Act takes away the power from their elected representatives and gives it to an unelected official, being the LG.”The petition stated that the GNCTD Act “diminishes the constitutionally guaranteed powers and functions of the elected legislative assembly and council of ministers of the NCT of Delhi” and overturns the constitutionally stipulated balance between the Delhi government and the Union government.The provisions of the 2021 Act, the petition said, “are an attempt to treat the L-G as the default administering authority over the NCT of Delhi” by authorising him to withhold consent from bills that, in his judgment, may be “incidentally” outside the scope of legislative assembly’s legislative powers and by empowering him interfere in the day-to-day administration of the NCT.By the said provisions, the Act “impermissibly encroaches on the scope of the Delhi Legislative Assembly’s “core legislative functions” by interfering with the Assembly’s power to frame its own rules of business or to hold the executive to account, the petition added. The new law even prohibited the assembly from making any rule to enable itself or its Committees to consider the matters of day-to-day administration of the Capital and conduct any inquiry in relation to administrative decisions.The accompanying amendments to the 1993 Transaction of Business Rules have further dented the independence and working of the Assembly, according to the petition. Article 239AA of the Constitution recognises Delhi as the National Capital Territory having L-G and an Assembly allowed to legislate on all other matters other than three excluded subjects – land, law and order and police, where Centre alone can legislate.“Introduction of a deeming provision in Rule 49 of 1993 Rules now allows for any and every matter to be referred by the LG to the Central Government,” the petition said, adding that the amendments have vested direct executive authority in the secretaries of the Delhi government, allowing them to perform without reference to and even in derogation of the orders of the concerned ministers or council of ministers.The petition also held the current amendments to violate the 2018 decision of the Supreme Court in Government of NCT of Delhi v Union of India which interpreted Article 239AA and said, “The exercise of establishing a democratic and representative form of Government for NCT of Delhi… would turn futile if the Government of Delhi that enjoys the confidence of the people of Delhi is not able to usher in policies and laws over which the Delhi Legislative Assembly has power to legislate for NCT of Delhi.”The decision stressed on harmonious working between the L-G and Delhi government and held that the power of L-G to recommend an issue to the President cannot be to such an extent to obstruct the stream of governance.The petition said that the basis of this judgment still remains as Article 239AA has not been amended. It required the Court to clarify that even under the new amendments L-G should act only on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers insofar as he exercises any power as “Government” pursuant to a law passed by the Legislative Assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lgs-powers-under-new-act-unconstitutional-aap-govt-to-sc-101631705877391.html
15-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Cabinet allows 100% FDI in telecom sector via automatic route and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.100% FDI in telecom sector via automatic route allowed: Union ministerThe Union Cabinet on Wednesday allowed 100% foreign direct investment (FDI) in the country's telecom sector via the automatic route, adding all safeguards will apply. Till now, only 49% of FDI was allowed through the automatic route and anything beyond this had to necessarily go through the government route. Read more.Delhi Police captured ISI-backed terrorists trained by Pak Army officers: ReportFollowing the arrest of six people by Delhi Police on Tuesday who were part of an ISI-backed terror module in Pakistan, a probe into the matter has now revealed that the suspected terrorists were trained under a Major or Lieutenant-rank Army officer named Ghazi, news agency ANI reported. Read more.Maoist violence highest in Chhattisgarh in 2020, NCRB data revealsChhattisgarh recorded the highest number of crimes committed by Maoists in 2020, according to the annual report released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) on Tuesday. The NCRB statistics show that Chhattisgarh topped in number of murders, attempted murders, loot and arson by Maoists by a long margin followed by Jharkhand and Maharashtra. Read more.UK PM Boris Johnson issues 3 warnings if Covid-19 cases spikePrime Minister Boris Johnson warned that his government could bring back mandatory wearing of face masks, advise people to work from home (WFH) and, make use vaccine passports compulsory if a spike in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) during this winter threatens to overwhelm the National Health Service (NHS), news agency Bloomberg reported on Wednesday. Read more.Gautam Gambhir picks India's XI for T20 World Cup clash against Pakistan, no place for star spinnerIndia vs Pakistan cricket matches always cater an electrifying experience. Since both nations don’t play against each other often due to diplomatic reasons, ICC events are the only platform when fans witness India and Pakistan locking horns. Read more.2021 Force Gurkha bookings to open on this date. Price, specs and more hereThe flavour for capable yet affordable off-road SUV vehicles just got spicier with the unveiling of the 2021 Force Gurkha which will rival the Mahindra Thar in the Indian automotive space. The company will officially launch the latest Gurkha SUV on September 27 and it is on this date that the price announcements will also be made. Read more.CISF puts Kareena Kapoor, Saif Ali Khan and their entourage of nannies through security protocol at airport. Watch videoActor couple Kareena Kapoor and Saif Ali Khan jetted off with their kids, Taimur and Jeh, and their entourage of assistants on Wednesday. Pictures and videos of the family, posing together for the paparazzi, were shared online. Watch here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-union-cabinet-allows-100-fdi-in-telecom-sector-101631703241024.html
15-09-2021||India||Despite ban, weird practice of Nokku Koolie is bringing bad name to Kerala||A consultant with a Mumbai-based private logistics company Rajeswari S Pillai, who was transporting a heavy equipment cargo to the Vikram Sarabhai Space Research Centre (VSSC), took 10 days to cover 70 kms from Kollam and Thumba, on the outskirts of the Kerala’s capital Thiruvananthapuram. Almost every day she walked six to 10 km with the consignment-laden truck with 80 wheels that moved at a snail’s pace. It became such a spectacle that people waited for the arrival of the truck along the national highway and police and district authorities were at their best to ensure a smooth passage to the giant truck. But a dramatic twist was awaiting her at the finishing point, where a group of people lied on the road asking for ‘nokku koolie’ for unloading the heavy cargo. Nokku Koolie is the money charged by trade union workers for the work either done by machine or others as their right. She pleaded that only heavy cranes can unload the cargo but they said they had no problem with it as long as they were given gawking charges. Initially, the demand was for ₹10 lakh but later it came down to ₹5 lakh. But she stood her ground. After three hours, the blockade was finally lifted after the chief minister’s office intervened and some of the protestors were arrested. Later, 50 people were booked. “I am against paying people who are not doing any work. I don’t want to explain the incident anymore. But I wish it is the last such Nokku Kooli incident in my beautiful state,” she said. The incident invited enough bad publicity and last week the high court cited this while hearing another case related to Nokku Kooli and asked the government to explain new measures taken to end the menace once and for all. “This practice was banned years ago but it is still continuing. It is inviting a bad name to the state. We are getting regular complaints. The government should take strict actions against those who demand it,” the HC said last week and sought a detailed report from the state police chief in two weeks. Nokku Koolie was banned in 2018 by the left government but it is still prevalent in many parts of the state. Interestingly in 2002 a law- Kerala Loading and Unloading (Regulation of wages and restriction of unlawful practices) was framed to restrict the unholy practice but it continued. In 2017, the high court had pulled up the state government, forcing it to ban the practice in 2018, but the menace is far from over. There were many judgments against the organised crime of fleecing but often police and the government authorities turn a blind eye to it which literally pushed the state into a graveyard of industries. When people complain against them, police act against workers but many remain mute fearing retaliation by militant trade union workers. Fed up, the government is planning to give more teeth to the law banning Nokku Kooli. “The government is mulling to include stringent provisions including non-bailable provisions to deal with the menace,” said a senior official who did not want to be named. Though almost all trade unions admit that such worn out practices invite bad name they discreetly support such elements. Last week K N Nair, who was building a house on the outskirts of Thiruvananthapuram, brought marbles and other building material from north India, and workers sought ₹25,000 to unload it. When he refused, he was threatened and he finally called the police. Though police settled the issue, he was advised by some local leaders that antagonising head-load workers will invite their wrath, forcing him to pay ₹8000 to them for work done by others. “I was scared that they would destroy unloaded material in the night,” he said. Around 300,000 head-load workers are registered under the workers welfare board representing various trade unions and their resting places on roadsides are a common sight in the state, besides these registered workers, many others operate to fleece money. They survey industrial areas and residential colonies frequently to spot vehicles carrying goods. Usually they charge exorbitantly for doing the work or demand payment for merely watching while goods are unloaded by cranes or by in-house workers. Statistics with the labour department shows only 11 major cases were filed since the ban came into force in 2018 but industrialists and others said it was only the tip of the iceberg and many complaints were getting withdrawn forcefully. They said the illegal practice enjoyed political patronage and militant workers got away easily. Though there were units of the Kerala Head Load Workers Welfare Board and labour offices in every district to deal with such issues, many dreaded to approach them fearing retaliation, said builders and industrialists. “Gawking charges is an unhealthy practice and it invites bad publicity. If workers are facing any problem it should be addressed. There should be a proper mechanism to enforce labour rules at the grassroots,” a spokesman of the Confederation of Indian Industry, Kerala chapter, said on condition of anonymity. “Leaders’ words and deeds never match in the state. They secretly support such elements and disown them in public. These leaders are responsible for making the state a graveyard of industries,” said Kitex group MD Sabu Verghese. His group recently shifted its base to Telangana, alleging a witch hunt in Kerala. Many trade union leaders said they were against the practice but claimed that a concerted campaign was on to portray workers in bad light and dent the state’s image citing isolated incidents. “We are against it. We have taken strong action against erring ones. But some vested interests portray isolated incidents to paint a grim picture,” said CITU (Centre of Indian Trade Union) state president Anathalavattom Anandan. Anandan said the equipment-laden truck at Thumba was blocked by local people led by a parish priest demanding jobs for natives and the blame was conveniently put on workers of the area. The priest was not available for his comments. But local people said head-load workers were there and they provoked local people to join the stir and when it turned into a big issue, they backtracked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-ban-weird-practice-of-nokku-koolie-is-bringing-bad-name-to-kerala-101631704318618.html
15-09-2021||India||'Don't need lesson from failed states like Pakistan': India reacts at UNHRC meet||In a scathing response to Pakistan and Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) over their statement, India on Wednesday slammed Islamabad for what it called habitually misuing the platform provided by the UN Human Rights Council (UNHRC) to “propagate its false and malicious propaganda” against New Delhi.Calling itself a "robustly functional" and a “vibrant” democracy, India said it “does not need lessons from a failed state like Pakistan which is the epicentre of terrorism and worst abuser of human rights.” India exercised its “right to reply” at the 48th session of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva to also comment that the the UNHRC is "aware of Pakistan's attempts to divert the Council's attention from serious human rights violations being propagated by its government, including in the territories occupied by it.”Taking at a dig at OIC, of which Pakistan is a part of, India said its has no locus standi to comment on internal affairs of New Delhi.“We once regret and reject reference made by the OIC to the Union territory of Jammu & Kashmir, which is an integral part of India. The OIC has no locus standi to comment on internal affairs of India,” the Indian envoy to the UN said at the session.The OIC had in August asked India to revoke steps to scrap the abrogation of the special status of Jammu & Kashmir, and called them “unilateral” and aimed at altering the “internationally recognised disputed status of the territory as stipulated in the relevant UN Security Council resolutions”.The OIC’s general secretariat at that time called on the world community to increase its efforts to resolve the Kashmir issue in line with UN Security Council resolutions.“OIC has helplessly allowed itself to be held hostage by Pakistan, which holds Chairmanship of their Geneva Chapter, to subserve its own Agenda. It’s for members of OIC to decide if it's in their interest to allow Pakistan to do so,” India said at Wednesday's session.India's reaction comes in response to UN human rights chief Michelle Bachelet on Monday criticising India's use of stringent laws like the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act across the country as well as restrictions on public assembly and frequent communication blackouts in Jammu & Kashmir.Even as she acknowledged India's efforts to counter terrorism and promote development in Jammu & Kashmir, Bachelet said that “such restrictive measures can result in human rights violations and foster further tensions and discontent."India, on multiple occasions, in the past strongly rejected the UN human rights chief's criticisms relating to Jammu and Kashmir as interference in the country’s internal matters based on inadequate understanding of the ground situation.Training its guns on Pakistan further, India criticised Pakistan for failing to protect the rights of its minorities, including Sikhs, Hindus, Christians and Ahmadiyas. “Pakistan has been engaged in systematic presecution, forced conversions, targeted killings, sectarian violence and faith-based discrimination against its ethnic and religious minorities," India said, adding, “A ‘climate of fear’ continues to drastically impact the lives of minorities.”India said Pakistan is a country that has been globally recognised as a country openly supporting, training, financing and arming terrorists including UN proscribed terrorists, as a matter of state policy. “The relevant multilateral institutions have been raising serious concerns on its failure to stop terror financing and lack of effective actions against terror entities,” India said at the UNHRC session.In the 47th session of the UNHRC, too, India fired salvos at its western neighbour by saying Pakistan should be held accountable for aiding and abetting terrorism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-need-lesson-from-failed-states-like-pakistan-india-reacts-at-unhrc-meet-101631702312109.html
15-09-2021||India||Surge in Covid cases because of contact tracing, testing: Mizoram govt||Mizoram recorded 1,502 new Covid cases on Tuesday, its highest single day figure since the pandemic started last year. It was not a rare occurrence in the northeastern state which is witnessing over 1,000 new cases daily for the past few days. On Wednesday morning, 1,185 new cases were detected. The state with a population of 1.1 million (2011 census) has recorded over 74,000 cases till date with more than 64,000 recoveries. While 246 persons have died due to Covid, Mizoram have more than 13,500 active cases at present. “It’s true the numbers are high, but that has happened because we are very meticulous in contact tracing. While in some states, people who came in contact with an infected person are not traced and tested, we do that routinely in Mizoram,” R Lalramnghaka, special secretary (health) said. Also Read | Fresh influx of Myanmar nationals into Mizoram amid clashesSince September 1, Mizoram has recorded 14,949 new cases at the rate of nearly 1,000 cases daily. The test positivity rate hovered between 9% and 21% during the same period. On Tuesday, the positivity rate was 16.39%--it dropped to 12.65% on Wednesday morning. “Community spread of the disease in Mizoram has happened and the high number of cases is testing the state’s health infrastructure. While most positive cases with mild symptoms are in home isolation, those with severe complications and co-morbidities have been admitted in hospitals,” Lalramnghaka said. Meanwhile, Mizoram crossed 1 million vaccination doses on Wednesday afternoon. Till 3pm on Wednesday, the state had administered 1,009,134 doses (680,974 first doses and 328,160 second dose). “Our vaccination figures are impressive, but that hasn’t helped much in reducing new cases. We also had a long period of strict lockdown, which has been relaxed partially now with some restrictions. Instead of re-imposing lockdown, we need to convince public to adopt safety measures,” said Lalramnghaka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surge-in-covid-cases-because-of-contact-tracing-testing-mizoram-govt-101631703057193.html
15-09-2021||India||Delhi Police captured ISI-backed terrorists trained by Pak Army officers: Report||Following the arrest of six people by Delhi Police on Tuesday who were part of an ISI-backed terror module in Pakistan, a probe into the matter has now revealed that the suspected terrorists were trained under a Major or Lieutenant-rank Army officer named Ghazi, news agency ANI reported.Two of the six captured men, Osama alias Sami (22) and Zeeshan Qamar (28), told police that they were taken to Pakistan on boats, and reached near Gwadar port in the country after further short sea-journeys. After that, they were taken to a farmhouse in Sindh province where three Pakistani nationals were present. Two of them, Jabbar and Hamza, were from the country’s army unit. People familiar with the development told ANI that Hamza and Jabbar were subordinates of Ghazi.Zeeshan and Osama told police that they were imparted training by the subordinates of Ghazi. They added that Hamza used to wear civilian robes but was widely respected in the training camp, according to ANI. The accused along with 15-16 Bengali-speaking individuals received training on making bombs and Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs), and also committing arson with everyday items. Osama and Zeeshan were also trained in handling and using small firearms and AK-47s. The training lasted for 15 days, the ANI report added.Besides Zeeshan and Osama, Delhi Police on Tuesday held four others – Jaan Mohammad Shaikh (47), Moolchand alias Saaju (47), Mohamed Abu Bakr (23), and Mohammed Amir Javed (31) – as identified by special commissioner of police (special cell) Neeraj Thakur. The group were allegedly planning to carry off serial blasts and targeted killings in at least three Indian states – Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Maharashtra, in the forthcoming festive season.Police conducted raids in Delhi, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh and arrested the six suspects – Jan Mohammed Sheikh was arrested in Kota, Rajasthan while on his way to Delhi; Osama in Delhi’s Okhla; Mohd Abu Bakar in Sarai Kale Khan; Zeeshan in Allahabad; Javed in Lucknow; and Moolchand in Rae Bareilly.On Wednesday, Maharashtra ATS chief Vineet Agarwal told ANI that Jan Mohammed belongs to Mumbai’s Dharavi area, and that he had D-company connections. “Delhi Police and Mumbai Police will exchange information on this. Our team is going to Delhi today,” he was quoted as saying.
15-09-2021||India||Centre approves PLI scheme for auto, drone and auto-component industries||Union minister Anurag Thakur on Wednesday announced that the Cabinet has approved the production linked incentive scheme for auto, auto-component, and drone industries, saying it will “enhance India's manufacturing capabilities.” Thakur told a briefing that ₹25,938 crores will be allotted to the auto sector and ₹120 crores to the drone industry under the budgetary provision for the PLI scheme.“The automobile industry contributes to 35% of the manufacturing GDP of the country. It is a leading sector in generating employment. If we speak of the global automotive trade, then we need to increase India's participation,” the Union minister said.Thakur added that the PLI scheme has been brought “keeping in mind the needs of the present as well as the future, and for local markets too.”Noting the benefits of drones in almost of sectors, the government said in a release that they can be significant creators of employment and economic growth “due to their reach, versatility, and ease of use, especially in India’s remote and inaccessible areas.​” It further stated that India has the potential of becoming a global drone hub by 2030, given its traditional strengths in innovation, information technology, frugal engineering and its huge domestic demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-approves-pli-scheme-for-auto-drone-and-auto-component-industries-101631700347690.html
15-09-2021||India||Maoist violence highest in Chhattisgarh in 2020, NCRB data reveals||Chhattisgarh recorded the highest number of crimes committed by Maoists in 2020, according to the annual report released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) on Tuesday. The NCRB statistics show that Chhattisgarh topped in number of murders, attempted murders, loot and arson by Maoists by a long margin followed by Jharkhand and Maharashtra. The statistics only goes on to show the grim reality of left-wing extremism in the state.Chhattisgarh also lost most police personnel in Maoist attacks and counter-insurgency operations, the data shows. As per NRCB, a total of 533 cases against Maoist were registered in eight states in 2020 and Chhattisgarh accounted for 296 of these, followed by Jharkhand (133) and Maharashtra (32). In 2019, total cases registered against Maoist numbered 514, including 310 in Chhattisgarh and 70 in Maharashtra. In Chhattisgarh, fourteen districts are considered Maoist-affected, including eight that are severely affected. Bastar division is considered a severely Maoist affected division, spread across 39,117 square kilometre area with 15 lakh population. As per police estimate, about 4,500 Maoist cadres (of its political and military wings) live in the jungles of Bastar. More than 200,000 people including women and children in Bastar are Sangham Sadasya (foot soldiers) of CPI(Maoist). The statistics further shows that a total of 74 murders were committed by Maoists in 2020 and 62 of these were reported in Chhattisgarh; similarly out of total 41 registered cases of loot by Maoists, 39 were reported in the state. Chhattisgarh also topped the list with 139 cases of attempt to murder by Maoists out of total 172 cases registered nationally. The state also tops in cases of arson with seven out of 12 total cases registered, as per the NCRB data. Total 22 cases were registered under Explosive Substance Act, in which 19 were reported in Chhattisgarh. The state also saw the highest number of security personnel killed in Maoist affected districts of the state. According to NRCB figures, 59 security personnel were killed in Maoist violence in three states with 55 such deaths taking place in Chhattisgarh alone, followed by three in Maharashtra and one in Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoist-violence-highest-in-chhattisgarh-in-2020-ncrb-data-reveals-101631700657359.html
15-09-2021||India||Crime cases increased by 15% in Jammu and Kashmir in 2020||Jammu and Kashmir recorded a 15% increase in cognizable crimes in 2020 compared to 2019, the latest report by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) revealed.The report said that Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh registered 29,314 (including 403 cases in Ladakh) crime cases under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) or under the Special and Local Laws (SLL) in the year 2020.This was a 15% increase from 2019 when 25,408 crime incidents were registered, which was 6% less than 2018, when 27,276 cases were registered. The report has maintained a separate section for Ladakh from the year 2020 only.Jammu and Kashmir has been under restrictions of one kind or another beginning 2019, when its special status under article 370 was abrogated and the region was split into two Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. In 2020 and 2021, restrictions were placed owing to Covid pandemic outbreak.The report said that crimes against women witnessed around 11% increase from 3,069 cases in 2019 to 3,414 (including nine in Ladakh) in 2020. The year 2019 had witnessed a fall of 10% in crimes against women in comparison to 2018, when 3,437 such cases were registered.The statistics show that in 2020 there were nine cases of dowry deaths, 243 rape cases, 349 cases of cruelty against women by their husbands or relatives, 1,639 cases of assault on women and 1,744 cases of assault on women with intention to outrage their modesty.The report also showed that in 2020, Jammu and Kashmir registered 31 stalking cases, 15 incidents of sexual harassment with three cases of sexual harassment at work.Murder cases rose by 25% with 149 cases registered in 2020 as against 119 in 2019. The year 2018 saw registry of 181 murder cases. As per the data, there were 487 cases of attempt to murder, 35 abetment of suicide and 24 cases of abetment of suicide of women in 2020.The crimes against children also witnessed an increase of around 29% with 606 incidents in 2020 in comparison to 470 and 473 cases each in 2019 and 2018 respectively.There were also 472 cases of attempted suicide in 2020. The kidnapping and abductions cases have been witnessing a decline for the past three years in the Union Territory. From 1,137 cases in 2018, kidnapping and abductions fell to 961 in 2019 and further dipped to 868 in 2020.The region also recorded 10 crimes related to offences against the state besides two cases of sedition in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crime-cases-increased-by-15-in-jammu-and-kashmir-in-2020-101631696096443.html
15-09-2021||India||Cabinet approves 4-year moratorium for telecom companies||In a much-awaited relief, the Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a relief package for the country's cash-strapped telecom sector, along with several structural reforms to strengthen the sector. All those who will avail of the moratorium will have to pay some interest, minister Ashwini Vaishnaw announced. The moratorium will start from October 1, the Cabinet said.“The reforms are deep and broad. They are structural. These reforms will bring in change today, tomorrow and in the future. I do not like to put a number on the package as it is revenue-neutral for the government,” the minister said. The moratorium will not impact the government's revenue, the minister said.The package comes six weeks after Kumar Mangalam Birla resigned from teh chairman post of Vodafone Idea Limited on August 4. Vodafone, which was created from the merger of British telecom giant Vodafone's India unit and Birla's Idea Cellular Ltd, has to pay about ₹50,399.63 crore in statutory dues dating back over past many years.The relief package includes a moratorium on payments for airwaves and is aimed at helping Bharti Airtel, Reliance Jio and Vodafone Idea. Shares in wireless carriers Bharti Airtel rose 5.4% and Vodafone Idea went up 2.9% after the news surfaced.The relief package for the ailing sector, which has the option for the telecom firms to convert interest on spectrum dues of the four-year moratorium period into government equity, was long due.Last year, the Supreme Court passed a ruling asking Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea to clear the government dues which hit the sector hard. Banks led by theState Bank of India have called on the government to give Vodafone Idea more time to clear its tax dues.Apart from the moratorium, the Cabinet cleared some major decisions regarding spectrum allocation and FDI. Spectrum sharing has been made free while the auction will take place in the last quarter of the financial year.Bharti Airtel chairman Sunil Mittal recently pitched for a hike in tariffs and a cut in government levies to save the industry. Mittal had said while 35 per cent of the industry's revenue goes to the government in taxes and levies, telcos are loaded with an extraordinary debt of AGR (Adjusted Gross Revenue) dues and spectrum payments.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-approves-moratorium-for-telecom-companies-report-101631695317930.html
15-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Experts say excess rainfall in Odisha result of climate change and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Excess rainfall in September result of climate change in Odisha, say expertsWhile rains in Odisha over the last 3 days have broken most records amid excess rainfall in 11 districts following a low pressure area over Bay of Bengal, experts are concerned over climate change-induced weather-pattern shifts adversely affecting the state’s agriculture. Read moreIn crunch situations, he would say 'ok, I'll do it for you': Gavaskar names the 'clever' cricketer India can rely onIndia gained plenty of positives from the Test series in England. Rohit Sharma's continuous growth as India's Test match opener, the second coming of KL Rahul as a top-order batsman in Tests, the all-rounder skills of Shardul Thakur and the resistance shown by the tail are some that come to mind. Read moreKareena Kapoor carries Jehangir in her arms as they leave Mumbai with Saif Ali Khan, Taimur. See photosSaif Ali Khan and Kareena Kapoor were clicked at the Mumbai airport on Wednesday morning with their sons, Taimur Ali Khan and Jehangir Ali Khan. It is not known where the family is off to. Pictures of them were shared online by paparazzo accounts. Read more2021 MG Astor SUV unveiled with ADAS and AI features, to rival Creta, SeltosMG Motor has officially taken the covers off Astor SUV, its fifth product for the Indian market. 2021 MG Astor SUV, which is technically the ICE version of the ZS EV, has been unveiled loaded with advanced features such ADAS. Read moreKiara Advani in tie-dye bralette and pants oozes oomph for stunning shoot, see photosBollywood diva Kiara Advani's wardrobe is a mix of eye-catching and comfortable pieces. The Shershaah actor's sartorial choices for photoshoots reflect the same aesthetics. Read moreTimelapse video of aurora over blue ocean wows people, goes viralA video shared by Thomas Pesquet, a French astronaut aboard International Space Station (ISS), has left people memsemrised. The clip captures showcases an aurora over a blue ocean. There is a chance that the video will make you say wow - and that too repeatedly. Read moreCentre seeks US investment in road, highway sector. Watch what Gadkari saidUnion Minister Nitin Gadkari asked investors from the US to invest in road and highway projects in India. Stating the India's road network is doing excellently, the Road Transport and Highways Minister said the country is developing industrial clusters, roadside amenities and therefore the income from the sector would also increase. Watch herex`||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-experts-say-excess-rainfall-in-odisha-result-of-climate-change-and-all-the-latest-news-101631690334363.html
15-09-2021||India||Dr Reddy’s Labs gets approval for phase 3 trials of Sputnik Light in India||India’s drugs regulator has granted permission to Dr Reddy’s Laboratories to conduct phase 3 clinical trials for Sputnik Light, the single dose and first component of the Russian made Sputnik V vaccine against Coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, in its 172nd meeting last month, recommended the drugs controller to grant approval to conduct bridging studies in India for the single-dose variant of Sputnik V, after going through updated safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data from phase 3 trials that happened in Russia.The subject expert committee (SEC) in June asked Dr Reddy’s to submit data from trials in Russia before seeking permission to conduct trials locally.Sputnik V vaccine is developed by Russia’s Gamaleya Institute with assistance from Russia’s sovereign wealth fund, Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), that is also marketing the vaccine globally. RDIF entered a partnership with Dr Reddy’s Labs to market first 250 million doses of the Russian vaccine and also conduct trials in India required for grant of regulatory approvals.Also Read | India’s vaccine drive remarkable: Melinda Gates“In light of the recommendations of the SEC dated 30.06.21, the firm presented updated safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data of phase III clinical trial of SARS-CoV-2 virus vaccine (Sputnik Light)— single dose vaccine conducted in Russia along with the proposal to conduct phase III clinical trial. The committee noted that the firm has now presented the safety and immunogenicity along with the longevity of the antibodies which gives a measure of persistence of antibodies in the participants,” read minutes of the meeting that HT has accessed. “After detailed deliberations, the committee recommended for grant of permission for conduct of phase 3 immune-bridging clinical trial in Indian population subject to the condition that the primary endpoint should be assessed at day 42, 90 and 180, and interim analysis can be conducted at day 42...”Sputnik V is one of the six Covid-19 vaccines that have been granted emergency use approval by India’s drugs regulator.It is a two-dose shot (but two unidentical doses unlike other two-dose vaccines) that is 91.6% effective in preventing serious illness as was found in phase 3 clinical trials.Starting initially in Hyderabad on May 14 this year, Dr Reddy’s did a soft launch on pilot basis in select cities to check logistical arrangements including cold chain facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dr-reddy-s-labs-gets-approval-for-phase-3-trials-of-sputnik-light-in-india-101631690455827.html
15-09-2021||India||India records 27,176 new Covid-19 cases; daily tally below 50,000 for 80 days||India's Covid-19 tally saw a marginal rise in the daily cases of infections on Wednesday after maintaining a steady fall for days. Over the last 24 hours, the country logged 27,176 cases of infections as against Tuesday when there were 25,404 infections. With this, the country has recorded less than 50,000 daily cases for 80 consecutive days now.The southern state of Kerala continued to account for more than half of the total daily tally. In the last 24 hours, Kerala recorded 15,876 new Covid-19 cases and 129 deaths. However, experts say that the state has passed its peak. In the next 2 weeks, a decline in cases should start, said AIIMS Professor Dr Sanjay Rai.The death toll climbed to 443,497 after 284 fatalities in the last 24 hours. The new fatalities included 129 from Kerala and 52 from Maharashtra.A total of 4,43,497 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,38,221 from Maharashtra, 37,529 From Karnataka, 35,217 from Tamil Nadu, 25,083 from Delhi, 22,884 from Uttar Pradesh, 22,779 from Kerala and 18,599 from West Bengal.The active cases declined to 351,087 comprising 1.05 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.62 per cent, according to the data published on the Union health ministry's site at 8am.The country conducted 1,610,829 tests on Tuesday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 546,055,796.The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.69 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 16 days.On the vaccination front, the cumulative doses administered in the country so far has reached 75.89 crores (in million please), according to the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-27-176-new-covid-19-cases-daily-tally-below-50-000-for-80-days-101631689962870.html
15-09-2021||India||Assam records highest rate of crime against women for 4th year||Assam recorded the highest rate of crime against women in the country for the fourth consecutive year, reveal National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) figures for 2020.Released on Tuesday, Crime in India 2020 report shows that the rate of crime against women in Assam was 154.3, way higher than the national rate of 56.5. Odisha came second with 112.9 and Delhi came third with 106.4. The rate is calculated as the number of crimes recorded per 100,000 population. In 2017, the rate of crime against women in Assam was 143.3, it was 166 for 2018 and in 2019 the figure was 177. So Uttar Pradesh, which registered the most cases of crime against women at 49,385 against Assam’s 26,532, still recorded a crime rate of only 45.1. Assam’s number of crime cases against women was 30,025 in 2019 and 27,687 in 2018.In 2020, Assam recorded 26 instances of rape-cum-murder/gang rape—the third highest figure in the country after Uttar Pradesh (31) and Madhya Pradesh (27). It recorded 1,658 cases of rape last year. There were 4,642 cases of assault with intention of outraging modesty. Also Read | UP dengue outbreak: IMA official claims health dept not ‘providing updated data’“The figures could also indicate that unlike states where such crimes are not registered promptly, in Assam, survivors reach out to police,” said a senior police officer requesting anonymity. While Uttar Pradesh topped in the crime rate for dowry deaths at 2.1, there has been an increase in such cases in Assam as well. The state recorded 150 dowry deaths in 2020 and four cases of acid attack on women. “The figures are worrying. We never recorded such a high number of dowry deaths earlier. The rate of crime against women in Assam could be very high as sometimes women tend to file false cases of cruelty against their husbands and in-laws. It could also be that more women are reporting crimes than those in other states,” said Chikimiki Talukdar, chairperson, Assam State Commission for Women. Of the total cases of crime against women registered in Assam last year, 11,408 were of cruelty by husband or his relatives. The state also recorded 1,496 cases under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act of which 1,049 were of rape, 322 of sexual assault and 120 of sexual harassment. “Last year, the rate of crime against women in Assam could have been higher due to the Covid-19 lockdown. People were stuck in their homes for days and they could have attacked their spouses or other women,” said Polly Vauquline, head of department of women’s studies in Gauhati University. (With inputs from Amitoj Singh Kalsi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-records-highest-rate-of-crime-against-women-for-4th-yr-101631689255938.html
15-09-2021||India||Final bid for Air India disinvestment today; Tata group, SpiceJet in race||The Centre is expected to finalise the sale of Air India, with at least two buyers expected to submit financial bids by September 15. The civil aviation ministry had earlier clarified that it will not extend the deadline for stake sale.News agency ANI reported that Tata Group and SpiceJet chairman Ajay Singh are expected to make its financial bid for the airline.It quoted a government official to say that there is "optimism" that a bidder will be found. A similar exercise in 2018 to offload 76 per cent stake by the government was unsuccessful after no bidder was finalised.This time, the Centre is planning to sell 100 per cent stake in the airline and its low-cost subsidiary Air India Express, along with a 50 per cent stake in ground handling company Air India SATS Airport Services Private Limited (AISATS).Other properties, including the Air India building in Mumbai and Airlines House in Delhi, will also be part of the deal.Minister of state for civil aviation Vijay Kumar Singh told Parliament in July that there will be a 10 per cent reduction in reserve prices of 16 of the airline’s properties as previous attempts of auctioning them failed to attract bidders.In March, Hardeep Singh Puri, the then civil aviation minister, said Air India had accumulated a debt of ₹60,000 crores and that it would be completely disinvested. He added the choice was between disinvesting the airline or closing it down.At present, Air India has control over 4,400 domestic and 1,800 international landing and parking slots at domestic airports as well as 900 slots abroad.The privatisation was to be completed by late May or June, but the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic led to the delay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/final-bid-for-air-india-disinvestment-today-tata-group-spicejet-in-race-101631687006080.html
15-09-2021||India||'India has inoculated highest number of people with first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the world': Health ministry||India has inoculated the highest number of beneficiaries with their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the world, the Union health ministry said, adding that with about 60.7% of the adult population in the country have received at least the first dose of a Covid-19 vaccine. The ministry also said that India has the highest number of beneficiaries (over 181 million) who have been fully vaccinated with both doses in the country."The number of people who have received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine in India and the number of people who have completed the vaccination schedule is the highest in the world," the ministry claimed in the e-book on Covid-19 vaccination uploaded on its portal on Tuesday.In the e-book the ministry also claimed that a significant percentage of the vaccines have been administered in rural areas, with 62.54% doses having been administered in inoculation centres located in rural areas, and 36.30% in urban areas. A total of 73.44 lakh doses or 1.16% of the doses have been administered at Covid vaccination centres not tagged as rural or urban.Also Read: Covid-19: Vaccine inequality across districts is high, but it is decreasingThis announcement comes weeks after President Ram Nath Kovind urged medical professionals to create awareness about vaccination in rural areas and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman touted vaccines as the only “medicine” that will allow businessmen and farmers to continue their work.“Vaccination is the only medicine for [the growth of the] economy. For people to buy and sell or farmers to carry out farming in their land,” Sitharaman said at an event in Tamil Nadu.The ministry also provided a gender-wise breakdown of the vaccination coverage, stating that 52.5% of the total doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered to men, 47.5% to women and approximately 0.02% to 'other' gender, till September.India on Tuesday administered 61.15 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine, taking the cumulative count across the country to the 75.89 crore mark, according to the latest bulletin by the ministry of health and family welfare on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-inoculated-highest-number-of-people-with-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-in-the-world-health-ministry-101631685974732.html
15-09-2021||India||14-feet statue of PM Modi, made with scrap materials, to be erected in Bengaluru||A 14-feet statue of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, made entirely from scrap material, is to be installed in Bengaluru soon, according to the ANI news agency. The statue, unveiled this week, was built by a father-son duo hailing from Tenali in the Guntur district of Andhra Pradesh. They run the ‘Surya Silpa Sala’, an artists' workshop in the district.“10-15 artisans worked for almost two months to complete this statue,” the news agency quoted Venkateswara Rao, the father as saying. According to the artist, it was a local BJP corporator, Mohan Raju, who had approached Rao with the request to construct the statue of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Andhra Pradesh: A 14-feet statue of PM Narendra Modi has been made of scrap material by a man & his son in Tenali, Guntur. The statue will be installed in Bengaluru"10-15 workers worked for almost 2 months to complete this statue," Venkateswara Rao, the father, said y'day pic.twitter.com/1KzLy3wseRAccording to a report by HT's sister publication Livemint, artisan Rao used a variety of waste materials – including discarded automobile parts, metal chains, cogs, wheels, rods, nuts, bolts, sheets, and other broken unusable metal pieces to build the Prime Minister's statue. It took around two tonnes of scrap materials, on average, to build the 14-feet-tall statue, according to the report.Venkateswara Rao's team has won international recognition for its skill in constructing sculptures from scrap materials. Over the past 12 years, the team has managed to make sculptures using almost 100 tonnes of iron scrap, Rao said. Before working on the Prime Minister's statue, the team had completed a 10-feet-tall statue of Mahatma Gandhi using 75,000 nuts – a world record in itself.The scrap material used for the sculptures is collected from scrap sellers in Hyderabad, Visakhapatnam, Guntur, and Chennai; Rao personally makes the visit to sellers located in these cities to collect the materials himself.Venkateswara Rao hails from a family of sculptors, him being the fifth generation in the line who specialised in making bronze statues. According to the artisan, although his father first began making small idols or statues in the family, it was Venkateswara's son Ravi who first introduced the concept of scrap art.Ravi, who holds a master’s degree in fine arts, has made along with his father models of Hindustan Ambassador car, tractors, national emblems, bullock carts, and the like from the scrap material.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14feet-statue-of-pm-modi-made-with-scrap-materials-to-be-erected-in-bengaluru-101631675153421.html
15-09-2021||India||Engineers Day 2021: PM Modi, others pay homage to M Visvesvaraya on 160th birth anniversary||September 15 is marked every year as Engineers' Day in Indi, as a tribute to Sir Mokshagundam Visvesvaraya, more commonly known as Sir MV, one of the country's finest engineers. September 15, 2021, marks his 160th birth anniversary; on this occasion, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and several eminent individuals across the country paid their homages to the statesman and wished the country a happy Engineers Day.“Greetings on Engineers Day to all hardworking engineers,” the Prime Minister tweeted. “No words are enough to thank them for their pivotal role in making our planet better and technologically advanced. I pay homage to the remarkable Shri M Visvesvaraya on his birth anniversary and recall his accomplishments.”Greetings on #EngineersDay to all hardworking engineers. No words are enough to thank them for their pivotal role in making our planet better and technologically advanced. I pay homage to the remarkable Shri M. Visvesvaraya on his birth anniversary and recall his accomplishments.Union home minister Amit Shah wrote, “Tributes to Sir M Visvesvaraya Ji, a prolific engineer and an inspiration to people from all walks of life on his Jayanti.”“Engineers Day greetings to our brilliant engineers who are constantly striving towards the vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat through their amazing innovations,” he added.Tributes to Sir M Visvesvaraya Ji, a prolific engineer and an inspiration to people from all walks of life on his Jayanti.Engineers Day greetings to our brilliant engineers who are constantly striving towards the vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat through their amazing innovations. pic.twitter.com/fB8FdjThSDOn #EngineersDay, we express our humble tribute to the exemplary engineer Bharat Ratna Sir M. Visvesvaraya Ji on his birth anniversary.Our talented engineers are contributing their best in nation building and waying forward this country in the direction to become Aatmanirbhar.On #EngineersDay, my humble tribute to India’s prolific engineer and a statesman, Bharat Ratna Dr. M. Visvesvaraya. pic.twitter.com/BNcuMzvjnFOn #EngineersDay , I would like to give my best wishes to all engineers who are contributing to nation building and making several path breaking innovations with utmost dedication, knowledge and hardwork.M Visvesvaraya is considered one of the foremost nation-builders, creating marvels upon which modern India was built. He was referred to as the ‘precursor of economic planning in India’, according to the Institution of Engineers India (IEI). M Visvesvaraya is also known as ‘VM Sir’ due to his various contributions to the field of engineering and is a pioneer of education.Born on September 15, 1861, in a small village called Muddenahalli in Karnataka, Visvesvaraya received a degree in civil engineering from Pune College of Engineering. His expertise was in the fields of irrigation and flood disaster management. He rose to fame with his groundbreaking works in these fields with modern irrigation techniques as well as flood control and mitigation.He designed the ‘automatic barrier water floodgates’ which were installed in Pune in 1903 at the Khadakvasla reservoir. He was the chief engineer responsible for the construction of the Krishna Raja Sagar dam in the Mandya district of Karnataka and the chief engineer of the flood protection system for Hyderabad. He also established the famous Government Engineering College, now known as University Visvesvaraya College of Engineering in 1917.He was knighted as a Knight Commander of the British Indian Empire (KCIE) by King George V for his contributions to the public good. M Visvesvaraya received India’s highest honour, the Bharat Ratna, in 1955.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/engineers-day-2021-pm-modi-others-pay-homage-to-m-visvesvaraya-on-160th-birth-anniversary-101631679860505.html
15-09-2021||India||Pakistan monkey off their backs, India-US ties are poised for a new beginning||When Prime Minister Narendra Modi meets US President Joe Biden at White House later this month, both the countries will have shed the monkey called Pakistan off their backs as American direct engagement with Af-Pak region has ended since erstwhile Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan in the winter of 1979.In the past four decades, the India-US bilateral relationship was bedeviled with American engagement in Afghanistan and the equation remained largely hyphenated till US Navy Seals gunned down Al Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden near Pakistan Army cantonment in Abbottabad in May 2011.In the interregnum, the American plan for India was largely dictated by their commitments in Af-Pak region as Washington needed Rawalpindi to first fight off the Soviet Union during the Cold war days and then the Al Qaeda and the Taliban post 9/11 attack. The India-US bilateral relationship was looked at by Washington planners through this prism and hence tactical adjustments were made in favour of Rawalpindi GHQ.Even after the brutal attacks by Pakistani terrorist groups on Indian Parliament in December 2001 and on the Indian Army camp at Kaluchak in Jammu and Kashmir in May 2002, the message from US President, NSA, Secretary of State and Deputy Secretary of State to then NDA government was not to wage war against Pakistan as US personnel were stationed in that country for war against terror in Afghanistan. While US hunkered down on then Pakistani dictator Gen Pervez Musharraf to ban the terrorist groups attacking India, New Delhi was told to go easy on Pakistan even though 10 children were brutally murdered at Kaluchak.Visiting India nearly a month after Kaluchak massacre, then US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld told his Indian counterpart George Fernandes that US relationship with Pakistan was temporary, but they were looking at India as a long-term strategic ally.It was due to American commitment in Afghanistan, Pakistan was giving a free gate pass by successive US administrations on nuclear and missile proliferation, terrorism against India and was even rewarded with a major non-NATO status in 2003 without the courtesy of informing India. While powerful US ecosystem in media and think-tanks put pressure on India on Kashmir without asking for equal accountability from terror promoting Islamabad. North Korea was sanctioned for nuclear proliferation but not Pakistan or for that matter China despite detailed evidence available in AQ Khan files with the CIA. The US ecosystem conjured up images of nuclear war to deter India even as Pakistan directly attacked India or used its proxy terror groups. Pakistan got away cheaply in 1999 Kargil War even though rogue Pakistan Army under Musharraf had invaded India from Batalik to Mushkoh Valley in pursuance of their pipe dream to annex Kashmir.The Pakistani misdemeanors in the past four decades were not only over-looked by the international community but also rewarded with US pumping in latest military hardware and financial aid including using the national security waiver post 9/11. Islamabad got billions of dollars in aid from US and European Union in the name of war against terror despite everyone in White House knew that Taliban and Al Qaeda leaders were feted by Rawalpindi. Even the F-16 fighters given to Pakistan for use in war against terror in Afghanistan were used against India on February 27, 2019 after Prime Minister Narendra Modi struck at a terror camp in Balakot for Pulwana terror strike by Pakistan based terror groups. The American efforts were supplemented by the English who still carry imperial legacy on their shoulders and believe that Taliban are just country boys.All this changed when crown prince of terror Sirajuddin Haqqani with the help of Pakistani ISI ground and technical support in terms of Chinese drone footage and purchased satellite imagery militarily occupied Kabul on August 15, 2021.Today, the US engagement with Af-Pak region is over or will be limited to over the horizon counter-terrorist operation. Pakistan is a client state of China, which in turn is in strategic competition with US and to a lessor degree with India. Rag-tag Islamic militia Taliban is in power in Kabul, and it does not recognize the Durand Line with a burning ambition to turn the world into Islamic Caliphate. The India-US relationship for the first time is unfettered of the Pakistan factor, which has always dragged the bilateral relations down, and time for regional structural adjustments are over for US. The fight against terror has again gone regional with US and its allies departing from Kabul.It is under these circumstances and in the presence of two other strategic allies, Japan, and Australia, that India and US have an opportunity to make a new beginning of the bilateral ties where the two natural allies can mutually grow and prosper across the board. There is an opportunity for the two countries to act as a democratic bulwark against belligerent Communist China for securing the Indo-Pacific as also stabilizing the region through new supply chains and commitment to Climate Change objectives. The ISI chief, Lt Gen Faiz Hameed, who triumphantly rode into Kabul on September 4, may have his smile wiped off at the end of this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-monkey-of-their-backs-india-us-ties-are-poised-for-a-new-beginning-101631680477495.html
15-09-2021||India||Kerala has passed its Covid-19 peak, says AIIMS professor||Kerala has passed its peak of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, a leading health expert has said. The comments come as the southern state logged 15,876 fresh cases of the infection, nearly half of what it was recording during the peak of Covid-19 wave."By looking at the data of the virus spread in last 2-3 months, Kerala has passed its peak and in the next 2 weeks, a decline in cases should start. Just like North-East, Kerala should also start witness drop in Covid cases by the start of October as per the epidemiological picture," said AIIMS Professor Dr Sanjay Rai.He added, "Earlier sero survey in Kerala suggested that most population was susceptible but latest sero survey shows that 46 per cent had antibodies due to vaccine or by infection. The measures taken by the state only slows down the spread."After reporting over 30,000 Covid-19 cases in a day during the first week of September, the number has come down considerably. On Tuesday, it reported 15,876 cases, which took the state's overall caseload to 44,06,365.The number of active cases in the state dropped to below two lakh mark - 1,98,865 to be exact - with 25,654 people recovering from Covid-19 between Monday and Tuesday and the total recoveries rising to 41,84,158, according to Kerala's health department.The positivity rate stood at 15.12 per cent after 1,05,005 samples were tested in a 24-hour span, the department said.Among the 14 districts, Thrissur recorded the highest with 1,936 fresh cases followed by Ernakulam (1,893), Thiruvananthapuram (1,627), Palakkad (1,591), Malappuram (1,523), Kollam (1,373), Alappuzha (1,118), Kozhikode (1,117), Kannur (1,099) and Kottayam (1,043).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-has-passed-its-covid-19-peak-says-aiims-professor-101631679687681.html
15-09-2021||India||Khori Gaon rehabilitation cannot wait till April 2022, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Tuesday told the Haryana government that alternative housing for eligible beneficiaries ousted from forest land at Khori Gaon in Faridabad cannot wait till April 2022. The court directed that they be temporarily housed within a week from the receipt of their application under the rehabilitation scheme introduced by the state government. It also stated that repair works, while ensuring the safety of residents, can be carried out simultaneously.“We were under the impression that the structures are ready, and they need minor repairs. And now you are asking for time to hand over possession till April 2022,” observed the bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari.Additional solicitor general (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF), told the court that once the verification is completed by October end, the state shall provide ₹2,000 solatia or compensation to each eligible family to rent an accommodation for six months till the flats are ready by April 2022.The Faridabad municipality had earmarked flats under the economically weaker section (EWS) category at Dabua Colony and Bapu Colony situated in Faridabad. Presently, the municipality informed the court, the houses are “not habitable” as tenders were floated for its maintenance and ensuring supply of electricity and water, and setting up of drainage facilities is expected to take nearly five months.About 6,600 dwelling units in Khori village were razed by Faridabad municipality over the last few months as the illegal colony was encroaching 150 acres of Aravalli forest land. Many of the evicted residents, housed in temporary shelters, complained about the absence of a rehabilitation scheme, following which, the state approved a rehabilitation scheme on August 25, incorporating the suggestions of affected residents, and presented it to the court in an affidavit filed last Saturday.The rehabilitation scheme allowed persons affected by the demolition drive in Khori to apply for alternate housing by October 15. The state said that their documents, such as electricity bills, voter IDs and Parivar Pehchan Patra, will be scrutinised to establish their eligibility, following which a draw of lots will be conducted and final allotment of flats will be made by April 2022.The bench said that the proposed scheme did not consider the court’s suggestion for temporary allocation of flats pending final scrutiny and draw of lots. It also made its discontent felt on action taken against illegal farmhouses on forest land and the decision to remove the municipal commissioner on August 2, amid the case hearing, without showing the courtesy to inform the court.The judges asked senior advocate Arun Bhardwaj to address the court as he had represented the municipality on the last occasion and did not approve of the decision to change counsels.Bhardwaj agreed with the court’s suggestion of temporary allocation of flats and simultaneous repair and maintenance work.The bench in its order said, “The corporation, upon receipt of applications and documents being submitted by applicants for, prima facie, establishing eligibility, shall grant provisional allotment letter that will indicate temporary possession subject to final verification and draw of lots of all participants.”Before taking provisional possession, an undertaking shall be furnished by the applicant to hand over the possession within two weeks in the event they are found ineligible under the scheme upon scrutiny, the court said. It clarified that once the temporary accommodation is taken by the eligible family, the rent/solatium of ₹2,000 payable by the state government shall stop.The court allowed the repair work of the EWS flats to be simultaneously carried out with the condition, “While carrying out repairs or maintenance, all care and caution must be observed regarding safety of occupants of the premises under repair.”Senior advocates Sanjay Parikh and Colin Gonsalves raised objections on the rehabilitation scheme which the court agreed to consider on Monday. Parikh said that the e-portal for submission of applications was not working. The bench directed that the corporation was free to consider extending the cut-off date for receiving applications. So far, over 2,400 applications have been received under the rehabilitation scheme.The removal of Khori Gaon was part of the court’s efforts to implement its order of February 19, 2020, requiring Aravalli forest land to be cleared of encroachments. On April 5, 2021, the court reiterated that Khori Gaon occupants have to be removed. On June 7, the court fixed a six-week deadline to remove the 6,600 structures in the Khori Gaon colony. The court gave a free hand to MCF to act without exception against all unauthorised structures on forest land.The MCF has since then registered a criminal case on June 23 against unknown persons who illegally sold land parcels belonging to 150 acres of forest land to Khori Gaon residents using illegal and unfair means. The MCF also identified 140 illegal structures, including farmhouses, and demolished 10 of these.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/khori-gaon-rehabilitation-cannot-wait-till-april-2022-says-supreme-court-101631678814951.html
15-09-2021||India||India has administered close to 760 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered close to 760 million Covid vaccine doses by Tuesday, September 14.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Tuesday, 758,199,331 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 5,472,356 doses were administered on the day.In the 18-45 age group, 305,859,611 people have been given the first dose while 46,945,312 have got their second shot as well.Also Read | Will Covid-19 ‘end’ in the next 6-8 months? Here’s what experts sayAmong the healthcare workers, 10,365,012 have been given the first dose while 8,626,343 have got their second dose as well. Among the frontline workers, 18,339,398 have got their first dose and 14,153,295 have got their second dose too.Meanwhile, this month, hospitals run by the Delhi government will create 640 paediatric intensive care unit (ICU) beds, while those run by the Centre, the municipal corporations and private bodies will add another 263 such beds under the government’s plan to prepare for a possible third wave of the pandemic. These will be part of a total of 2,328 beds for children created across hospitals, said a Delhi government order.The country reported 27,176 new cases in the last 24 hours, said the government statement on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-close-to-760-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101631677974538.html
15-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Afghanistan on the verge of collapse, Taliban surviving on 'donation' and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Afghanistan on brink of collapse, Taliban fighters surviving on donation: ReportSince its takeover by the Taliban, Afghanistan has been facing cash crunch, with global aids freezing and daily limits set on withdrawal from bank accounts. Read MoreIndian ambassador thanks Qatar for supporting Afghan evacuation effortsIndian ambassador to Qatar Dr Deepak Mittal on Tuesday met Qatar's foreign minister Lolwah Alkhater and thanked her for the support to people being evacuated from Afghanistan. Read MoreMaharashtra records 3,530 fresh Covid cases, 52 deathsMaharashtra on Tuesday recorded 3,530 new Covid-19 cases with 52 deaths. Read MoreHaaland to Bayern would be ‘perfect’, German national team currently in a transition phase: Claudio PizarroIs Robert Lewandowski going to leave next summer? Will Bayern Munich buy Erling Haaland? Read MorePooja Batra watches Al Pacino’s And Justice For All with him, shares picsPooja Batra has shared pictures with Hollywood star Al Pacino on Instagram. Read MoreMira Rajput in ₹25k thigh-slit strapless dress takes 'glam on the rocks', we're swooningShahid Kapoor's wife and mother-of-two Mira Rajput Kapoor's elegant and effortless style has always enchanted her followers. Read MoreNew iPhone 13 series, Watch 7, cheaper iPad, new iPad Mini: Apple launch eventiPhone 13, iPhone 13 mini, iPhone 13 pro and iPhone 13 Pro Max were launched in California. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-afghanistan-on-the-verge-of-collapse-taliban-surviving-on-donation-and-all-the-latest-news-101631674859604.html
15-09-2021||India||Made 84 tribunal appointments since 2020; no name pending with us: Govt tells SC||The Union government has informed the Supreme Court that it has appointed 84 members to various tribunals since 2020 and there are no recommendations pending with it anymore. Submitting its affidavit on Tuesday night in a clutch of cases that have cited massive vacancies across several tribunals, the Centre has maintained that it has acted upon all the names forwarded to it by the search cum selection committees (SCSCs), which are headed by the Chief Justice of India or a Supreme Court judge nominated by the CJI. There are more than 200 posts lying vacant across 15 tribunals in the country. The hearing is scheduled at 10.30am today when the top court will take up the batch of petitions filed separately by state bar council of Madhya Pradesh, advocate Amit Sahni, Congress MP Jairam Ramesh and Delhi Bar Association. Also Read | Life term for convict means rigorous imprisonment, says Supreme CourtThe affidavit, reviewed by HT, disclosed that out of 84 appointments, 39 have been in the current month when the top court lashed out at the government for sitting over recommendations made more than a year ago. Four members in the national consumer commission were appointed in May while all other appointments took place in 2020. On September 6, a bench led by CJI NV Ramana, had observed that the Union government has no respect for the judgments of the top court and is now “emasculating tribunals” by not filling up vacancies in them. The government cleared 38 names for different tribunals after this hearing before the bench which also included justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao. Of these, 18 members were appointed to the national company law tribunal (NCLT); 1 member to telecom disputes and settlement appellate tribunal; 13 members to income tax appellate tribunal (ITAT) and 6 members to armed forces tribunal. “No recommendation made by any of the SCSCs now remain pending with the central government,” asserted the affidavit, which has also revealed that some of the names cleared by the committees have not been approved by the government. In its affidavit, the government has also emphasised that the SCSCs will have to now follow the new law on administration of tribunals and the candidates would have to be shortlisted as per the rules to be framed under the Tribunal Reforms Act, 2021. It added that the rules have been prepared by the government and will be notified shortly after which the process of making fresh appointments to the tribunals could go on. On September 6, the apex court had adversely commented upon the 2021 law. The bench observed it is “very upset” by the government and censured the Centre for re-enacting the very same provisions for the administration of tribunals that were struck down by the court in July. “The government is bent upon not honouring the orders of this court... Virtually the same Act is re-enacted. We cannot have this situation. Legislature can take away the basis of a judgment but you cannot overrule a judgment by re-enacting the very same provisions,” it told solicitor general Tushar Mehta who appeared for the Centre. The bench further said that the court will have to consider staying the new law since it is a “replica” of the old law, which was held to be unconstitutional. The court was hearing a clutch of separate petitions on vacancies across the tribunals and a challenge to the Tribunal Reforms Bill, which was passed by both the houses in the Monsoon session of the Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/made-84-tribunal-appointments-since-2020-no-name-pending-with-us-govt-tells-sc-101631676236160.html
15-09-2021||India||Maharashtra records 3,530 fresh Covid cases, 52 deaths||Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 3,530 new Covid-19 cases with 52 deaths. The case tally has now reached 6,504,147, while the death toll stands at 138,221.Mumbai recorded 367 cases and five deaths, taking its tally to 735,767 and toll to 16,033. Further, 28,498 people were tested in the city. The daily positivity rate is now 1.28%.Also Read | BJP opposes Maha CM’s order on keeping eye on migrants, MNS welcomes itThe state administered 506,048 Covid vaccine doses on the day, while 42,974 citizens were vaccinated in Mumbai. The Mumbai civic body has maintained that the period till October 5 is crucial and a spike in the number of cases is expected in the coming days.Dr Ameet Mandot, director, Gut Clinic said, “Citizens need to adopt Covid-appropriate behaviour and exercise maximum caution, especially in this festive season.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-3-530-fresh-covid-cases-52-deaths-101631674434353.html
15-09-2021||India||Railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw travels in Vande Bharat train between Jammu-Katra, shares video||Union railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw recently ditched the VIP protocol and travelled to Katra to Jammu via the Vande Bharat Express. During the journey, the railway minister interacted with passengers and asked them about the comfort level in the train and the problems they might be facing. He also took suggestions from the passengers regarding the semi-high speed train.The suggestions received would be incorporated in future trains, he said after the journey.Another non-VIP move!Railways minister #AshwiniVaishnaw ditched VIP protocol to travel from Katra to Jammu via #VandeBharat express.He interacted with many passengers, asking them about comfort level, problems, and also seeking suggestions. pic.twitter.com/mLvkLD4y59The minister also spoke to the locomotive driver, asking him how the Vande Bharat is different from other trains.Vaishnaw also shared glimpses of his journey of Vande Bharat Express on Twitter. In the video, he is seen talking to a female passenger who is sharing her experience of travelling in the Vande Bharat train with the Railway Minister.Vaishnaw also said that the work is going on to connect Baramulla in Kashmir with Jammu via train. The work for the same is expected to end by the year 2023, he also informed.On Monday, the railway minister promised that rail links with the Kashmir Valley would be open to the public before 2024. He also said systematic surveys are being undertaken to link the remotest regions of the country through mobile and internet connectivity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railway-minister-ashwini-vaishnaw-travels-in-vande-bharat-train-between-jammu-katra-shares-video-101631674005930.html
15-09-2021||India||Odisha artist lost hands in train accident, but continues to pursue his passion||Prabhakar Pradhan, a 26-year-old artist from Odisha, suffered a major tragedy when he lost both his hands in a train accident. But that did not stop this young artist from following his passion of painting."In 2012, I lost both of my hands in a train accident. But I have been painting since childhood, so I love doing it. I face many challenges while holding the brush and painting, but I still do it," he told news agency ANI.He has also received many awards since his childhood, including being facilitated by the district collector. "I have even been awarded ₹5,000 by the district collector for a painting in childhood," Pradhan told reporters.The 26-year-old specialises in painting different idols like Ganesha, Krishna, Jagannath, Saraswati, and landscapes on everyday items like bottles, cups, pots. "I paint decorative items like portraits of Lord Jagannath on pots, flowers and sceneries on bottles, cups etc," he said.Since the accident, Pradhan is faced with unique set of problems - like one painting takes 40-50 hours for him to finish. But that hasn't deterred Pradhan. He believes that all people need to conquer challenges is will power, and if people to believe in their talent and continue to work hard they will achieve success.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-artist-lost-hands-in-train-accident-but-continues-to-pursue-his-passion-101631672858161.html
15-09-2021||India||Rain to increase over NW India from Thursday||The depression over north Chhattisgarh and its neighbouring areas moved further west-northwestwards and lay centered over north Chhattisgarh and adjoining east Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday night. The depression is likely to bring widespread rain central and west India till Friday; rain is likely to increase over northwest India from Thursday onwards, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Also Read | Gujarat CM Bhupendra Patel visits flood-hit areas as IMD forecasts more rain It is very likely to weaken into a well marked low pressure area today and continue to move west-northwestwards across Madhya Pradesh during the next 48 hours. The cyclonic circulation over south Gujarat region also persists. The monsoon trough is lying south of its normal position. It is very likely to remain south of its normal position during the next 3-4 days. Widespread and heavy rain is likely over Chhattisgarh, Gangetic West Bengal and Interior Odisha with isolated heavy to very heavy rain till Wednesday. Widespread and very heavy rain is very likely over north Konkan, north Madhya Maharashtra, Gujarat, east Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh during the next 3-4 days. Isolated extremely heavy rain (over 20cm) are likely over east Madhya Pradesh; Gujarat and over West Madhya Pradesh todayIncrease in rainfall is likely over parts of northwest India with fresh spell of heavy rainfall at isolated places over Haryana, Rajasthan and west Uttar Pradesh from Thursday onwards. A cyclonic circulation likely to develop over north Bay of Bengal on Friday. It is likely again to move west-northwestwards towards Odisha- West Bengal coast during the subsequent 48 hours. This is likely to cause fresh spell of enhanced rainfall activity over eastern parts of India including Odisha and West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-to-increase-over-nw-india-from-thursday-101631673894266.html
15-09-2021||India||Magnitude 5.0 earthquake hits Andaman and Nicobar Islands||An earthquake of magnitude 5.0 on the Richter scale hit Campbell Bay in Andaman and Nicobar Island on Wednesday morning, as per National Center for Seismology (NCS).The quake took place at a depth of 40 kilometres from the bay."Earthquake of Magnitude:5.0, Occurred on 15-09-2021, 01:43:59 IST, Lat: 3.30 & Long: 95.71, Depth: 40 Km, Location: 458km SSE of Campbell Bay, Andaman and Nicobar island, India," tweeted NCS.More details on this are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/magnitude-5-0-earthquake-hits-andaman-and-nicobar-islands-101631673378727.html
15-09-2021||India||Mystery of snake venom smuggling persists: Red Dragon Code 6097||Snake venom estimated to be worth ₹170 crore has been seized from many districts of West Bengal since 2017. One such consignment was seized last week, bearing a familiar yet mysterious tag – Red Dragon Made in France Code No 6097.
15-09-2021||India||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to chair 81st All India Presiding Officers' Conference today||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla will on Wednesday chair the 81st All India Presiding Officers' Conference (AIPOC) via video-conferencing. According to an official statement, the conference will deliberate on the ‘Role of Legislature in fostering effective and meaningful democracy’. Notably, the summit comes in the backdrop of the International Day of Democracy, which is observed on September 15 every year.Also Read | Speaker seeks meet on House decorumThe AIPOC held its very first session on this very date a century ago at Shimla in Himachal Pradesh; thus, the 81st session today assumes another special signficance in light of this historical backdrop. The presiding officers of legislative bodies in India will attend the conference.The previous session of the AIPOC, the 80th conference, was held over two days on November 25-26 last year. As 2020 was the centennial year of the Presiding Officers' Conference, the session was celebrated as a ‘festival of democracy’, according to a government release. Addressing a press conference following the concluding session, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla had said that all the presiding officers have taken a pledge to strengthen the democratic institutions of India so that they can work together for the welfare of society and democracy. They also expressed their views on how to strengthen the democratic process and make the institutions more accountable, he said.Also Read | Parliamentary panels to be encouraged to visit ‘far-flung’ areas: Om BirlaThe presiding officers had also, in the last session, decided to make the people of India more aware of the fundamentals rights and duties stated in the Constitution. “The Parliament and the state legislatures will work jointly for this purpose,” Om Birla said, adding that he had also requested all state and Union territory governments to make readings of the preamble in all schools and colleges a ‘compulsory daily activity’ and urged state assemblies to coordinate with the administration to work for making every person and, especially, youth, aware about the fundamental rights and duties as enshrined in the Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla-to-chair-81st-all-india-presiding-officers-conference-today-101631665141224.html
15-09-2021||India||Indian ambassador thanks Qatar for supporting Afghan evacuation efforts||Indian ambassador to Qatar Dr Deepak Mittal on Tuesday met Qatar's foreign minister Lolwah Alkhater and thanked her for the support to people being evacuated from Afghanistan. Dr Mittal also met the evacuees from Afghanistan and interacted with them in Qatar."Ambassador met H. E. Assistant Foreign Minister @Lolwah_AlKhater n expressed deep appreciation for her personal efforts to support Afghan evacuees.He thanked Qatar for continuing efforts to facilitate safe passage to foreign nationals including Indians from Afgh," Indian embassy in Qatar said on Twitter.Ambassador met H. E. Assistant Foreign Minister @Lolwah_AlKhater n expressed deep appreciation for her personal efforts to support Afghan evacuees.He thanked Qatar for continuing efforts to facilitate safe passage to foreign nationals including Indians from Afgh@MofaQatar_EN pic.twitter.com/COjiiTI1jW"Ambassador visited residential compound hosting Afghan evacuees in Qatar n interacted with them.He handed gifts on behalf of Indian Community in Qatar to Afghan men, women&children as an expression of solidarity&friendship b/n people of India&Afghanistan," it added.Dr Mittal assumed charge as Ambassador of India to Qatar on August 6, 2020. He has served in Bangladesh, Egypt and Israel in various capacities and as Consul General in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.Doha has been playing a crucial role in Afghanistan following last month's withdrawal of US forces, helping evacuate thousands of foreigners and Afghans, engaging the new Taliban rulers and supporting operations at Kabul airport.Since the US pullout, Qatar Airways planes have made several trips to Kabul, flying in aid and Doha's representatives and ferrying out foreign passport holders.The United States pulled its final troops out of Afghanistan on August 30, ending its longest war just ahead of the anniversary of the September 11, 2001 attacks that prompted its invasion.Afghanistan plunged into crisis last month after Kabul fell to the Taliban and the democratically elected government of former president Ashraf Ghani collapsed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-ambassador-thanks-qatar-for-supporting-afghan-evacuation-efforts-101631665453806.html
15-09-2021||NA||Breaking news: TMC MP Arpita Ghosh resigns from Rajya Sabha||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:Over 80% of eligible population in Kerala given 1st Covid vaccine dose: CMMore than 80% of Kerala’s vaccine-eligible population have been administered with the first dose, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Wednesday, adding 32% of the eligible population has received both doses. Read moreTMC MP Arpita Ghosh resigns from Rajya SabhaTMC's Arpita Ghosh has resigned as Rajya Sabha MP. Her resignation has been accepted by the Chairman of the House: Rajya Sabha pic.twitter.com/iHgwa8nUStTrinamool Congress MP Arpita Ghosh has resigned from the Rajya Sabha and hear resignation has been accepted by the chairman of the House. Delhi reports 57 new Covid-19 cases, zero deaths, 53 dischargesCOVID19 | Delhi reports 57 new cases, 53 recoveries and zero deaths in the last 24 hours; Active cases 404 pic.twitter.com/ALmJHoPuFIThe national capital's caseload of the coronavirus disease climbed to 1,438,345 on Wednesday after 57 new cases, zero deaths and 53 discharges were seen in th e last 24 hours, according to the health department's bulletin.  Bengal BJP MP Arjun Singh’s armed security cover upgraded to ‘Z’ categoryThe Centre on Wednesday upgraded the armed security cover of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from West Bengal Arjun Singh from ‘Y’ category to ‘Z’ category, following the recent incidents of bombing outside his house ‘Majdoor Bhavan’ at the North 24 Parganas district of the state. Read moreIndian-origin Rishi Sunak retains role as finance minister in UK cabinet reshuffleUK finance minister Rishi Sunak will remain in his job, Boris Johnson's office said on Wednesday, as the PM  reshuffled his cabinet of senior ministers.President Kovind to visit Himachal Pradesh from Sept 16-19President Ram Nath Kovind will visit Himachal Pradesh from September 16 to 19 during which he will address the special session of the state assembly, a statement issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan said. US President Joe Biden invites CEOs, business leaders to discuss vaccine mandatesUnited States President Joe Biden on Wednesday invited CEOs and business leaders to discuss Covid-19 vaccine mandates. The meeting comes after Biden announced last week that the Labor Department is working to require that business with 100 or more employees order their workers to be fully vaccinated or submit a negative Covid-19 test report at least weekly. Kerala's Covid tally goes up again with 17,681 new casesKerala reported 17,681 fresh #COVID19 cases, 25,588 recoveries and 208 deaths. The active cases stand at 1,90,750. The death toll is 22,987 and a total of 42,09,746 people have recovered so far. 97,070 samples were tested during the last 24 hours: Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan pic.twitter.com/eAQclriNFRAfter seeing a little over 15,000 cases for the past two days, Kerala's daily tally of Covid-19 went up again on Wednesday as 17,681 cases were recorded, taking the cumulative figures to 4,424,046. PM Modi, VP Naidu, LS Speaker Om Birla jointly launch ‘Sansad TV’Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Vice President Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla jointly launched the Sansad TV on Wednesday. Afghanistan's central bank recovers $12.3 million cash from former govt officialsThe Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan has submitted cash found at the residence of Amrullah Saleh, the first vice-president of the previous government and a number of previous high ranking government officials, to the Da Afghanistan Bank, an official statement said on Wednesday. Tata Sons submits financial bid for Air IndiaA Tata Sons spokesperson told Hindustan Times on Wednesday that the company has submitted a financial bid for Air India. Air India disinvestment process in concluding stageFinancial bids for Air India disinvestment received by Transaction Adviser. Process now moves to concluding stage. pic.twitter.com/0NxCJxX5Q1The Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM), informed on Wednesday that Air India's disinvestment process is in the concluding stage after transaction adviser received bids.  The deadline for the submission of the bids was today. UK PM Boris Johnson to reshuffle cabinet: Report UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson will carry out a cabinet reshuffle on Wednesday, a government source told news agency AFP, after questions over the performance of some of his ministers.The changes would "put in place a strong a united team to build back better from the pandemic", the source saidIran resumes regular flights to Kabul airportIran has resumed regular flights to the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Afghanistan's Kabul, news agency AFP reported on Wednesday citing state media. Swearing-in of Guj CM Bhupendra Patel's new cabinet on ThursdayThe swearing-in ceremony of the new cabinet of CM Bhupendra Patel will take place on September 16 at 1.30 pm at Raj Bhavan, Gandhinagar: Gujarat Chief Minister's Office pic.twitter.com/KmYry7XTxHThe swearing-in of Gujarat chief minister Bhupendra Patel's new cabinet will take place on Thursday at 1.30pm, according to the chief minister's office (CMO). Uttarakhand assembly polls: AAP announces SS Kaler as candidate against CM Pushkar Singh DhamiThe Aam Aadmi Party announced on Tuesday that its leader SS Kaler will contest the upcoming assembly elections in Uttarakhand against state chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami. Kaler, who was serving as AAP's Uttarakhand chief till now, resigned from the post in order to fight the elections. Govt approves PLI scheme for auto, drone and auto-component industries: Union minister ThakurUnion minister Anurag Thakur announced on Wednesday that the Centre has approved production linked incentive (PLI) scheme for auto industry, auto-component industry, drone industry to enhance the country's manufacturing capabilities. Most Covid deaths in Dharavi among people aged above 50Between April 2020 -- when Covid-19 first broke out in Dharavi -- and June 2021, this Mumbai slum reported 717 deaths due to the infection, over 80% of which were among people above the age of 50. Read moreDelhi earned 41% less revenue last year due to Covid, says Dy CMDelhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Wednesday that the national capital earned 41 per cent less revenue last year due to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. While, 23 per cent less revenue was earned in the current financial year, Sisodia added. West Bengal reports sharpest spike in crime against children in 3 years: NCRBWest Bengal recorded the sharpest spike in crime against children in the last three years, says the latest report of the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB).Restrictions in West Bengal extended up to 30th SeptThe state government in West Bengal extended restrictions and relaxations till September 30. All outdoor activities, including movement of people and vehicles shall be strictly prohibited between 11 pm-5 am except for health services, law & order, essential commodities and other emergency services.Dr Reddy’s Labs gets approval for phase 3 trials of Sputnik Light in IndiaIndia’s drugs regulator has granted permission to Dr Reddy’s Laboratories to conduct phase 3 clinical trials for Sputnik Light, the single dose and first component of the Russian made Sputnik V vaccine against Coronavirus disease (Covid-19).South Korea says it has carried out its first underwater-launched missile testSouth Korea says it has carried out its first underwater-launched missile test.Diwali firecrackers banned in Delhi this year again over pollution concerns, says Arvind Kejriwal"Just like last year, there will be a complete ban on storage, sale, and bursting of all kinds of firecrackers this year too, in wake of the situation of pollution in Delhi during Diwali in the last three years," tweets Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.Lt Gurmit Singh sworn-in as new Governor of UttarakhandLieutenant General (retd) Gurmit Singh, sworn-in as the new Governor of Uttarakhand. The oath of office was administered to Singh by the chief justice of the Uttarakhand High Court Justice RS Chauhan at Raj Bhawan.India inoculated ‘highest’ number of people with Covid vaccine 1st dose: GovtIndia has inoculated the highest number of beneficiaries with their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the world, the Union health ministry said, adding that with about 60.7% of the adult population in the country have received at least the first dose of a Covid-19 vaccine. Read MoreExcess rainfall in September result of climate change in Odisha, say expertsWhile rains in Odisha over the last 3 days have broken most records amid excess rainfall in 11 districts following a low pressure area over Bay of Bengal, experts are concerned over climate change-induced weather-pattern shifts adversely affecting the state’s agriculture. Read MoreGlenmark concludes post-marketing surveillance study on FavipiravirGlenmark Pharmaceuticals announced that they have concluded post-marketing surveillance (PMS) study on Favipiravir (FabiFlu) in over 1000 Covid-19 patients, findings reinforce the drug’s safety and efficacy in real-world settings.China tells Taliban it will not interfere in Afghanistan’s internal affairsChina has assured the Taliban government in Afghanistan that Beijing respects its sovereignty and territorial integrity and will not interfere in its internal affairs.With Pakistan monkey off their backs, India-US ties are poised for a new beginningWhen Prime Minister Narendra Modi meets US President Joe Biden at White House later this month, both the countries will have shed the monkey called Pakistan off their backs as American direct engagement with Af-Pak region has ended since erstwhile Soviet Union invaded Afghanistan in the winter of 1979.Pune gang-rape case: 1 more accused has been arrested from ThaneOne more accused has been arrested from Thane in connection with a case of gang rape of a minor girl. The arrested accused has been sent to police custody for 7 days, informes Pune City Police in Maharashtra.  A total of 17 persons has been arrested so far in this case. India records 27,176 new Covid-19 cases, nearly 7% higher than yesterdayIndia's Covid-19 was increased by 27,176 on Wednesda. The number of daily deaths was at 284 and the death toll now stands at 443,497. The tally has reached 33,316,755.Markets open in green in the opening sessionSensex rises 64.24 points to 58,311.33 in opening session; Nifty advances 22.05 points to 17,402.05.North Korea fired unidentified projectile: ReportsNorth Korea fired an unidentified projectile in the east, South Korea's Yonhap news agency reported on Wednesday, citing the Joint Chiefs of Staff.California votes against recalling Democratic governor: US networksCalifornia's Democratic governor roundly defeated a Republican-led recall effort, US networks predicted Tuesday. With more than 60 percent of the statewide votes tallied, CNN and NBC both said Gavin Newsom had prevailed with around two-thirds of voters supporting the incumbent.Light rains likely to continue in parts of in Delhi-NCR today, says IMDLight, patchy rains are likely to continue in parts of Delhi and NCR on Wednesday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Read MoreDepression over north Chhattisgarh weakens into low pressure areaThe depression over north Chhattisgarh and adjoining East MP weakened into a well-marked low pressure area over northeast Madhya Pradesh and adjoining region at 5:30 am. To move west-northwestwards across north MP and weaken gradually: IMD2 die in Bengaluru in a road mishapA man and a woman travelling on a bike died on the spot in Bengaluru after being hit by a speeding car on the Electronics City flyover.  A case has been registered, informs Bengaluru Traffic PoliceChina's economy weakened further in August in wake of strict Covid-19 curbsChina's factory output, retail sales growth slow significantly as economy weakens amid Covid-19 curbs, reports Bloomberg21 active cases of dengue in GhaziabadIn Ghaziabad, there are 21 active cases of dengue, out of which one patient is admitted to the district hospital & the rest are in private hospitals. On an average, 5 cases are detected daily. No patient is in serious condition, informs chief medical officer Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar.US army head secretly called China over fears Trump could spark war: ReportThe top US general secretly called his Chinese counterpart twice over concerns then-President Donald Trump could spark a war with China as his potential election loss loomed and in its aftermath, the Washington Post reported on Tuesday. Read MoreCovid violations led to rise in total cases filed in 2020For a year with over two months in a hard lockdown for the country, 2020 logged a sharp increase in the number of criminal cases registered, according to the National Crime Records Bureau’s Crime in India report released on Tuesday. Read MorePM Narendra Modi set to launch Sansad TV today in DelhiSansad TV, which replaces the existing TV channels, Lok Sabha TV and Rajya Sabha TV, will be inaugurated on Wednesday in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-september-15-2021-101631663590870.html
15-09-2021||India||Former Army officer Gurmit Singh likely to take oath as Uttarakhand's new governor today||Lieutenant General Gurmit Singh (retd), who was appointed as the new governor of Uttarakhand about a week ago, is expected to take his oath into office on Wednesday. The former army man, who retired as the deputy chief of the Indian Army, was chosen for his new post by President of India Ram Nath Kovind after the office of the Uttarakhand governor fell vacant when Baby Rani Maurya tendered her resignation. In light of this development, the President accepted Lt Gen Gurmit Singh's resignation and appointed him as the new governor of the state, according to an official communique issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan last Thursday.Also Read | Uttarakhand governor Baby Rani Maurya resignsAccording to reports citing officials familiar with the matter, the governor-designate of Uttarakhand is likely to have reached the state a day prior to his oath-taking. Lt Gen Gurmit Singh, a highly-decorated army man who superannuated in February 2016, held several prestigious posts during his nearly four decades of service, including that of the deputy chief of Army Staff, adjutant general, and corps commander of the strategic XV Corps that overlooks the Line of Control (LoC) in Kashmir.Singh also handled the China operational and military-strategic issues as the additional director-general of military operations; a responsibility for which he even had to visit China seven times and attend important military-diplomatic meetings related to border operations and LoC strategy.Gurmit Singh is a graduate of the Defence Services Staff Course and National Defence College. He has done two M.Phils from universities in Chennai and Indore and is also a research scholar on India-China boundary issues at the Institute of Chinese Studies at the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU); his career in academics pursued on study leave from the Indian Army.Besides Uttarakhand, a number of states got their new governors last week as the President ordered a reshuffling in the offices. While Banwarilal Purohit, who held the additional charge of Punjab along with Tamil Nadu, was fixed as the governor of the former state, the central government's interlocutor and retired IPS officer RN Ravi has also been shifted from Nagaland to Tamil Nadu as its new governor.Jagdish Mukhi, the governor of Assam, was given the additional charge of Nagaland till a fresh appointment is to be made for the office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-army-officer-gurmit-singh-likely-to-take-oath-as-uttarakhand-s-new-governor-today-101631662540835.html
15-09-2021||India||PM Narendra Modi to meet Biden in US amid Afghan crisis||The situation in Afghanistan and ensuring a free and open Indo-Pacific in the face of continuing concerns about China’s aggression across the region are expected to be in focus when Prime Minister Narendra Modi travels to the US from September 23 to 25 to participate in the Quad Summit and to address the United Nations General Assembly.
15-09-2021||India||WB police trying to derail coal scam probe: ED||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday claimed before the Delhi high court that West Bengal police was trying to derail the probe in the alleged coal pilferage scam by sending summons to its officers at the behest of Abhishek Banerjee, Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP, who “enjoys clout” in the state government.The agency said the state police have sent two notices in connection to an FIR lodged by Banerjee to its officers probing the alleged coal pilferage scam.Justice Yogesh Khanna said he will hear the ED’s challenge to the notices issued against its officers, arising from an FIR by the TMC MP, on September 21||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wb-police-trying-to-derail-coal-scam-probe-ed-101631653701704.html
15-09-2021||India||PM Modi chairs meet with council of ministers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired an informal meeting of the council of ministers at the Rashtrapati Bhavan Cultural Centre on Tuesday, officials said.While the details of the meeting were not disclosed, people aware of the matter said Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan and Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya gave a presentation at the event.This is the second meeting of the council that was held in person. The first was held after the council expansion in July.President Ram Nath Kovind was not involved in this meeting, said two other officials.“The venue was chosen to maintain social distancing for the entire council of ministers,” said a senior official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-chairs-meet-with-council-of-ministers-101631651466409.html
15-09-2021||India||UN resolution 2593 should shape world’s response to Afghanistan: Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla||New Delhi: India on Tuesday said the world community’s approach to Afghanistan should be in line with UN Security Council resolution 2593, which demands Afghan soil shouldn’t be used in any way for terrorism and seeks an inclusive and negotiated settlement to the crisis in the war-torn country.Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said the resolution, adopted during India’s presidency of the Security Council last month, specifically refers to terror groups designated by the UN such as Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and the need for the safe departure of all those who want to leave Afghanistan.The resolution 2593 was adopted at the last of three UN Security Council meetings held under the Indian presidency to discuss the situation in Afghanistan. Though China and Russia abstained, the resolution gained widespread support from the other 13 members of the UN’s highest decision-making body.Addressing a virtual symposium of principals and teachers of leading schools of the country on the unfolding situation in Afghanistan, Shringla said: “UNSCR 2593 unequivocally demands that Afghan territory not be used for sheltering, training, planning or financing terrorist acts, and specifically refers to terrorist individuals proscribed by the UN Security Council, including Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad.”Besides, he added, the resolution “sets expectations on safe passage and secure departure of Afghans and all foreign nationals from Afghanistan”, and recognises the “need to uphold human rights, including of women and minorities, and to encourage all parties for an inclusive, negotiated political settlement”.There is also “re-affirmation for responding to the desire of Afghans to sustain and build on Afghanistan’s gains over the last 20 years”, he said.Highlighting the need for the world community’s response to be in line with the resolution, Shringla said: “Our collective approach has been articulated by UNSCR 2593. It is only by remaining true to the principles professed therein that we can make a meaningful contribution to Afghanistan at this time.”India, he said, expects the international community to “remain both responsive and united at a time of crisis”.Shringla further said India’s long-standing investment in the people of Afghanistan had earned the country “tremendous goodwill and cemented the civilisational bond” between the two sides. “Our friendship with the Afghan people will continue to guide our approach in the future,” he said.The Indian side has adopted a wait-and-watch policy regarding the situation in Afghanistan and the government has given no indication so far regarding any form of recognition for the interim setup created by the Taliban following the group’s takeover of the country on August 15. The Indian side also remains deeply suspicious of the Taliban’s long-standing links with terror groups such as al-Qaeda, LeT and JeM.Shringla said India’s destiny is “inextricably linked with its neighbours”, and the neighbourhood remains the country’s “primary diplomatic arena” as reflected by the “Neighbourhood First” policy. India has been “naturally concerned” about developments in Afghanistan and their external repercussions, he added.Following the Taliban takeover, India’s immediate focus was the evacuation of its nationals. “Most Indian nationals were able to leave Kabul in August. A number of Afghans, including minorities, who were desirous of travelling to India, also managed to do so,” Shringla said.“But these processes could not be completed due to the security situation at the [Kabul] airport. Resumption of flights from Kabul airport is, therefore, a priority. We are closely monitoring the unfolding situation,” he said.Shringla also referred to India’s development partnership with Afghanistan, which included more than 500 projects spread across the country’s 34 provinces, capacity-building and training. India has built schools, colleges and universities across Afghanistan and more than 65,000 Afghans have studied in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/un-resolution-2593-should-shape-world-s-response-to-afghanistan-foreign-secretary-harsh-vardhan-shringla-101631647543142.html
15-09-2021||India||Centre inks 5 deals for digital agri push||New Delhi: The ministry of agriculture signed agreements with five firms on Tuesday to push a project to harness big data from the farm sector for a digitised platform known as “Agri Stack”, a move officials said would help bring new technologies and private investment in the country’s primary sector.A ministry’s statement said Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar oversaw the signing of agreements with five companies: CISCO, Ninjacart, Jio Platforms Limited, ITC Limited and NCDEX e-Markets Limited (NeML).“Modernisation of the agriculture sector will continue by infusing new technologies so that farmers can increase their income,” the statement said.HT had first reported in May 2018 that a plan was afoot to harness big data in farm sector. In March 2021, HT further reported the Centre was in the process of creating a “digital agri-stack”, a hi-tech national farmers’ database that would give the government and agribusinesses unprecedented insights into the rural economy, quoting people with knowledge of the matter.Tuesday’s agreements would pave the way for pilot projects which will allow farmers to “take informed decisions on what crop to grow, what variety of seed to use and what best practices (sic) to adopt to maximise the yield”, the statement said.The government aims to increasingly open the country’s antiquated agriculture sector. It has said these changes would draw private investments and modernise supply chains as well as farm markets. Three laws passed last year to liberalise the farm trade have set off protests by growers. A section of influential farm unions says the move will leave cultivators at the mercy of big corporations.“Without our permission and consent, government cannot reveal our private data to private companies. We have already officially stated this,” said Gurnam Singh Chaduni, a key farm union leader at the heart of the protests.India’s agriculture sector is mostly sustained by subsidies on seeds, fuel, irrigation, fertilisers and power, rather than growth-enhancing investment, whether public or private.The so-called agri stack platform will push “projects that use artificial intelligence, block chain technologies” to modernise the country’s impoverished agriculture sector, which supports half of the population. An Indian farmer earned ₹27 per day on average from cultivation activities in 2018-19, lower than wages provided by the country’s make-work rural job guarantee scheme, an official survey released recently showed.The agri-stack, which will be a digital repository, will aid precise targeting of subsidies, services and policies, an official said. Under the programme, each farmer of the country would be assigned an FID, or a farmers’ ID, linked to land records to uniquely identify them. India has 140 million operational farm-land holdings. HT had reported this first in a report in March this year.The database will connect seemingly simple data points: the number of occupational farmers who avail of subsidies, how much land they own, what they grow and which agro-climatic zones they fall in. These data points will be triangulated by software-driven intelligence that will throw up a far more illuminating picture of the rural and agricultural economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-signs-deals-with-firms-to-harness-big-data-for-farm-tech-solutions-unions-oppose-101631647237035.html
15-09-2021||India||Central Vista revamp:7k defence ministry staff to move into new offices||More than 7,000 defence ministry officers and staff are set to move into new offices at Africa Avenue and Kasturba Gandhi Marg from their existing decades-old workplaces in a clutch of pre-Independence era hutments in the vicinity of the North and South Blocks to make way for the Central Vista revamp, people familiar with the developments said on Tuesday.Some of these hutments served as stables for British Army horses more than 75 years ago. As many as 27 wings of the defence ministry including a navy station INS India, the Armed Forces Clinic and medical wing of the armed forces have been operating from these hutments for several decades.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on September 16 (Thursday) inaugurate the new defence ministry office complex at Africa Avenue, paving the way for the relocation to begin, said one of the officials cited above, asking not to be named.“The shifting of offices from the hutments will free 50 acres of land for Central Vista development. The defence ministry will vacate 9.2 lakh square feet of space in these hutments and take up 9.6 lakh square feet in two new multi-storeyed complexes that are spread over a total area of 13 acres,” said a second official.The complex at Africa Avenue is scattered across four blocks and offers a space of 5.08 lakh square feet while the KG Marg set up has three blocks and an office area of 4.52 lakh square feet.The new office complexes have been constructed at a cost of ₹775 crore provided by the defence ministry, with the work carried out by the ministry of housing and urban affairs as part of the Central Vista project, the second official said. The two complexes together have parking space for 1,500 cars.Instead of being spread out in various hutments and old buildings (A,B,E,G,H,J,L& M Block, Plot No 30 and Plot No.108 and Jodhpur House), co-location of these buildings will ensure greater efficiency and working, he said.The new buildings will also provide modern amenities, connectivity and welfare facilities like canteens and banks. The construction of the new complexes did not involve uprooting of trees, he added.According to the Central Vista plan approved by the Centre, the North and South Block office complexes will be turned into national museums, the Indira Gandhi National Centre will be relocated, and the National Archives will be remodelled. The Prime Minister’s residence will be shifted behind the existing South Block complex while the residence of the Vice President is proposed to be relocated behind North Block.HT on June 30 reported the vice president’s enclave and the new Parliament House will be the first buildings to be completed, and work on shifting the national museum to the North and South Block will commence last, in the elaborate plan for the Central Vista revamp that requires moving people and offices over the course of the next six years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-vista-revamp-7-000-defence-ministry-officials-to-move-to-new-offices-101631646936366.html
15-09-2021||India||Life term for convict means rigorous imprisonment, says Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: Life imprisonment awarded to a convict will mean rigorous imprisonment, the Supreme Court said on Tuesday, reiterating the view taken by the top court in a 1983 decision.The question came before the court in two appeals filed by murder convicts whose appeals challenging their conviction were dismissed by the Gauhati high court and the Himachal Pradesh high court. In both cases, the convicts were sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for life for killing their wives.Without getting into the facts of the two appeals, a bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and BR Gavai examined if a convict undergoing a sentence of life imprisonment has to undergo rigorous imprisonment or simple imprisonment.The term, “rigorous imprisonment”, is found in Section 53 of the Indian Penal Code which categorizes the nature of punishment for convicts. The provision defines rigorous imprisonment as “imprisonment with hard labour”. The court decided to examine this point since Section 53 IPC categorizes life imprisonment separately from rigorous imprisonment.The two-judge bench noted that in Naib Singh vs State of Punjab (1983), the Supreme Court answered this question by stating that “sentence of imprisonment for life has to be equated to rigorous imprisonment for life.” As the issue was squarely covered by the 1983 decision, the bench said, “The law laid down by this court in Naib Singh’s case was followed subsequently in three judgments…. In view of the authoritative pronouncements of this court on the issues that arise for consideration in these special leave petitions, there is no need to re-examine the limited point for which notice was issued.”The Assam government informed the court that one of the convicts, Mohammad Altaf Ali had undergone only nine years of imprisonment from the date of the incident in October 2006. Last year, he was granted an annual leave of 30 days following which he absconded and surrendered two months later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/life-term-for-convict-means-rigorous-imprisonment-says-supreme-court-101631646696975.html
15-09-2021||India||DMK announces 2 candidates for Rajya Sabha, Cong’s hopes dashed||The ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) on Tuesday announced its candidates for both seats from Tamil Nadu in the Rajya Sabha by-election, effectively scrapping any chance for partner Congress to bag a seat.Dr Kanimozhi NVN Somu, the medical wing secretary and a practising gynaecologist and the party’s East district’s secretary KRN Rajeshkumar Namakkal will contest in the Rajya Sabha bypolls to be held on October 4, said a statement from Tamil Nadu chief minister and DMK chief MK Stalin.The Congress, a coalition partner of the DMK, was lobbying for one seat to accommodate one of its key leaders. According to two Congress insiders, party’s data analytics department chief Praveen Chakravarthy and former Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad’s names were doing the rounds for a possible Rajya Sabha seat from Tamil Nadu.While Azad, one of the senior most leaders of the party, needs to be accommodated, a group of young leaders had been supporting Chakravarthy for a Rajya Sabha berth. While Azad had told HT that his chance can come only when the Upper House berths of Jammu and Kashmir come up for vote again. Chakravarthy claimed no one ever offered him a Rajya Sabha ticket.A Congress leader added that the party’s chance might come next year from Tamil Nadu as more Rajya Sabha seats will fall vacant.The two vacancies arose following the resignation of All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) leaders KP Munusamy and R Vaithilingam, both of whom got elected as MLAs in the assembly elections held in April in Tamil Nadu. The results were declared on May 2 and the duo resigned on May 7 even though Munusamy’s term ends only in 2026 and Vaithilingam’s in 2022.The DMK-led alliance, also comprising Congress and Left parties, in the state has 159 MLAs in the 234-member legislative assembly. The ruling party is likely to win the two seats, which will increase its strength in the Upper House to 10 out of the total 18 seats the state elects and make the party the fourth largest in the Rajya Sabha.Earlier this month, DMK’s MM Abdullah was elected unopposed to a seat in the Rajya Sabha that fell vacant after the demise of AIADMK’s Mohammedjan earlier this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dmk-announces-2-candidates-for-rajya-sabha-cong-s-hopes-dashed-101631646218361.html
15-09-2021||India||Don’t demolish illegal temples in haste, will issue instructions: Karnataka CM Bommai||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday directed district authorities not to take any hasty steps in demolishing illegally constructed temples, as per a Supreme Court directive, and said specific orders would be given in two days after studying the order in detail.The instruction came against the backdrop of the demolition of a temple in Nanjangud in Mysuru district three days ago.Besides the opposition Congress, many legislators of the ruling BJP had also expressed anger over the demolition. “No hasty decision of demolishing temples should be taken in any part of Karnataka,” the CM told reporters in Bengaluru.He said the Supreme Court order will be thoroughly studied and discussed at the cabinet meeting and a specific order given in the next two days.On the Nanjangud temple demolition, Bommai said all details will be tabled in the House. He added that the deputy commissioner of Mysuru and the tehsildar concerned have been given notices, asking them to explain why they acted without taking all the people into confidence.Vijayapura BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal demanded action against the officials who ordered the demolition of the temple. According to him, when the ruling BJP MLAs raised the matter in the BJP legislature party meeting, Bommai gave an assurance that such incidents will not take place.“The Supreme Court has given a specific direction, which needs to be examined. Until then if any officer crosses the line, then our government will take stringent action against him,” the MLA quoted the CM as having said at the meeting.Former chief minister Siddaramaiah had come down heavily on the government over the matter on Saturday. He alleged that the demolition was done without consulting the people in the region and the action “hurt the religious sentiments of Hindus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-demolish-illegal-temples-in-haste-will-issue-instructions-karnataka-cm-bommai-101631645864201.html
15-09-2021||India||Sushmita Dev TMC’s pick for Rajya Sabha||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Tuesday nominated Sushmita Dev, former Congress parliamentarian who switched to the West Bengal’s ruling party recently, to the Rajya Sabha. The Election Commission on September 10 announced that bypolls for seven vacant Rajya Sabha seats in six states will be held on October 4.“We are extremely pleased to nominate @SushmitaDevAITC to the Upper House of the Parliament. @MamataOfficial’s vision to empower women and ensure their maximum participation in politics shall help our society to achieve much more!” the TMC tweeted in the afternoon.The former president of women’s wing of Congress, Dev is a former Lok Sabha member from Silchar in Assam, her home state.One Rajya Sabha seat in the state fell vacant after the resignation of TMC leader Manas Ranjan Bhunia, who is now a minister in the Mamata Banerjee-led cabinet. Bhunia won the recent assembly election from Sabang in West Midnapore district.Dev could not be contacted as she was in Tripura making preparations for the TMC’s first proposed roadshow in the state.TMC general secretary Kunal Ghosh, who was in Agartala, said, “Our leadership has taken the right decision. Dev is an able leader.”Of the 16 Rajya Sabha seats from Bengal, the TMC is currently in control of 12, the Congress has two members while the Communist Party of India (Marxist) has one seat.Former Prasar Bharati CEO Jawhar Sircar was sent to the Upper House by the TMC on August 9. This seat was vacated by Dinesh Trivedi when he joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after the March-April assembly polls.Dev, 49, is the daughter of former Union minister Santosh Mohan Dev, who died in 2017. He represented Silchar Lok Sabha seat as well as the Tripura West Lok Sabha in the adjoining state. His wife, Bithika Dev, is also a former legislator from Silchar.According to the notification issued by the EC, there are two seats vacant in Tamil Nadu and one each in West Bengal, Assam, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Puducherry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-nominates-sushmita-dev-to-rajya-sabha-101631645799289.html
15-09-2021||India||Karnataka logs 559 new Covid cases, 12 deaths||Karnataka reported 559 new Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 2,962,967 and death toll to 37,529, the health department said on Tuesday.The day also saw 1,034 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 2,909,656.Out of the 559 new cases reported, 231 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 302 discharges and 4 deaths.The total number of active cases in the state is at 15,754.While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.52%, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 2.14 %.Out of 12 deaths, five are from Dakshina Kannada; Bengaluru Urban (4), Kodagau, Shivamogga and Uttara Kannada (1).Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 231, Dakshina Kannada 87, Udupi 57, Mysuur 28, Tumakuru 24, followed by others.Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 1,241,870, followed by Mysuru 1,76,940 and Tumakuru 1,19,716. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 1,218,673, followed by Mysuru 1,74,065 and Tumakuru 1,18,000. Cumulatively a total of 45,519,587 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,05,645 were tested on Tuesday alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-logs-559-new-covid-cases-12-deaths-101631645798212.html
15-09-2021||India||Sixth victim of Shivamogga mine blast identified after 7 months||More than seven months after six people were killed in a dynamite blast at a railway crusher site in Karnataka’s Hunasodu village in Shivamogga district, police have confirmed the identity of the sixth victim. After a series of tests at the Forensic Sciences Labs (FSL), police identified the sixth victim as 32-year-old Shashi who was an autorickshaw driver. On January 22, a truck filled with gelatin sticks exploded at a gravel and boulder crushing facility, resulting in mild tremors in and around Shivamogga. In the investigation that followed, police were able to identify five victims of the blast -- Pawan Kumar (29), Javeed (28), Chelimanu Raju (24), Praveen (36), and Manjunath (35).The body of the sixth victim could not be identified since it was completely mutilated in the blast. According to police, there was suspicion that the body belonged to Shahi, since he was missing since the incident. “We collected DNA samples from the family members of Shashi. These were analysed at the FSL, and it confirmed last week that it was the body of Shashi,” said a Shivamogga police official. Close to a month after this blast, six men were killed in a dynamite blast in Karnataka’s Chikkabalapur district on 23 February, when they were allegedly trying to dispose of illegal explosives. Following the blast, after studying satellite images sourced from the National Remote Sensing Centre, the Department of Mines and Geology (DMG) and the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) had identified 532 illegal quarries in Chikkaballapur district in 2019. The findings were mentioned in the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report as well, in which DMG was asked to take action against these illegal quarries. According to the report, at least 11.12 crore metric tonnes of specified and unspecified minerals were illegally extracted, causing a loss of ₹223.25 crore to the state. Officials of DMG said there could be more than 2,000 illegal quarries across Karnataka. “There are around 450 licences issued for decorative stone quarries and 300 stone quarries. But there are many more quarries, we estimate it to be around 2,000,” said an official on the condition of anonymity. Following the similar blast in Shivamogga, former chief minister Yediyurappa’s home constituency, on January 22, police had begun a state-wide crackdown on illegal explosives. This crackdown was intensified following the blast in Chikkabalapur. A total of 20 cases involving illegal explosives were registered since February this year, including 14 by the Internal Security Division (ISD). Activists, however, claim that six months after these incidents, the crackdown on illegal mining in the state has come down. An activist based in Chikkabalapur said that the number of raids has come down. “Operations of the illegal mines which had stopped has restarted again in the district. The grey market in the district is active as well. We have told police about these we hope the action against illegal mines will die down,” said the activist on the condition of anonymity. Senior police officers refuted the claim saying that the action against illegal mines in the state continues. A senior officer in charge of a range said that in Mandya district licenses of 11 illegal mines for not procuring environmental clearance from the authorities concerned. “If anyone has any specific information about illegal mining we will take action,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sixth-victim-of-shivamogga-mine-blast-identified-after-7-months-101631645796951.html
15-09-2021||India||Forest department hunts for tiger that killed 19-year-old in Mysuru||The hunt for a tiger in the Nagarhole National Park range has been intensified near Mysuru after it killed a 19-year-old youngster from a tribal community, Karnataka forest department officials said on Tuesday. At least 50 personnel have been trying to track the movements of the tiger, aged 3-4 years, which killed the youngster from the Jenu Kuruba community, a forest dweller tribe, on September 8 in Hunsur in Mysuru district, about 125 kms from Bengaluru, the officials said. “We are just trying to collect the signs and data from the ground and three are no signs on the tiger which was involved in the conflict. We are getting signs and data about other tigers,” D Mahesh Kumar, deputy conservator of forests and director, Karnataka forest department, told Hindustan Times. The official said the department has set up 70 camera traps but the movement of the tiger is yet to be captured. Mahesh Kumar said, “The department is also using thermal drones to capture the movement of this tiger. It has so far has been able to take pictures of other animals but not of the particular one that is responsible for the death of the teenager.” The death of the youngster comes at a time when there has been an increase in human-animal conflicts in Karnataka and other states, which, according to experts, happen as animals are pushed out of their territory or due to encroachments for farming and other purposes. There have been 320 human deaths in tiger attacks in reserves between 2014 and 2020 across all states, according to a response by the ministry of environment, forest and climate change and National Tiger Conservation Authority on September 3 to an RTI application filed by Kerala-based activist, RK Govindan Nampoothiry. Between 2014 and 2020, a total of ₹1,505.53 lakh was paid as compensation across all states where such attacks were reported, according to the response to Nampoothiry. This includes ₹998.20 lakh compensation in Maharashtra, ₹169 lakh in Uttar Pradesh, ₹128.53 lakh in Madhya Pradesh and ₹50 lakh in Karnataka. There have been at least 434 cases of tigers attacking cattle and humans in Karnataka in 2020-21, registering a 37% increase in such encounters from 316 in 2019-20, according to data from the state forest department, Hindustan Times reported in March. This includes at least nine deaths of humans in these two years and around 10-12 cases of injuries while a majority of them are of cattle being attacked or killed, according to the department. A tiger was found dead in Karnataka’s coffee-growing district of Kodagu after it had killed four humans, critically injuring at least one person and was responsible for the deaths of at least 25 cattle this March. On February 21, the forest department had captured a tigress lurking in the locality and the one on the prowl currently is believed to be a male. In a 2018 report from the Centre, titled ‘Status of tigers, co-predators & prey in India’, it was shown that only 1,923 of these big cats live within the reserves while around 35% of them are outside the protected forests. With an estimated 524 tigers in last official count, Karnataka is home to the second largest population of the big cats spread over forest ranges like Bandipur, Nagarhole, Biligiri Ranganatha Swamy Temple (BRT) and Bhadra, among other reserves.A growing number of wild animals, such as tigers, leopards and elephants, stray into areas of human settlements, agricultural lands and plantations in search of food outside the forests.Forest department data shows that there have been 17,561 human-animal conflicts in Karnataka in 2020-21 as against 16,314 in 2019-20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forest-department-hunts-for-tiger-that-killed-19-year-old-in-mysuru-101631645738213.html
15-09-2021||India||Karnataka government moves to take powers from poll body||The Basvaraj Bommai-led Karnataka government on Tuesday moved to appoint a commission for the exercise of delimitation of wards and other segments or rural panchayats that undercuts the state election commission. The Karnataka Gram Swaraj and Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Bill, that was tabled during the ongoing monsoon session on Tuesday, seeks to transfer the powers of setting up a delimitation commission to the government from the state election commission. The tabling of the bill comes at a time when all three political parties are gearing up to face the zila and taluka panchayat polls, expected to be held later this year. The polls will help political parties gauge the mood of the grassroots ahead of the 2023 assembly elections. And, according to people aware of the matter, the bill is suspected as a play by the government to advance the polls. The government also tabled the prisoners’ Identification (Karnataka Amendment) bill which makes provisions for authorities to collect blood, DNA, voice and retina samples of prisoners to monitor repeat offenders. The first installment of supplementary estimates aggregating to ₹10.625 crore for the current fiscal, including ₹2,858 crore for the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj department and ₹1,700 crore for food and civil supplies were also tabled. The Bommai-led government, meanwhile, faced a tough day during the session with the Opposition and some of its own legislators seeking responses on various civic, irrigation and other development works that have been promised, but are yet to be implemented. Bommai acknowledged that there were delays in installing LED streetlights in Bengaluru, which has created “dark spots”. The project to replace street lights with LED was approved in 2019 and the works were entrusted to BSPL, a consortium of Shapoorji Pallonji, SMC Infrastructure and Samudra Electronics Systems, under a public-private partnership, PTI reported. “This issue came up when I reviewed projects relating to Bengaluru after taking over as the Chief Minister. I had clearly said during the review that there is a delay in starting the work, it has to start immediately. They (company) have said the project will be completed in five phases, and it is decided that by December 31, three lakh LED bulbs have to be installed,” he said.The contract states that 485,000 street lights in the city’s municipal area are to be replaced over five phases and in around 30 months. Even Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators backed senior Congress leader Ramalinga Reddy, who said that no MLA in the city has received grants for street lights in three years. “I have asked officials to take up all five phases at once immediately... I will also instruct BBMP to do repairs and maintenance of existing streetlights,” CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-government-moves-to-take-powers-from-poll-body-101631645736980.html
15-09-2021||India||Karnataka high court rejects PIL on Mangaluru airport privatisation||The Karnataka high court on Tuesday dismissed a public interest litigation (PIL) filed against the privatisation of the Mangaluru International Airport. Adani Group took over the state-run airport, operated by the Airports Authority of India (AAI), on October 31 last year and started commercial operations there. The PIL filed by the Airports Authority Employees Union had sought quashing of a 2019 cabinet decision approving the leasing of three airports, including the one at Mangaluru, terming the move as “illegal, arbitrary and beyond the scope of the Airport Authority Act, 1994.” A division bench of acting chief justice Satish Chandra Sharma and justice Sachin Shankar Magadum said that since the Mangaluru airport was lease out based on a government of India policy, there was no scope for the HC’s intervention. A copy of the bench’s order is awaited. In 2018, the Union government had announced an in-principle approval for leasing out six airports in India —Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Lucknow, Guwahati, Thiruvananthapuram, and Mangaluru -- through public-private partnership (PPP). Adani Group, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Adani Enterprises Ltd, was the highest bidder, the Union government announced later. Senior Advocate Ashok Haranahalli, appearing for the petitioners, referred to Section 12 of the Airports Authority of India Act and argued that there was no revenue sharing with the government and that the entire fixation of the lease is based on per passenger fee. He added that though it is called a PPP project, there is no revenue generated for the formulation of a public-private partnership. “The airport is given to a third party, which is not in consonance with the policy of public-private partnership model. This is not a partnership but just giving away,” Haranahalli submitted. Additional solicitor general MB Nargund, appearing for the Union government, said that a branch of the same petitioner union had filed a plea before the Kerala high court, which was rejected. The present petition is thus not maintainable, he contended. Meanwhile, the tag ‘Adani airports’ was removed from the name boards of the Mangaluru International Airport on Saturday following protests. After the takeover of operations, the logo of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) was replaced with the Adani Group’s logo. Changes were also made on Google Map where it was listed as ‘Mangaluru International Airport by Adani Airports’. A reply received under Right to Information (RTI) Act also revealed that there was no provision to change the airport name as per the agreement for operations and maintenance of the airport. Based on this RTI reply, activists served a legal notice in March this year to the AAI and the MIA director, questioning the ‘Adani’ tag attached to the name boards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-high-court-rejects-pil-on-mangaluru-airport-privatisation-101631645678322.html
15-09-2021||India||Web tool launched to ensure safer commute for students||The World Resources Institute (WRI) India, an organisation that is into environmental and sustainability research, and Underwriters Laboratories on Tuesday launched the ‘Safer Access to Schools’ (SATS), a web-based Geographic Information System to help policymakers make informed decisions on measures to ensure safer commutes for school-going children. The tool, WRI said, would help civic authorities, town planners and law enforcement officials by providing integrated data to bring in more measures for a safer school environment for children. “When it comes to safety around schools, there is a crucial gap in data-based understanding and interventions. Data is crucial to develop an evidence-based understanding of road safety concerns along each of the schools and can bring together various government stakeholders, NGOs, researchers, and private towards a collaborative action,” Sree Kumar Kumaraswamy, Head, Integrated Transport, WRI India, said in a statement on Tuesday.The tool was launched at the ‘Enabling Safer Streets for Bengaluru’ session at WRI India’s ‘Connect Karo 2021’ event. The launch of a tool, such as SATS, comes at a time when the poor quality of roads and footpaths in India’s IT capital is crumbling due to government apathy. Most of Bengaluru’s roads are in a pitiable condition as they are periodically dug up in the name of development, ‘smart city’ and a host of other image building attempts which have failed to improve the on-road conditions for its over 12 million residents and 9.4 million vehicles. An analysis by WRI indicates that pedestrians account for 37% of all road traffic fatalities between 2017-2020. “Almost 50% of pedestrian deaths occur on the city’s major arterial road network and 64% near the intersections. Data reveals that 20% of these pedestrian deaths also occur near metro stations and major bus stands,” according to WRI. Quoting National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data from 2019, WRI said road traffic crashes account for 40% of all preventable deaths among children (0-18). “18.5 lakh children study in 6,200 schools in the city and 58% of these students walk to school, exposing them to crash risks. Studies suggest that most cases of fatal crashes with children are child pedestrians, followed by child cyclists,” WRI said. Successive governments in Karnataka continue to prioritise Bengaluru, which is its biggest income earner. The city also accounts for the highest expenditure with one of the poorest civic infrastructure in the country and bad roads leading to more avoidable deaths and slowing down traffic. “Bengaluru is a rapidly growing city with increasing mobility needs. We are working towards promoting walking and cycling in the city. We are also undertaking junction improvements and blackspot mitigation projects. The number of deaths on the city’s roads is not a welcome sign and we would want to work with organisations to make our streets safer, especially for children,” Gaurav Gupta, Chief Commissioner of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body) said in a statement. Gupta, during the event, conceded that there were gaps in civic infrastructure and that the administration is promoting Non Motorised Transport (NMT) among other measures to bring down the pressure on the roads and other transport infrastructure.With live wires, open manholes, transformers and other obstacles, Bengaluru has little room for its pedestrians. The BBMP said that it has developed around 150 kms of footpaths with another 58 kms under the smart city project. “We have to continuously strive to design for non-motorised transport users. DULT is working on an ‘Active Mobility Act’, which gives pedestrians and cyclists the right to complete and connected networks. It puts the onus on local bodies to provide good infrastructure and has provisions for ‘Mobility Wardens’ from the public, who can give suggestions for infrastructural improvements. We need coordination and design policies in place, which will be followed by all stakeholders,” V Manjula Commissioner, Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT) said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/web-tool-launched-to-ensure-safer-commute-for-students-101631645677163.html
15-09-2021||India||Maiost wanted in NIA case arrested in Kerala||The Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) of the Kerala Police has arrested CPI(Maoist) activist C P Usman, who is wanted in connection with a case registered in 2019 for his alleged role in furthering the activities of the proscribed terrorist organisation in the state, a police source said here on Tuesday.“He has been arrested by a squad of ATS from the district,” the source told PTI without elaborating.Usman had been absconding for the past several years.The case was originally registered in November, 2019 at Pantheerankavu police station in Kozhikode against Allan Shuaib, Thwaha Fasal and C P Usman for their role in furthering the activities of CPI (Maoist) in Kerala.The case is being investigated by the National Investigation Agency (NIA).Besides Allan and Thwaha, the NIA had arrested Vijith Vijayan, another Maoist group member. They were charged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.In April 2020, the agency had filed a charge sheet in the Ernakulam NIA Special Court against two college students Allan and Thwaha, who were arrested, and absconding accused C P Usman, 40, in the Maoist case.It said “investigation had revealed that all the three are members of the proscribed terrorist organisation CPI(Maoist) and had conducted secret meetings and unlawful activities for furthering the cause of the outfit.” PTI TGB BN BN||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maiost-wanted-in-nia-case-arrested-in-kerala-101631644959438.html
15-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu logs 1,600 Covid cases, 27 fatalities||Tamil Nadu reported less than 1,600 new Covid-19 cases for the second day, adding 1,591 fresh infections pushing the overall caseload to 26,37,010 till date, while 27 people succumbed to the virus taking the toll to 35,217, the Health department said on Tuesday.The state has been witnessing an increasing trend with regard to new infections over the last few weeks and was adding over 1,600 daily infections. However, on Monday, the new infections fell to 1,580.Meanwhile, recoveries marginally dipped when compared to the new cases with 1,537 people getting discharged in the last 24 hours, aggregating to 2,585,244, leaving 16,549 active infections, a medical bulletin said.A total of 152,296 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, pushing the cumulative number of specimens examined to 44,527,080 till date.As many as five districts comprised majority of new infections with the State capital leading with 212 cases, followed by Coimbatore (201), Erode (128), Thanjavur (119) and Chengalpet (116). Ramanathapuram recorded the least number of new infections with two.Twenty six districts reported new cases in double digits, while there were no fresh deaths in 23 districts.Of the 27 fatalities, 20 succumbed in government healthcare facilities while seven died in private facilities. Four of the deceased were without comorbidity or pre-existing illness which include a 37-year old man from Vellore. The individual who tested Covid-19 positive on September 11, died next day (September 12) at the Vellore Medical College Hospital, due to Covid-19 pneumonia, the bulletin said.Earlier in the day, Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin inaugurated the Whole Genome Sequencing facility that has been set up at a cost of ₹4 crore at the campus of the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services (DMS) here.The inauguration of the new facility on Tuesday, follows the announcement made by the government in the assembly last month.In a press release, the government said such a facility was not set up by any other government in the country and it would help identify the variants of Covid-19 virus sooner as against the earlier ‘time consuming’ exercise.Under the existing practice, the release said, the test samples of a patient was sent to the Whole Genome facilities to Karnataka and Telangana and were consuming time to declare the results.With the setting up of a similar facility in Tamil Nadu, it would be possible to identify the variants of Covid-19 much sooner, at the beginning stage itself and preventive measures can be taken to avoid the virus spread, the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-logs-1-600-covid-cases-27-fatalities-101631644958111.html
15-09-2021||India||AIADMK ally PMK to contest Tamil Nadu polls alone||The Pattali Makkal Katchi, which aligned with the AIADMK for the Assembly polls on Tuesday announced that it would be facing the rural civic polls to nine districts on October 6 and 9 all alone, considering the party’s growth.The decision to contest alone was taken unanimously following a virtual meeting of party functionaries held Tuesday evening, PMK president G K Mani said in a statement.In the meeting presided by party founder-leader S Ramadoss and the party’s youth wing chief Anbumani Ramadoss, office-bearers expressed a view that the party should go it alone considering growth prospects, he added.“Based on this, a decision was taken unanimously to contest polls all alone for rural local bodies in nine districts.”On September 13, the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission announced that polls for rural local bodies would be held on October 6 and 9 in the nine reconstituted districts.The nine districts are Kanchipuram, Chengalpattu, Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Vellore, Ranipet, Tirupathur, Tirunelveli and Tenkasi.Pending delimitation of territorial wards in these districts following reconstitution of districts, rural local body polls were not conducted in such regions while the same was held in 27 other districts of Tamil Nadu in December 2019.During the previous AIADMK regime, Chegalpattu was carved out of Kanchipuram and Vellore was trifurcated, resulting in two new districts of Ranipet and Tirupathur. Kallakurichi and Tenkasi became two new districts, and these were split from Villupuram and Tirunelveli districts respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-ally-pmk-to-contest-tamil-nadu-polls-alone-101631644898196.html
15-09-2021||India||Covid norms: Kerala high court seeks data on marriages held at Guruvayoor||The Kerala high court on Tuesday asked the Guruvayoor Devaswom managing committee how many marriages were conducted there in the last one month and what were the arrangements permitted for each of them.The query, one among several, was posed by the court to the temple’s committee during hearing of a petition initiated by the court on its own, based on news reports of the decorations for the wedding of industrialist Ravi Pillai’s son.The other queries posed to the committee by a bench of Justices Anil K Narendran and K Babu were -- why private security personnel were deployed for the wedding and whether devotees were prevented from entering the temple on the wedding days.The bench sought a detailed affidavit from the Guruvayoor Devaswom managing committee on the queries raised by the court before the next date of hearing on October 5.The court also impleaded the Devaswom secretary, Kerala government, Thrissur ASP, the temple managing committee’s Administrator, industrialist Ravi Pillai as well as the Collector and sectoral Magistrate of the area and issued notices to them, seeking their response in the matter.The court said that while people have a right to arrange marriages at the temple, it has to be restricted to the infrastructure available there.The Administrator of the Guruvayoor Devaswom, meanwhile, had filed an affidavit before the court, stating that the news reports, based on which the petition was initiated, were not fully correct and contained misleading facts.The affidavit said that Pillai was granted permission only to perform ‘pushpalankaram’ (flower decorations). However, the event management team hired by him had carried out some additional decoration work.It also said that when the temple officials noticed the additional work, it was ordered to be dismantled and the same was done by the event management company’s workers.It further said that no violation of Covid-19 norms was permitted during the wedding and urged the bench to drop the suo motu proceedings.The affidavit was filed in response to the court’s September 7 order, asking the administrator of the Guruvayoor Devaswom managing committee to explain why the ‘nadappanthal’ in front of the temple was decorated with huge cutouts and tree branches for the September 9 wedding of the industrialist’s son, as was reported in the media.A ‘nadapanthal’ is a structure set up in front of the temple for conducting various functions like weddings.The administrator was asked to file an affidavit explaining the facts and circumstances in which the ‘nadappanthal’ was decorated with the huge cutouts and branches of trees.The committee, on that date of hearing, had told the court that over 100 marriages were being conducted in the nadappanthal in front of Guruvayoor Temple in strict conformity with Covid-19 protocol, with each marriage party being permitted to have only 12 people, excluding the bride and bridegroom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-norms-kerala-high-court-seeks-data-on-marriages-held-at-guruvayoor-101631644897023.html
15-09-2021||India||Kerala reports 15k new Covid infections, 129 deaths in 24 hours||After reporting more than or close to 30,000 Covid-19 cases daily during the first week of September, Kerala has been logging comparatively lesser fresh infections since then with the state reporting 15,876 cases on Tuesday, which took the total caseload to 4,406,365.The number of active cases in the state dropped below 200k -- 198,865 to be exact -- with 25,654 people recovering from Covid-19 since Monday and the total recoveries rose to 4,184,158, a state government release said.The state also reported 129 deaths in the last 24 hours, which took the total fatalities to 22,779, the release said.The Test Positivity Rate (TPR) stood at 15.12 per cent after testing 105,005 samples in the last 24 hours, the bulletin said.Among the 14 districts, Thrissur recorded the highest with 1,936 fresh cases followed by Ernakulam (1,893), Thiruvananthapuram (1,627), Palakkad (1,591), Malappuram (1,523), Kollam (1,373), Alappuzha (1,118), Kozhikode (1,117), Kannur (1,099) and Kottayam (1,043), the release said.Of the new cases, 95 were health workers, 44 from outside the state and 14,959 infected through contact, with the source of the contact not being clear in 778 cases, it said.There are currently 575,668 people under surveillance in various districts, of whom 546,791 are in home or institutional quarantine and 28,877 in hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-15k-new-covid-infections-129-deaths-in-24-hours-101631644839210.html
15-09-2021||India||Kerala: Suspended Congress leader Kumar quits party, joins CPI(M)||Suspended senior Congress leader K P Anil Kumar resigned on Tuesday and joined the Communist Party of India (Marxist), blaming the present Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) officer-bearers for their ‘authoritarian behaviour’. Kumar was suspended for airing his opinion against the district Congress presidents’ list released on August 28. Announcing his decision in Thiruvananthapuram, Kumar, a former KPCC general secretary, raised allegations against KPCC president K Sudhakaran.“We have a KPCC president who threatened to join the Sangh Parivar outfits on several occasions. I never intimidated the party like this. Disciplinary action should apply to all,” Kumar said. Politburo member Kodiyeri Balakrishnan handed the membership to Kumar at the party headquarters in AKG Centre. Reacting to Kumar’s decision, Sudhakaran said the Congress party already expelled him, and the CPI (M) was reduced to a ‘waste bin’, collecting disgruntled leaders from other parties. Earlier, another Congress leader P S Prashant expelled from the party, who later joined the Pinarayi Vijayan-led party. “The CPI(M) is rolling out red carpet for those rejected by other parties. It shows the party is bankrupt,” said Sudhakaran. But CPI(M) acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan said more Congress leaders will leave the party in coming days. “The Congress-led UDF is facing a severe depletion. The party should inquire serious charges raised against the party president,” he said in Ernakulam. Dissension simmered in the state Congress unit after the elevation of the new leadership and came out in the open after the district Congress presidents’ list was released last month. Anil Kumar and another senior leader K Sivadasan Nair had criticised the state leadership in a news channel discussion, and both got suspended later. The KPCC said Nair’s explanation was satisfactory, but Kumar challenged the leadership in his reply to the show-cause notice. After the new list came out, even former chief minister Oommen Chandy and senior leader Ramesh Chennithala also expressed their displeasure publicly, but no action was taken against them, he said. “I have a 42-year-old relation with the party. Hailing from a freedom fighter’s family, I attended party programmes at the tender age of eight. I faced many sacrifices for the party but no point in continuing in the party,” he said. Later Sudhakaran denied all allegations raised against him. saying it was natural for an expelled leader to make such wild charges. “The party will be strengthened by leaving such leaders,” the KPCC president said. Opposition leader V D Satheesan also decried his statement. In the faction-ridden state unit, a fresh round began with the appointment of Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president (PCC) K Sudhakaran, a tough leader from Communist heartland, Kannur, and Opposition leader VD Satheesan, a grassroots leader. The move sidelined two powerful blocs, led by former Chandy and Chennithala, who dominated the state unit for more than a decade and a half. The announcement of new DCC presidents added to the internal conflict but more fireworks are expected with the impending list of KPCC office-bearers, as the new president is set to prune the jumbo committee. The party has 150-odd secretaries and many other office-bearers currently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keralasuspended-congress-leader-kumar-quits-party-joins-cpim-101631644838078.html
15-09-2021||India||Andhra-Telangana spar on power bill arrears||After sparring over sharing of Krishna river waters, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are now locked in a battle over electricity dues between the two states pending since the bifurcation of the combined state in June 2014.Andhra Pradesh Power Generation Corporation (APGenco) on Monday moved the Telangana high court stating that the two Discoms of Telangana – Southern Power Distribution Company Ltd (SPDCL) and Northern Power Distribution Company Ltd (NPDCL) -- owed dues to the extent of ₹3,441.78 crore, along with interest of ₹2,841.90 crore, as on August 31, 2021.A division bench of the high court comprising acting chief justice M S Ramachandra Rao and justice T Vinod Kumar, which admitted the petition of APGenco, issued notices to the Telangana principal secretary (energy), SPDCL, NPDCL, and Telangana power co-ordination committee, asking them to file counters. The case was adjourned to October 28 for further hearing.Before the bifurcation of combined Andhra Pradesh, the two Discoms – SPDCL and NPDCL – located in Telangana region were drawing power from thermal power plants located in Andhra region, as per power purchase agreements (PPAs). Since the state was united, there were no payment issues.“After the bifurcation, the power plants located in Andhra and Telangana regions were allocated to the respective states. However, the two Telangana Discoms continued to draw power from the thermal power plants located in Andhra as per the PPAs and as such, they were supposed to pay the power purchase charges, but had been avoiding the same,” APGenco chairman and managing director B Sreedhar told Hindustan Times.After negotiations between the two states, he said, the two Telangana Discoms had paid bills to some extent till June 2017, but after that, they had stopped paying the dues altogether. “Everything is on paper – the power purchased by Telangana Discoms and the power purchase bills raised by APGenco. So, they cannot go back on payment of power bill arrears,” Sreedhar said.In April 2019, APGenco approached the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) seeking recovery of dues from Telangana, but withdrew the petition subsequently on technical grounds and now approached the Telangana high court.State advocate general Subrahmanyam Sriram told the high court that the defaulting on clearing power bill arrears to the extent of over ₹6,283 crore by Telangana had severely affected the credit rating of the Andhra Pradesh electricity department, as it was not able to pay loans taken from the Power Finance Corporation and Rural Electrification Corporation, besides clearing dues to the fuel suppliers.When contacted, chairman of Telangana power generation corporation (TS Genco) and Telangana power transmission corporation (TS Transco) D Prabhakar Rao said TSGenco was also due to get power bill arrears from Andhra Discoms, which continued to buy power from Telangana power plants after the bifurcation.“After adjusting the dues from Andhra Discoms to TS Genco, the outstanding payables to APGenco by Telangana is around ₹4,887 crore including interest, and not ₹6,283 crore. It is an inter-state issue and can be settled through negotiations, instead of going to the court,” he said.Rao pointed out that Telangana had several other receivables from Andhra Pradesh, such as debt servicing for the loans taken on Anantapur and Kurnool districts, interest payments on bonds and deposits, and share in inter-corporate deposits, among others.“Taking all these receivables into account, Andhra Pradesh has to pay ₹4,457 crore to Telangana, after deducting the dues to be paid to it by Telangana Discoms,” the Telangana official said.Reacting on Rao’s claims, APGenco MD said it was not proper for Telangana to link its claims to the dues to be paid to APGenco. “We are only asking our power bill arrears due from Telangana Discoms. If Telangana has other dues from Andhra, it can as well approach the court,” Sreedhar said.TSGenco MD said all records would be placed before the court so that it would decide who was right and who was at fault.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhratelangana-spar-on-power-bill-arrears-101631644778815.html
15-09-2021||India||I don’t want to fit into the Dravidian political mould, says TN BJP president Annamalai||Recently-appointed Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Tamil Nadu unit president K Annamalai is expected to overthrow current rulers Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) in a state where the electorate has not warmed up to the national party. In an interview with Divya Chandrababu, Annamalai explains the party’s stance on NEET, suggesting that the BJP is not in the business of running medical colleges. He also clarifies that there is no factionalism over the recent scandal over a sexually explicit video released by a party member forcing BJP’s general secretary to resign from his post. Annamalai is confident that the BJP will rule Tamil Nadu in a few years, and as a former Indian Police Service (IPS) officer, he doesn’t want to fit into a mould as a Dravidian politician. Edited Excerpts:BJP is the only party that has opposed the NEET Bill on Monday. Does this further alienate BJP from Tamil Nadu’s electorate?It is not people who think that they don’t want NEET, it is the DMK that doesn’t want NEET. It is their election agenda, and they have done it. NEET turnout is more than 94%--110k people participated (from Tamil Nadu on Sunday). People want NEET. 2020 was a good year for Tamil Nadu in its NEET performance. Last year, 57% of students passed the exam. Politically, they (the DMK) are playing to the gallery, trying to create emotional issues. It is all vested interests and emotional politics at play. BJP is very clear that NEET is pro-poor, pro-social justice, pro-Tamils. All this points to the fact that NEET is good for Tamil Nadu. They have got signatures from some 80,000 people in the A K Rajan committee’s report. The report is not yet public. The question is: who signed it? Anybody can sign it because they have a lot of party members. Even for BJP, to get signatures of one million people, who are pro-NEET, is not a big thing. In the Mekedatu dam issue, the BJP is on the side of Tamil Nadu, along with other parties, though your party is in power in Karnataka as well as in the Centre. How would you explain taking a different position? It’s a straightforward explanation. We have taken a position that is in the interest of Tamil Nadu and the nation. We believe NEET is good for Tamil Nadu because a poor student can get into a medical college without paying a capitation fee. BJP is not in the business of running medical colleges like what DMK is doing- DMK leaders have medical colleges. Why are you bringing Centre into Mekedatu? It is between two states. The Centre is a neutral arbiter. They will do what is right, as per law. So we have taken a position that favours Tamil farmers. In both (issues), our stand is consistent, logical and clear. As BJP chief now what is your assessment of why the party hasn’t been able to make a mark in Tamil Nadu? Tamil Nadu is very different. We have to understand that the BJP has been a party here since 1982. Dravidian parties have pre-existed since 1949. Secondly, Congress was in power for a long time in New Delhi and Tamil Nadu until 1967. As you can see, the party is growing well in the last seven years. BJP is growing very fast in Tamil Nadu because the Central BJP is paying special attention. We are happy with where we are. We are confident that in the coming years will be the BJP years. We stand for an ideology that is pro-Tamil, that is against corruption, and that is pro-development. People are coming to our party in large numbers, so it’s a matter of time before BJP will be the ruling party in Tamil Nadu. But BJP is often criticised as being anti-Tamil and an upper-caste pro-Hindi party. BJP supporters have said that it’s a media narrative.Many of the media here is controlled by political parties. They have affiliations to one party or another. That’s okay. That is how many states are. The local challenge is always there. But we are focused on a grassroots approach, taking the party to people’s doorsteps. To have direct contact with the Tamil voters and reaching out to the Central government beneficiaries. Once we can get the critical mass (voters), then I don’t think the negative propaganda will matter. If we do that, we should be okay. Even now, the negative propaganda will never work because vested interests are doing this. BJP leaders have said that the larger aim is to come on their own in 2026 to the state. Will you continue your alliance with the AIADMK for the ensuing local body polls?The party is determined by ambition. The alliance decision is always taken by the central Parliamentary board. As of now, our alliance has no problem, and we are cooperating right – in the Assembly and outside. As for who will contest and where the decision regarding this will be taken by the collective the central Parliamentary board. The recent controversy of the sexually explicit video has made experts question if it brought existing factions with the BJP to the fore.When an allegation comes against an individual, it is BJP’s culture is that they (the accused) stay away from party activities. That’s what has happened. The BJP is a very unified and determined party. There is no groupism in the party, unlike the G23 in the Congress and the Tamil Nadu Congress. You would have seen P Chidambaram’s meeting (on September 12 in Sivaganga district where a spat broke out between a Congress functionary and Chidambaram). The BJP is not like that. When allegations like this are thrown at us, we will look into it 100%, and the party will take action if there is any mistake. But till then, let’s wait for the enquiry committee to come out with its report.What is the status of the internal committee’s probe on the matter? The committee is investigating the root of the issue and they will get back. There is a personal observation that political analysts make is that you are running the BJP like a tough cop and not like a politician. I don’t want to be like a typical Tamil politician. I’m clear. If you fit me into a Dravidian politician mould, I’ll be happy that I don’t fit into that mould. I have a unique way of doing things. The BJP has a unique way of doing it. I don’t do any of these dealings (like DMK). BJP is a clean party. We want to back youngsters, see individuals grow and we want to show leadership at the grassroots level. As a political party, you don’t operate on black and white. You mostly operate in a grey area. I don’t want to fit into the typical Dravidian political mould. I stay away from that. So I’ll be happy if people pass that as genuine criticism. I’ll take that as an appreciation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-don-t-want-to-fit-into-the-dravidian-political-mould-says-tn-bjp-president-annamalai-101631644778167.html
15-09-2021||India||Allahabad HC stays second suspension order against Kafeel Khan||The Allahabad high court stayed the suspension order against Dr Kafeel Khan, a paediatrician, for his alleged involvement in forcefully treating patients at the Bahraich district hospital and criticising policies of the government.This was the second time Kafeel was suspended by the state government, while he was already under suspension following the August 2017 tragedy at Gorakhpur’s BRD Medical College, where 60 children had died allegedly due to shortage of oxygen.Justice Saral Srivastava directed to conclude inquiry against the petitioner within a period of one month. The court further directed that the petitioner shall co-operate in inquiry and in case the petitioner does not co-operate, disciplinary authority may proceed to conclude the inquiry ex parte.While fixing the hearing for November 11, the court also asked the state authorities to file a reply in four weeks.Dr Kafeel, by means of present writ petition, assailed the suspension order dated July 31, 2019, on the ground that the order had been passed on July 31, 2019, and more than two years had gone by and the inquiry had not been concluded.It was further contended that since the petitioner was already a suspended employee, therefore, there was no purpose of passing a second suspension order.However, the state government’s counsel submitted that inquiry report against the petitioner had been submitted on August 27, 2021, copy of which was sent to the petitioner on August 28, 2021, asking the petitioner to submit objection against the report.“Considering the submissions advanced by the parties, matter requires consideration,” the court said.The court passed this order on September 9, which came into public domain on September 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allahabad-hc-stays-second-suspension-order-against-kafeel-khan-101631644238987.html
15-09-2021||India||India rejects UNHRC chief stand on Kashmir||India on Tuesday rejected the UN human rights chief Michelle Bachelet’s criticism of the situation in Jammu and Kashmir, saying her “unwarranted remarks” do not reflect the ground reality. In her opening statement at the 48th session of the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva on Monday, Bachelet had criticised restrictions on public assembly and frequent communication blackouts in Jammu and Kashmir. Responding to the statement, secretary (West) Reenat Sandhu of the external affairs ministry said India’s approach to global promotion and protection of human rights is based on “our own experience as a pluralistic and inclusive society and vibrant democracy”. She added, “We believe that promotion and protection of human rights are best pursued through dialogue, consultation and cooperation among states and through provision of technical assistance and capacity building.” Pointing to the references to India in Bachelet’s statement, Sandhu expressed India’s “disappointment over her unwarranted remarks on the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, which do not reflect the ground reality”. “Any shortcomings in upholding human rights must be addressed in a transparent and impartial manner, anchored in respect for national sovereignty and non-interference in internal affairs of states,” Sandhu said. India’s Constitution enshrines basic human rights as fundamental rights, and the Parliament, independent judiciary, media and civil society ensure full enjoyment of human rights by the people, she said. As part of a development agenda, the Indian government has undertaken targeted policy measures to empower the most vulnerable segments of society and had followed this approach despite challenges posed by the Covid-19 to save lives and livelihoods, she added. Sandhu also referred to the situation in Afghanistan and said it continues to be of grave concern. The UN Security Council resolution 2593 should guide the world community’s approach to Afghanistan as it reaffirms the importance of upholding human rights, including those of women, children and minorities, allowing safe passage for those wanting to leave the country and ensuring unhindered access for humanitarian aid. “The international community must stand with the people of Afghanistan in their desire to live in peace and dignity,” she said. Sandhu also said India is seeking re-election to the UN Human Rights Council for 2022-24, and looks forward to the continued support of member states for its candidature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-unhrc-chief-stand-on-kashmir-101631643943856.html
15-09-2021||India||Apple releases security update on Pegasus hack||Cyber surveillance company NSO Group has used new methods to deploy its military grade spyware Pegasus by leveraging previously unknown flaws in Apple’s software, prompting the company to issue a security update to millions of its customers late on Monday.The new version of the spyware was found by Canadian cyber security researchers at Citizen Labs, who discovered Pegasus implanted in the phone of a Saudi activist. The software flaw, like the others NSO is reported to have often leveraged, was particularly worrying since it allowed for the spyware to be inserted silently without needing to fool the victim into opening suspicious links or files.Apple confirmed a “sophisticated” attack had taken place exploiting the flaw, although it did not name NSO Group or Pegasus. “Attacks like the ones described are highly sophisticated, cost millions of dollars to develop, often have a short shelf life, and are used to target specific individuals. While that means they are not a threat to the overwhelming majority of our users, we continue to work tirelessly to defend all our customers, and we are constantly adding new protections for their devices and data,” said Ivan Krstić, head of Apple Security Engineering and Architecture, in a statement issued by the company.“We’d like to commend Citizen Lab for successfully completing the very difficult work of obtaining a sample of this exploit so we could develop this fix quickly,” the statement also said. NSO Group has maintained that it serves only to vetted government clients for law enforcement against criminals and terrorists. “But here we are... again: their exploits got discovered by us because they were used against an activist,” said John Scott-Railton, senior researcher at Citizen Labs, in a tweet on Tuesday.In a statement to Reuters, NSO did not confirm or deny that it was behind the technique, saying only that it would “continue to provide intelligence and law enforcement agencies around the world with life-saving technologies to fight terror and crime.”Companies such as Apple are locked in a cat-and-mouse chase with companies such as NSO Group to fix flaws in their software before they are exploited for cyber surveillance and by cyber criminals. In 2019, Facebook sued NSO Group for a similar abuse of its systems when Pegasus was delivered to victims’ phones – including over a dozen in India – using flaws in WhatsApp. Since then, Microsoft, Google, Cisco, and VMWare have supported Facebook’s lawsuit against NSO Group.India’s Supreme Court too is expected to decide this week if and how it wants the Union government to answer questions on whether the spyware was used against Indian citizens, including current and former ministers, opposition leaders, judges, journalists and activists. The government has said it is not in a position to share these details because of national security implications.Apple and security researchers urged everyone using an iPhone, Apple Watch or a Mac to immediately install the latest software update. Citizen Lab, which named the latest method of hacking phones FORCEDENTRY, discovered it while analysing the phone of a Saudi activist in March. The hack was carried out by using code flaws in how Apple devices render images and PDFs, it said.In a blog post detailing the discovery, the researchers said they linked the new attack to NSO Group because of a forensic artifact that matched findings when Pegasus was found on the devices of past victims. Citizen Labs said it informed and shared the forensic evidence with Apple on September 7, making it one of the quickest responses to such a major security flaw – reinforcing its criticality.“Our latest discovery of yet another Apple zero day employed as part of NSO Group’s arsenal further illustrates that companies like NSO Group are facilitating “despotism-as-a-service” for unaccountable government security agencies. Regulation of this growing, highly profitable, and harmful marketplace is desperately needed,” Citizen Labs said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apple-releases-security-update-on-pegasus-hack-101631643756908.html
15-09-2021||India||Modi in Aligarh: World noticing India’s efforts to become defence exporter||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said India is shedding its image of being a major importer of military hardware and carving an identity for itself as a defence exporter, at a time the government has taken several measures to boost self-reliance in the key sector as well as tap the potential of defence markets globally. The PM said the world had taken note of the strides made by the country in defence manufacturing with locally produced equipment ranging from modern grenades, assault rifles and drones to fighter jets and warships. The PM made the comments during a ceremony to lay the foundation stone of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh State University at Aligarh in Uttar Pradesh. Aligarh, once famous for its locks and lock-making skills (a facr acknolwedged by the PM during his speech), is one of the six nodes of the UP’s government’s ambitious defence industrial corridor project aimed at boosting indigenous defence production and the Make in India initiative. The other five nodes in the state are Agra, Jhansi, Chitrakoot, Kanpur and Lucknow. In the Aligarh Node, land has so far been allotted to 19 firms who will together invest ₹1,245 crore. The Centre has also set up a defence corridor in Tamil Nadu. India is wooing foreign partners to invest in the defence corridors for co-development and co-production of equipment. The PM said the hundreds of crores of rupees being invested in the Aligarh node will create thousands of jobs. He said the new industries coming up to support the manufacture of small arms, armaments, drones and aerospace-related products would give a new identity to Aligarh and its nearby areas. The defence industrial corridors will go a long way in creating much-needed manufacturing hubs in the country that will further help India’s transition from a weapons importer to exporter, said Air Marshal Anil Chopra (retd), director general, Centre for Air Power Studies. “These corridors, along with other steps taken to boost self-reliance, will not only provide fillip to the Make in India initiative but also create an ecosystem that will allow us to strengthen our position as an exporter globally,” Chopra said. The PM’s comments come at a time when the domestic defence sector is poised for big leaps in several areas including fighter jets, helicopters, airborne early warning systems, missiles, drones and other weaponry. State-run plane maker Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) has set a March 2022 deadline to carry out the first flight of the LCA (light combat aircraft) Mk-1A jet. The defence ministry awarded a ₹48,000-crore contract to HAL for 83 LCA Mk-1A jets for the Indian Air Force (IAF) in February. The first Mk-1A aircraft will be delivered to the air force by March 2024, with the rest slated to join its combat fleet by 2029. Earlier this month, the PM-headed Cabinet Committee of Security (CCS) cleared two big Make in India projects worth ₹33,000 crore. It cleared the much-delayed purchase of 56 C-295 medium transport aircraft to replace the IAF’s ageing fleet of Avro-748 planes. The C-295 project is estimated to be worth ₹22,000 crore. It also cleared a Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) proposal to develop new airborne early warning and control (AEW&C) aircraft for the IAF using Airbus jets bought from Air India. This project is estimated to be worth around ₹11,000 crore. Last week, the IAF inducted a medium range surface-to-air-missile (MRSAM) system capable of knocking out aerial threats such as enemy fighter jets, missiles, helicopters and unmanned aerial vehicles at a range of 70 km. India and Israel have jointly developed the MRSAM or the Barak 8 air defence system. Last month, the Indian Army accepted the delivery of the first batch of multi-mode hand grenades manufactured by a private sector firm. The defence ministry signed a contract with Nagpur-based private firm Economic Explosives Ltd (EEL) last October for supplying 1 million hand grenades to the army. These will replace a World War-II vintage hand grenade design being used by the army. The government has taken several measures to boost self-reliance in the defence sector over the last two years. These include raising foreign direct investment (FDI) in defence manufacturing, creating a separate budget for buying locally made military hardware and notifying two lists of 209 defence items that cannot be imported (ban to be implemented progressively from 2021 to 2025). The items that cannot be imported include AEW&C systems, light combat aircraft, missile destroyers, ship-borne cruise missiles, long-range land attack cruise missiles, basic trainer aircraft, specified types of helicopters and artillery guns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-in-aligarh-world-noticing-india-s-efforts-to-become-defence-exporter-101631643517102.html
15-09-2021||India||India’s vaccine drive remarkable: Melinda Gates||In an emailed interview to Rhythma Kaul, Gates Foundation co-chair Melinda French Gates explains how the health care delivery system is going to change post Covid-19 pandemic, and how India has remarkably managed to scale up vaccinations against the virus. Edited excerpts:1) How do you think the whole health care system will change post Covid-19?The Covid-19 pandemic has affected everyone. But it did not affect everyone equally. Historically, marginalized countries and communities were hit the hardest, and they continue to bear a disproportionate burden of the suffering, both in their lives and in their economies. What’s also clear is that the countries that had invested in their health systems over decades were better prepared to manage the pandemic.In the years to come, in addition to strengthening health systems, I’m optimistic the world will heed this lesson and make the long-term investments we need in research and development and manufacturing, especially when it comes to vaccines, and focus on interventions that best serve the most vulnerable. These investments are critical not just to address the next pandemic, but to get the world back on track to meet the Global Goals. And these investments must be made closer to the people who most stand to benefit, which helps us ensure that life-saving interventions and technologies are distributed equitably.2) In the Indian context, what should be the key focus areas of the government to manage such a public health crisis?The pandemic proves that preparing for crises starts years before they happen. India’s Covid-19 management and the country-wide immunization drive have demonstrated why long-term investments in health systems are crucial. In particular, India’s thriving R&D and vaccine manufacturing and delivery ecosystem have enabled the country to rapidly scale up Covid-19 immunization to deliver more than 750 million doses. That’s remarkable.It is also important for governments to put systems in place that can more quickly help the most vulnerable people to minimise the impact of such a crisis. India is taking some encouraging steps to do just that, such as implementing its Digital Health Mission to boost the efficiency and transparency in the country’s health care services. And the Indian government’s direct benefit transfer program, which has provided financial support to 200 million women during the pandemic, has helped those who have been disproportionately impacted by Covid-19. Putting women at the centre of the economic recovery is something that all governments must continue to focus on and at the Gates Foundation, we remain committed to providing strong support to this. We’ve committed $2.1 billion globally over the next five years to promote women’s economic empowerment, to strengthen women and girls’ health and family planning, and to support women’s leadership.It is clear that we have to make sure that the most vulnerable groups and communities are protected whenever such crises occur. Strengthening social safety nets, improving service delivery to vulnerable communities, including women, and ensuring access to affordable quality health care will continue to be critical areas to focus on.3) How do you see this pandemic affecting global efforts to meet Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)?It will take years to understand the full extent of the pandemic’s impact on the SDGs. As this year’s Goalkeepers report demonstrates, we have already witnessed considerable setbacks but we’ve also been able to avoid some of the worst-case scenarios on several key indicators — thanks to people around the world stepping up. Consider the global goal for routine vaccine coverage. A year ago, we predicted a drop of 14 percentage points in global vaccine coverage, which would have amounted to 25 years of progress lost. New analysis from the Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation shows the drop, while still unacceptable, was only half that.We have a lot of ground to cover on some important indicators, especially on gender equality, and we need to ensure continued efforts and commitment even on the issues where we avoided catastrophe. This is not simply a fight for one country. Regaining the lost ground on the SDGs needs to be a priority global effort.4) What’s your opinion on the inequity that we have seen in use of Covid-19 vaccines globally, wherein developed countries have vaccinated a major chunk of their population and are already looking at booster shots, and low-income countries are still waiting for doses?Despite some historic successes and unprecedented collaborations, we still have a long way to go to ensure everyone has equal access to vaccines. Outbreaks and new variants around the world show the consequences of this vaccine inequity and the significant and tragic costs of inaction. We have a moral imperative to remove all barriers and use every lever available to rapidly improve access to Covid-19 vaccines for everybody, everywhere. We’ve been focused on this mission over the last year, and we will keep it up. Until more people worldwide get the vaccine, we won’t be able to put the pandemic behind us.We’ve also seen that Covid-19 vaccine access is directly correlated with locations with vaccine R&D and manufacturing capability. Africa, for example, has 17 percent of the world’s population, but less than 1 percent of the world’s vaccine manufacturing capabilities. That’s why we support efforts to invest in and build a sustainable regional vaccine development and manufacturing ecosystem — to ensure vaccines can be available everywhere.The path forward is challenging. But it’s not impossible. We all can and must do more to accelerate the distribution of Covid-19 vaccine doses. Any country or company sitting on the sidelines should step in to do its part.5) What has been the silver lining looking at the past one-and-half year?It’s hard to think about silver linings amid so much devastation but the Covid-19 pandemic has also shown our collective resolve, resilience, determination and capacity to fight these challenges with innovation and collaboration. In the toughest of circumstances, countless individuals, organisations and countries went above and beyond to innovate, adapt and build resilient systems and to look out for one another. In India, we witnessed the unprecedented efforts of government, private institutions and millions of ordinary individuals coming together to help those in need. The Gates Foundation was proud to partner with the government and Indian non-profits to expand testing, surveillance, vaccine discovery and evaluating new and repurposed drugs.We also witnessed remarkable efforts from small collectives in India. Self-help groups played a crucial role in management of Covid-19 in their communities. For example, when Covid-19 arrived in Bihar — home to more than 100 million people — local self-help groups established trust with their neighbors by delivering meals and home-based health care to those who fell ill, then served as sources of information and support to encourage the community to get vaccinated. In Uttar Pradesh, apart from playing a similar role of community support that peer groups did in Bihar, self-help groups have also been engaged by the government to facilitate the state’s ‘Take Home Ration’ program and to support the most vulnerable. There are so many examples like these, and they all demonstrate that some of the most effective interventions happen at a hyperlocal level, headed by leaders who have worked long and hard to earn the trust of their communities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-vaccine-drive-remarkable-melinda-gates-101631643354949.html
15-09-2021||India||UP polls: With ‘Ram Rajya’ in focus, AAP holds Tiranga Yatra in Ayodhya||With elections in Uttar Pradesh less than six months away, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders Manish Sisodia and Sanjay Singh on Tuesday held a massive “Tiranga yatra” in Ayodhya, giving a call to establish a Ram Rajya and equating it with true nationalism and communal harmony.The yatra, which began at Gulab Bari, culminated at a public meeting in Gandhi Park after passing through important junctions such as Reed Ganj, Gudri Bazar, Niyawan and Rikabganj. It saw the participation of nearly 10,000 people, including AAP workers from several parts of the state, with almost all carrying Tricolours and raising slogans like “Vande Mataram”.“Fake nationalists are stunned by the chants of Vande Mataram by the energetic youths of Uttar Pradesh. The youths have come to know that real nationalism means good education, good health system, employment opportunities and a safe society where there is no fear of criminals,” Sisodia told news agency PTI. “The whole life of Lord Rama gives the message of brotherhood, forgetting the distinction of caste and creed, he teaches to embrace everyone,” he added, seeking to express his party’s resolve to establish a Ram Rajya in the state. Prior to the Yatra, both Sisodia and Singh, the AAP’s in-charge for Uttar Pradesh affairs, paid their obeisance and offered prayers at the Ram Janmabhoomi temple and the Hanuman Garhi Temple besides meeting several seers there. Seated in an open mini-truck, the two leaders then led the yatra. Political parties including the Bharatiya Janata Party, the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party have used Ayodhya to kick start their campaigns as momentum builds for the 2022 polls. The Supreme Court’s 2019 verdict paving the way for the construction of the Ram temple at the disputed site has brought the Ayodhya issue back to the centre stage ahead of the crucial polls.“With the grace of lord Ram and the blessings of saints, the AAP under the leadership of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is becoming a new definition of politics of honesty and development,” Sisodia told the crowd.Besides this, Sisodia also vowed to double the income of the state farmers, and ensure education for every child and health services for all if the party was voted to power. “It was a well-managed yatra. A large number of AAP workers had assembled for the event,” Shailesh Maurya, a local, said. The party has declared its intention to contest all seats in the upcoming elections. It has already held “Tiranga Yatras” in Lucknow, Agra and Noida and plans to take out more in the coming days. “AAP was vehemently opposing the construction of the Ram Mandir. In fact, Sisodia wanted a university instead of the temple. Now, in Ayodhya, they are talking about Lord Ram. Such two-faced people have been exposed. They have no political base in Uttar Pradesh,” BJP MLA from Ayodhya Sadar assembly constituency Ved Prakash Gupta said. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uppollswith-ram-rajya-in-focus-aap-holds-tiranga-yatra-inayodhya-101631643281224.html
15-09-2021||India||Saudi foreign minister to visit India for talks on Afghanistan, Taliban||Saudi Arabia’’s foreign minister Prince Faisal bin Farhan Al Saud is expected to visit India this weekend to discuss the unfolding situation in Afghanistan even as Qatar has taken the lead in diplomatically engaging Kabul and legitimising the Taliban. India’s close allies in the Middle East, Saudi Arabia and the UAE are worried about the security ramifications of the emergence of a medieval theocratic Afghanistan state and the ties of the global jihadist network with the Taliban regime. The two countries are also perturbed by the active role played by Qatar, Turkey and Pakistan in engaging with Kabul’s Sunni Islamist regime, with Islamabad quick off the blocks in sending its first commercial flight to Kabul. Qatar is handling the technical side of airport operations in Kabul, while the Taliban is still considering handing over perimeter security of the airport to the Turkish military.While Prime Minister Narendra Modi discussed the Afghanistan situation with UAE crown prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan on September 3 over telephone, external affairs minister S Jaishankar hosted Anwar Gargash, Diplomatic Advisor to the UAE President, on August 30 and exchanged notes on the Kabul crisis.It is in this context that the Saudi foreign minister is scheduled to arrive in India on September 19. Prince Faisal is expected to hold meetings with EAM Jaishankar, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and call on Prime Minister Modi. Jaishankar departs for New York for the UNGA and the QUAD summit the next day.Even though Qatar has been the lead player in the rise of Taliban in Afghanistan with Foreign Minister Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdul Rahman Al Thani and Special Envoy Mutlaq bin Majed Al Qahtani visiting Kabul last Sunday, the global community is a long way from legitimizing the ultra-conservative regime in Kabul. It is evident to the international community that the present Taliban regime has full military and political support of Pakistani ISI with its chief playing the kingmaker in government formation in Kabul.The international community is also worried that 17 out of the 33 ministers of the new Afghan cabinet are designated as global terrorists by the UN and sanctioned against.Interior minister Sirajuddin Haqqani actually has a bounty of $5 million on his head from the US State Department. The head of Haqqani Network, the most lethal of terrorist groups operating in Afghanistan, is also the country’s new head of intelligence.While countries such as China, Pakistan, Turkey and Qatar are engaging the Taliban, the international community is measuring the Sunni Islamists with UNSC resolution 2593 before taking a call on legitimising the male-dominated regime, which has indicated that it has no space for women and minorities. This time , Afghanistan apart from Indo-Pacific and coronavirus will resonate at the UNGA next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saudi-foreign-minister-to-visit-india-for-talks-on-afghanistan-taliban-101631643279272.html
15-09-2021||India||Special CBI court convicts Ranchi firm, 4 employees in Lalgarh coal scam||A special court on Tuesday convicted five persons in connection with an alleged coal scam case related to Lalgarh (North) coal block allocated in 2003, saying they acted in a synchronised manner and conspired to cheat both the ministries of coal and steel to get the allocation in favour of their Ranchi-based company.The court convicted Binay Prakash, then Managing Director of Domco Private Limited, Ranchi, Vasant Diwakar Manjrekar and Paramananda Mondal, both then Directors of Domco Private Limited, Sanjay Khandewal, a chartered accountant in Kolkata and the company Domco Pvt. Ltd. in the coal scam case. The court will decide on the quantum of punishment on September 15.Special Judge Arun Bhardwaj said, “They have acted in tandem to achieve their objective of securing allocation of Lalgarh (North) Coal Block in favour of A-1 (Ms Domco) by cheating Ministry of Steel (MoS), screening committee and MoC. Each one of them played his role. Lead role has been played by A-2 (Binay Prakash) being the Managing Director of the company who was corresponding with MoS and MoC making false submissions regarding availability of land with the company and financial preparedness to set up the plant,” the court said in its order.”According to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the case was registered on the basis of a preliminary enquiry initiated by the central agency on the directions received from the Chief Vigilance Commission related to coal blocks allocated during the period from 1993 to 2005.During enquiry, it was revealed that the Lalgarh (North) Coal block was identified in favour of the company by the 19th Screening Committee and accordingly, the company was intimated by Ministry of Coal (MoC) through a letter dated November 24, 2003. The charge sheet was filed on December 22, 2015 against the accused.CBI had alleged that Prakash, promoter director of Domco, entered into conspiracy with unidentified persons and submitted false information to authorities while applying for the block. It is alleged that Prakash made gains to the tune of ₹7 crore by selling shares of the company on premium, after the allocation of the coal block.On Tuesday, the court said it is apparent that Prakash, Manjrekar and Mondol being the Managing Director, Director and Director (Technical) respectively had a clear motive of making profits by securing allocation of Lalgarh (North) Coal Block in favour of A-1 company.“The synchronized manner in which A-1 (Ms Domco), A-2 (Prakash), A-3 (Manjrekar), A-4 (Mondol) and A-6 (Khandelwal) acted shows that they had definitely conspired with each other to cheat MoS, MoC and the Screening Committee by inducing them to believe about availability of land with the company and financial preparedness so that they are able to secure allocation of Lalgarh (North) Coal Block in favour of A-1 company,” the court said.“A-4 (Mondol), another Director of the company too conspired and certified false balance sheets. A-3, (Manjrekar) Director (Technical) too contributed in deceiving 19th Screening Committee believe that the applicant company owns 150 acres of land. This would not have been possible but for a conspiracy amongst A1, A-2, A-3 and A-4. A-6 has helped these accused persons by auditing false balance sheets though he was not even the Auditor of the company,” the court added in a 140-page judgment.The court said even though conspiracies are hatched in complete darkness and direct evidence is seldom available, it can be proved like any other offence on the basis of circumstantial evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/special-cbi-court-convicts-ranchi-company-4-employees-in-lalgarh-coal-corruption-case-101631643276815.html
15-09-2021||India||PM Modi hails ‘double-engine’ govt in UP, reaches out to farmers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi all but launched his Bharatiya Janata Party’s campaign for next year’s Uttar Pradesh elections with a ringing endorsement of the state’s current Yogi Adityanath-led government even as he reached out to small farmers and Jats, both critical to the electoral prospects of any party in the state. The PM was speaking at the event to lay the foundation stone of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh State University in Uttar Pradesh’s Aligarh. In his 40-minute-long speech, Modi spoke of the contribution of Singh, a freedom fighter, social worker, and educationist and pointed out how Aligarh was on its way to becoming a hub of defence equipment manufacturing. He criticised the previous governments in UP for their poor management of the state, highlighted his government’s farm-friendly policies, and emphasised how UP was benefitting from a “double-engine sarkar,” referring to the BJP governments at the centre and in the state. The Prime Minister’s visit to Aligarh is widely seen as the launch of the BJP (the incumbent in the state) campaign for the upcoming assembly elections in the country’s most populous state. “As we celebrate Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav, honest efforts are being made to make the young generation aware of contributions of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh and others in our independence struggle,” said Modi, lauding Singh, a prominent Jat royal, as a visionary who donated his paternal property for the cause of education. Singh gave land for the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU). There have previously been demands for AMU to be named after him.The Prime Minister also used the occasion to reach out to farmers. He spoke of former Prime Minister, the late Chaudhary Charan Singh, a Jat and farm leader from the state, “Various initiatives like increasing MSP, expansion of Kisan Credit Card, improvement in insurance scheme, provision of ₹3,000 pension are steps aimed at empowering small farmers. More than ₹1,40,000 crore has been paid to sugarcane farmers of the state,” he said. Uttar Pradesh, the country’s most populous state is headed for polls next year. Development, law and order, farm-related issues, health (including Covid), and employment are seen as major election issues, although caste and identity will also continue to play an important role in how people vote.Farmers in the state are among those protesting against three farm laws that the Modi government passed last year, and the PM’s emphasis on farmers and farming in his speech is seen as an effort to limit the political damage from this. Ahead of the previous assembly elections in the state, parts of West Uttar Pradesh witnessed communal riots that divided the farmer vote between Jats and Muslims. The farm protests have united the two communities, though. Some analysts see the recognition of leaders such as Singh by the BJP as part of an attempt to woo Jat voters.  “The India of the 21st century is correcting the mistakes of India of the 20th century. Our regime is making honest efforts to communicate the contributions by the greats like Maharaja Suheldev, Sir Chotu Ram and Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh to the younger generation,” said Modi. Showering praise on the Yogi Adityanath-led government in UP, the PM said: “Uttar Pradesh is emerging as a favourite place for investors from country and the world. The state is becoming a great example of double-engine government providing double benefit to the masses with BJP, both in the state and at the centre.”The “double-engine” has been a consistent political pitch for the BJP and Modi in almost all assembly elections since 2014. “Investments come when a conducive environment is provided. UP, once considered a hurdle in the country’s growth, has now begun leading the race to growth and this is a matter of pride” emphasized Modi. Talking about the defence corridor, the prime minister stated that India was on its way to transformation from a big importer of defence equipment to become an exporter of defence goods. He also drew an analogy between the famous locks of Aligarh and the defence corridor, saying that Aligarh, which once made locks that protected people’s homes is now contributing towards protection of country’s borders as well. PM Modi announced ₹9000 crore for the development of BrahMos missile at the defence corridor’s Lucknow node. Taking a swipe at the opposition Samajwadi Party, the PM said people cannot forget all the scams that took place in UP, when the party was in power from 2012 to 2017. “Uttar Pradesh was run by gangsters and mafias before 2017, but now things have changed under chief minister Yogi Adityanath and such elements are behind bars,” said the PM highlighting that 80 million people had been inoculated in Uttar Pradesh free of cost and the state holds the record for maximum vaccinations in a day.AKHILESH RESPONSE Rahat Abrar, a political analyst and retired HoD, Urdu, at AMU, said the Prime Minister’s speech is the beginning of the BJP’s campaign in the poll-bound state. “The PM’s speech initiated the campaign for the party in the all-important western Uttar Pradesh, which is believed to be most affected by farmers’ agitation against three farm laws. The western UP belt is dominated by Jats and there couldn’t have been a better way to address Jat voters than by praising Raja Mahendra Pratap singh – a prominent Jat leader,” said Abrar. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who also spoke at the event, praised the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying he has led the country in its fight against Covid-19 by giving two ‘swadeshi’ vaccines and vaccinating 750 million people (so far) in the country. “While the world struggled in its fight against Covid-19, the prime minister led the nation and created an example to be followed by others,” said Adityanath who also praised the Union government’s New Education Policy. “Now, all parties are in election mode. The BJP fought the last UP elections with Modi as the party’s face. Now, it seems the party is going to deploy the ‘double-engine’ idea with Modi-Yogi as a combination. The combination certainly looks formidable against the fragmented opposition,” said Prof SK Dwivedi, a political expert and the former HoD, political science, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmmodi-hails-double-engine-govt-in-up-reaches-out-to-farmers-101631643217856.html
15-09-2021||India||Covid violations led to rise in total cases filed in 2020||For a year with over two months in a hard lockdown for the country, 2020 logged a sharp increase in the number of criminal cases registered, according to the National Crime Records Bureau’s Crime in India report released on Tuesday.
15-09-2021||India||50°C temperature becoming more frequent: Report||The number of extremely hot days in a year – when the temperature soars past the 50 degrees Celsius mark – has doubled across the world since the 1980s, according to an analysis by BBC which underlined the harsh realities of the global climate crisis.The study says the number of days on which the mercury goes past 50°C has been consistently going up in every subsequent decade since 1980.Between 1980 and 2009, temperatures went past the 50°C mark 14 days per year on average. But between 2010 and 2019, that number shot up to 26 days, the BBC analysis has found.That apart, the temperature mark of 45°C has also witnessed a sharp jump during the same time period, being recorded an extra two weeks per year on average. The 50°C mark is commonplace in the West Asia region, especially during the long summers. But climate scientists sat up and took note when nearly-50°C temperatures began to be recorded in more temperate parts of the world, such as in Canada and Italy, this summer. Italy witnessed a record high of 48.8°C and Canada saw the mercury shoot up to a high of 49.6°C. Climate experts fear that the dreaded 50°C mark could soon be recorded in more parts of the world unless fossil fuel emissions are kept on a tight leash.If more and more temperate parts of the planet see temperatures booming past the 50°C mark, the entire human race would end up facing unprecedented challenges. “We need to act quickly. The faster we cut our [fossil fuel] emissions, the better off we’ll all be,” says Dr Sihan Li, a climate researcher at School of Geography and Environment at University of Oxford, according to the BBC study. “With continued emissions and lack of action, not only will these extreme heat events become more severe and more frequent, but emergency response and recovery will become more challenging.” The same analysis also quotes Dr Friederike Otto, associate director of Environmental Change Institute at University of Oxford. “The increase [in temperatures] can be 100% attributed to the burning of fossil fuels,” says Dr Otto, echoing the concerns of Dr Li. Climate scientists fear that the unbridled burning of fossil fuels has invariably been resulting in the whole world warming up faster than before, which in turn would make extreme temperatures more likely in the near future. Experts fear, as the analysis points out, that extreme temperatures can be dangerous for both flora and fauna, with human civilisation facing unavoidable challenges, such as problems with infrastructure and power systems. The BBC analysis is likely to come up when the world’s key stakeholders in the fight against the climate crisis converge for a major UN summit in Glasgow in November, known as COP26. The gathering could see governments around the world given emission-cut targets in a bid to reign in rising temperatures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50c-temperature-becoming-more-frequent-report-101631643156151.html
15-09-2021||India||Won’t review order on SC/ST quota: Top court||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said that Union and state governments’ policies on reservation in promotion for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (SC/STs) will have to meet all the conditions laid down in two previous Constitution bench judgments.The two judgments mandate the Centre and the states to collect quantifiable data showing inadequacy of representation of SC/STs at different levels of public employment, assess the impact of reservation on overall administrative efficiency, and exclude the “creamy layer” before providing for reservation in promotions. Until the top court’s 2018 verdict, the concept of creamy layer applied only to other backwards classes (OBCs). State governments complain that this policy is complicated and hard to implement, and creates backlog.A bench, headed by justice L Nageswara Rao, was hearing a clutch of petitions arising out of judgments from 11 different high courts, which delivered their rulings on various pertinent reservation policies in the last 10 years. Some of the states from where these judgments arose are Maharashtra, Bihar, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Tripura, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab.As soon as the matter commenced before the bench, which also included justices Sanjiv Khanna and BR Gavai, the court clarified that it would not entertain any request for reconsidering the previous judgments in M Nagaraj (2006) and Jarnail Singh (2018) cases, which prescribed conditions for policies on reservation in promotion.“We make it clear that we are not going to reopen Nagaraj or Jarnail Singh (cases). We have a limited scope in these matters after our judgments. We are going to only examine if the high court judgments have followed the principles laid down by us in these two judgments,” said the bench.On his part, attorney general KK Venugopal, representing the central government, questioned the Nagaraj judgment, contending that the condition regarding collection of quantifiable data to show inadequacy of representation of SC/ST is “vague”.Senior advocate Indira Jaising, appearing in some of the cases on behalf of reserved category candidates, complained that the two judgments do not define what is meant by adequate representation or efficient functioning, which, she claimed, have been creating a lot of confusion in providing for reservation in promotion. Jaising pleaded that some guidelines could be given by the bench to clarify the previous judgments.But the bench turned down this request. “We are not going to lay down any guidelines on how Nagaraj or Jarnail Singh [cases] are to be followed. We have already said in [the] Jarnail Singh [case] that it is for the states to figure out how the principles of Nagaraj [case] will have to be followed in the context of adequacy of representation and overall efficiency,” it retorted.Senior advocate PS Patwalia, appearing for governments of Bihar and Maharashtra, also tried to raise some issues about the judgments in Nagaraj and Jarnail Singh cases and rued that the almost 60% promotional posts in Bihar are lying vacant due to certain confusion.Representing general category candidates, senior lawyers Rajeev Dhavan, Meenakshi Arora, Gopal Sankaranarayan and advocate Kumar Parimal, strongly objected to submissions for revisiting the previous judgments.“We are making it clear to all the counsel that we will not reopen Nagaraj or Jarnail Singh. Counsel should argue accordingly,” remarked the bench.At this point, Venugopal tried to revive the Centre’s request for permitting it to make ad hoc promotions to fill over 130,000 vacant posts in public employment across the country. The law officer said that these promotions will be made purely on the basis of seniority and without creating any rights in favour of these employees who could be sent back to the lower post if the court were to decide against promotion of such candidates in its final order. He pointed out that the status quo order by the court, passed in April 2019, was making governance and functioning of several departments very difficult.But the bench, which earlier in July 2020 and January 2021, declined to grant such permission , turned down the request yet again. “You have already tried for such an order before and we did not allow it. Please wait for some more time,” it told Venugopal.The court also refused a plea by the AG to recall the contempt notice issued to Secretary, Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), for allegedly breaching its status quo order on promotion of Central government employees. While Venugopal said that the DoPT secretary had cleared some temporary ad hoc promotion on the basis of a legal opinion given by him, the court said that a final view will be taken only when the clutch of cases is taken up after two weeks.The bench asked the counsel for the Union and state governments to identify the issues peculiar to them and submit written submissions on such issues in the next two weeks, following which the matter will be finally heard from October 5.Why states complainIn the M Nagaraj and Jarnail Singh cases, the Supreme Court held that if the state decides to allow reservation in promotions, it would have to collect quantifiable data showing inadequacy of representation of a class in public employment in addition to maintain overall administrative efficiency.It has also made the creamy layer test applicable to reservation in promotions of SC/ST — in the case of OBCs, at the entry level, creamy layer is defined as people with an annual family income of over ₹8 lakh.There is no reservation in promotion for OBCs.States find these yardsticks too difficult to achieve, and have complained about standards to collect quantifiable data to show inadequacy of representation.They also want a clarification whether the inadequacy of representation has to be understood in relation to the cadre or a department or the state as a whole. The additional conditions to exclude creamy layer and assess administrative efficiency at the time of giving promotion have also created problems for the states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wont-review-order-on-sc-st-quota-top-court-101631643099093.html
15-09-2021||India||Congress panel zeroes in on issues for protests against Modi govt||A Congress panel led by former MP chief minister Digvijaya Singh, in its first meeting on Tuesday, has identified several issues for both long-term and short-term protest movements against Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party government at the Centre, said two members, requesting anonymity.The nine- member panel constituted by party president Sonia Gandhi on September 2 has its task cut out to identify and prepare issues for protests. In the first meeting on Tuesday, Singh and other members discussed many issues and identified price rise, Pegasus spyware, recent developments related to procurement of Rafael jets , the management of the Covid-19 pandemic and job loss as key issues, said one of the members, who attended the meeting, on condition of anonymity.Some other issues including strengthening the party’s Dalit outreach and the need for an agitation for releasing caste data census. “It has been decided that the panel will prepare a report on all such important issues and send it to the Congress president for her approval,” said one of the panel members, requesting anonymity. Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was also present in the meeting. Other panel members include BK Hariprasad, Ripun Bora, Manish Chatrathat, Udit Raj, Ragini Nayak, Uttam Kumar Reddy and Zuber Khan.The panel also decided that a close coordination with other sections of the party is important to ensure that the protest plans don’t clash with the Congress’ celebrations of the 75th year of Indian Independence, said the person mentioned above. In August, the party decided to organise year-long celebrations across India to mark the 75 years of the country’s Independence. The Congress and other Opposition parties have already announced ten days-long protests this month over Pegasus, farm laws and otthe issues. Singh’s panel will make long-term protest plans against the Centre.The panel also discussed how to improve the party’s usage of social media and the need to reach out to the Congress workers at the booth level, said the panel member mentioned above. The committee also identified farm laws, Covid 19 compensation, misuse of sedition laws as possible issues.A note of tentative subjects, prepared by former MP Udit Raj (is he also a member of the panel?), also reads: “Rahul Gandhi is to be made the president of the Congress party as it is most important in view to counter the cult of (PM Narendra) Modi.” Notably, the National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), the students’ wing of Congress, in its two-day National Executive ‘Sankalp’ on Sunday proposed to appoint Rahul Gandhi as the party chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-panel-zeroes-in-on-issues-for-protests-against-modi-govt-101631642502403.html
15-09-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: Sept 15, 1970— ‘Maggie’ court achieves grand slam — a rare feat in tennis history||Mrs Margaret Court became the toast of the tennis world here yesterday as she became the second woman after “Little Mo” to achieve the coveted grand slam by adding the U.S. title to her Australian, French and Wimbledon crowns. Tall, athletic Perth housewife Maggie made history with a facile 6-2, 2-6, 6-1 win over Rosemary Casals (U.S.) in the final. Maureen Connolly was the first woman star to bring off the mighty sweep of four major titles in one season in 1953. It was such a feat that evaded such immortals as Suzanne Lenglen, Helen Wills, Helen Jacobs and Althea Gibson. Mrs Court has now won nine Australian titles, three French, three Wimbledon and four U.S. crowns plus numerous others. The U.S. men’s title went to Ken Rosewall who overcame fellow Tony Roche 2-6, 6-4, 7-6, 6-3 in the final. A record crowd of 14,502 saw the exciting Rosewall-Roche centre court duel reach its climax in the third set which, after an exchange of breaks, went into a sudden-death tie break. It obviously was the turning point of the match. The sudden death is a new scoring system introduced this year on a trial basis to effect at terminal point in tennis. When the score reaches, 6-6, the competitors play best five of-nine points, alternating services. Roche had the first two services. Rosewall won the first point on a perfectly-played lazy lob Roche next netted a high backhand volley. Rosewall led 2-0 and he had two services coming up. Rosewall, now serving, put out a volley but on the next point he zipped a forehand volley like a gun-shot past Roche’s racket. He led 3-1. The serve shifted to Roche, Rosewall scored on a forehand return for 4-1. Roche served and smashed for 4-2. On the next point, after a long and excitive rally, Roche overhit a backhand and the set went to Rosewall. It was all downhill after that for Roche. Roche was broken again in the second game of the fourth set. Rosewall, sensing victory, never relaxed, returning balls with fantastic sharpness and accuracy, and proceed to serve out the set and the match. The women’s final played before a sell-out crowd of more than 14,000 at the West Side Tennis Club produced patchy, erratic tennis. In the final analysis, Mrs Court was simply too strong and too good. Rosemary obviously was shaken by the increased ferocity of the Australian’s attack. Her service became more tentative, she double-faulted four times and her ground shots lost the grip they had in the second set. A perfectly-executed backhand lob gave the rangy Australian a second service break in the sixth game and little ‘Rosie’ had spent her ammunition. Mrs Court methodically served out the set and the match. The first set produced lack-luster tennis with neither competitor playing to her full potential. Rosemary excited the gallery by winning her first service at love and hanging on for 2-2 through the first four games. But Mrs Court took charge and won the last four games of the set in a row. The first prize was $7,500 ( ₹56.250). Miss Casals received $3750 (RS 28,125). For a few tense moments, it appeared that Mrs Court might not make it. In the second set, Mrs Court lost her composure and timing completely. She dropped three straight services in the third, fifth and seventh games-making errors on the simplest of shots. In the seventh game, she double-faulted, hit a forehand over the back line and dumped two volleys into the net. Broken at love, she seemed despondent and merely went through the motions as Rosemary served out the set, clinching it with a looping forehand down the line. During that surge, the 21-year-old American won nine straight points. But it was a different Mrs Court who answered the call for the final set. She hammered out the first game on service, broke Rosemary in the second and held again for a 3-0 lead. Rosewall, a semi-finalist here as far back as 1953, became the second oldest player to win the title. Only Bill Tilden, who won it for the last time in 1929 at the age of 36, was older. In the mixed doubles final, Mrs Court teamed with Marty Riessen (U.S.) to defeat Judy Dalton (Australia) and Frew McMillan (South Africa) 6-4, 6-4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-sept-15-1970-maggie-court-achieves-grand-slam-a-rare-feat-in-tennis-history-101631642017341.html
15-09-2021||India||PM Narendra Modi set to launch Sansad TV today in Delhi||Sansad TV, which replaces the existing TV channels, Lok Sabha TV and Rajya Sabha TV, will be inaugurated on Wednesday in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The integrated platform was conceptualized nearly two years ago after a panel led by Prasar Bharati CEO Surya Prakash submitted a report approving a common platform for two channels.Hindustan Times first reported the launch on August 4. Sansad TV will have two channels to ensure live streaming of both Houses when Parliament is in session. A Rajya Sabha official who asked not to be named said: “The preparations for the channels are over and these are ready for launch. The authorities are waiting for a time from the PM to launch the new channels.”Officials said the Rajya Sabha TV establishment—it runs from a rented property adjacent to the Talkatora stadium—will be merged with LSTV’s infrastructure to create the new entity.Former textiles secretary Ravi Kapoor has been appointed as the CEO of the new entity on contract for a period of one year, an internal order of the Lok Sabha secretariat said. During the recess, the channels will run current affairs programmes in English and Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmnarendra-modi-set-to-launch-sansad-tv-today-in-delhi-101631641662447.html
15-09-2021||India||Hindi not competing with any local language: Amit Shah||“If PM can speak Hindi internationally, what are we embarrassed about?,” asked home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday, as he pitched for the wider use of the language in the country on the occasion of Hindi Diwas.“Gone are the days when speaking in Hindi was a matter of embarrassment... If PM can speak Hindi internationally, what are we embarrassed about?... The government is committed towards parallel development of Hindi and all Indian languages,” he said, in a virtual address to an event organised at Vigyan Bhawan by the Department of Languages in the ministry.Hindi Diwas is celebrated on September 14 to mark the day the Constituent Assembly adopted the language as an official language.Asserting that ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat ’ (self-reliant India) meant being ‘atmanirbhar’ in terms of language, the Union minister said: “Being atmanirbhar is not just about the production of goods within the country. We have to be atmanirbhar even with languages and only then our imagination of Aatmanirbhar India will be fulfilled. If we don’t become atmanirbhar  in terms of our language, self-reliance would not mean anything.”He added that all Indian languages complement each other. “Different opinions come. But I want to clarify that Hindi is not competing with any other Indian language. It is actually a sakhi (friend) of all Indian languages and it will prosper only with co-existence.”Shah further suggested that just like September 14 is an occasion to reassess and review efforts to promote Hindi every year, a similar and simultaneous exercise should be undertaken to promote all local languages too. “No foreign language can connect you with this country’s core thoughts. If you abandon your language you will be cut off from your roots. Such people will never prosper,” he said.Referring to the New Education Policy (NEP) envisaged by Modi, Shah asserted the provisions for promotion of regional and Hindi languages. He said the technical education syllabus is translated into five Indian languages -- Hindi, Tamil, Telugu, Marathi and Bangla -- and it would be rolled out in 14 colleges across eight states.Amit Shah’s speech this year is in continuation with his 2019 speech, when he advocated for ‘One Nation, One Language’ and stressed that only Hindi is a “unifying language”.The remarks had sparked a furore and invited sharp reactions from opposition political parties, particularly in south India. Denouncing Shah’s comments, Stalin had then called it a sign of “Hindi imposition”.On Tuesday, coming in support of the voices against Hindi Diwas celebration, JD(S) leader and former Karnataka chief minister H D Kumaraswamy said in a Twitter post: “Kannada is first in Karnataka. Hindi Diwas celebration is unnecessary. Let’s not disturb the peace in multilingual India by imposing Hindi.”Several other organisations like Karnataka Janaadhikaara Paksha observed it as ‘Black Day’.(WITH PTI INPUTS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindi-not-competing-with-any-local-language-amit-shah-101631641416648.html
15-09-2021||India||Urgent to raise climate ambitions further: John Kerry||US special envoy on climate change John Kerry said on Tuesday he has urged the Union government to think about announcing a 450GW renewable energy goal by 2030 as part of India’s nationally determined contribution (NDC) under the Paris Agreement at the UN climate change negotiations (COP 26) in Glasgow in November, stressing that modelling studies indicate the goal could put India’s NDC on track to keeping global warming under 1.5 degrees Celsius.India and the US launched the Climate Action and Finance Mobilisation Dialogue (CAFMD) on Monday -- a partnership to attract investment and technology in clean energy projects. The dialogue is one of the tracks to finance projects for to mitigate the climate crisis under the India-US climate and clean energy agenda 2030.“Finance and technology will be critical for India. On the climate action tracks we want to work very closely, do whatever we can to accelerate the achievement of 450GW of renewable energy. Why? Because it’s a big number. It’s an ambitious goal, and India as a developing nation can make a major effort to keep world temperature increase at 1.5 degrees Celsius. I personally urge that the government think about announcing that as part of its nationally determined contribution because to do so is really to help other countries realise that nations are stepping up in a significant way to deal with the crisis,” he said in a press briefing on Tuesday.Kerry said that during his meetings with Indian government officials on Monday, including Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav and power minister RK Singh, they did not spend much time talking on net zero emission target by 2050. “We did talk about it. What we focused on is now, which is 450 GW. The modelling shows that when India achieves that, India is on track to hold on 1.5 degrees,” he said.India hasn’t assured him on enhancing its NDC yet.According to Climate Action Tracker, an independent agency tracking climate action, India’s NDC is 2 degrees C compliant, but there is potential for the nation to become a world leader with enhanced 1.5 degrees compatible targets, and just a swift transition away from coal to accelerate the switch to renewable energy. The tracker is still analysing US’s NDC by incorporating recent announcements the Biden administration has made.“No one said no, but no one said yes either. It’s the PM’s prerogative. Internal deliberations need to take place in India. We have nine years to implement decisions to keep catastrophic climate change at bay according to the latest science. I have told India it is urgent. We have to get this done. They said they will take a look at that and will evaluate it…I anticipate increases in effort,” Kerry said.A senior environment ministry official, who asked not to be named, said: “He (Kerry) has urged us to raise ambition in our NDC. We have said that is the PM’s call. We cannot commit to anything immediately. The 450 GW is PM’s goal for the nation.”On being asked if the 1.5 degree goal was still alive considering that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change said last month that it was extremely difficult if not impossible to limit global warming to that mark, Kerry said it was still doable if all countries got on board.“Let’s be honest. It’s very difficult. It is doable and the track we have put us on does that. In the US, President Biden has said that we are going to reduce our emissions by 50% to 52% over the next 10 years. Is that an arbitrary number? That’s what science and scientists have told us that we need to do. The IPCC report says minimum of 45% reduction in emissions. We are reaching for more and trying to push the curve. Europe is at 55%; UK at over 70%; Japan is at 50%; Canada over 45%. That’s 50% of global GDP right there, and if we get India to come on board then all of a sudden we are growing that capacity towards 1.5 degrees C. It’s a heavy lift but doable. It’s not doable if we don’t reduce enough in the next 10 years, which will decide if net zero is achievable by 2050,” he said.Kerry also acknowledged that there were some differences on climate goals with China.“We had respectful exchanges (in his meetings last month) and negotiations, and made some progress. But we did not agree yet on some components of the larger choices of how we address the climate crisis as we go into COP 26. But we agreed to meet again. Since I was in China, President Biden and President Xi Jinping had a number of conversations. I am hopeful that we can make some progress.”On Monday, Kerry said six largest banks in America have all publicly committed that over the next 10 years, they will invest a minimum of $4.16 trillion in global transition to clean energy. On Tuesday, he clarified that the money is “not concessionary”.“It is money that will be invested in the transition and this sector. It’s a very important commitment. We can help find some concessionary de-risking money through various efforts like blended finance, in some cases direct finance from countries but if you blend that together you get support. One of the things we will work on is green hydrogen. The banks are already investing in some projects but this wasn’t upping the game and so six banks have stepped up.”Experts said US would have to be at the centre of any meaningful effort to combat the climate crisis.“Such partnerships are crucial to get the upfront capital India needs to scale up low carbon investments and to drive down the costs of decarbonisation technologies. To avoid the worst climate change scenarios cautioned in IPCC’s latest report, the US needs to rapidly cut GHG emissions at home and to provide sufficient climate finance to developing countries,” said Ulka Kelkar, director-climate program, World Resources Institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/urgent-to-raise-climate-ambitions-further-john-kerry-101631641118416.html
15-09-2021||India||Farmers are angry for valid reasons, but there are no easy solutions||There are unmistakable signs the protests which started last year against three farm laws enacted last year, are regaining momentum, perhaps in sync with the forthcoming state election cycle, which includes the states of Punjab and Uttar Pradesh.The heat generated by the protests has also created disquiet within the ranks of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological parent of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). RSS’s farmers’ wing, the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh (BKS) held protests outside the office of all district collectors on September 8, seeking action on a memorandum it submitted to the Prime Minister on August 11. The BKS statement announcing the protests was unequivocal in recognising agrarian distress. It attributed the disquiet among farmers to the absence of remunerative prices for their produce that took into account the cost of production.Here are three charts which explain the current distress in agriculture and why there are no easy solutions.Positive growth might not have helped farm incomes in 2020-21India’s GDP suffered an unprecedented contraction of 7.3% in 2020-21, largely a result of Covid-19, the 68-day long lockdown, which was imposed on March 25, 2020, and other restrictions on movement and activities that lasted almost the entire year. Among the major sectors of the economy, agriculture was the only one that escaped a contraction, a result of that fact that farm sector activity was not interrupted by the lockdown.However, there is good reason to believe that farm incomes went down during the lockdown, and perhaps subsequently as well. This is likely to have happened because of a reverse migration of non-farm workers to agriculture. The rise in number of workers is likely to have pulled down the value added or income per worker in agriculture. This was shown in an HT analysis of 2019-20 Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) data published on July 27, 2021.Relative prices have turned against farmersEvery business related to agriculture, from those providing inputs to others involved in marketing produce have “flourished”, the statement adds, but farmers are becoming “poorer by the day.” This underlines the crisis of worsening terms of trade (ratio of farm and non-farm prices) in agriculture. The ministry of agriculture releases disaggregated terms of trade data for agriculture, but these estimates are not available after 2018-19. Statistics which are available show a worsening of terms of trade between 2016-17 (99.07) and 2018-19 (96.43).Things are expected to have turned worse on this count, as non-food inflation has surged ahead of food inflation in the recent past. The increase has been particularly steep in prices of key agricultural inputs such as diesel. For inputs such as fertilisers, even though official indices do not show a sharp rise in prices, supply shortages in various parts of the country have resulted in black marketing. That Minimum Support Prices (MSPs) are not remunerative enough this time, has also been flagged by the BKS. “The cost of all the inputs increased many fold but MSP lagged behind”, the BKS statement adds.MSP, in its present form is not a solution to farmers’ problemsUsing C2 cost of cultivation – this includes the imputed rent of owned land and therefore the long-term cost of farming – as a benchmark for MSPs and providing guaranteed MSPs to every farmer are two key demands of the ongoing farmers’ agitation. While the first is a question of increasing the fiscal burden of procurement operations, the latter involves a larger question.Produce procured through MSPs must also be disposed of eventually. Currently, rice and wheat are the main crops procured at MSP. They are also the main items distributed through the Public Distribution System (PDS). Procured stock, which is not distributed under the PDS is accumulated. India’s food stocks -- 109.4 million tons of rice and wheat in June -- are at an all-time high, way above prescribed buffer norms of 41.1 million tons as on July 1 every year, according to the FCI’s operational and strategic asset requirements. This glut exists despite the PDS offtake being higher than normal at the moment, with the government providing an extra 5 kg of cereals per month to 800 million people under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojna. This scheme will eventually be withdrawn, adding to the problem of excess stocks. Unless there is a new way to dispose procured food grains, the excess supply and overflowing stocks will continue to persist.Income support schemes such as PM-KISAN offer very little supportPolicies such as MSP based procurement are described as price support measures in agricultural policy discussions. They are not the only game in town as far as agricultural subsidies are concerned. A lot of commentators in India have been arguing that India should shift to what are described as income support measures, which, it is argued will have two advantages. Income support, unlike price support measure is compliant with the rules of the World Trade Organisation (WTO). Also, benefits from MSP procurements are skewed towards larger farmers and that too, in a handful of states. India made a shift towards providing income support to agriculture, when the present government announced the PM-KISAN scheme before the 2019 general elections. The scheme offers ₹6000 per year to every farmer in its current form. While something is better than nothing, the PM-KISAN support is too small to have any significant impact on the well-being of farmers. An HT analysis published on February 6, 2019, found that the PM-KISAN money was just 6% of a small farmer’s annual income. This number is likely to have come down further given the fact that PM-KISAN transfers have not increased. Increasing transfers to a meaningful level will entail a significantly higher fiscal burden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-are-angry-for-valid-reasons-but-there-are-no-easy-solutions-101631636556437.html
15-09-2021||India||Badaun twin tragedy: Sanitation, dignity in tussle with poverty, customs||Badaun She wakes up at around 4.30am, before any other member of the household. She picks up a mug, adjusts the knots of her sari around her waist, and makes her way to the fields behind her house. Once she’s back, she starts her day – cooking for the six people in her family, sweeping the mud floors of her small house, cleaning the front courtyard, and laying out the charpoys for the men to sit. Her morning ritual has remained unchanged through the decades, through a punishing pandemic, numerous village chiefs, elections and floods that force villagers to flee every few years in Uttar Pradesh’s Badaun district. She does not like going to the fields, but sums up her predicament in one word: “majboori” (helplessness). Only one event in the past decade has given her pause: the tragic deaths of her 14-year-old daughter and 16-year-old cousin, who were found hanging from a mango tree in the local orchard seven years ago. The two girls went out to the fields the previous night, never to be seen again. She was the last person to hear the girls, saying they had a stomach ache. Even at the time, she hadn’t given it a second thought. It was simply a way of life. The family alleges that the girls were raped and murdered, but the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) terms the incident as one of death by suicide. The incident -- famous in the headlines as the Badaun horror which brought law and order in rural Uttar Pradesh into sharp focus at the time -- is still being debated in the Allahabad high court.Now almost 50, the woman says she feels uneasy going out after sundown. “Our girls were taken in these fields, so I feel scared sometimes to go alone,” she said. But the hesitation is short-lived. Even fear has no option but to bow before the lack of a viable alternative, and the thought of a crushing load of housework. “Sometimes I take one of the boys along to stand guard outside. But life has to go on, what to do.” The deaths of the teenage girls in May 2014 was immortalised by the family standing vigil, refusing to bring the girls down from the tree until senior officials committed to an impartial probe – visuals that were beamed live into millions of homes and emblemised a toxic concoction of problems: Lack of rural sanitation for women, the pressure on maintaining family honour, the erosion of trust between the victims’ families and the administration, and the decisive influence of local politics in the countryside on every aspect of life – including crime solving. “We were seen and weak, and weak people couldn’t fight the system and the dabangs (dominant groups) it sheltered,” said the victim’s father. Seven years on, many of those thorns continue to prick the village, especially its women. Lay of the landThe village is on the edge of Badaun district, an hour’s drive on a cratered road from the district headquarters. Fields of bajra ring the village of around 800 households that stands at a junction: the Ganga on one side, and borders of Shahjahanpur and Farrukhabad on the other. Around 300 of those households belong to the Shakya community – classified under other backward classes – and the rest are Thakurs, Brahmins, Dalits, and Yadavs. The victims were also Shakyas. A single motorable road runs through the village, past its orchards, samosa stalls and the one store that sells refrigerated drinks.Many young men and women drop out after Class 8, because the government school only teaches up to that level and the three private schools charge much higher fees. The nearest college is roughly 12km away, in the hamlet of Ushait, and medical emergencies force people to rent a four-wheeler to the Badaun district hospital.Families are either trapped in a low-return cycle of agriculture, dependent on the monsoon and government doles, or send out their men to Badaun, Ghaziabad and Noida for manual labour. The women stay at home, until they’re married off – often with hefty dowry. The mother remembers how her daughter played around on the courtyard, the dreams she had, and often rues the mistake she made in not following her out to the field that night. “Sometimes I’m making roti in the afternoon and their laughter floods my mind, and I can’t move anymore.” The men have made stricter rules for the women after the incident. Earlier, when the two victims were alive – they shared a phone between them, and also had access to their father’s. But since investigators revealed to the father that around 400 calls were made between the girls and the main accused, Pappu Yadav, women of the household have been banned from carrying mobile phones. They’re allowed to go out in the village, but any further journey often warrants a male chaperon, and all visits to the local fair have stopped. “Their security is more important. We cannot let anything happen to them,” said the victim’s uncle. Shortly after the Badaun case gained national prominence, around 120 toilets were built in the village – three of them for the three Shakya brothers -- the parents of the two teenage victims and their younger brother. Yet, problems persisted. The Indian-style toilet has no water connection, like many others in the village, so water had to be carried to it either with a pipe or bucket. There is slush and open drains outside the house – the streets haven’t been paved despite the beeline of top politicians to the house since 2014 – ensured knee-high waterlogging and rendered the toilet unusable until it was rebuilt on a higher platform. Worse, a household of 16 – 10 from one brother and six from the other – only have a couple of toilets at their disposal. This forces the victim’s father and uncle to go to the fields. “We use the toilet when we can, but when there are so many people, how long can you wait?” asked the father. Probe and discontentAround 9.30pm on May 27, the girls went missing, only to be found around 5am, hanging from the tree. The family suspected the Yadav family, especially their youngest son, Pappu, of having raped and murdered their girls. They accused the local police of trying to shield them – two of the constables shared the same caste as the suspects and did nothing in the crucial hours after the disappearance – and the standoff only resolved once senior officials arrived on the spot. A postmortem report done two days later concluded that they were raped and strangled, igniting nationwide protests against the then Samajwadi Party government, which counted the Yadavs as its biggest vote base. The CBI took over the case in June 2014, and in November that year concluded that the postmortem exam was conducted in violation of standard medical protocols, and that the girls had died by suicide. Investigators said the older girl was in a relationship with Pappu, and was afraid after she’d been spotted by a relative. The family rejected the report, and in December, so did a local court in Badaun. The judge summoned Pappu, the accused went to the Allahabad high court, and so did the victim’s family. And hence, seven years after one of India’s most notorious crimes roiled the country, the case is nowhere near closure. “They got away because they were Yadavs, they ran the government at the time, and the police listened to them. We got exhausted screaming the truth and still, we weren’t heard,” said the victim’s father. He believes that no local officer could give them justice because village power structures would translate to familial connection to the Yadavs – who are far more dominant socially despite also being OBCs. He blamed CBI of falling in the same trap as the state police. CBI, for its part, blamed the family of inconsistent and contradictory statements, and the local police and medical teams of poor investigation. The Yadav family refused to speak to the press. Three brothers of the family -- Avdesh, Urvesh and the youngest, Pappu -- along with their father, Veerpal, were among the accused. They told the investigators that Pappu’s two elder brothers were nowhere near the girls that night, and that the 400-odd calls between the girls and the main accused indicated a relationship. Sanitation and social attitudesExperts say whichever theory may be correct, the sensational twists and turns served as an indictment of the social structures that led to the crime and the criminal justice system that failed to prosecute it swiftly. “The issues it brought up: of women’s sanitation, the burden on women of carrying the family honour, the lack of transparent policing remain unresolved. Women are still vulnerable socially and economically, and the pressure of running families as unemployment rises is taking a toll,” said Padma Singh of the Stree Mukti Sangathan,a non-governmental organisation that filed the first public interest litigation in the case. The case was also the first big test of the bolstered rape laws that were modified after the 2012 Delhi gang rape and murder – and the lack of closure hints that changing social mindset is just as important as legal statutes. Social attitudes is also an important factor, or hurdle, in eradicating open defecation, citing health concerns and family pride. Since 2014, the government has pushed to improve rural sanitation and built thousands of toilets in Badaun district. District magistrate Deepa Ranjan said all eligible people were provided toilets and monitoring is done using village committees of elders. Yet, coverage remains patchy. “This is also a problem of mindset, on the part of the bureaucrats and society. Questions of gender equality and rights of women are not given any importance. Until that happens, this problem of sanitation will niggle,” said Bezwada Wilson, founder of the Safai Karmachari Andolan, a body working for sanitation workers and against manual scavenging. Changes, but not for better The grisly deaths catapulted the humble village to international notoriety and struck fear in the hearts of local residents, who were afraid to relieve themselves in the fields. Yet, time and necessity forces them to go back, even if reluctantly. All five people in village resident Saraswati Devi’s family are forced to go out, but they have no field of their own. “So when we go to other people’s field, they abuse us. I feel bad but what choice do I have,” she said. The Shakya families say they’re less scared of the Yadavs, partially because they are no longer in power (the SP lost the 2017 assembly elections), and therefore have less political heft to throw around. “Earlier, they could even steal cattle from our cowshed or abuse in the open, and police wouldn’t take our reports. Now, at least they hear us,” said Sarvesh Kumar, a local resident. But one definite fallout has been a constriction in the liberty of women –- a reality Sapna Boudh confronts every day. An activist, Boudh shares a boundary with the victim’s family and is their immediate neighbour. Over the past few years, she’s tried to help local women in distress but run into a wall on every occasion. “People are just not ready to let women out. If a woman has some urgent work, she needs to wait for a male member to accompany her. And all this is due to the case,” she said.Boudh says the problem of sanitation is more acute among the poorer, lower-caste part of the village, where houses give way to huts and women have nothing other than a buffalo to subsist on. Sometimes, daily earnings can be as low as ₹50.“People abuse me when I ask them to let girls be free, strong. They are scared but also want to control our lives. The case may not have been solved but it has snatched away our freedom.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/badaun-tragedy-poverty-imbalance-sanitation-the-horrors-remain-101631632536737.html
15-09-2021||India||UNSC resolution 2593 should shape world’s response to Afghanistan, says India||India on Tuesday said the world community’s approach to Afghanistan should be in line with UN Security Council resolution 2593, which demands Afghan soil shouldn’t be used in any way for terrorism and seeks an inclusive and negotiated settlement to the crisis in the war-torn country.Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said the resolution, adopted during India’s presidency of the Security Council last month, specifically refers to terror groups designated by the UN such as Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) and the need for the safe departure of all those who want to leave Afghanistan.The resolution 2593 was adopted at the last of three UN Security Council meetings held under the Indian presidency to discuss the situation in Afghanistan. Though China and Russia abstained, the resolution gained widespread support from the other 13 members of the UN’s highest decision-making body.Addressing a virtual symposium of principals and teachers of leading schools of the country on the unfolding situation in Afghanistan, Shringla said: “UNSCR 2593 unequivocally demands that Afghan territory not be used for sheltering, training, planning or financing terrorist acts, and specifically refers to terrorist individuals proscribed by the UN Security Council, including Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad.”Besides, he added, the resolution “sets expectations on safe passage and secure departure of Afghans and all foreign nationals from Afghanistan”, and recognises the “need to uphold human rights, including of women and minorities, and to encourage all parties for an inclusive, negotiated political settlement”.There is also “re-affirmation for responding to the desire of Afghans to sustain and build on Afghanistan’s gains over the last 20 years”, he said.Highlighting the need for the world community’s response to be in line with the resolution, Shringla said: “Our collective approach has been articulated by UNSCR 2593. It is only by remaining true to the principles professed therein that we can make a meaningful contribution to Afghanistan at this time.”India, he said, expects the international community to “remain both responsive and united at a time of crisis”.Shringla further said India’s long-standing investment in the people of Afghanistan had earned the country “tremendous goodwill and cemented the civilisational bond” between the two sides. “Our friendship with the Afghan people will continue to guide our approach in the future,” he said.The Indian side has adopted a wait-and-watch policy regarding the situation in Afghanistan and the government has given no indication so far regarding any form of recognition for the interim setup created by the Taliban following the group’s takeover of the country on August 15. The Indian side also remains deeply suspicious of the Taliban’s long-standing links with terror groups such as al-Qaeda, LeT and JeM.Shringla said India’s destiny is “inextricably linked with its neighbours”, and the neighbourhood remains the country’s “primary diplomatic arena” as reflected by the “Neighbourhood First” policy. India has been “naturally concerned” about developments in Afghanistan and their external repercussions, he added.Following the Taliban takeover, India’s immediate focus was the evacuation of its nationals. “Most Indian nationals were able to leave Kabul in August. A number of Afghans, including minorities, who were desirous of travelling to India, also managed to do so,” Shringla said.“But these processes could not be completed due to the security situation at the [Kabul] airport. Resumption of flights from Kabul airport is, therefore, a priority. We are closely monitoring the unfolding situation,” he said.Shringla also referred to India’s development partnership with Afghanistan, which included more than 500 projects spread across the country’s 34 provinces, capacity-building and training. India has built schools, colleges and universities across Afghanistan and more than 65,000 Afghans have studied in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unsc-resolution-2593-should-shape-world-s-response-to-afghanistan-says-india-101631630677971.html
15-09-2021||India||BJP objects to Mamata’s nomination from Bhabanipur; cites cases in Assam||Kolkata: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday registered a complaint with the Election Commission, alleging that West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had not disclosed the pending criminal cases against her in her nomination papers for the upcoming Bhabanipur bypoll.In his complaint with the constituency’s returning officer, Sajal Ghosh, chief election agent of party candidate Priyanka Tibrewal, said the Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief had not mentioned at least five criminal proceedings pending against her in Assam. “I beg to object to the nomination/declaration filed by Mamata Banerjee… on the ground that the candidate has failed to disclose particulars of the pending criminal proceedings against her,” Ghosh said in his letter. The letter said that the five cases against the Bengal chief minister were pending at Geeta Nagar, Pan Bazaar, Jagiroad, North Lakhimpur and Udharbond police stations of Assam. Officials from the poll body refused to comment on the matter, saying the complaint was yet to reach them.Hitting out at the BJP, a TMC leader on condition of anonymity said: “The BJP doesn’t have any shame. They had raised the same allegations earlier too. The EC didn’t find anything. The BJP knows that it is going to lose and hence, raising some baseless allegations to malign Banerjee. Only those cases are mentioned in the affidavit in which the person has been charge-sheeted.” The TMC leader was referring to a similar complaint with the poll panel filed by Banerjee’s former protege and now BJP leader, Suvendu Adhikari, during the April assembly elections. In a letter to the returning officer of Nandigram, the TMC turncoat alleged that the chief minister did not declare the cases by Assam Police and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in her nomination papers. A senior CBI official, however, had said that the accused in the case was a different woman and not the TMC chief. The poll panel had allowed Banerjee to contest the elections. The by-election for the Bhabanipur assembly seat is scheduled to be held on September 30. Banerjee, a resident of Bhabanipur, had won the seat twice in 2011 and 2016 but shifted to Nandigram, where the anti-farmland acquisition movement against the Left Front government had transformed her into a major political force in the volatile state, to dare Adhikari, on his home turf. Though the TMC chief powered the party to a resounding win for a third consecutive term in office, she lost the Nandigram seat to the BJP leader with a narrow margin. Banerjee has to win the bypoll to become a member of the assembly in order to continue in the chair. She had taken oath on May 5 and must get elected within six months as per protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-objects-to-mamata-s-nomination-from-bhabanipur-cites-cases-in-assam-101631616695659.html
15-09-2021||India||Another TN student dies by suicide allegedly fearing failure in NEET||A day after a 19-year-old man killed himself before the scheduled National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), an 18-year-old woman aspirant died by suicide over fears of not clearing the national entrance exam, police said.The incident took place on Monday, when the Tamil Nadu government passed a bill exempting the state from the exam.According to the police, the student was found dead in her home in Ariyalur district on Monday evening. Her parents claimed that she was upset as the exam appeared to be difficult.“Her family said she found the exam paper tough though she was a bright student. We are investigating the cause of her death,” a police official in Ariyalur said on condition of anonymity.Daughter of an advocate, the woman studied in a private school in Namakkal district and had secured 562 out of 600 marks in her Class 12 board examinations. A case of unnatural death under section 174 of the Indian Penal Code was registered, police said.The NEET 2021 for admission in undergraduate medical courses was conducted across 202 cities on Sunday, after the Supreme Court recently rejected a plea by a group of students to postpone the exam. The top court said that it did not want to interfere with the process and it will be “very unfair” to reschedule the test.In a statement condoling the 18-year-old’s death, chief minister MK Stalin said,.“I assure you there will be no compromise in our legal struggle to scrap NEET. We have to stop our dear students from taking their own lives and I’m saying this not just as a chief minister but also as their brother.”On Monday, all political parties, except the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), supported the bill, Tamil Nadu Admission to Undergraduate Medical Degree Courses Act 2021, through voice vote to scrap the exam and admit students to undergraduate programmes in medicine on the basis of their performance in their Class 12 examinations — a move the state government said was in the interest of “social justice”.The bill, which does not have any bearing on this year’s admissions, will need the approval of the President, who denied the same to a similar law passed by the state’s previous All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) government in 2017.In Tamil Nadu, the argument against NEET has been that it disadvantages students from rural and poor backgrounds (who cannot afford coaching), and those studying in boards other than the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE).At least a dozen aspirants have died by suicide ever since the exam was introduced in the state in 2017.Accusing the ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) of “playing politics” over the issue, former chief minister Edapaddi Palaniswami on Tuesday said the state government must “stop watching students die by suicide out of fear”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-tn-student-dies-by-suicide-allegedly-fearing-failure-in-neet-101631609674949.html
15-09-2021||India||NHRC notice to Centre, 4 states over farmers’ protests||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has issued notices to the Centre and governments of Delhi, Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, saying it has received complaints that the ongoing farmers’ protests have “adversely impacted” micro, medium and large industrial units and that Covid-19 safety norms have been breached at the agitation sites.In a statement, the NHRC said there are allegations that at least 9,000 micro, medium and large companies have been impacted due to farmers’ protests.“There are also reports that people have to travel long distances to reach their destinations due to the ongoing farmers’ agitation and barricades have been put up at the borders,” it said in the statement.Accordingly, the commission on Monday issued notices to the chief secretaries of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan and the government of NCT of Delhi; and director generals of police of the three states and Delhi police commissioner, asking them to submit reports on action taken by them.The commission also requested the Institute of Economic Growth to examine the impact of the farmers’ agitation on industrial and commercial activities and submit a comprehensive report by October 10.“The National Disaster Management Authority, ministry of home affairs and ministry of health, Government of India, have been asked to submit reports concerning the adverse impact of farmers’ agitation on various aspects and observance of Covid protocols at the protest sites,” the NHRC said.It also asked the Delhi School of Social Work, University of Delhi, to depute teams to conduct a survey and submit a report, assessing the disruption of livelihood, lives of people, impact on the aged and infirm persons due to protracted agitation by farmers, the rights panel said.The farmers from all across the country, mainly from the states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been protesting since November against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act passed by Parliament last year. Farmers have been protesting at Singhu Border and Tikri Border of Delhi-Haryana, Ghazipur border of Delhi-Uttar Pradesh, and have camped there since November 25 last year, seeking repealing of the three new farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrcissues-notice-to-centre-4-states-over-farmers-protest-101631609074900.html
