16-09-2021||India||Teenager attempts suicide over NEET in TN||Chennai, Sept 16 (PTI) A 17-year-old National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) aspirant allegedly attempted to immolate herself on Thursday in connection with the test, said police. She had sustained burns in the process and is undergoing treatment at the government hospital at Chengalpattu near here. “The girl apparently wrote the test on September 12 and appeared apprehensive of the outcome of results. She immolated herself when she was alone at home in Urapakkam,” a senior police officer said. He however declined to reveal further details but said the student had sustained 60 percent burn injuries.The Guduvanchery police who received information from the Chengalpattu GH over the girl’s attempt on her life rushed to the hospital and held an enquiry.On Wednesday, a 17-year-old girl from Thalaiyarampattu village near Katpadi in neighbouring Vellore district allegedly committed suicide fearing her NEET scores. A day after the exam, a 17-year-old student from Sathampadi village in Ariyalur district ended her life and on the eve of the screening test, a 20-year-old man from Salem reportedly committed suicide fearing failure in the test for the third time. PTI JSP ROH ROH||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/teenager-attempts-suicide-over-neet-in-tn-101631816469439.html
16-09-2021||India||In touch with Afghan officials over reports of abduction of Indian: MEA||India on Thursday said it is in touch with various stakeholders to follow up reports about the abduction of an Indian national in the Afghanistan capital of Kabul.According to reports, Bansri Lal Arendeh was kidnapped at gunpoint in Kabul on Tuesday.“We are in touch with all concerned. We have seen reports about local authorities undertaking investigations into this matter. We will continue to monitor the situation,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a regular media briefing.There has been some confusion since Tuesday whether Arendeh was an Indian citizen or an Afghan Hindu. Asked about this issue, Bagchi replied, “I am given to understand that he is an Indian citizen but we are also checking that part.”He declined to go into details, citing the sensitivity of the matter and security concerns. Bagchi said a majority of Indian nationals in Afghanistan had been evacuated since the Taliban takeover of Kabul, though some were still in the country. The Indian side is still in touch with these people who were unable to return after operations at Kabul airport were suspended, he said. India has also raised the safe return of all those who wish to leave Afghanistan with the international community, and UN Security Council resolution 2593 emphasises the issue of safe travel by Afghan nationals and minorities, he said. “This is an important issue,” Bagchi said. There were reports that Arendeh’s family lives in Faridabad and that he was running a business in Kabul for the past two decades.Bagchi said in response to another question that it would be difficult to say anything definitive about the evacuation of the remaining Indians in Afghanistan and Afghan nationals till commercial flights resume from Kabul airport.“Our focus is that operations at Kabul airport resume. Then, it will be easier for us to bring back the people,” he said.It is believed that several dozen Indian citizens are still in Afghanistan. More than 140 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus were also barred by the Taliban from accessing Kabul airport to take the last evacuation flight last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-touch-with-afghan-officials-over-reports-of-abduction-of-indian-mea-101631816351322.html
16-09-2021||India||Virat Kohli to step down as T20 captain after World Cup||Mumbai Virat Kohli on Thursday announced that the upcoming Twenty20 World Cup in UAE will be his last as India’s captain in the format, capping weeks of speculation over the possibility of splitting the leadership of the national team.The announcement, made by Kohli on social media, came exactly a month before the tournament begins, and three days before the restart of the Indian Premier League (IPL), where Kohli captains the Royal Challengers Bangalore. “Understanding workload is a very important thing and considering my immense workload over the last 8-9 years playing all 3 formats and captaining regularly for last 5-6 years, I feel I need to give myself space to be fully ready to lead the Indian team in Test and ODI Cricket,” Kohli said in his statement. “I have given everything to the Team during my time as T20 Captain and I will continue to do so for the T20 Team as a batsman moving forward... Of course, arriving at this decision took a lot of time... I’ve decided to step down as the T20 Captain after this T20 World Cup in Dubai in October,” Kohli said in the statement. Kohli mentioned Rohit Sharma as “an essential part of the leadership group” and as one of the people he consulted before taking the call amid speculation that the latter will take over as captain. People aware of the matter said that Kohli called the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) president Sourav Ganguly and secretary Jay Shah to inform them of his decision. “I have been in discussions with Virat and the leadership team for the last six months and the decision has been thought through,” Shah said in a statement. Yet, only a few days back, BCCI officials denied reports that Kohli would step down after the World Cup. Kohli making the announcement on social media before the BCCI put out an official statement added to the intrigue. Also, while Kohli said in his statement that he took the decision feeling the need to give himself “space to be fully ready to lead Indian team in Test and ODI cricket”, Shah in his BCCI statement an hour later pointedly did not mention Kohli as Test or ODI captain: “Virat will continue to contribute as a player and as a senior member of the side in shaping the future course of Indian cricket,” Shah said. Board officials say leadership roles in other formats will now be decided by the selectors. “That’s the way it always is. The selectors will decide after the World Cup,” Sourav Ganguly said. Ganguly said he got a call from Kohli minutes before he made the announcement. “He told me this evening. I told him if that’s what he wanted, fair enough,” Ganguly said. Sharma, who has already led India in 19 T20s with great success, and has won an unmatched five IPL titles in eight seasons with Mumbai Indians, is the clear favourite to lead in the shortest format. Kohli saying that he discussed his decision with Sharma was in sharp contrast with the scenario two years ago, when there were reports of a rift between the two players. In 2020, senior BCCI officials had talks with the two players to ensure that there would be no division within the team, according an official who did not wish to be named. “Kohli was told that so long as he delivered as captain, he would remain in charge,” the official said. “Sharma was told that the captainship will happen when it has to happen.” When cricket resumed after the pandemic-induced lockdowns late last year, Sharma and Kohli seemed to have put their differences behind them. While Sharma has found new and unprecedented success as a Test opener, Kohli’s form as a batsman has been wobbly over the past several months. Kohli’s decision also comes a few weeks after reports that Ravi Shastri will step down as India’s head coach after the T20 World Cup, and just days after the BCCI decided that former captain MS Dhoni will be part of the coaching staff as a “mentor” at the World Cup. Will this flux affect team morale heading into a major ICC event? “I don’t think it will,” said Ganguly. “They are mature enough to handle these things.” Kohli’s record as India’s T20 captain is impressive. He took charge in 2017 after Dhoni stepped down, and has won 27 of the 45 T20s in which he has led India. His form with the bat too has been great — as captain, he has 1,502 runs at an average of 48.45 and a strike rate of 143.18. This makes him not just the highest run getter in T20s for India in this period, but also the third highest in the world. However, at ICC events across formats, Kohli’s lack of a title has seen the pressure on his captaincy build: India lost the inaugural World Test Championship to New Zealand in June, the final of the 2017 Champions Trophy to Pakistan, and lost in the semi-final at the 2019 ODI World Cup.The 2021 edition will be the first T20 World Cup in which Kohli will lead India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virat-kohli-to-step-down-as-t20-captain-after-world-cup-101631816349378.html
16-09-2021||India||Ahead of PM’s visit, India concerned about activities of Khalistani groups in US||India on Thursday expressed concern over a reported increase in activities by Pakistan-backed Khalistani separatist groups from US soil ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Washington for several crucial meetings next week. Ensuring security for the prime minister and his delegation is an important issue, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a weekly news briefing, in response to questions on reports that a banned Khalistani group had planned to organise protests in Washington and New York during Modi’s visit. “I do not know about the specific call given by the banned outfit. I am not going to comment on that. But we certainly take a lot of interest in ensuring the security of the prime minister and his delegation,” he said. Pointing to a new report by the think tank Hudson Institute about the spike in activities of Khalistani groups with apparent backing from Islamabad, Bagchi said this reflects Pakistan’s efforts to undertake activities against India from US soil. “We convey and share (this) with the host country – in this case, the US. If the organisation is banned, it should not be undertaking these kinds of activities,” he added. The issue was less about protests and more about security, Bagchi said. The organisations behind the protests had “problems in the past in terms of terrorist activities”, he said, without going into details. The Hudson Institute’s report makes it clear that Pakistan was continuing with its efforts to carry out anti-India activities, including terrorism. “I do hope authorities in the US will see that and understand the risks that this kind of activity poses for countries that have a shared vision against terrorism and violence,” Bagchi said. The think tank’s report said Pakistan-backed Khalistani groups, which are proscribed by India, are quietly gaining ground in the US and the American administration has been indifferent to appeals made by New Delhi to curb their operations. US-based Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) was banned by India in 2019 for its alleged anti-national activities. Modi will be in the US next week to participate in the maiden in-person summit of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad in Washington on September 24 and to address the UN General Assembly the following day. He is also expected to hold bilateral meetings with the leaders of Quad states – Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and US President Joe Biden. The Quad Summit is expected to focus on the situation in Afghanistan, measures to boost the grouping’s ambitious vaccine partnership that seeks to distribute one billion doses of anti-Covid-19 shots across the Indo-Pacific and China’s assertive actions across the region. The Biden administration is hosting the Quad Summit to send a signal that it remains a key player on the global stage, especially after widespread criticism of its handling of the chaotic withdrawal from Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-pm-s-visit-india-concerned-about-activities-of-khalistani-groups-in-us-101631815749919.html
16-09-2021||India||SAD to hold protest march to Parliament demanding repeal of farm laws on Sept 17||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has decided to hold a protest march to Parliament on Friday as the party will observe September 17 as 'Black Day' on completion of one year of enactment of the three contentious farms laws.SAD General Secretary Prem Singh Chandumajra said, "Our party will hold a protest march from Delhi's Gurdwara Rakabganj to the Parliament, demanding repeal of the three laws.""The march will be peaceful. We will give a memorandum to Government to repeal the 3 farm Laws. Even if we don't get permission to protest, we will protest peacefully and give our memorandum," he said.The top leadership of SAD will also participate in this program Tomorrow.In reply to Navjot Singh Sidhu's statement, Chandumajra said, "Navjot Singh Sidhu should not talk old things, if we talk about old things, Chief Minister and the Government of Punjab came to know about these farm bills first, when the Centre was taking the views of state governments, on which they did not raise any objection. Amrinder Singh's government supported the bill, the state government just asked the Centre to rethink the state revenue issue."He also said, "Shiromani Akali Dal was the only party who voted against the laws in parliament when congress and other parties walked out. This is on record."Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday attacked the Badals, accusing them of laying the foundation of the Centre's farm laws over which farmers are protesting for the past several months.The Congress leader alleged that one of the Centre's laws is a "photostat copy" of the Punjab Contract Farming Act, 2013 enacted during the previous SAD-BJP government led by Parkash Singh Badal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sad-to-hold-protest-march-to-parliament-demanding-repeal-of-farm-laws-on-sept-17-101631810730416.html
16-09-2021||India||PM Modi’s 71st birthday: Record Covid-19 vaccination, 20-day outreach programme among BJP’s agenda||The Bharatiya Janata Party is planning to achieve record Covid-19 vaccinations on September 17, the occasion of the 71st birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a day which the party has been celebrating as ‘Seva Diwas’ (Day of service) since 2014. The celebrations usually last a week. However, this year, in view of Modi’s 20 years in public life, his days as the chief minister of Gujarat included, the party’s outreach programme has been extended to a 20-day celebration.As part of its celebrations, the BJP has pitched record Covid-19 vaccinations on the day as its major agenda. Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday called on the people to get themselves vaccinated and also help others who are yet to receive their shots. “This would be a birthday gift for the prime minister,” Mandaviya said.‘सबको वैक्सीन, मुफ़्त वैक्सीन’ की PM @NarendraModi जी ने देश को सौग़ात दी है!कल हम सबके प्रिय प्रधानमंत्री जी का जन्मदिन है, चलो #VaccineSeva कर जिन्होंने वैक्सीन नहीं ली है, ऐसे अपनों को, परिजनों को और समाज के सभी तबकों को टीका लगवाकर, उनको जन्मदिन का उपहार देते हैं।The number of vaccinations that the BJP is aiming for is 1.5 crore doses on the day, news agency ANI reported quoting a senior BJP leader. While the country has managed to administer over 10 million doses in a single day at least two times earlier, the party’s national president JP Nadda had previously said that booth workers and health volunteers would assist in the vaccination drive on the day.Other celebrationsApart from the vaccinations, the BJP has also planned to distribute 14 crore ration bags with the picture of Modi printed on them to the people. Also, on October 2, on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, BJP workers will lead a large-scale cleanliness drive and also a campaign to encourage the use of Khadi and local products. The celebrations beginning on September 17 will continue till October 7.Further, BJP booth workers will send five crore postcards to the PM highlighting their commitment to public service.State BJP units chip inMadhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra are among some states where the BJP units have planned Covid-19 vaccination drives. MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan has planned the third ‘Maha Vaccination Abhiyan’ in his state on September 17 while the Karnataka government has planned a blood-donation campaign along with the vaccination drive.Similar celebrations have also been planned by the Maharashtra BJP, which would be inaugurated by former CM and the current leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis. An awareness campaign on plastic would also be conducted by the Maharashtra unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-71st-birthday-record-covid-19-vaccination-20-day-outreach-programme-among-bjp-s-agenda-101631810199732.html
16-09-2021||India||‘In touch with all concerned’: India on national abducted at gunpoint in Kabul||India said on Thursday it is in touch with various stakeholders to follow up reports about the abduction of an Indian national in the Afghanistan capital of Kabul.According to reports, Bansri Lal Arendeh was kidnapped at gunpoint in Kabul on Tuesday.“We are in touch with all concerned. We have seen reports about local authorities undertaking investigations into this matter. We will continue to monitor the situation,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a regular media briefing.There has been some confusion since Tuesday whether Arendeh was an Indian citizen or an Afghan Hindu. Asked about this issue, Bagchi replied, “I am given to understand that he is an Indian citizen but we are also checking that part.”He declined to go into details, citing the sensitivity of the matter and security concerns. Bagchi said a majority of Indian nationals in Afghanistan had been evacuated since the Taliban takeover of Kabul, though some were still in the country. The Indian side is still in touch with these people who were unable to return after operations at Kabul airport were suspended, he said. India has also raised the safe return of all those who wish to leave Afghanistan with the international community, and UN Security Council resolution 2593 emphasises the issue of safe travel by Afghan nationals and minorities, he said. “This is an important issue,” Bagchi said. There were reports that Arendeh’s family lives in Faridabad and that he was running a business in Kabul for the past two decades.Bagchi said in response to another question that it would be difficult to say anything definitive about the evacuation of the remaining Indians in Afghanistan and Afghan nationals till commercial flights resume from Kabul airport.“Our focus is that operations at Kabul airport resume. Then, it will be easier for us to bring back the people,” he said.It is believed several dozen Indian citizens are still in Afghanistan. More than 140 Afghan Sikhs and Hindus were also barred by the Taliban from accessing Kabul airport to take the last evacuation flight last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-touch-with-all-concerned-india-on-national-abducted-at-gunpoint-in-kabul-101631809809381.html
16-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: MEA says evacuations difficult until Kabul airport resumes and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Difficult to say how people will be evacuated until Kabul airport resumes’: MEAThe Union ministry of external affairs on Thursday said that it would be difficult to say how people would be evacuated from Afghanistan until the Kabul international airport resumes operations. Read moreNIA begins probing blast outside Bengal BJP MP Arjun Singh’s houseThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday started probing the recent bomb blasts outside the residence of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Arjun Singh at Bhatpara in West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas district. Read more17 including five employees injured in blast at Begusarai’s Barauni refinerySeventeen people including five employees were injured in a blast at Barauni Refinery in Bihar’s Begusarai district on Thursday. The blast occurred at around 11.45 am and its impact was such that window panes of some houses were damaged badly. Read moreSnapchat is bringing art to life via augmented reality and is taking you to ParisSnapchat has been exploring augmented reality (AR) for a while now through its lenses and now has added a new one that brings art to life, and is kicking it off with a Parisian experience. Read moreAbhay Deol, asked if he got due recognition from film industry, says 'stars have a PR machinery behind them'Actor Abhay Deol, who used to a poster child for parallel cinema in Bollywood, has said that he cannot complain about lack of recognition, especially since people still come up to him and appreciate his work. Read more'It has been made keeping future roadmap in mind': Sourav Ganguly on Virat Kohli's decision to step down as T20 captainThe Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) President Sourav Ganguly reacted to Virat Kohli's decision to step down as T20I captain of the Indian cricket team and explained that the decision was taken keeping the future roadmap in mind. Read moreDiljit Dosanjh posts incredible clip of couple dancing to his song Black & WhiteDiljit Dosanjh a few hours ago took to Instagram to share an interesting video of a couple dancing to the song Black & White from his latest album Moonchild Era. The video shows the couple Money and Abbey showcasing some cool dance moves. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mea-says-evacuations-difficult-until-kabul-airport-resumes-101631805279428.html
16-09-2021||India||NIA begins probing blast outside Bengal BJP MP Arjun Singh’s house||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday started probing the recent bomb blasts outside the residence of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Arjun Singh at Bhatpara in West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas district. Singh, who represents the local Barrackpore Lok Sabha constituency, said he gave his statement to NIA officers. The Union home ministry on Monday asked the NIA to probe the September 8 bomb attack outside Singh’s residence. Another crude bomb went off near his house around 9 am on Tuesday. The Centre has asked the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) to provide security for Singh in view of these incidents although all central armed police personnel deployed to protect BJP leaders in Bengal were recently withdrawn and the state government was asked to take over the responsibility. Led by a deputy inspector general of police, a 10-member team of the NIA reached Singh’s residence on Thursday afternoon and carried out forensic tests at the locations where the bombs had gone off. The officers also recorded the statements of Singh and his son Pawan, the local BJP legislator. “Two NIA officers talked to me. I told them how my home has been targeted,” said Singh. The MP and his son have alleged in their police complaints that these were attempts to kill them. The NIA team also went to the office of the Barrackpore police commissioner. Officers from Bhatpara police station earlier said that the bomb that went off on Tuesday was lying on the ground near a wall. Arjun Singh left the Trinamool Congress (TMC) prior to the 2019 polls that witnessed several political clashes in the Barrackpore region. Singh, who was then the legislator from Bhatpara, bagged the Barrackpore seat by defeating the TMC’s sitting MP Dinesh Trivedi. The violence, however, did not end. On September 8, at least three crude bombs were hurled by miscreants outside Singh’s residence. Eyewitnesses told police that two bombs hit the main gate of the house while a third landed inside the premises. The MP was not at home and no one was injured. Police arrested two people in this connection. Singh is also the BJP’s observer for the Bhawanipore assembly bypoll in Kolkata where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is contesting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-begins-probing-blast-outside-bengal-bjp-mp-arjun-singh-s-house-101631805668977.html
16-09-2021||India||24 ministers inducted in Gujarat CM Bhupendra Patel’s cabinet. Check portfolios||Gujarat chief minister Bhupendra Patel, who took charge of the top post just a few days back, inducted 24 new ministers into his cabinet on Thursday, a year ahead of the assembly elections in the state. No ministers from former CM Vijay Rupani’s ministry have been included in Patel's cabinet.Bhupendra Patel, 59, was sworn in as the 17th chief minister of Gujarat on Monday after the sudden resignation of Vijay Rupani.Patel will also keep the home department, general administration department, information and broadcast, industries, mines and minerals, capital projects, urban development, urban housing and Narmada and ports. It is being observed that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is aiming to make a significant impact ahead of next year’s assembly elections with the new ministry. Earlier in the day, Gujarat governor Acharya Devvrat administered the oath to 10 cabinet ministers and 14 ministers of state, including five ministers of state with independent charge.The fresh faces in Gujarat cabinet include former Assembly Speaker Rajendra Trivedi and former state BJP president Jitu Vaghani.Here is the complete list of the ministers under Bhupendra Patel’s leadership:Cabinet ministers:1. Rajendra Trivedi- Revenue, law and justice, and legislative and parliamentary affairs. 2. Jitu Vaghani- Education.3. Rushikesh Patel- Health and family welfare and medical education,  water resources and water supply.4. Purnesh Modi- Roads and building, transport, civil aviation, tourism and pilgrimage.5. Raghavji Patel- Agriculture and animal husbandry.6. Kanubhai Desai- Finance, energy and petrochemicals.7. Kiritsinh Rana- Forest, environment, climate change, and printing and stationery.8. Naresh Patel- Tribal development and food and civil supply.9. Pradip Parmar- Social justice and empowerment. 10. Arjunsinh Chauhan- Rural development and rural housing.Ministers of state:1. Mukesh Patel- Agriculture and energy and petrochemicals2. Nimisha Suthar- Tribal development, health and family welfare and medical education3. Arvind Raiyani- Transport, civil aviation, tourism and pilgrimage development. 4. Kuber Dindor- Higher and technical education, legislative and parliamentary affairs. 5. Kirtisinh Vaghela- Primary, secondary and adult education. 6. Gajendrasinh Parmar- Food and civil supply. 7. R C Makwana- Social justice and empowerment.8. Vinod Moradia- Urban development and urban housing.9. Deva Malam- Animal husbandry. Ministers of state with independent charge:1. Harsh Sanghvi- Home, disaster management and police housing; MoS in sports, youth and cultural activities, NRI, excise and prohibition, border security and prisons. 2. Jagdish Panchal- Cottage industries, cooperation, salt Industry and protocol, industries, forest and Environment, climate change and printing and stationery3. Brijesh Merja- Labour and Employment, Panchayats; MoS in rural development and rural Housing. 4. Jitu Choudhary- Kalpsar and fisheries, MoS in Narmada, water resources and water supply. 5. Manisha Vakil- Women and child development, junior minister in social justice and empowerment. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/24-ministers-take-oath-in-gujarat-cm-bhupendra-patel-s-cabinet-check-portfolios-101631792886866.html
16-09-2021||India||‘Difficult to say how people will be evacuated until Kabul airport resumes’: MEA||The Union ministry of external affairs on Thursday said that it would be difficult to say how people would be evacuated from Afghanistan until the Kabul international airport resumes operations. Mentioning that the evacuations would be easier once the airport starts running again, the ministry said that it is watching the situation in Afghanistan to bring back the Indians and Afghan nationals willing to come.“Until and unless ops resume at Kabul airport, it will be difficult to say how people will be evacuated. It will be easier once the operations resume. We are watching this, so that the remaining Indians and Afghans willing to come can be brought here,” news agency ANI quoted the ministry’s spokesperson Arindam Bagchi as saying.In its last update on August 27, the ministry had said that over 550 people, including more than 260 Indians, were evacuated from Afghanistan by India under the operation Devi Shakti. The airlift was carried out in six separate flights either from Kabul or Dushanbe. Bagchi had said that the number was excluding the Indian embassy personnel who were also being evacuated simultaneously. Further, Indian nationals were also evacuated through other “countries and partners,” he said. The ministry had also said that its focus was on evacuating Indian nationals from Afghanistan.The US took control of the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul following the Taliban’s rapid takeover of Afghanistan and the capital city. Earlier this month, the first international commercial flight, following the pull-out of US troops, left Kabul with 113 passengers comprising US and UK citizens among several other nationals, news agency Reuters reported.So far more than 120,000 people were taken out of Afghanistan by the US and allied nations since the Taliban began their takeover. On August 31, US President Joe Biden said that his administration had estimated between 100 and 200 citizens left in Afghanistan and had assured them they would be evacuated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/difficult-to-say-how-people-will-be-evacuated-until-kabul-airport-resumes-mea-101631802362233.html
16-09-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: 1959 — Crowds throng to see first TV show||Television came to India on Tuesday when the President, Dr Rajendra Prasad, formally inaugurated from the auditorium of the Vigyan Bhavan the first TV station set up by All India Radio in New Delhi. Thousands of men, women and children in Delhi and the adjoining villages witnessed the inauguration through nearly two dozen sets installed by the Government and a commercial concern. At places the crowds were so thick that those in charge of the installations had a hard time maintaining order. At the Social Education Centre in Paharganj the crowd became unwieldy and all doors had to be closed. Later the police had to be called in to prevent the crowd from crashing in. Nearly a thousand people witnessed the programme through a set installed at the Community Hall on Panchkuin Road. They sat in pin-drop silence, but when the sound mechanism temporarily stopped functioning, once or twice, they shouted and booed.Judging from the reactions of the audience, what seemed to have attracted them was the novelty of the show rather than any particular interest in the programme. Some at least expressed great disappointment and said they felt bored. Some wanted more songs and dances than dialogue.” There is too much of talk and little action,” said a middle-aged officegoer who was witnessing the programme along with his wife and two children. But for two scooter-rickshaw-drivers it was more attractive than business. They refused hirers to listen to the programme. In his inaugural speech, the President said that the launching of television marked “ a significant stage in the progress of broadcasting and tele-communications in India.” He said, “I remember what an excitement it caused when broadcasting was introduced in this country. One can well imagine how much more intriguing this new medium of mass contact would be to the common people in India.” He expressed the hope that television, apart from its cultural value “will go a long way in broadening the popular outlook, and bringing people in line with scientific thinking.”Welcoming the President, Dr B. V. Keskar, Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting, said the opening of a television station in the country was “a fitting climax to the all-round and continuous development” of Indian broadcasting.” Television as a means of mass communication, said Dr Keskar, was decidedly superior and more effectively than radio, because it was audio-visual. But the Minister cautioned against the medium becoming undesirable at a later stage. “It would be disastrous to allow it to distort the study habits of children,” he said. Dr Keskar said that because of foreign exchange difficulties, it was possible only to begin television service in the country on a small scale and warned that it might continue to be so for some more time. He, however, held out the hope that it would be possible to expand the service further during the third Five-Year Plan. Mr J. C. Mathur, Director-General of All India Radio, regretted that the people of Old Delhi were deprived of the facility of viewing television programmes in public as no sets could be installed partly due to technical and partly administrative difficulties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crowds-throng-to-see-first-tv-show-101631802549339.html
16-09-2021||India||PM Modi opens new defence offices, takes a dig at Central Vista revamp critics||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday took a dig at critics of the ambitious Central Vista revamp plan, saying that they are likely to ignore the good coming out of the project because their agenda is only to spread lies about what the government is doing. Modi’s comments came during the inauguration of defence office complexes at Kasturba Gandhi Marg and Africa Avenue that will together accommodate more than 7,000 defence officials. These officials are moving into the new offices from their decades-old workplaces in a clutch of pre-Independence era hutments in the vicinity of the North and South Blocks to make way for the Central Vista revamp. Some of these hutments served as barracks and as stables for British Army horses more than 75 years ago. “Those people who are forcefully opposing the Central Vista project will very cleverly stay quite on this aspect of project that offices have been created for 7,000 defence officials, because they know that their agenda of spreading lies will be exposed. But today the country is seeing what we are doing under the project,” the PM said. The total cost of the Central Vista revamp is estimated to be around ₹20,000 crore. The redevelopment has been criticised by the Opposition as wasteful expenditure at a time when the country is battling the Covid-19 pandemic. Addressing a gathering of defence officials at the Africa Avenue complex, the PM said that with the inauguration of the two complexes, India has taken another step in developing the nation’s capital according to the needs and aspirations of a new India in the country’s 75th year of India’s independence. He said that for decades, defence-related work was being carried out from hutments constructed during the Second World War to serve as stables and barracks. “This new defence office complex will strengthen the efforts of making the working of our defence forces convenient and effective,” he said. He said work on the two complexes has been completed way ahead of time --- it was to be completed in 24 months but took only 12 months. “When policies and intentions are clear, willpower is strong and efforts honest, everything is possible,” the PM said, adding that modern infrastructure played an important role in ease of living and ease of doing business. “The ongoing construction work of Central Vista is going on with this thought only,” he said. Optimal use of available land with various departments of the government was a priority, he said. The complex at Africa Avenue is spread across four blocks and offers a space of 5.08 lakh square feet while the KG Marg facility has three blocks and an office area of 4.52 lakh square feet. The new office complexes have been constructed at a cost of ₹775 crore provided by the defence ministry, with the work carried out by the ministry of housing and urban affairs as part of the Central Vista project. The two complexes together have parking space for 1,500 cars. According to the Central Vista plan approved by the Centre, the North and South Block office complexes will be turned into national museums, the Indira Gandhi National Centre will be relocated, and the National Archives will be remodelled. The Prime Minister’s residence will be shifted behind the existing South Block complex while the residence of the Vice President is proposed to be relocated behind North Block. HT on June 30 reported the vice president’s enclave and the new Parliament House will be the first buildings to be completed, and work on shifting the national museum to the North and South Block will commence last, in the elaborate plan for the Central Vista revamp that requires moving people and offices over the course of the next six years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-opens-new-defence-offices-takes-a-dig-at-central-vista-revamp-critics-101631801888749.html
16-09-2021||India||Gujarat CM Bhupendra Patel keeps home ministry, Kanubhai Desai finance minister||Gujarat chief minister Bhupendra Patel will keep the home ministry with him while Kanubhai Desai has been allocated the finance portfolio. There will be no deputy chief minister in the new Cabinet. As 24 new ministers took oath on Thursday to form a brand new Cabinet for Gujarat, the chief minister held the first meeting of his new Cabinet on Thursday. Besides home ministry, the chief minister will hold the charge of General Administration Department, Information and Broadcast, Industries, Mines and Minerals, Capital Projects, Urban Development, Urban Housing and Narmada and Ports, an official release said, PTI reported. While the portfolios are being distributed among the new ministers, the Gujarat Cabinet holds many surprises as no one from Vijay Rupani's Cabinet has been accommodated in the brand new Cabinet. As many as 21 of the 24 MLAs who took oath on Thursday are first-time ministers and the fresh inductions also include two women. Bhupendra Patel himself is a first-time minister. “Congratulations to all Party colleagues who have taken oath as Ministers in the Gujarat Government. These are outstanding Karyakartas who have devoted their lives to public service and spreading our Party’s development agenda. Best wishes for a fruitful tenure ahead,” PM Modi tweeted.Here is all you need to know about the new ministers of the Bhupendra Patel CabinetRajendra TrivediNominated as Speaker of the Gujarat Legislative Assembly in 2018, Trivedi is not a first time minister as he was the sports minister in the Rupani government before. The 67-year lawyer won from the Raopura seat in the Vadodara district for the second time in 2017. His association with the BJP goes back to the Jan Sangh time. As a lawyer, he handled cases related to the 2002 post-Godhra riots. Jitu VaghaniJitu Vaghani was the Gujarat BJP president till last year before CR Paatil took over. The 52-year- old politician's entry into electoral politics in 2007 was unsuccessful after he was defeated by senior Congress leader Shaktisinh Gohil in Bhavnagar (West). In his second attempt, Vaghani was successful in 2012 and retained the seat in 2017. He is a first-time minister.Rushikesh Patel61-year-old Patel is a two-time MLA from Visnagar in Mehsana district. He is the chairman of APMC at Mehsana and has also served as the BJP's Mehsana district president. Purnesh ModiPurnesh Modi was elected from the Surat (West) Assembly constituency in the 2013 by-election after sitting MLA Kishor Vankawala died and retained the seat in the 2017 polls. The first-time minister had filed a criminal defamation case against Rahul Gandhi over his comment regarding "Modi" surname during the 2019 Lok Sabha election campaign. Raghavji PatelA third-time MLA, Raghavij Patel was in the Congress and had switched side after voting against Congress Rajya Sabha candidate, late Ahmed Patel, in 2018. The Election Commission had invalidated his vote, which helped Ahmed Patel win and enter the Rajya Sabha. His victory as a BJP candidate in the 2019 by-election was his third as an MLA from the seat, which he had won twice in the past as a Congress candidate. Kiritsinh RanaLimbdi MLA Kiritsinh Rana has served as the minister of animal husbandry and forest and environment in two BJP governments. The 57-year-old was first elected as an MLA in 1995, and again in 2007, 2013 and 2020, the last two terms in by-elections. Naresh PatelHe is the MLA from the Scheduled Tribe-reserved Gandevi Assembly constituency in Navsari district. A first-term MLA, the 53-year-old is also the president of BJP's Navsari district. His assembly segment falls under the Navsari Lok Sabha constituency represented by state BJP president CR Paatil.Pradip ParmarHe is the MLA from Scheduled Cast-reserved Asarwa Assembly constituency of Ahmedabad. A first-time MLA, Parmar rose from being a booth-level worker to an MLA and he is now a cabinet minister. The 57-year-old's dedication to the party since the last more than three decades has paid off. Arjunsinh ChauhanHe is the BJP MLA from the Mahemdavad constituency. At 47, this first-time MLA from the constituency in Kheda district neighbouring Ahmedabad is one of the young faces of the Bhupendra Patel government. Kanubhai DesaiThe 70-year-old is the MLA from Pardi in Valsad district. He is a two-term MLA from the seat. He has been allocated the finance portfolio. Harsh SanghaviAll of 36 years of age, Sanghavi is a two-term MLA from Majura in Surat city. Sanghavi has won both the elections held in Majora after it was carved out as a separate assembly segment. A businessman, Sanghavi is into diamond jewellery and was the youngest general secretary of the Gujarat BJP when he held the post. Brijesh MerjaThe BJP MLA from the Morbi Assembly constituency who was earlier in the Congress. Merja is among the MLAs who left the Congress to join the BJP. He won the 2017 Assembly elections on a Congress ticket, then switched side to the ruling BJP and went on to win the 2020 by-election from the same seat (Morbi). Merja had resigned ahead of the Rajya Sabha election in 2020, leaving the Congress in a position where it could not win more than one seat. Jitu ChaudharyA leader from the tribal community in Valsad district, he also belongs to the crop of BJP MLAs who were earlier in the Congress and subsequently won Assembly by-elections as ruling party candidates. Chaudhary has won three-times from the Kaprada Assembly seat. He resigned from the Congress in 2020 ahead of the Rajya Sabha election. Manisha VakilShe is the MLA from Scheduled Caste-reserved Vadodara City Assembly constituency. She has won twice from the seat that was carved out after the 2008 delimitation exercise. She is one of the prominent women faces in the present government and a first-time minister. Jagdish PanchalHe is the MLA from the Nikol Assembly constituency in Ahmedabad, a seat from where he has won two-times. The 70-year-old is a businessman and till recently served as the Ahmedabad city BJP president.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-cm-bhupendra-patel-keeps-home-ministry-kanubhai-patel-finance-minister-101631800447906.html
16-09-2021||India||‘No trick of trade in healthcare; it’s reading, updating’: Dr Dang at HTNxt||The Indian diagnostic industry has been rapidly evolving over the years and has emerged to be the key component of the healthcare segment. Dr Dangs Lab has been a pioneering testing centre catering to patients for over three decades.Set up in Delhi in 1985, by Dr Navin Dang, at a time when the national capital had only a handful of private hospitals and the concept of an interactive diagnostic laboratory was unheard of, Dang Lab has had many firsts.It is among the first three labs to have started testing for H1N1 (swine flu) in 2009 and one of the first few private laboratories in Delhi to get permission to test samples for coronavirus.Dr Navin Dang, the director of Dangs Lab, and his CEO son, Dr Arjun Dang, offered insight into the diagnostics sector in HTNxt, a first-of-its-kind platform that is bringing together the Next-Gen leaders & newsmakers to discuss pertinent issues and offer innovative solutions for a better tomorrow.The father-son duo brought to fore two different perspectives from separate generations in the field of healthcare diagnostics.Mint’s Neetu Chandra Sharma asked the senior Dr Dang what motivated him, an alumnus of All India Institute of Medical Sciences, to become an entrepreneur than continuing in the conventional healthcare sector.“I was working with the AIIMS at that time. Those were the days when a lab was considered to be a place where samples would come, be processed and the reports sent back to the hospitals. The samples were collected from the hospital wards of the patients. There was no interaction with the patients,” Dr Navin Dang said, adding, “At that time in Delhi there were only four private hospitals and only a handful of labs. The demand for diagnostic tests was increasing, but it would take a long time for the reports to be ready. That’s not what I liked.”ALSO READ | How to create a successful startup? Learn from these women entrepreneursThe senior doctor said that he saw a vacuum in the diagnostics sector and found the role it played to be inadequate. “With the perception that I will be able to prove better services, better turnaround times for the tests; and that I will be able to interact with the patients and doctors, and empower them to take timely medical decisions, I started the Dangs Lab,” he said.However, the path was fraught with challenges. The senior Dr Dang said when the H1N1 virus struck in 2009, the then chief minister had called a handful of private labs and asked how many of them can start testing the samples for the infection.“To be very honest, I had no clue. But I knew that I could do it by investing and by studying and learning. I told the chief minister that I can do it in 15 days. The same evening, I was called to the national television where I repeated the same statement,” Dr Navin Dang said.“From ordering the equipment and with the help of my team, I took this endeavour with the help of my teachers and the NCDC and all others I could seek help from. Within 15 days I set up one of the best molecular biology labs in the city and started the tests from 16th day onwards,” he added.The doctor who authored many research papers in international journals and has been part of various government-appointed committees said there’s nothing called the trick of the trade in the field of healthcare. “It is knowing the trade, and you can only know by reading and studying, and keeping yourself abreast with the latest technology,” he said.“Doctors are doctors as long as they are students. Doctors should know how to say I don’t know,” the senior doctor said.The senior doctor’s son, Dr Arjun Dang, carried on the legacy by becoming the CEO of the Dr Dangs Lab upon his return from London in 2016. He is also accredited for setting up India’s first drive-through centre for sample collection of Covid-19 patientsHe said when he was in London pursuing his fellowship in pathology two distinct paths lay in front of him. “One was to continue in the UK and the other was coming back to carry forward this legacy, which is a lab known for its unparalleled quality and patient care, the bases of which were based on protocols and processes laid down by my own parent. I chose to take the latter path knowing I will have big shoes to fill in, but with a crystal-clear aim to make a difference,” Dr Arjun said.The young doctor said echoed his father’s views that there is no dearth of learning in the field of diagnostic healthcare.“Ever since last year in March when we started testing and the pandemic came to India, we’ve had a learning that has been a constant. With the science behind the virus itself evolving, on a weekly or a daily basis, it required a lot of learning, re-learning and recalibration processes, thinking and then putting forward our best,” Dr Arjun explained.ALSO READ | 'Be wild, have audacious plans': Naveen Tewari's mantra for entrepreneursLaboratory medicine today is an established field. There are several players thriving across India. But what was the scenario when Dr Dang Lab was started?“Those days diagnostic was considered to be a hole in the wall kind of speciality. I tried my best to change the whole thing, by bringing quality tests, increasing the variety of tests which were there and bringing in automation,” Dr Navin Dang said.The senior doctor said the patients have now become extremely conscious of the quality adherence. “Unfortunately, in the past one-and-a-half years we have seen a paradigm shift in the way there is so much teleconsultation going on. If the patients are not meeting the doctors how do reach a decision that is dependent upon what the doctors find," he said.However, the junior Dr Dang differs from his father as far as the technological shift is concerned. He stressed that the labs must aim to build a huge online presence and provide the patients with increased accessibility and good user experience — from the time of booking till the time they get their reports and assistance to understand the reports.The laboratories today have brought diagnostics to the doorstep of the consumers, which is keeping pace with teleconsultations with doctors. The Indian laboratory diagnostic industry is estimated at $6 billion is growing at a very healthy rate of 13-14% per annum. Dr Arjun Dang said his focus is on 3Ps — patience, passion and perseverance — to stay ahead of the curve in the cut-throat market of competitors. “It is a constant process that would require us to stay updated and abreast with latest technologies, new practices all over the world and what is happening in the diagnostic segment, and read on a constant basis so we can adapt to these new technologies and train our teams,” Dr Arjun Dang explained.“We need to focus on the granular details that provide value to a particular patient. Value over volume is something that has been going on for many years, and I am here to take it forward to the best of my abilities," he added.HTNxT, a thought leadership programme, is being held virtually for the first time. The theme for the inaugural year is 'Leading the change'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-trick-of-trade-in-healthcare-it-s-reading-updating-dr-dang-on-htnxt-101631798824046.html
16-09-2021||India||Ex-AIADMK minister Veermani raided; FIR says his assets 650% more than income||CHENNAI: Officials of Tamil Nadu’s Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) carried out searches at 28 locations linked to former AIADMK minister KC Veeramani on charges of assets disproportionate to his known sources of income.Veeramani is the third leader of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) to face a corruption probe after MK Stalin-led Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) government came to power in May this year. Veeramani hasn’t spoken on the corruption charges levelled against him but his supporters promptly gathered outside his house to protest the raids. His party also issued a statement, complaining that the raids were prompted by “political vendetta”.The First Information Report (FIR) registered by DVAC on Wednesday said Veeramani was “involved in corrupt activities” and acquired assets disproportionate to his income by 654 per cent between 2016 and 2021 when he was a minister of commercial taxes in the AIADMK government.“Searches are ongoing in 28 places across the state and including four in Chennai,” a senior DVAC official said on conditions of anonymity, as he is not authorised to speak to the media.The two-time legislator won the 2011 and 20116 assembly elections from the Jolarpet seat in Tirupathur district 200 km north of Chennai. KC Veermani, however, lost the seat to his DMK rival in this year’s assembly elections by a little less than 1,100 votes.Arappor Iyakkam, a non-profit which first filed a complaint against Veeramani, alleged that the AIADMK leader started indulging in corruption in 2011 when he first became a minister in the J Jayalalithaa government and oversaw departments of school education and Tamil culture apart from holding additional charge as health minister.It estimated that he holds disproportionate assets worth ₹76 crore between 2011 and 2021.In the FIR, the DVAC said investigators decided to focus on his second term since he held a charge of the sensitive commercial taxes department. During this period, his assets increased from ₹25.9 crore to ₹56.6 crore with his income estimated to be ₹4.3 crore and expenses at ₹2.56 crore, the FIR said.The FIR said Veermani acquired properties and pecuniary resources in his name and in the name of his mother, C Maniyamal.The FIR, which accuses him of criminal misconduct under the Prevention of Corruption Act, said he was estimated to have acquired assets worth ₹28.7 crore, “which works out to be 654% more than his total income.The AIADMK has already formed an internal legal committee to help party leaders fight cases registered against him by the DMK government. Former transport minister MR Vijayabhaskar was the first prominent AIADMK leader to be raided by the DVAC team in July this year. DVAC officials had then claimed to have seized ₹25.5 lakh in cash, sale deeds, and other documents.In August, DVAC went after AIADMK heavyweight and former municipal administration minister SP Velumani, who is known to be close to former chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami.Last year, the DMK, while still in the opposition, submitted a list of corruption charges to outgoing Governor Banwrilal Purohit against half a dozen AIADMK ministers, and later in the runup to the assembly elections, promised to establish a special court to try such graft cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exaiadmk-minister-veermani-raided-fir-says-his-assets-650-more-than-income-101631797508714.html
16-09-2021||India||Centre approves govt guarantee up to ₹30,600 cr for bad bank||The Union Cabinet has approved government guarantee up to ₹30,600 crores for security receipts to be issued by National Asset Reconstruction Company Limited (NARCL), finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Thursday. Briefing the media on the decisions taken by the Cabinet on Wednesday, Sitharaman said that an asset quality review of banks that were conducted in 2015 revealed a high incidence of Non-Performing Assets (NPAs).Since then, the government has executed its 4Rs strategy: recognition; resolution; recapitalisation; and reforms, to recover over ₹5 lakh crore, the finance minister said. She noted that the banking reforms have turned losses into profits.“In 2018, just two out of 21 public sector banks were profitable. But in 2021, only two banks reported losses,” she said.NARCL has been set up by banks to aggregate and consolidate stressed assets for their subsequent resolution. While there are existing asset reconstruction companies (ARCs), the government suggests that they have been helpful in the resolution of stressed assets particularly for smaller value loans.According to the finance ministry, additional alternatives are required due to the large stock of legacy NPAs. The Central government's guarantee of up to ₹30,600 crore will back Security Receipts (SRs) issued by NARCL and the guarantee will be valid for five years."I had announced in Budget 2021-22 with an intention to set up an asset reconstruction company and an asset management company to take over the existing stressed assets like loans," Sitharaman said.The government also announced the setting up of India Debt Resolution Company Limited in which the public sector banks and public financial institutions will have a maximum of 49% stake while the rest will be for private players. PSBs will also have 51% ownership in NARCL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-approves-govt-guarantee-up-to-30-600-cr-for-bad-bank-101631794740796.html
16-09-2021||India||Timely surgery along with antifungal medicines lifesaving for mucormycosis patients||Timely surgery along with administration of antifungal medicines significantly reduced mortality in patients with Covid-19 Associated Mucormycosis (CAM), found a pre-print study of 155 patients by doctors from Max Hospital-Saket. The hospital recorded 11.9% mortality among those who received surgical intervention along with drugs as compared to 50% in those who did not receive surgery. The age of the patient also significantly co-related to whether they survived, with the hospital recording 9.8% mortality in those below the age of 45 years and 40% mortality in those above the age of 75 years. The data from the hospital shows that diabetes and use of steroid for the treatment of the underlying coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were significant risk factors for getting the fungal infection – 91.6% of the patients had a history of use of steroid and 78.7% had diabetes. The severity of Covid-19 was also a risk factor – 73.6% of the patients who came back with mucormycosis needed hospitalisation for their initial Covid-19. “We need to understand that mucormycosis is not a new disease; diabetes and use of steroids that can suppress the immune system are known risk factors. In addition, Covid-19 also increases the risk of the infection. Ferritin level are high in Covid-19 patients; ferritin contains iron which also predisposes people to mucormycosis,” said Dr Budhiraja. However, the mortality did not depend on the diabetes status or steroid use, as per the study that was recently uploaded on the pre-print server Medrxiv. “The two things that save a CAM patient are early diagnosis and aggressive treatment. Surgeries saved lives. What we realised was that medical management – by only administering antifungal medicines – resulted in higher mortality. If you see the data, over 70% of the patients who developed mucormycosis were diabetics and we had to determine whether they should undergo surgery. 135 of the 155 patients included in our study underwent surgery,” said Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, first author of the paper and the clinical director of Max healthcare. Higher deaths were reported in patients who were in intensive care units as opposed to wards; and in those who were on mechanical ventilators as opposed to non-invasive ventilators. “This is a natural co-relation; ICU admission and need for mechanical ventilation are indicative of the severity of the disease. Most patients recovered from Covid-19 and reached the hospital with mucormycosis on an average three weeks later,” said Dr Budhiraja. Only 18 of the 155 patients had simultaneous Covid-19 and mucormycosis infections. Mortality was also high – 50% -- in disseminated mucormycosis, where the patient had the infection in their sinus as well as lungs. Nearly 9.9% mortality was reported in patients who had the infection only in their nose, 23.9% in those with the infection in their nose and eye, and 18.2% in those with infection in their nose, eye, and brain. Mucormycosis is a rare and deadly fungal infection that usually happens in immunocompromised patients such as those who have cancer or have had transplant surgery. It usually happens in the nose and eye and results in death of tissue resulting in a black discolouration. Surgery for mucormycosis removed this necrotised or dead tissue. If left untreated, the infection can kill nearly half of those it infects. The Max study, however, put the average mortality in patients with CAM at 16.8%. Dr Budhiraja also said none of the 155 patients were from their hospital but had been referred from other hospitals and states. “It is clear that those who had extensive disease had poorer outcome. Around 40 of the patients came to us with extensive spread of the disease – there was a delay not only in reporting to hospitals but also in starting treatment with antifungals due to shortage of Amphotericin B at the time,” said Dr Budhiraja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/timely-surgery-along-with-antifungal-medicines-lifesaving-for-mucormycosis-patients-101631796668436.html
16-09-2021||India||D Raja meets Kanhaiya Kumar, rubbishes reports of latter joining Congress||Communist Party of India general secretary D Raja met party leader Kanhaiya Kumar here on Thursday amid intense speculations of the latter’s joining the Congress party.“I did ask him about the speculations. And after our conversation, I want to condemn these ongoing speculations. He is the youngest member of our national executive and as asset for the party,” Raja told HT.But a section of the party is sceptical as Kumar, arguably the most poplar CPI leader among the young people, has remained silent about the rumours on public platforms. He has met Rahul Gandhi recently—a step widely seen as a precursor to his joining of the Congress party.Raja, however, defended Kumar and said, “He is a member of our national executive (equivalent to CPIM politburo). He is free to meet any political leader. Would you speculate if he meets Sitaram Yechury? Earlier, he has met other political leaders too.”Raja and Kumar met at the Ajoy Bhawan, the CPI headquarters in New Delhi.Also Read | Kanhaiya trashes talks of joining CongressIn the last election, Kumar was the CPI candidate in Begusarai but lost the election. His popularity soared during his tenure as the president of the JNU students union even as he courted major controversies.CPI leaders claimed that Kumar has refuted the speculations in his personal meetings with CPI leaders. He has been appointed in the central executive of the party and is currently its youngest member of the top executive body. But some Congress leaders are hopeful that Kumar will join the party at some point. The Congress also requires a young, dynamic leader in Bihar where its political fortunes have plummeted over the years.Meanwhile, CPI MP Binoy Viswam claimed that the news on Kumar is nothing but fake. “He called me just now, from Ajoy Bhawan. He is the NEC member of the party who is deeply committed to the communist cause,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/draja-meets-kanhaiya-kumar-rubbishes-reports-of-latter-joining-congress-101631796008263.html
16-09-2021||India||Hard to justify not having physical courts when schools, malls are open: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday said that the absence of having physical courts is hard to justify at a time when schools, malls and metro rail have opened.Not finding senior lawyers coming to the Supreme Court despite standard operating procedure (SOP) put in place to permit hybrid hearing (physical and virtual hearing) of cases on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursday, two separate benches of the Supreme Court expressed their angst with one saying in a lighter vein that “mandamus (order) needs to be issued to enforce physical presence of lawyers” while another bench giving priority for listing of case for those lawyers who agreed to appear physically.The bench of justices Vineet Saran and Aniruddha Bose said, “Schools are open, malls are open, and the Metro rail is open. How do you justify that only the Supreme Court is not open. How do you justify that you will go to the market but not come to the Court. We (judges) are coming every day to court.”The bench went on to post two matters on September 23 and 30 asking lawyers appearing in the case to appear physically. “Most of the regular matters listed before us are lengthy matters that require physical arguments. We are also missing seeing lawyers face to face. We will be there to welcome you openly. Even the lighter moments during arguments are missing during virtual hearing,” the bench remarked.Earlier in the day, another bench of the Supreme Court felt that lawyers should begin to come to court. A bench of justices S Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari said, “It seems we have to issue a writ of mandamus to ensure lawyers appear in court.”The remark evoked frank responses from three senior lawyers – Dushyant Dave, Ranjit Kumar and C Aryama Sundaram, who had their own reasons to avoid coming to court. Dave, a former president of the Supreme Court Bar Association was candid in stating that the SOP issued by Supreme Court for beginning hybrid hearing from September 1 was passed without consulting lawyers.Also Read | Will give report in a month, says panel probing Jayalalithaa’s death to SC“The registry of the Supreme Court has issued the SOP ex-parte (without hearing the other side). They should have consulted the Bar. We too are anxious to attend the court,” Dave said.Senior advocate Ranjit Kumar was forthright to expose the lacunae in the SOP that required lawyers to obtain a Special Entry pass for each case, wait in the library and enter courtroom just before the case hearing after following the safety processes required due to Covid-19. Physical hearing was restricted to only 20 persons at a given time.“We are missing the courts as sitting on the chair all day long is not a good feeling. But if I have three matters in the Supreme Court, I cannot go without taking three separate passes and the accompanying permissions,” Kumar said. He added that not all courts are open to physical hearing. “Some courts have specifically mentioned that they don’t want physical hearing,” Kumar told the court.Echoing the concerns of the Bar, Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) President and senior advocate Vikas Singh said, “I had predicted that this would happen as the SOP creates many restrictions on movement of lawyers within the high security zone of the Supreme Court.”The SCBA – having 13,000 lawyers as its members –wrote a letter to the Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana on August 30 stating, “The SOP is a non-starter as our members would not like to take the option for physical hearing with so many conditions attached.” The SCBA has been in favour of a wider opening up in the court citing that the situation is conducive with Covid positivity rate dropping to as low as 0.04%.SCBA president said they are yet to hear from the CJI on its letter. “It is absurd how the Supreme Court has gone about hybrid hearing without discussing with us. Had this SOP been shown to us before, we would have outrightly rejected it. They have not even responded to our letter,” Singh said.There are lawyers who have preferred to appear through virtual court proceedings for safety concerns and in the interest of aged and sick parents at home.Senior advocate C Aryama Sundaram appearing before the bench headed by justice Nazeer said, “We all are anxious to see you physically, but it is not the courts but the corridors, the entry/exit gates that we fear.” The lawyer was referring to the fact that while courtrooms are to be sanitised under the SOP, there is no corresponding provision for other areas used by lawyers. Senior lawyer Meenakshi Arora informed the court that she preferred virtual hearing as she had aged parents at home.The SCBA had begun vaccination drive for its members in March and by now, most lawyers have received both doses of the vaccine. The judges and staff of the Supreme Court have also been vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hard-to-justify-not-having-physical-courts-when-schools-malls-are-open-sc-101631793788133.html
16-09-2021||India||Dubai Expo 2020: India pavilion crucial, says UAE||India will have one of the most strategic pavilions at the Dubai Expo 2020 that will aim to foster solutions to the world’s biggest challenges, United Arab Emirates ambassador Ahmed AlBanna said on Thursday.The Indian pavilion is crucial, both in terms of location and size, for the expo that is expected to draw 25 million visitors, the envoy told a media briefing. Each Indian state will be given an opportunity to showcase its economy and culture at the pavilion.The expo, which was postponed for a year because of the Covid-19 pandemic, will begin on October 1 and run till March 31, 2022. The Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) will supervise the Indian pavilion, which will be retained and run by the Indian government even after the expo.Also Read | Australia to get nuclear-powered submarines as first initiative of AUKUSThe theme for the expo is “Connecting minds, creating the future”, and the event has the sub-themes of opportunity, mobility and sustainability. The sub-themes are aimed at unlocking the potential of communities to shape the future, creating smarter and more productive movement of people, goods and ideas, and living in balance with the world.AlBanna said the UAE had eased Covid-19-related travel restrictions on all Indian nationals holding visit, tourist or work visas about two weeks ago. A mechanism has also been created for expediting the issuance of visas of all categories, he said.The envoy highlighted the importance of cooperation between India and the UAE in key sectors such as IT, education and healthcare for shaping the future of both countries. These factors are also important for creating the right workforce in the aftermath of the pandemic, he said.AlBanna said the expo will also boost a key goal of the UAE and India – boosting the traditional people-to-people interactions between the two countries.FICCI secretary general Dilip Chenoy said India will have a strong participation in the 11 theme weeks of the expo that will focus on urban development, water, space, tolerance and inclusivity, climate and bio-diversity and health.AlBanna said Indian leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, had made a strong commitment to the success of the expo. Modi conveyed his best wishes for the expo during a phone conversation with UAE Crown Prince Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.Two-time Oscar-winning composer AR Rahman will mentor and creatively lead the Firdaus Women’s Orchestra and put his name to a studio at the expo site. The studio will remain post-event and boost Dubai’s arts credentials as an international music hub.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dubai-expo-2020-indian-pavilion-crucial-says-uae-101631792168601.html
16-09-2021||India||Gujarat to organise mega vaccination drive against Covid-19 on Sept 17||A mega vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will be held in Gujarat on Friday, a senior health official said on Thursday, adding the aim is to cover more than 3.5 million eligible beneficiaries and also ensure 100% vaccination in 7,500 villages of the state.Speaking to reporters in the capital city of Gandhinagar, additional chief secretary (health) Manoj Aggarwal said that beneficiaries who are yet to receive their first dose and those who are due for their second dose will be covered under Friday’s vaccination drive.Aggarwal said that preparations for the mega inoculation drive, especially to cover people in rural areas, have been completed and an online review meeting was held with the district collectors and municipal corporations to make the campaign a success.Since the beginning of the vaccination drive in January this year, authorities in Gujarat have administered more than 53.3 million vaccine doses to eligible beneficiaries till now. More than 38.6 million beneficiaries have been given the first dose and the remaining 14,688,469 are fully vaccinated.Claiming that Gujarat is leading among the states with regard to the vaccination coverage, additional chief secretary (health) Manoj Aggarwal also told reporters on Thursday that 100% of the beneficiaries above the age of 18 haver received the first dose across 5906 villages, 104 primary health centres, 14 urban health centres and 17 talukas.The senior government official added the state government has set up a robust storage facility for vaccines with six zone-level stores, 41 district and corporation-level stores and 2,236 cold chain points operational to meet the requirement.Gujarat has so far recorded 825,655 cases, 815,423 discharges, 150 active cases and 10,082 deaths due to the coronavirus disease. On Wednesday, the state saw 15 cases and 19 more recoveries while no patients succumbed to Covid-19, keeping the toll unchanged.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-to-organise-mega-vaccination-drive-against-covid-19-on-sept-17-101631791528033.html
16-09-2021||India||Covid vulnerability may increase in October-November, Centre indicates||Without mentioning the third wave, the threats of which are looming large in India, the Centre on Thursday said that the country's Covid vulnerability may increase in October, November. Several projections earlier stated that the third wave of the pandemic may hit the country during that time. However, with over 62% of the population partially vaccinated, the situation will be different from the first and the second wave. The coming two, three months are crucial as whenever any surge is seen anywhere in the country, it has to be curbed immediately, Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul said during the press meet of the Union health ministry. On the question of increased vulnerability later this year, Dr Paul said projections say October and November are the most crucial months. "There are enough data regarding this in the public domain. These are also the months of festivities and flu. We have to exercise special caution regarding these two months," Dr Paul said. "Even if there is any small surge, it should not be allowed to grow," Dr Paul said adding that festivities have to be kept at a low key.While the focus will be on preventing the infection through social distancing and vaccination, administration on the other hand must be increasing their capacity to handle any future rise. “Now we know better how to provide care and treatment in home isolation,” Dr Paul said. The Covid situation in the country is stabilising with the weekly positivity rate for the last 11 weeks is below 3%. The situation of Kerala has also improved, though 68% daily cases are still being reported from Kerala, the health ministry said. "We have been seeing some decreasing infections in Kerala. Other states are also on the path of averting future surge. However, festivals are approaching and sudden increase in population density creates a conducive environment for virus spread," Dr Balram Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research said.The word of caution from the Centre comes amid reports of antibodies dropping massively within four months of the Covid shot. A recent study of 614 fully vaccinated health workers in India revealed that within four months of the first shot, there is a huge drop in antibodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vulnerability-may-increase-in-october-november-centre-indicates-101631789940596.html
16-09-2021||India||Will give report in a month, says panel probing Jayalalithaa’s death to SC||The Commission of Inquiry probing the death of former Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa told the Supreme Court on Thursday that it is in a position to submit its report within a month as only four witnesses remain to be examined.The commission headed by Justice (Retd) A Arumughaswamy, set up by the Tamil Nadu government in September 2017, stated that it had examined 154 witnesses in connections with its probe into the circumstances leading to the former chief minister’s hospitalisation at Chennai’s Apollo Hospital, and the 75 days of treatment culminating in her death on December 5, 2016.On April 26, 2019, the Supreme Court stayed the commission proceedings on a petition filed by Apollo Hospital questioning the scope of inquiry.Dealing with the application by the Tamil Nadu government for vacating the stay, a bench of justices S Abdul Nazeer and Krishna Murari agreed to hear the case next Thursday.Also Read | Petition in SC seeks order that HCs don’t dispense with virtual court hearingsAppearing for the commission, senior advocate Ranjiit Kumar said, “We have examined over 154 witnesses and only four witnesses remain. The commission is in a position to submit its report within a month.”The state government was represented by senior advocate Dushyant Dave who requested the court to have the matter at the earliest as the state government required to make short submissions on its application to vacate the stay and allow the commission to complete its proceedings.An application filed by the state last month for early hearing of the case said, “The applicant (state government) is incurring an expenditure of over ₹4.26 lakh per month towards the salary for the staff of the Commission of Inquiry and therefore, it would be in the interest of justice if the commission is permitted to conclude its reference and submit a final report to the government of Tamil Nadu.”The application also stated that till April 2019, the commission had completed examination of 154 witnesses which included 56 doctors attached to Apollo hospital, five doctors from AIIMS, 12 government doctors including the medical board of five doctors constituted by Tamil Nadu government, 22 paramedical and other staff of Apollo hospital, and 59 other witnesses.VK Sasikala, the close aide of former chief minister Jayalalithaa, was also represented in court by advocate Vivek Singh who said the commission is not correct in saying that only four witnesses remain to be examined. “The commission has allowed our application to recall 13 witnesses. In this connection, we are yet to examine and cross-examine these witnesses,” he said.Senior advocate C Aryama Sundaram appearing for Apollo Hospital told the court that he was yet to argue his objections against the commission. In the petition, Apollo claimed that the commission was biased having preconceived views about the petitioner hospital, its doctors and staff. The commission denied this allegation it in its submissions given to court.The commission said, “The Commission of Inquiry under the 1952 Act has remained and remains non-partisan and refrains from taking any adversarial position either against or in favour of the petitioner (Apollo hospital) or the government of Tamil Nadu.”Prior to coming to the Supreme Court, Apollo hospital had approached the Madras high court to stall the commission proceedings that was denied. The HC, after going through the terms of reference had held, “The commission can very well decide the appropriateness, adequacy or inadequacy and efficacy of the treatment given to the chief minister of the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-give-report-in-a-month-says-panel-probing-jayalalithaa-s-death-to-sc-101631789948898.html
16-09-2021||India||Covid-19: Fully vaccinated people in India now higher than in these 6 countries, says Centre||With 184 million beneficiaries fully vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) so far, the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday said that the country is leading the vaccination against the disease globally. The ministry also shared the number of individuals fully immunised in other major economies such as the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Japan and Brazil.#IndiaFightsCoronaIndia is leading the global #COVID19 vaccinations with the world's #LargestVaccineDrive! More than 184 million individuals fully vaccinated so far.#We4Vaccine pic.twitter.com/jRxXHzdkaf“India is leading the global #COVID19 vaccinations with the world's #LargestVaccineDrive! More than 184 million individuals fully vaccinated so far,” the ministry tweeted.Also read | Biden admin pressing India to resume export of Covid vaccines: ReportAccording to the data shared by the ministry, 179.28 million people have been fully vaccinated in the US followed by 72.80 million people in Brazil. Japan has fully immunised 65.21 million people against the pandemic while the count in Germany stood at 51.71 million people. The UK, one among the earliest countries to approve vaccines and inoculate its citizens, has so far inoculated 44.05 million of its people with two doses and France has fully vaccinated 42.62 million people. All data have been published based on the online portal ourworldindata.org, the ministry noted.Among the countries listed by the ministry, barring India, all countries have either started administering or are in discussions about administering booster vaccine shots, according to several news reports.Meanwhile, in neighbouring China, more than a billion people have now been fully vaccinated against the virus, the country’s national health commission (NHC) said on Thursday. This translates to over 70% people in the country have received two doses of the vaccine in one of the largest vaccination drives in the world. Earlier on Wednesday, the NHC also informed that more than 2.15 billion doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered to beneficiaries.As many as 6,451,423 doses of the vaccine were administered in India in the 24-hour period ending 7am on the day, the ministry said, with which, the cumulative number of doses administered in the country crossed the 765-million mark. The country also saw over 30,000 new Covid-19 cases and the active caseload stood at 342,923, the ministry’s latest update showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-fully-vaccinated-people-in-india-now-higher-than-in-these-6-countries-101631788896466.html
16-09-2021||India||For second consecutive year, Varanasi’s historic Ramlila cancelled due to Covid-19||The well-known and historic Ramlila of Ramnagar will not be staged in Varanasi this year for the second consecutive time after the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country in March 2020.The royal family of Kashi, the organiser of the Ramlila, decided to postpone the 200- year-old event keeping in mind the fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic. Kunwar Anant Narayan Singh of the royal family of Kashi informed Commissioner of Police, Varanasi, A Satish Ganesh about the decision of the family through a letter. The letter address to the Commissioner reads, “This is to inform you that keeping in mind the present scenario (Covid-19 pandemic), like last year this year too, it has been decided to postpone the famous Ramnagar’s Ramlila so that the people of Kashi are protected from the viral infection by fulfilling the Covid-19 guidelines.” A senior police officer said that a letter was received on Wednesday about the decision of the royal family to postpone the Ramlila this year.Though the event was not staged last year too, Chaupais (couplets) of Ramcharitmanas were recited from Anant Chaturdashi for the next one month. Vijay Yadav Ballu, who likes watching Ramlila, said, “I am disappointed over the cancellation of the historical Ramlila. I hope that Covid-19 ends and next year the famous Ramlila is staged in a grand manner. Traditionally, the Ramlila begins on Anant Chaturdashi in Ramnagar every year. It is staged for one month annually. It is held under the open sky every evening till midnight. Lanterns are lit up for the people to enjoy the festivities.The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) has also recognised the event as an intangible world cultural heritage.The Ramlila is staged in the backdrop of the Ramnagar fort under the autumn sky.Traditional lamps are the only source of light, which lends an ethereal feeling to the natural surroundings.Each year, children are selected and training is imparted to hone their dramatic skills so that they can play protagonist Lord Rama and other central characters such as Goddess Sita, Laxman, Bharat and Shatrughan.In a total span of 238 years, this is the second occasion when the Ramlila has been cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-second-consecutive-year-varanasi-s-historic-ramlila-cancelled-due-to-covid19-101631789107754.html
16-09-2021||India||Retired justice refuses honorarium for overseeing probe in Bengal violence||Entrusted by the Calcutta high court to oversee the functioning of the special investigation team (SIT) formed to probe incidents of post-poll violence in Bengal, retired chief justice of the Calcutta, Bombay and Kerala high courts, Manjula Chellur, has refused to accept any honorarium. The retired judge was offered ₹10 lakh by the West Bengal government. The sum was fixed by the high court. “We have received a communication from Justice Manjula Chellur graciously stating that she is not inclined to receive the honorarium fixed by the court. We accept the request. The state may not pay any honorarium to her. However, all other directions in the order dated September 3, 2021, may be adhered to,” the bench of Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj said on Thursday. In a September 3 order, the court asked the chief secretary to provide Justice Chellur with an accommodation befitting a chief justice and all arrangements for travelling. She was the first woman chief justice of the Calcutta high court and the first woman judge of the Karnataka high court. She retired in 2017. Calcutta high court’s five-judge bench headed by justice Bindal on August 19 ordered a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into all allegations of post-poll murder and rape and a parallel probe by an SIT into the other allegations. Also Read | Kishore Datta, Bengal’s 4th advocate general since 2011, resigns like the restThe court said the functioning of the SIT, which would comprise three senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officers from Bengal, would be overseen by a retired judge of the Supreme Court. The high court appointed retired chief justice Chellur on September 3 as no retired judge of the apex court was available. The court has appointed three IPS officers Suman Bala Sahoo, Ranveer Kumar and Kolkata Police commissioner Soumen Mitra for the SIT. On September 2, the state government appointed 10 more IPS officers to assist the SIT in probing the allegations of arson and loot. On June 18, the Calcutta high court asked the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to probe all allegations raised from across the state after the March-April polls. The BJP has alleged that more than 30 workers have been killed since May 2 when the election results were declared. The high court ordered the CBI probe after studying the final report the NHRC submitted on July 13. The Bengal government has moved the Supreme Court challenging the CBI probe. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal appeared for the state on September 13 and questioned the neutrality of the NHRC team that visited parts of Bengal and Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/retired-justice-refuses-honorarium-for-overseeing-probe-in-bengal-violence-101631788387679.html
16-09-2021||India||NCBS paper retraction: TIFR ethics panel finds evidence of image manipulation||The Academic Ethics Committee of Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) looking into allegations of data manipulation by researchers has found ‘compelling evidence’ of image manipulation and result falsification in a scientific paper. This is in connection to a paper published by scientists from National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS), Bengaluru, which had to be retracted following allegations of manipulation of raw data.On October 5, 2020, a team of researchers from a laboratory in NCBS, which is a part of TIFR, published a scientific paper in the peer-reviewed journal Nature Chemical Biology. Soon after, the paper, titled “Discovery of iron-sensing bacterial riboswitches”, drew the attention of many readers on review website PubPeer. Many reviewers pointed out suspicious features in certain images in the paper.After Arati Ramesh, a senior author of the paper and principal investigator, brought these concerns to the attention of NCBS, the institution initiated an inquiry. The committee completed its investigation on November 23, 2020 and concluded that image manipulation had indeed occurred, and were carried out by a single individual. “This individual is no longer affiliated with NCBS. In accordance with the committee’s recommendations, Ramesh initiated the process of retracting the paper on February 1, 2021. The final retraction occurred on June 30, 2021,” said NCBS in a statement.Also Read | Maharashtra students union seeks nod for ITI students’ travel by trainTIFR, the parent institute, set up an investigation by its ethics committee. In a statement issued on Thursday, the ethics committee said, “There is compelling evidence which indicate that the image manipulation and result falsification in the NCB paper (now retracted) were carried out entirely by the first two authors. The first author has admitted to his role in the offence. The third co-author, as well as the fourth and corresponding author (Principal Investigator, PI), were unaware of this malpractice, and did not encourage it in any way.”The committee considered two papers for its investigation: the paper that appeared in the journal Nature Chemical Biology and was later retracted by the journal and another that appeared in the Journal of Molecular Biology (JMB), that contained an error traceable to inadvertent mislabelling of two samples. The committee found that in the second paper, no malpractice of data or image manipulation was found in this paper. “Once this mistake is corrected, the findings reported are genuine. The journal has accepted the explanation of the authors, and will publish a suitable corrigendum.” However, for the first paper, the committee said that the corresponding author and PI of the laboratory must bear the overall responsibility for not subjecting ‘results’ to proper scientific scrutiny before the paper was communicated for publication. The committee also found substance in allegations of authoritarian conduct by Ramesh in her laboratory environment. “The committee is of the view that no lapses in the behaviour of the PI ─ in any way ─ justify dishonest practices by any of her lab members,” it said.TIFR director S Ramakrishnan said he had received the conclusions and recommendations of the ethics committee. “We will implement its recommendations,” he said.“The TIFR Management accepts the findings of the TAEC, and will be considering its recommendations with utmost seriousness. TIFR as an institution remains committed to maintaining the highest standards in matters of ethics, scientific output and an amicable work atmosphere. The Management will take all efforts to see that systems are put in place to ensure that incidents like the current one cannot be repeated in the future,” the institute said in a statement.The committee recommended that Ramesh be immediately counselled to be more professional in her scientific practices and her conduct in the laboratory; this should be monitored by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncbs-paper-retraction-tifr-ethics-panel-finds-evidence-of-image-manipulation-101631787367852.html
16-09-2021||India||IUML backs caste-based census in Kerala, to discuss it at UDF meeting||The Indian Union Muslim League, a partner in the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF), on Thursday sought a caste-based census in Kerala and asked the state government for a consensus on this. This is the first time a political party is seeking caste-based census in the state. Talking to media in Kozhikode, party leader KPA Majeed said there is no point in deferring the social reality and the party will first raise this in the next UDF meeting. He said the present reservation system is based on an old census and there are complaints that only a section of the backward classes is benefiting from it. Recently, the Bihar assembly had passed a unanimous resolution on caste-based census and later an all-party team met Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his intervention. Also Read | Despite ban, workers continue to demand gawking charges in Kerala“We feel it should be done in Kerala also. As long as reservation continues, it is a natural process and we can’t postpone it,” Majeed said. When asked whether such an exercise will aggravate social tension, he said parties can’t run away from the reality for long. He said the state government should talk to all the parties and social organisations to evolve a consensus. In Kerala, Muslims enjoy 10% reservation in government jobs and 12% in educational institutions. SC/ST communities get 10% and others backward section, including Muslims and a section of Christians, gets 40%. According to 2011 census, the state’s 54.73% population is Hindu, 26.56% Muslim, 18.38 Christian, and 0.33% belong to other religions or follow no religion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iumlbacks-caste-based-census-in-kerala-to-discuss-it-at-udfmeeting-101631786347558.html
16-09-2021||India||Gujarat’s cabinet has 24 new faces as CM Patel drops all Rupani ministers||Three days after he became the chief minister of Gujarat, Bhupendra Patel inducted 24 ministers in his cabinet on Thursday.Patel did not retain any of his predecessor Vijay Rupani’s ministers. The only old guard is assembly Speaker Rajendra Trivedi who resigned from that post earlier in the day. Trivedi is likely to get a key portfolio.Governor Acharya Devvrat administered the oath to 10 cabinet ministers and 14 ministers of state, including five ministers of state with independent charge. CM Patel was present at the Raj Bhavan ceremony, along with Rupani, whose sudden resignation from the post past Saturday led to the formation of the new ministry.The cabinet ministers are Rajendra Trivedi, former state BJP chief Jitu Vaghani, Rushikesh Patel, Purnesh Modi, Raghavji Patel, Kanubhai Desai, Kiritsinh Rana, Naresh Patel, Pradip Parmar and Arjunsinh Chauhan.The portfolios are likely to be announced in the evening after the first cabinet meeting, officials said. CM Patel will hold a meeting of the new cabinet at 4.30pm today. “The first cabinet meeting of the Council of Ministers to be chaired by CM @Bhupendrapbjp will take place at 4.30pm today at Gandhinagar,” Gujarat’s CMO office tweeted.The swearing-in was supposed to take place on Wednesday but had to be deferred following protests over the choice of ministers. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarats-cabinet-has-24-new-faces-as-cm-patel-drops-all-rupani-ministers-101631783587416.html
16-09-2021||India||CPI-M Tripura secretary Gautam Das succumbs to Covid in Kolkata hospital||Communist Party of India (Marxist) secretary for Tripura, Gautam Das, succumbed to Covid at a private hospital in Kolkata on Thursday. He is survived by his wife Tapati Sen, and daughter Swagata Das.Das, 70, was tested positive for Covid towards the end of August and was admitted to a private hospital in Agartala. As his condition deteriorated, he was shifted to the Kolkata hospital on September 6. Das joined CPM in 1968, and became the Tripura state committee member in 1986. He was elected to the state secretariat in 1994 and became the party secretary in 2018. Das edited party’s mouthpiece ‘Daily Desher Katha’ from 1979 to 2015 and was one of the founding members of the Agartala Press Club. Communist Party of India (Marxist) politburo has conveyed condolences to Das’s family. “His departure, coming at a time when the Party is valiantly facing vicious and violent attacks in Tripura, is a big loss,” it politburo said in a statement. Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb also condoled Das’s death. “I am deeply mourned at demise of CPM state secretary Goutam Das. I pray for the departed soul to rest in peace. I pray to God to give strength to the bereaved family to endure the pain,” he tweeted.Das’s death has comes at a time when the CPI(M) unit is at loggerheads with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party almost every day while Bengal’s Trinamool Congress is trying to emerge as a challenger to chief minister Deb. The CPI(M) ruled Tripura from 1978 to 1988 and again from 1993 to 2018. (With inputs from Tanmay Chatterjee)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpim-tripura-secretary-gautam-das-succumbs-to-covid-in-kolkata-hospital-101631782267248.html
16-09-2021||India||No repeat theory: Gujarat gets new Cabinet a year before election||The new Cabinet of Bhupendra Patel, the new chief minister of Gujarat, took oath on Thursday at the Raj Bhavan in Gandhi Nagar. Kanubhai Desai, Kiritsinh Rana, Naresh Patel, Pradip Parmar, Arjunsinh Chauhan, Rajendra Trivedi, Jitu Vaghani, Rushikesh Patel, Purnesh Modi, Raghavji Patel were among those who took the oath. Harsh Sanghvi, Jagdish Panchal, Brijesh Merja, Jitu Choudhary, Manisha Vakil were sworn in as ministers of state with independent charge.The oath-taking follows hectic parleys that followed after Bhupendra Patel took oath as the new chief minister replacing Vijay Rupani just a year before the state goes to the election.The cabinet formation was supposed to take place on Wednesday but reports said several senior BJP MLAs were unwilling to renounce their posts.Amid power tussle between the old ministers and the new names that were being considered, Bhupendra Patel decided to drop all ministers of the Vijay Rupani government and get an altogether fresh Cabinet. Assembly Speaker Rajendra Trivedi resigned from the Assembly to join the Cabinet and took oath on Thursday.Chief minister Bhupendra Patel will hold the first Cabinet meeting at 4pm.The removal of Nitin Patel the former deputy chief minister from the Cabinet comes as surprising as he was widely speculated to be the chief minister after Rupani resigned.Though replacing the chief minister ahead of assembly elections is not a new strategy of the party as it has already done the same in Uttarakhand and Karnataka this year, in Gujarat, it is an entirely new Cabinet with the responsibility of taking care of the Prime Minister and home minister's home state in the election year. While the major reshuffle has created resentment, this will not create a rift in the party as the reshuffle has been handled by the top leadership reports said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/24-ministers-of-new-gujarat-cabinet-take-oath-amid-resentment-101631781913510.html
16-09-2021||India||Patel likely to drop all Rupani ministers; 22 new faces may be sworn in today||Newly elected Gujarat chief minister Bhupendra Patel is likely to drop all the ministers from the Vijay Rupani cabinet, with as many as 22 new faces set to take oath in the afternoon, said Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) sources on Thursday.Speaker Rajendra Trivedi also resigned from the assembly to join the cabinet. He submitted his resignation to deputy speaker and said it was effective immediately.Trivedi is likely to get a key position.Also Read | Bhupendra Patel govt’s new ministers to take oath today in GujaratAccording to BJP leaders, the MLAs set to take oath are: two from Ahmedabad city; three from north Gujarat; five from central Gujarat; six from south Gujarat; and seven from Saurashtra which sends the maximum number of MLAs to the 182 member assembly.The new ministers, whose names will be officially announced a little later in the day, represent all the regions and key castes, and are a combination of young leaders and seniors. The Cabinet formation was suspended on Wednesday after resentment from senior BJP MLAs whose supporters created a ruckus at Raj Bhavan where the induction was suppose to happen. A BJP leader said the party has been able to convince the senior leaders that it is time to pass the baton to next generation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patel-likely-to-drop-all-rupani-ministers-22-new-faces-may-be-sworn-in-today-101631779867643.html
16-09-2021||India||Eye on polls, AAP promises 300 units of free electricity, bill waiver in UP||Aam Admi Party (AAP) on Thursday announced free electricity for farmers, waiver of pending elecricity bills and 24x7 power supply in Uttar Pradesh, if it is voted to form the government in the upcoming assembly elections in the state.Addressing a press conference, AAP leader and Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia drew parallels between the power consumption cost in the national capital with that of neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. He urged the people of Uttar Pradesh to vote for the AAP in the assembly elections, slated for in 2022, to avail of subsidised power connection in the state on the lines of Delhi. Uttar Pradesh में 300 Unit Electricity Bill ⚡-● Under BJP : ₹ 1900● Under AAP : ₹ 0जब दिल्ली में बिजली का बिल 0 हो सकता है, तो उत्तर प्रदेश में क्यों नही?#KejriwalKiBijliGuaranteeSisodia announced that each household of Uttar Pradesh would get 300 units of electricity free-of-cost, while the farmers won't have to pay anything for their power consumption. “The days of costly electricity will be over fulled by the power of the voters of Uttar Pradesh,” Sisodia said, adding, “Within 24 hours of forming the government in the state, the AAP would provide 300 units of free electricity to all the domestic consumers of the state.”Sisodia also announced that the AAP government would waive off pending electricity bills to offer relief to the consumers.“Not only will we provide subsidised electricity and waive off the pending bills, but we will ensure Uttar Pradesh of the 21st Century gets round-the-clock power connection.”Uttar Pradesh has the means to generate electricity, unlike Delhi, which is why the state can supply 24x7 power supply, the AAP leader said. Manish Sisodia's announcement comes a day after the AAP released a list of 100 probable candidates for the assembly polls in the state.The party's Uttar Pradesh in-charge Sanjay Singh said the AAP has given representation to all communities on the list, including doctors, engineers, advocates, postgraduates, farmers and youths icons.ALSO READ | ‘Abba jaan’ remark triggers political war ahead of UP pollsThe AAP aims to make inroads into Uttar Pradesh where the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party faces deep-rooted Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party apart from the Congress in next year's state polls.Fighting elections for the first time in Uttar Pradesh, the AAP said it would go solo in all the 403 assembly constituencies.The party also hit out at Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government over alleged corruption and said it will get the state rid of it, while providing quality education to students, ensuring safety of girls and women and also promising adequate return to farmers for their produce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-polls-aap-promises-300-units-of-free-electricity-bill-waiver-in-up-101631779184516.html
16-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Bombay HC dismisses Param Bir Singh’s petition for quashing of inquiries and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bombay high court dismisses Param Bir Singh’s petition for quashing of inquiriesThe Bombay high court today dismissed the petition filed by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh for quashing of the two preliminary inquiries against him by the Maharashtra government. Read MoreA month later, Akhundzada, Haqqani and Yaqoob remain in shadowsA month after Sunni Pashtun Islamists militarily took over Kabul, there is uncertainty and confusion within the Taliban government with US designated global terrorist and Interior Minister Sirajuddin Haqqani remaining in the shadows and visiting Quetta earlier this week. Read MoreAccused in rape-murder of 6-yr-old in Hyderabad found dead on rly tracksA 30-year-old man, prime suspect in the rape and murder of a six-year-old tribal girl in Hyderabad on September 9, was found dead on the railway tracks at Pamunuru village in Telangana’s Warangal district, about 120km from the state capital earlier in the day, police said on Thursday. Read More‘He’s just given a ‘consolation cup’ to make up for disappointment in England’Veteran off-spinner Ravichandran Ashwin has been in the limelight lately. Firstly, his non-selection in all four Test matches against England became one of the biggest talking points during India’s UK tour.  Read MoreMan makes huge ice gola with rabri and chocolate, it weighs over 5 kg. Watch viral videoA video of a man creating a huge ice gola weighing about 5.5 kg has now created a buzz online. The video has also prompted people to share mixed reactions. While some shared that the dish looks delicious, others posted that it is not worth trying. Read MoreKBC 13: Food delivery person gets ₹25 lakh question wrong, plummets to ₹3.2 lakh; do you know the answer?Food delivery executive Akash Waghmare lost nearly ₹10 lakh on Kaun Banega Crorepati 13 after failing to answer the question for ₹25 lakh on the show. Read MoreOla Electric S1 e-scooters worth ₹600 crore sold in a single dayOla Electric has reported a mammoth response to its decision to open purchase window for its S1 and S1 Pro range of electric scooters. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bombay-high-court-dismisses-param-bir-singh-s-petition-for-quashing-of-inquiries-and-all-the-latest-news-101631776763099.html
16-09-2021||India||Telangana: Man accused in 6-year-old's rape and murder found dead on rail tracks||The Telangana Police on Thursday confirmed that a man, who was accused of rape and murder of a six-year-old girl in Hyderabad, was found dead on railway tracks. Sharing the update from his official Twitter handle, the director-general of police (DGP) of Telangana said that the accused of the “child sexual molestation and murder at Singareni Colony” was found dead on the railway tracks in the limits of the Ghanpur police station in the state's Janagaon district. The individual was recognised after verifying the identification marks on his body, the police official said.“Attention Please: The accused of ‘Child Sexual Molestation and murder @ Singareni Colony’, found dead on the railway track, in the limits of Ghanpur Police Station," the DGP tweeted out on Thursday. “Declared after the verification of identification marks on the deceased body.”#AttentionPlease : The accused of "Child Sexual Molestation and murder @ Singareni Colony, found dead on the railway track, in the limits of #StationGhanpurPoliceStation.Declared after the verification of identification marks on deceased body. pic.twitter.com/qCPLG9dCCEThe accused in the rape-and-murder case was said to be absconding till as late as Wednesday night. According to a senior police official from Janagaon cited by the PTI news agency, a few locals discovered a body on the railway tracks in Station Ghanpur at around 9:45am on Thursday, following which the authorities were alerted. After the officials arrived at the spot, they identified the body with head injuries as the accused in the Hyderabad rape and murder case. The police suspect that the 30-year old accused must have committed suicide by jumping before a running train, as per an official quoted by the news agency.Notably, the development comes a day after a report by the ANI news agency quoted Telangana labour and employment minister Malla Reddy as saying the accused in the rape and murder case will be “nabbed” and “killed in an encounter”.The six-year-old girl was found dead at her neighbour’s house in Saidabad last Friday; the incident triggered massive protests by local residents, who suspected that the minor was sexually assaulted. The girl had gone missing on September 9, following which her kin lodged a police complaint. The body, with several injury marks, was discovered a day later; and the police later confirmed after a post-mortem that the girl was raped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-man-accused-in-6-year-old-s-rape-and-murder-found-dead-on-rail-tracks-101631773020512.html
16-09-2021||India||Accused in rape-murder of 6-yr-old in Hyderabad found dead on rly tracks||A 30-year-old man, prime suspect in the rape and murder of a six-year-old tribal girl in Hyderabad on September 9, was found dead on the railway tracks at Pamunuru village in Telangana’s Warangal district, about 120km from the state capital earlier in the day, police said on Thursday.The man’s mutilated body was found on the railway tracks and was identified by his tattoos which the police had widely publicised while looking for him. Police are yet to confirm if the man died by suicide, murder or is a case of accident on the railway tracks. “Further investigation is on,” an official, who asked not to be named, said.“Just been informed by @TelanganaDGP garu that the beast who has raped the child has been traced and found dead on a railway track at Station Ghanpur,” Telangana state IT minister KT Rama Rao tweeted.Also Read | Atrocities against tribals increased by 25% in Madhya PradeshThe Hyderabad Police had formed nine teams to search for the man who had been missing after the crime came to light. They also circulated images of tattoos on both his hands which read: “Mounika”. On Wednesday, Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar also appealed to the people for information on the accused, announcing a cash reward of Rs10 lakh for information leading to the suspect’s arrest.According to the police, the girl belonged to a tribal family. On September 9, hours after her parents reported that the child was missing, her body was found in the house of her neighbour, the 30-year-old, whom police said was the main suspect. A post-mortem report revealed that the child was raped and strangled to death. A case of murder and rape was filed apart from charges under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012.Meanwhile, political parties have come out in support of the child’s family. On Wednesday, state home minister Md Mahmood Ali and minister for women and child welfare Satyavathi Rathod called on them and extended an ex-gratia of Rs20 lakh. They also promised a two-bedroom house to the family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/accused-in-rape-murder-of-6-yr-old-in-hyderabad-found-dead-on-rly-trackspolice-101631775788941.html
16-09-2021||India||Petition in SC seeks order that HCs don’t dispense with virtual court hearings||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court by a body of litigants and two eminent citizens seeking access to justice through virtual courts as a matter of fundamental right for the litigants. The plea has also sought a directive for the high courts not to discontinue with the option of videoconferencing and virtual courts without the permission of the Supreme Court’s e-committee.The petition has been filed by National Federation of Societies for Fast Justice along with former Central Information Commissioner (CIC) and RTI activist Shailesh Gandhi along with former Mumbai Police Commissioner Julio Ribeiro.The petition filed on Wednesday has specifically challenged the decision taken by two High Courts to withdraw virtual court hearing and resume physical hearing. The Uttarakhand High Court had issued a notification in this regard on August 10 followed by a similar circular issued by Gujarat High Court on August 16.The petition, drafted by advocate Siddharth R Gupta, said: “The decisions of Gujarat and Uttarakhand High Court dispensing with the hearing through the virtual mode of court proceedings is challenged fundamentally on the ground of denial of Fundamental Right of access to justice, which has now come to be acclaimed as a Fundamental Right guaranteed under Part III of the Constitution of India.”The petition further stated that the order passed by the two High Courts need to be set aside as “all the other High Courts of the country shall follow suit with the issuance of similar such orders and for this reason therefore the impugned decisions of Uttarakhand and Gujarat High Courts are a death knell for the very idea of Virtual Courts which is still in the embryonic stage.”Filed through advocate Mrigank Prabhakar, it added that virtual courts have also been propagated by the e-committee of the Supreme Court as the most accessible, affordable, transparent, and cheap mode of justice available to the litigant of the country, especially those coming from the marginalized sections.Besides demanding setting aside the orders of Gujarat and Uttarakhand High Courts, one of the prayers in the petition seeks an order “restraining any other High Court or any other Constitutional Court of the country from discontinuing or dispensing with the option of video conferencing and Virtual Courts of any class/category of cases/proceedings being heard by it without the express leave of this Court.”Pointing to the advantages of virtual court hearings, the petition said, “A lawyer from a native district of the litigant can be ably engaged for appearing through video conferencing mode before the Constitutional Courts by the concerned litigant, without being compelled to travel all the way to the seat of respective High Court/ Supreme Court and then following the legal processes there. Thus, justice has become extremely localized from the viewpoint of a litigant.”The National Federation of Societies for Fast Justice claimed to be an umbrella body of more than 115 registered societies campaigning for judicial reforms and working at the grass root level to provide access to Justice for the poor, marginalized and the economically weaker sections of the country.On September 6, apex court had sought the responses of the Bar Council of India, the Supreme Court Bar Association and High Courts of Uttarakhand and Gujarat on a petition filed by All India Association of Jurists, claiming to be a body of 5000 lawyers to continue with virtual court hearings in hybrid form.The bench, while issuing notice, had observed that the petition seemed to be in the interest of lawyers and not litigants. The bench even observed that a physical court hearing experience not only benefits litigants but also helps young lawyers to learn.The present petition is the first of its kind by litigants seeking a declaration of the right of access to justice through virtual courts (hybrid model) as a guaranteed Fundamental Right of each and every litigant of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petition-in-sc-seeks-order-that-hcs-don-t-dispense-with-virtual-court-hearings-101631772486954.html
16-09-2021||India||PM inaugurates defence office complexes at Delhi's KG Marg, Africa Avenue||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday inaugurated defence office complexes at New Delhi's Kasturba Gandhi Marg and Africa Avenue, in the presence of Union ministers Rajnath Singh and Hardeep Singh Puri and Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat.The three service chiefs — Army Chief General MM Manoj Mukund Naravane, IAF Chief Marshal Rakesh Kumar Singh Bhadauria and Indian Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh were also present at the ceremony.The new defence office complexes will accommodate around 7,000 officials from the ministry of defence and the Armed Forces, including the Army, Navy and Air Force. Following the inauguration of the complexes, Modi said the new office complexes would help the defence personnel work in better conditions. “Today Delhi is progressing in line with 'New India' vision. These new defence office complexes will now make it feasible for our armies to operate in better working conditions with all modern amenities,” Modi said.The buildings will provide modern, secure and functional working spaces. “An Integrated Command and Control Centre has been established for managing building operations, while also catering to the end-to-end safety and surveillance of both the buildings,” the government said in a statement.Until now, the defence ministry officers and staff were from decades-old, pre-Independence era hutments in the vicinity of the North and South Blocks. The relocation of the existing 27 defence offices to the swanky complexes at Kasturba Gandhi Marg and Africa Avenue would also pave the way for the revamp of the Central Vista.Officials familiar with the developments said the shifting of the defence establishments would happen in phases over the next two months.The new defence office complexes are state-of-the-art and energy-efficient, with comprehensive security management measures. One of the defining features of these buildings is the use of new and sustainable construction technology called LGSF (light gauge steel frame), which reduced construction time from 24 to 30 months in the case of conventional reinforced cement concrete (RCC) construction. The buildings utilise resource-efficient green technology and promote environment-friendly practices, the government said.Constructed by the Union ministry of housing and urban development for ₹775 crore, the new defence office complexes — an eight-storey building at Kasturba Gandhi Marg and a seven-storey complex at Africa Avenue — spread across 9.6 lakh square feet area were completed within a record 12 months. The two complexes together can accommodate 1,500 cars at multi-level parking lots. Earlier this week, Hindustan Times reported quoting defence officials that the shifting of old offices will free 50 acres of land for the ₹20,000-crore Central Vista development project. "The defence ministry will vacate 9.2 lakh square feet of space in these hutments and take up 9.6 lakh square feet in two new multi-storeyed complexes that are spread over a total area of 13 acres,” an official said.The vacated near the South Block will be used to develop the ‘Executive Enclave’ of the Central Vista Project, which, besides housing the Prime Minister and the PMO, will also have the office of the Cabinet Secretariat, officials of the housing and urban development said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-inaugurates-defence-office-complexes-at-delhi-s-kg-marg-africa-avenue-101631771640882.html
16-09-2021||India||Gujarat cabinet: 27 ministers likely to take oath today||As many as 27 ministers are likely to be sworn into Bhupendra Patel’s cabinet on Thursday, a day after the induction was postponed due to alleged infighting in the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Gujarat.State BJP president CR Patil told reporters in Ahmedabad on Thursday morning that the induction of ministers would take place in the afternoon.“There are no issues. Everything is under control,” Patil said when asked about differences within the party over induction. He also refused to speculate on who would be deputy chief minister or whether the post would even exist. Nitin Patel, a powerful Patidar leader, was deputy to Vijay Rupani who resigned as chief minister last Saturday.Also Read | Gujarat CM Bhupendra Patel visits flood-hit areas as IMD forecasts more rain According to reports, cabinet formation at Raj Bhavan was deferred on Wednesday after supporters of some BJP lawmakers arrived there and created a ruckus, tearing up party posters, after learning that their leader was not to be inducted as a minister. Local police said they were supporters of Limbdi MLA Kritisinh Rana.A BJP legislator, who was a minister in Rupani government, said they protested when they learnt that their names were not on the list send to Governor’s house. “All senior ministers are being dropped and therefore, we had to raise our voice of protest,” the leader said.On Thursday morning, he said, they expect the party to respect their seniority and induct some of them in the Cabinet. “We are waiting for a response from the party leadership,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/27-ministers-likely-to-be-sworn-into-bhupendra-patel-s-cabinet-in-gujarat-today-101631771646672.html
16-09-2021||India||Bhupendra Patel govt's new ministers to take oath today in Gujarat||The swearing-in ceremony of new ministers of the Bhupendra Patel-led government in Gujarat will take place on Thursday. The ceremony is scheduled for 1pm today and more than 20 ministers are reported to be inducted into the new cabinet at Raj Bhavan in Gandhinagar.News reports said that majority of ministers in the cabinet headed by previous chief minister Vijay Rupani are likely to be dropped and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) may replace them with fresh faces. So far, the party is mum about possible cabinet members' names.Patel took oath as the 17th chief minister of Gujarat on Monday. He replaced Rupani, who unexpectedly stepped down from the top post in the state, ahead of the assembly elections in 2022.The 59-year-old leader is a first-time member of the legislative assembly (MLA) from Ahmedabad.Senior leaders in the party are reaching out to those not likely to be retained as ministers, news agency ANI reported. "There is a massive exercise going on to see that leaders who won't be accommodated in the cabinet do not feel left out," it reported, quoting a source.The BJP, which has been in power in Gujarat for more than two decades, is counting on Patel to shore up the party's fortunes ahead of the assembly elections towards the end of next year. In the 2017 state election, the BJP won 99 of the state's 182 Assembly seats and Congress got 77 seats.Earlier the swearing-in ceremony was scheduled for Wednesday and preparations for the same had started at the governor's house in the state capital. However, the plan was later dropped all of a sudden and banners of the swearing-in ceremony were also taken down. Neither the BJP nor the state government gave any reason for the postponement.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhupendra-patel-govt-s-new-ministers-to-take-oath-today-in-gujarat-101631771268249.html
16-09-2021||India||Delhi-Katra expressway to be launched in 2 years, says Nitin Gadkari||Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari and Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday reviewed the progress of the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway (DME) covering the States of Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat.Addressing media in Sohna, Gadkari said, "Delhi-Katra expressway will be launched in two years, to reduce the distance from 727 to 572 kilometres, you will reach Katra from Delhi in six hours. We are also working on new roads from Delhi-Chandigarh, Delhi-Dehradun and Delhi-Haridwar, to take you there in two hours."As per the official release by the Transport and Highways Ministry, the expressway is being developed at a cost of ₹98,000 crores. The 1,380 kilometres long Delhi Mumbai expressway will be the longest expressway in India.It will enhance connectivity between Delhi and Mumbai. The expressway will connect the urban centres of Delhi through the Delhi-Faridabad-Sohna section of the corridor along with a spur to Jewar Airport and Jawaharlal Nehru Port to Mumbai through a spur in Mumbai.In addition, the expressway which passes through the six states of Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra will improve the connectivity to economic hubs like Jaipur, Kishangarh, Ajmer, Kota, Chittorgarh, Udaipur, Bhopal, Ujjain, Indore, Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat bringing economic prosperity to millions.Delhi Mumbai Expressway, envisaged under the vision of Prime Minister's 'New India', was kick-started in 2018 with the foundation stone being laid on March 9, 2019. Out of the 1,380 kilometres, contracts for more than 1,200 kilometres have already been awarded and is under progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhikatra-expressway-to-be-launched-in-2-years-says-nitin-gadkari-101631770269886.html
16-09-2021||India||Odisha: 6 dead in flooding after heavy rains, medium flood expected in Mahanadi||Six persons including a 3-year-old have died in Odisha due to heavy rainfall in most parts for the last three days. Triggered by the depression formed over Bay of Bengal, 153 mm of rains have been recorded since September 12, Odisha special relief commissioner Pradeep Kumar Jena said on Wednesday.Jena said over 2.3 million people in 4,964 villages, 33 municipalities and 139 blocks of 24 districts in Odisha have been affected. While over 7,500 houses have been damaged, around 130,000 hectare of agricultural land has been inundated.Around 20,552 persons have been evacuated in the last three days by two Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) and one National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams in Balasore. In Bhadrak, one ODRAF team and one NDRF team were stationed, while two ODRAF teams were engaged in Kendrapara district, officials said.The incessant rains in interior and western Odisha resulted in a car being swept away at Dahisara in Athagarh. However, the occupants were reported to be safe and the car was later recovered by the locals.Jena said the Mahanadi river is expected to see a medium flood over the next 2 days after 28 sluice gates of Hirakud reservoir in Burla of Sambalpur district were opened to accommodate rainwater from the upper catchment areas of Mahanadi in Chhattisgarh. Mahanadi’s water level at Naraj gauge station at Cuttack is nearing danger level.Jena said the inflow of water at Hirakud reservoir was 298,000 cusecs currently and the outflow was 225,000 cusecs. At present, the water level of Hirakud stands at 628.23 ft against its storage capacity of 630 ft. Authorities have decided to maintain the water level and will open more sluice gates if necessary, he said.Meanwhile, weather department officials said Amarkantak in MP, where Mahanadi originates, recorded rainfall of more than 20 cm due to the depression over north Chhattisgarh and adjoining East MP and the river was likely to swell further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-6-dead-in-flooding-after-heavy-rains-medium-flood-expected-in-mahanadi-101631769726420.html
16-09-2021||India||Odisha tops in cases of assault on women with intent to disrobe: NCRB||For the seventh year in a row, Odisha has topped the states in cases of “assault or use of criminal force on women with intent to disrobe” as per the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) 2020 figures released on Tuesday.In 2014, the NCRB, for the first time, collected data on assault or use of criminal force on women with “intent to disrobe”, under a separate category following the December 2012 gangrape in New Delhi.Intent to disrobe using criminal force is dealt with under 354B of the Indian Penal Code, which was added to the Criminal Law Amendment Act 2013. It is a cognizable and non-bailable offence with rigorous imprisonment between 3 and 7 years.Also Read | Excess rainfall in September result of climate change in Odisha, say expertsIn the past seven years, the state has seen a steady rise in the number of cases in this category. As per NCRB, 3,232 such cases were lodged in Odisha in 2020, a 31.5% of the total cases lodged under the section in the entire country. In 2019 too, Odisha topped the list of states with 2,818 cases while it was 2,538 in 2018. In 2017, the state saw 2,457 cases while in 2016, there were 2,107 cases. In 2015, a total of 1,957 cases were lodged while in 2014, the state police applied the section in 1,142 cases.The NCRB report also revealed that with 615 cases, the state stands third in cases related outraging the modesty of women; it also figured among the top 10 states in kidnapping and abduction of women with 3,775 cases.The state also registered 526 cases related to cybercrime offences against women, the highest in the country. With 292 cases of publishing sexually explicit material, the state stood at the second place. As many as 234 cybercrime cases were registered in connection with blackmailing, defamation and morphing of women’s images, again the highest.The NCRB statistics said in 2020, the overall crime rate against women in Odisha was 112.9, second only to Assam, and marking a rise from 103.5 in 2019. Crime rate is calculated as the number of cases per 100,000 population. As per NCRB 2020 figures, Odisha police registered 25,489 cases of crimes against women in 2020 against 23,183 in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-tops-in-cases-of-assault-on-women-with-intent-to-disrobe-ncrb-101631769486422.html
16-09-2021||India||Covid-19 tally rises for 2nd straight day; daily death toll jumps to 431||India's daily Covid-19 tally on Thursday increased for the second consecutive day, as 30,570 samples tested positive for the viral disease in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry. The number is 12.4% higher than Wednesday's tally when 27,176 new cases were recorded.Single-day rise of 30,570 cases have pushed the overall tally to reach 33,347,325, the health ministry data also showed. The active Covid-19 cases in India stands at 342,923.The daily death toll also saw a sharp increase with 431 fatalities and now stands at 443,928, according to the data by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. On Wednesday, the daily fatalities were at 284.More than half of the fresh cases and fatalities came out of Kerala, which had logged 17,681 Covid cases and 208 deaths on Wednesday. Maharashtra reported 58.Earlier this week, the Union ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths that occurred in patients are due to comorbidities.The country has administered at least 760 million Covid vaccine doses as of Wednesday. According to the government release, authorities administered 764,936,158 vaccine doses across the states and UTs as of 7pm on Wednesday. As many as 5,710,380 doses were administered on the day.On Wednesday, India’s drugs regulator granted permission to Dr Reddy’s Laboratories to conduct phase 3 clinical trials for Sputnik Light, the single dose and first component of the Russian made Sputnik V vaccine against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-tally-rises-for-2nd-straight-day-daily-death-toll-jumps-to-431-101631766539914.html
16-09-2021||India||India has administered at least 760 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 760 million Covid vaccine doses by Wednesday, September 15. India’s drugs regulator has granted permission to Dr Reddy’s Laboratories to conduct phase 3 clinical trials for Sputnik Light, the single dose and first component of the Russian made Sputnik V vaccine against Covid-19.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Wednesday, 764,936,158 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 5,710,380 doses were administered on the day.In the 18-45 age group, 308,770,934 people have been given the first dose while 48,722,784 have got their second shot as well.Also Read | ‘Feels great to be back’: Covid patient returns home after 130 days in hospitalAmong the healthcare workers, 10,365,571 have been given the first dose while 8,639,913 have got their second dose as well. Among the frontline workers, 18,340,244 have got their first dose and 14,199,628 have got their second dose too.
16-09-2021||India||Guwahati grenade blast: NIA charge sheet against ULFA-I leader Paresh Baruah||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has filed a supplementary charge sheet against United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I) commander-in-chief Paresh Baruah and four others of the banned outfit in connection with a grenade blast in Guwahati two years ago. The development comes amid speculation of ULFA-I joining peace talks with Centre. The charge sheet was filed on Tuesday at the NIA special court in Guwahati against Baruah, Pappu Koch Bokoliyal, Amrit Ballav Goswami, Arunodoy Dahotiya and Munna Baruah, an NIA release issued on Wednesday said.Also Read | Assam teen missing since Sunday found dead; family says she was gang-raped by 6“The case relates to incident of two ULFA (I) cadres lobbing a grenade at a police party near Central Mall, RGB Road, Guwahati which led to injuries to 12 persons. Later, Paresh Baruah, self-styled commander-in-chief of ULFA (I) took responsibility for the terrorist attack,” the NIA release said. Twelve persons were injured in the blast outside a mall on May 19, 2019. The NIA took charge of the case on June 26 and filed a charge sheet against eight persons in November the same year. Now a supplementary charge sheet has been filed based on additional evidence gathered against the five accused during the course of investigation. The five accused “have been charged for their roles in the conspiracy of the grenade attack and for waging war against the union of India on the strength of additional evidence (that) surfaced during investigation.” There have been speculations that ULFA-I could join peace talks with the Centre since May this year, when the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government assumed office in Assam for a second term. The outfit, has, however maintained that the issue of Assam’s sovereignty should be part of talks--a pre-condition, which has been ruled out by Centre as well the state government. Citing the Covid-19 pandemic, the outfit declared a unilateral ceasefire in May for three months, extending it by another three months in August. This year, for the first time since its inception in 1979, ULFA-I didn’t boycott the Independence Day celebrations or call for a ‘bandh’ on the occasion. “Our organisation is not against talks or belligerent. But it is not possible to deny historical facts or waver from our ideological goals in the name of talks. Indian authorities have maintained that talks with ULFA-I can’t include the question of (Assam’s) sovereignty,” ULFA-I said in a statement released in August. Earlier this month, the outfit carried out a “structural change” in the organisation by creating three new councils with Baruah heading the supreme council. No changes were made in the military wing of the outfit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guwahati-grenade-blast-nia-charge-sheet-against-ulfa-i-leader-paresh-baruah-101631763125669.html
16-09-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9am: Rainfall in Delhi-NCR today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rainfall in Delhi-NCR today; to intensify by weekend: IMDDelhi-NCR is likely to witness moderate to heavy rainfall from Thursday till the end of the weekend, officials in the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Read morePM Modi to inaugurate new defence ministry office complexes in Delhi todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the new office complexes built for defence ministry staff at two different locations in Delhi on Thursday. Read morePresident Kovind begins 4-day Himachal trip today, to address special assembly sessionPresident of India Ram Nath Kovind will today begin his four-day visit to Himachal Pradesh, during which he will address a special session of the state assembly. Read moreSalman Khan’s niece Alizeh Agnihotri stuns in ad, fans cannot get over her ‘innocent beauty’. WatchAlizeh Agnihotri, the niece of actor Salman Khan, featured in an ad for a jewellery brand. She is the daughter of his sister Alvira Khan and producer Atul Agnihotri. She is expected to make her Bollywood debut soon. Read moreKiara Advani teams effortless strappy maxi dress with expensive tote worth ₹3 LakhShershaah actor Kiara Advani's off-duty style is one to die for. The actor has made a name for herself in the industry with her standout roles. But we cannot ignore her beauteous sartorial choices that range from pretty dresses, crop top-denim combos, and simple cotton kurtas. Kiara's simple spaghetti-strap grey maxi dress for a recent outing in Mumbai proves the same. Read more'We have had some wonderful partnerships together': Suresh Raina ranks Rahul Dravid, MS Dhoni, Virat Kohli as captainsSuresh Raina has played his cricket under three different captains at three different phases of his career. Read more‘Fake Hindus’: Rahul Gandhi alleges BJP-RSS broker religionIn a fiery attack, Rahul Gandhi called the BJP and RSS ‘fake hindus’. Rahul invoked Mahatma Gandhi & questioned why he was killed by a man with ties to RSS ideology. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-rainfall-in-delhi-ncr-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101631758399821.html
16-09-2021||India||Taliban doesn't consider us as humans, say Afghan women||“They don’t consider women as humans,” says researcher and activist Humeira Rizai who fled Afghanistan along with tens of thousands of compatriots to escape the atrocities of the Taliban.“I was born in a rural area during the Taliban rule and could not go to school at that time. We fear that there will be a rise in trafficking of women in Afghanistan now that the Taliban are back,” Rizai said in an interaction with women journalists organised by the Indian Women’s Press Corps on Wednesday.The Taliban rule in the 1990s set the country back by 100 years, she added.Afghan MP Shinkai Karokhail recalled the turmoil women have been going through since the Taliban took over the country. “It is a terrible situation there,” she said.Also Read | Taliban bust-up at presidential palace in Afghanistan: What really happenedThe Taliban went to the homes of women activists and politicians who could not leave Afghanistan as many countries had stopped giving visas, to intimidate them. “This is the way they wanted to scare women who had to run away or keep silent and not raise their voice,” Karokhail, also a women’s rights activist, said.“Women have the right to be included,” she said, adding that the Taliban’s interpretation of Islam is wrong and they are using it to violate women.The MP lashed out at the international community for letting such a crisis take place in Afghanistan and condemned the countries which have supported the growth of the Taliban. “Taliban and supporters of Taliban like Pakistan, China, Iran and Russia must be made accountable because they are behind the situation there. The US must accept the mistakes they made in Afghanistan,” she said.“I left my country with a heavy and broken heart, it wasn’t easy and I struggled a lot,” said Karokhail who left Afghanistan for Canada on August 20, five days after Kabul fell.Afghan journalist Fatima Faramarz, who was also a panellist, said women are considered “animals and the Taliban decides to treat them as they please”.An investigative journalist at Etilaat Roz, Faramarz recalled how her colleagues were brutally beaten up recently when they went to cover a protest. “They were covering a protest. They were taken by the Taliban to a police station and were beaten with batons and electrical cables,” she narrated.According to Human Rights Watch, the Taliban’s rights record in the 1990s, when it first took over Afghanistan, was characterised by systematic violations against women and girls; cruel corporal punishments, including executions; and extreme suppression of freedom of religion, expression, and education.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-don-t-consider-us-as-humans-say-afghan-women-101631761925514.html
16-09-2021||India||PM Modi to address plenary session of SCO summit in Dushanbe||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lead the Indian delegation at the 21st meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) on Friday and virtually join the summit of heads of state via video link. Minister of external affairs S Jaishankar will on Friday represent India at the SCO summit, which will be held in a hybrid format at the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe. This is the fourth such summit where India will be participating as a full-fledged member of the SCO, and it assumes a special significance in light of the rapidly evolving situation in the war-torn land of Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover.Also Read | Modi to lead India at SCO meeting in Dushanbe, to focus on AfghanistanThe SCO summit will be attended by the leaders of the organisation's member states, observer states, secretary-general of the SCO, executive-director of the SCO regional anti-terrorist structure (RATS), president of Turkmenistan, and other invited guests. Jaishankar is also set to represent India in a meeting on Afghanistan of the Russia-led Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO) on the same day.The joint meetings are expected to provide India with the opportunity to examine closely the situation in Afghanistan, especially in light of concerns about the military establishment in Pakistan and its ties with the Taliban regime in Afghanistan.The ANI news agency, citing people familiar with the focus areas of discussion at the SCO summit, reported that India will discuss the current politico-security situation in the region, especially Afghanistan; the fallout of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic; the expansion of membership of the organisation, including discussions on full membership, dialogue partner, and observer status; and multilateral economic cooperation.India will also discuss counter-terrorism, economic cooperation, people-to-people exchanges, and other topical issues of regional and international importance, the agency added.Jaishankar said last week that India has always stood with the Afghan people and called for an unfettered flow of humanitarian aid to the war-torn land. India has called for the global community to jointly bring forth a positive and enabling environment in Afghanistan; however, this requires cooperation from foreign nations and there is always the possibility of vested interests.Also Read | 'India's concern inappropriate': Taliban say nothing wrong in China helping AfghanistanChina's foreign minister Wang Yi, Russia's Sergey Lavrov, Iran's Hossein Amir Abdollahian, and Pakistan's Shah Mahmood Qureshi are expected to attend the SCO meetings in Dushanbe.Abdollahian, who assumed office in August, was set to travel to India last week but later deferred his visit. However, the newly-appointed Iranian foreign minister might still travel to Delhi soon enough, people familiar with the development said, although fresh dates for his visit are yet to be fixed.India is in no rush to recognise the new rulers of Afghanistan; it instead attaches supreme importance to the argument that Afghan territory must not be used for terrorism or anti-India activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-margins-of-sco-summit-jaishankar-to-hold-key-meet-in-dushanbe-on-afghanistan-affairs-101631756214402.html
16-09-2021||India||PM Modi to hold bilaterals with US, Australia, Japan before Quad summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to hold bilateral meetings with US President Joe Biden on September 24, followed by the meeting of Quad leaders at the White House with focus on Afghanistan, Indo-Pacific, coronavirus, and climate change.According to officials based in Washington and New Delhi, PM Modi will first have separate bilateral meetings with comprehensive strategic partners Japan and Australia on September 23. With Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, PM Modi will advance the shared objective of an open, free, prosperous, and rules-based Indo-Pacific region as India steps up its engagement through various initiative in the Indo-Pacific. India has a two plus two dialogues with all the three Quad partners, with the first Indo-Australian dialogue being held in New Delhi on September 11.On September 24, PM Modi will hold first bilateral dialogue with US Vice President Kamala Harris followed by the first dialogue in physical capacity with President Joe Biden. This will be followed by the much-awaited Quad summit. All the engagements will be held at the White House.Also Read: China slams upcoming in-person Quad summit in WashingtonJust as PM Modi will have bilateral meetings with all the three Quad partners, other leaders are also expected to hold bilateral meetings before converging for the Quad summit. While external affairs minister (EAM) S Jaishankar is leaving for US on the evening of September 20 to attend the UNGA and prepare groundwork for Quad summit, there is no meeting scheduled between Quad foreign ministers.While PM Modi will deepen bilateral cooperation in political, economic, security and defence related matters with all three leaders of the democratic world, the Quad summit will discuss situation in Taliban ruled Afghanistan. Despite commitments to the US of inclusive regime during Doha process, the Taliban government is full of UN designated terrorists and is exclusive to only the loyal supporters of the Sunni Pashtun Islamist group with no space for either women or minorities. The Taliban government is also working contrary to the UNSC resolution 2593 passed on August 30, 2021.The Quad is expected to come out with a statement on Indo-Pacific, where the rule of law and United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea will be emphasised upon. The Quad's vision of Indo-Pacific is anchored in the Asean architecture, freedom of navigation, and rejects the nine-dash line claims of China in South China Sea.The Quad leaders will also deliberate on spread of coronavirus, which has origins in Wuhan, China, and review the production and availability of the vaccines for the world. Climate change will also be on the bilateral as well as Quad agenda with EAM Jaishankar hosting US climate change envoy John Kerry on September 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-hold-bilaterals-with-us-australia-japan-before-quad-summit-101631756848195.html
16-09-2021||India||‘Feels great to be back’: Covid patient returns home after 130 days in hospital||A Covid-19 patient came home from Nutema hospital in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut after 130 days, news agency ANI reported. The patient, Vishwas Saini, had tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on April 28 this year.Dr Avneet Rana of Nutema Hospital said on Wednesday, "He (Saini) tested positive for Covid-19 on April 28. Initially, he was kept at home but later, was admitted to the hospital after his condition deteriorated. We have kept him on the ventilator for almost one month because his oxygen level reached 16 only."Dr Rana added that Saini had strong will power to live, so he successfully managed to fight against the disease even after 130 days.After getting discharged from the hospital, Saini said, “It feels great to be back home with my family after such a long period of time. When I saw people dying at the hospital, I got worried, but my doctor motivated me and asked me to focus on my recovery.”According to the doctor, Saini's condition is now stable and he does not need an oxygen cylinder for around three to four hours at present. However, sometimes the patient needs it after spending four hours without an oxygen cylinder and his medication is still going on, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/feels-great-to-be-back-covid-patient-returns-home-after-130-days-in-hospital-101631755747449.html
16-09-2021||India||President Kovind begins 4-day Himachal trip today, to address special assembly session||President of India Ram Nath Kovind will today begin his four-day visit to Himachal Pradesh, during which he will address a special session of the state assembly.According to a statement issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan on Wednesday, the President's September 16-19 Himachal trip will coincide with the golden jubilee celebrations of the statehood of Himachal Pradesh. The President will also be the chief guest at the valedictory ceremony of the Indian Audit and Accounts Service at the National Academy of Audit and Accounts at Shimla.As per a Himachal administration official cited by the PTI news agency, the President will be staying at the Cecil hotel at Chaura Maidan in Shimla and not at The Retreat - his residence at Chharabra - since four of its employees had tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) last week.Himachal Pradesh, one of the 11 mountainous territories of India, was granted full statehood in 1971. Since this year marks 50 years since that date, a special session of the Himachal Pradesh legislative assembly is being organised on the occasion of the golden jubilee of statehood. According to the press release issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan, President Kovind will grace and address the special session of the Himachal assembly at 11am on September 17 (Friday).Kovind will be the third President of India to address the Himachal Pradesh state assembly. Former presidents Dr APJ Abdul Kalam and Pranab Mukherjee had addressed the state assembly in 2003 and 2013, respectively. In addition to the sitting MLAs, all the former MLAs, including former chief ministers Shanta Kumar and Prem Kumar Dhumal, have also been invited to attend the special session, the official cited by the news agency added.A group photo of the President with the current and former legislators will also be taken as a memory at the assembly.On September 18, the President will grace the valedictory ceremony of the Indian Audit and Accounts Service officer trainees of the 2018 and 2019 batches at the National Academy of Audit and Accounts in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-begins-4-day-himachal-trip-today-to-address-special-assembly-session-101631754101862.html
16-09-2021||India||Rajya Sabha TMC member Arpita Ghosh resigns, seeks to work for party||Trinamool Congress MP Arpita Ghosh has resigned from the Rajya Sabha, and her resignation has been accepted by Chairman of the House and Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu, a notification from the Secretariat of the Upper House of Parliament said on Wednesday.Ghosh said she now wants to work for the party organisation."Ms. Arpita Ghosh, an elected Member of the Council of States (Rajya Sabha), representing the State of West Bengal, resigned her seat in the Rajya Sabha, and her resignation has been accepted by the Chairman, Rajya Sabha w.e.f. the 15th September, 2021," the notification said.Ghosh was among those suspended during the ruckus in the Upper House in the recently concluded Parliament session wherein both MPs and marshals were allegedly injured.Sources indicated that her party prompted the move by Ghosh.In a letter to TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee, Ghosh thanked the party for giving her the opportunity to serve the people in various capacities."After our huge victory in the 2021 elections, I've been giving some serious thought about how I should continue to play a role in our party. I would be more interested if I could be given a role to work for the party and in the state of West Bengal, even without being a member of Parliament."My goal is clear: I wish to continue to serve the people of Bengal under the leadership of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. I feel I would be in a better position to achieve my goals by resigning as a member of Rajya Sabha and directly and come and work directly in Bengal," she said in the letter.According to a senior TMC leader, she is likely to play a role in the party organisation, especially in North Bengal.Ghosh was elected to Rajya Sabha as a TMC candidate in March 2020 after she lost from Balurghat in the 2019 Lok Sabha poll.Ghosh, a theatre artist, had her first brush with politics when she became a prominent face of the TMC's intellectual brigade during the Nandigram and Singur movement during 2006-2008.In 2014, she won the Lok Sabha polls from Balurghat as a TMC candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-tmc-member-arpita-ghosh-resigns-seeks-to-work-for-party-101631755057815.html
16-09-2021||India||PM Modi to inaugurate new defence ministry office complexes in Delhi today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the new office complexes built for defence ministry staff at two different locations in Delhi on Thursday. The two locations are Kasturba Gandhi Marg and Africa Avenue and the event will take place at 11am. According to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), PM MOdi "will visit the defence office complex at Africa Avenue and interact with Army, Navy, Air Force and Civilian Officers. This will be followed by his address to the gathering."The new defence offices complexes will accommodate around 7,000 officials from the Ministry of defence and the armed forces, including Army, Navy and Air Force, the PMO said in a release on Wednesday. It added that the buildings will provide modern, secure and functional working spaces.An integrated command and control centre has been established for managing building operations, while also catering to the end to end safety and surveillance of both the buildings, the release said.The new office complexes are state-of-the-art and energy efficient, with comprehensive security management measures. According to the official release, one of the features of these buildings is the use of new and sustainable construction technology called LGSF (Light gauge steel frame), which reduced construction time from 24-30 months in case of conventional RCC construction. The buildings utilise resource efficient green technology and promote environment friendly practices, it further read.Officials said that 13 offices are being relocated to Africa Avenue with a built-up area of 5.08 lakh square feet. They said these office complexes have been constructed at a cost of ₹775 crores provided by the Defence Ministry, reports news agency ANI. "The work in this regard has been carried out by the Ministry of housing and urban development as part of their Central Vista project. In addition to the office space for the officers and staff, there is provision for multi-level car parking for over 1,500 cars in these complexes," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-new-defence-ministry-office-complexes-in-delhi-today-101631751565048.html
16-09-2021||India||Over ₹900 crore deposited in bank accounts of 2 boys in Bihar: Report||The bank accounts of two children in Bihar received huge amount of money that surprised not only their families, but the entire village, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported on Wednesday.The amount credited in the accounts of the Guruchandra Vishwas and Asit Kumar is more than ₹900 crore, according to Livehindustan. Both the boys live in Pastiya village in Bagaura panchayat in Katihar district.The boys visited the local Centralised Precessing Centre (CPC) of State Bank of India (SBI) to find out about the amount deposited by the state government for school uniforms, but received the shock of their lives after learning about the huge sum of money, the Livehindustan report said.The boys hold the account in Uttar Bihar Gramin Bank. While Vishwas' account has ₹60 crore, Kumar's account suddenly had ₹900 crore, reported Livehindustan.Branch manager Manoj Gupta was surprised to know about the issue and stopped the withdrawal of money. Livehindustan further reported that a probe has been ordered and senior officials of the bank have been informed.This comes a days after a similar matter was reported from Khagaria district. A private tutor named Ranjit Das received ₹5.5 lakh in his account due to a bank error but refused to return the amount despite notices served to him. The man felt it could be a ploy to extort money from him sent by the government.“I felt that due to Covid-19 and the lockdown, the government had sent the amount into my account. These days, a lot of banking frauds take place and so I did not return. As I had some needs, I spent ₹1,60, 970. I was happy that the government had sent some money when I needed it. How else could money reach my empty account,” Das told the police.The police arrested Das on Tuesday and he was sent to judicial custody by a local court on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-rs-900-crore-deposited-in-bank-accounts-of-2-boys-in-bihar-report-101631752094861.html
16-09-2021||India||IMD forecasts heavy rainfall in these states on Saturday, Sunday||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast heavy rainfall over eastern India on September 18 and 19 due to a cyclonic circulation. The circulation is likely to develop over north Bay of Bengal on September 17, the IMD said on Wednesday.The weather department also said that north and central India - Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, east Rajasthan and Gujarat - are likely to witness intense rainfall activity till Thursday."Rainfall activity is likely to increase over Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal with fairly widespread to widespread rainfall and isolated heavy falls over above areas on September 18-19," the IMD said.It added that scattered to fairly widespread rainfall is very likely over northwest India (excluding Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh and Himachal Pradesh) till September 17.The monsoon activity has picked up in the country, bringing the rain deficiency to 5% from 9% in the end of August. Monsoon rains are nearing the normal category which is 104% to 96% of the long period average.Meanwhile, the weather department issued an orange alert for Delhi, warning of heavy rain in the national capital on Thursday.An orange alert is issued as a warning for extremely bad weather with the potential of disruption in commute with road and drain closures and interruption of power supply.The capital has already recorded 1,146.4 mm of rainfall so far this monsoon season, the highest in 46 years and almost double the precipitation gauged last year.The Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, had gauged 1,150 mm of rainfall in the monsoon season in 1975.This month alone, Delhi has witnessed 390mm of rain, making it the second rainiest September since 1901. The highest this month has ever received is 417.3mm in September 1944.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-forecasts-heavy-rainfall-in-these-states-on-saturday-sunday-101631750391986.html
16-09-2021||India||PM Modi to interact with Goans on September 18 over 100% 1st dose Covid vaccination||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with the people of Goa on Saturday (September 18) to congratulate them for the inoculation of the entire eligible population with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine. The event will take place virtually, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Wednesday. "PM Modi will interact with the members of the state cabinet, health officials, district collectors, panchayat members and beneficiaries of the vaccination programme. He will congratulate them for cent per cent coverage of the first dose of Covid-19 vaccines," he added.Sawant said that Goa has set the target of covering all the eligible population with both the doses by October 31 this year, adding that Tika Utsav 3.2 will begin in the state from Thursday onwards. "If everyone participates, we will be able to complete the second dose vaccination to the entire population," he said.Sawant said that as per the central government's data, there are 11.66 lakh people who are eligible for vaccination in Goa, but so far 11.88 lakh people have been vaccinated with the first dose in the state, which amounts to 102 per cent coverage. These beneficiaries include tourists and migrant population, he added.Last week, PM Modi tweeted congratulations to Sawant and health workers in the state for the successful completion of 100 per cent coverage of the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. “Well done Goa! Great effort, powered by a collective spirit and the prowess of our doctors as well as innovators,” he said.Sawant thanked the people of Goa for their support in making the vaccination drive a huge success. "On behalf of people of Goa, I thank the Union government led by Hon'ble PM Shri @narendramodi ji for providing free vaccination to all persons above 18, and a seamless supply of doses to fight this pandemic. We shall continue to march ahead with same energy to ensure that we also complete the second dose," Sawant said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-goans-on-september-18-over-100-1st-dose-covid-vaccination-101631749040785.html
16-09-2021||India||PM Modi may meet Biden on Sept 24 before Quad summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to hold a bilateral meeting with US President Joe Biden on September 24, followed by a meeting of the Quad leaders at the White House, with focus on Afghanistan, the Indo-Pacific, the Covid-19 pandemic, and the climate crisis, according to people aware of the matter.Modi will first have separate bilateral meetings with comprehensive strategic partners Japan and Australia on September 23, officials based in Washington and New Delhi said. With Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, PM Modi will advance the shared objective of an open, free, prosperous, and rules-based Indo-Pacific region as India steps up its engagement through various initiatives, the officials said on condition of anonymity.India has two-plus-two dialogues with all its three Quad partners, with the first India-Australia dialogue held in New Delhi on September 11.On September 24, Modi will first hold a bilateral dialogue with US Vice President Kamala Harris followed by the first dialogue in person with President Joe Biden. This will be followed by the Quad summit. All the engagements will be held at the White House.Just as PM Modi will hold bilateral meetings with all three Quad partners, other leaders are also expected to hold bilateral meetings before converging for the summit, the people quoted above said. External affairs minister S Jaishankar is leaving for the US on September 20 to attend the United Nations General Assembly and prepare the groundwork for the Quad Summit. There is no meeting scheduled between Quad foreign ministers.While the Indian PM will deepen bilateral cooperation in political, economic, security and defence matters with all three leaders, the Quad summit will focus on the situation in Taliban-ruled Afghanistan. Despite commitments to the US of an inclusive regime during the Doha process, the Taliban government is full of UN-designated terrorists, exclusive to the Sunni Pashtun group, with no space for either women or minorities. The Taliban government is also working contrary to the UNSC resolution 2593 passed on August 30, 2021.The Quad is expected to come out with a statement on the Indo-Pacific, where the rule of law and United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea will be emphasised upon, the officials said. The Quad’s vision of the Indo-Pacific is anchored in the Asean architecture, freedom of navigation, and rejects the nine-dash line claims of China in the South China Sea.The Quad leaders will also deliberate on the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, which originated in China, and review the production and availability of vaccines for the world. The climate crisis will also be on the bilateral agenda as well as the Quad agenda, the officials said. Jaishankar hosted the US Climate Change envoy John Kerry on September 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-may-meet-biden-on-sept-24-before-quad-summit-101631750139862.html
16-09-2021||NA||Breaking news: 1 dead, 6 injured in mysterious blast in J&K's Kupwara district||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour. Follow all the updates here:1 dead, 6 injured in 'mysterious blast' in J&K's Kupwara district,One girl died while six other members of the family were injured after a  mysterious blast occurred in a house in Taratpora, Handwara area of Kupwara district of north Kashmir. Police said they are verifying the cause of the blast and have started an investigation. More details awaited. RSS chief to visit Jammu on Oct 1, first time since August 2019RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat will be on a three-day visit to Jammu from October 1, his first visit to Jammu and Kashmir since August 5, 2019, when the Centre revoked Article 370 and 35A. Speaking to news agency PTI, a sangh functionary said that the three day visit of Bhagwat is a routine tour.RSS chief to visit Jammu on Oct 1, first time since August 2019Expert suggests opening all gates of metro stations, DDMA yet to take a callDuring a recent meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), the director of the National Centre for Disease Control, Dr Sujit Kumar Singh suggested that all gates of Delhi Metro stations should be opened in order to reduce congestion for passengers, PTI reported. Read more24 ministers inducted in Gujarat CM Bhupendra Patel’s cabinet. Check portfoliosGujarat chief minister Bhupendra Patel, who took charge of the top post just a few days back, inducted 24 new ministers into his cabinet on Thursday, a year ahead of the assembly elections in the state. No ministers from former CM Vijay Rupani’s ministry have been included in Patel's cabinet. Read moreWorld Bank to discontinue 'Doing Business' reports after data irregularities foundThe World Bank has decided to discontinue 'Doing Business' reports after data irregularities were found in the 2018 and 2020 reports, news agency Reuters reported on Thursday. Gujarat CM keeps home ministry, Kanubhai Desai new finance ministerGujarat chief minister Bhupendra Patel will also be the state's home minister while Kanubhai Desai has been appointed as the new finance minister. Ex-AIADMK minister Veermani raidedOfficials of Tamil Nadu’s Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) carried out searches at 28 locations linked to former AIADMK minister KC Veeramani on charges of assets disproportionate to his known sources of income. Read moreKerala sees major rise in daily Covid tally with 22,182 new casesKerala reports 22,182 fresh #COVID19 infections, 26,563 recoveries and 178 deaths today.Active cases: 1,86,190Total recoveries: 42,36,309Death toll: 23,1651,21,486 samples tested in the last 24 hoursKerala's daily tally of the coronavirus disease went up again on Thursday as 22,182 new cases and 178 more deaths were recorded. Centre also setting up India Debt Resolution Company Limited: Nirmala SitharamanAlong with National Asset Reconstruction Company Ltd, we are also setting up an India Debt Resolution Company Limited. PSBs will have 51% ownership in NARCL, while PSBs and public financial institutions will have a maximum of 49% stake: Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman pic.twitter.com/otTek4zYJuUnion finance minister Sitharaman also said on Thursday that along with the National Asset Reconstruction Company Limited (NACRL), the Centre is also setting up an India Debt Resolution Company Limited. Union cabinet clears proposal for govt guarantee for bad banksUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Thursday that the Union cabinet has approved a government guarantee of ₹30,600 crores for security receipts issued by the National Asset Reconstruction Company Limited (NACRL). The NARCL will pay up to 15% of the agreed value for the loans in cash and the remaining 85 per cent would be government-guaranteed security receipts.PM Modi to take part in Quad leaders' summit in Washington on Sept 24: MEAPM will participate in the first in-person Quad leaders' summit in Washington on Sept 24th. On Sept 25, he will address the UN general debate of the UN General Assembly at its 76th session. While PM is in Washington, he will also have a bilateral meeting with President Biden: MEA pic.twitter.com/dwhKzpSREuThe ministry of external affairs said on Thursday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will participate in the first in-person Quad leaders' summit in Washington on September 24. The next day (September 25), Modi will address the UN general debate of the UN General Assembly at its 76th session. The MEA also said that the Prime Minister will hold a bilateral meeting with United States President Joe Biden. CBI questions Bengal CM Mamata’s election agent in Nandigram in post-poll violence probeTrinamool Congress (TMC) leader Sheikh Sufiyan, who was chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s election agent in the Nandigram assembly election in East Midnapore in April, was questioned by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for more than four hours on Thursday in connection with post-poll violence in the district. Read moreTwo killed in Islamic State attacks in IraqSecurity sources told news agency Xinhua on Thursday that a civilian and a soldier were killed, while three members of paramilitary Hashd Shaabi forces were injured in separate attacks by terrorists of the Islamic State in Iraq. MS Dhoni, Anand Mahindra part of expert panel to review NCCThe Union defence ministry said on Thursday that it has constituted a high-level expert committee, under the chairmanship of former MP Baijayant Panda, for a comprehensive review of the National Cadet Corps (NCC) in order to make it more relevant in changing times. Former Indian cricket team captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni and Mahindra group chairman Anand Mahindra will be members of the committee. Schools for classes 1-3 to reopen in Haryana from Sept 20We are resuming classes for Standard 1st to 3rd from 20th September. Students need to get written consent from their parents. They will have the option of attending the classes either offline or online: Haryana Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar pic.twitter.com/QiGBhEOM1NHaryana education minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar announced on Thursday that schools for classes 1-3 will reopen in the state from September 20, adding, that students will have to get a written consent from their parents. “They will have the option of attending the classes either offline or online,” Gujjar said. 24 ministers inducted in Gujarat's new cabinetA total of 24 ministers have been sworn in the new cabinet, in the presence of Gujarat Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel and former CM Vijay Rupani. pic.twitter.com/LkzhOECTCgA total of 24 ministers have been sworn in the new cabinet, in the presence of Gujarat chief minister Bhupendra Patel and former chief minister Vijay Rupani.GST Council to meet on Friday; rate review, tax concession to 11 Covid drugs on cardsThe GST Council, chaired by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, will meet on Friday, which among other things may review tax rate of over four-dozen items and extend till December 31, tax concessions on 11 Covid drugs.Rajendra Trivedi, Jitu Vaghani, Raghavji Patel sworn in Gujarat ministersRajendra Trivedi, Jitu Vaghani, Rushikesh Patel, Purnesh Modi, Raghavji Patel sworn in Gujarat ministers.Electricity will be given for 24 hours in Uttar Pradesh: Manish SisodiaWe will be giving 300 units of electricity for free within 24 hours of our election to power. Electricity will be given for 24 hours in Uttar Pradesh: AAP leader and Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia in Lucknow months ahead of state Assembly elections in 2022.UN chief urges ''rapid'' emission cuts to curb climate changeThe head of the United Nations called Thursday for “immediate, rapid and large-scale” cuts in greenhouse gas emissions to curb global warming and avert climate disaster.Sensex hits 59,000, Nifty scales lifetime high, nears 17,600The blue-chip NSE Nifty 50 index was up 0.13% at 17,541.85 by 0440 GMT, having earlier hit a peak of 17,576.9. The benchmark S&P BSE Sensex was 0.15% higher at 58,813.62 after touching a record high of 58,908.18.Clash erupts between supporters of AIADMK leader and former Tamil Nadu minister KC VeeramaniClash erupts between supporters of AIADMK leader and former Tamil Nadu minister KC Veeramani outside his residence in Vellore following Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) searches at the minister's premises.Fire breaks out in a factory near Bhau Industrial Estate in PuneFire breaks out in a factory near Bhau Industrial Estate at Nanded Phata; one body recovered, fire fighting underway.Vladimir Putin says 'several dozen' people in his circle have coronavirusRussian President Vladimir Putin says 'several dozen' people in his circle have coronavirus, reports AFP.All sitting ministers in Vijay Rupani cabinet droppedAll sitting ministers in Vijay Rupani cabinet dropped, assembly Speaker resigns ahead of cabinet swearing-in.PM Modi launches 'Central Vista' websitePrime Minister Narendra Modi launches 'Central Vista' website.Delhi HC asks CBI to file reply on bail plea of Abhishek Tiwari in alleged corruption caseDelhi High Court asks CBI to file reply on the bail plea of CBI sub-inspector Abhishek Tiwari, in connection with an alleged corruption case regarding leaking information of a separate case against former Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh.PM Modi inaugurates Defence Offices Complexes in DelhiPrime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurates Defence Offices Complexes at Delhi's Kasturba Gandhi Marg and Africa Avenue. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, CDS General Bipin Rawat, Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, Army chief General MM Naravane also present.Earthquake of magnitude 4.3 on Richter scale hit Myanmar at 10.19amAn earthquake of magnitude 4.3 on the Richter scale hit Myanmar at 10.19 am today: National Center for Seismology.Bombay HC rejects Param Bir Singh's plea challenging probe against himThe Bombay high court today dismissed the petition filed by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh challenging the preliminary inquiries initiated against him by the Maharashtra government. The HC held that the petition was not maintainable and directed Singh to approach the appropriate forum.Fire breaks out at a factory in Delhi's Mayapuri Phase-2 areaFire breaks out at a factory in Delhi's Mayapuri Phase-2 area. 12 fire tenders rushed to the spot.Rupee opens on flat noteRupee opens on flat note, slips 1 paisa to 73.51 against US dollar in early trade.3 killed, 60 injured as 6.0-magnitude earthquake strikes China's Sichuan provinceA 6.0-magnitude earthquake jolted China's southwestern Sichuan province on Thursday, leaving at least three persons dead and 60 others injured.The earthquake struck at 4:33 am (local time) in Luxian county at a depth of 10 kilometres, the state-run Xinhua news agency reported.Sensex jumps 152.58 points to hit new lifetime high of 58,875.78 in opening sessionSensex jumps 152.58 points to hit new lifetime high of 58,875.78 in opening session.India logs 30,570 fresh Covid-19 cases, 431 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia recorded 30,570 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 33,347,325, while the death toll climbed to 443,928 with 431 daily fatalities, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday. IMD issues orange alert, warns of heavy rainfall in DelhiThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an orange alert warning of moderate to heavy rain in the national capital on Thursday.PM Modi to address plenary session of SCO summit in DushanbePrime Minister Narendra Modi will lead the Indian delegation at the 21st meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) on Friday and virtually join the summit of heads of state via video link.Australia PM offers China's Xi 'open invitation' for talksAustralia PM offers China's Xi 'open invitation' for talks after submarine announcement.Australia to acquire US Tomahawk cruise missiles: PMAustralia to acquire US Tomahawk cruise missiles, reports AFP.Australia's New South Wales reports 12 Covid-19 deaths, 1,351 local casesAustralia's New South Wales state, at the heart of the country's worst coronavirus outbreak, on Thursday reported 12 deaths from Covid-19, the same number as the day before, and 1,351 new locally acquired cases, up from 1,259 on Wednesday.Australian nuclear subs will be banned from New Zealand waters: ArdernNew Zealand will not lift a decades-long ban on nuclear-powered vessels entering its waters in the wake of key ally Australia's decision to develop a nuclear submarine fleet, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said Thursday.China reports 80 new coronavirus cases for Sept 15 vs 73 day agoChina reported on Thursday 80 new confirmed coronavirus cases in the mainland for September 15, compared with 73 a day earlier, according to the National Health Commission.PM Modi to inaugurate new Defence Ministry office complexes in Delhi todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the new office complexes built for Defence ministry staff at two different locations in Delhi on Thursday. The two locations are Kasturba Gandhi Marg and Africa Avenue and the event will take place at 11am.Fairs, exhibitions to be allowed in Delhi from ThursdayPublic fairs and exhibitions will be allowed in Delhi from Thursday, under a phased reopening of economic activities interrupted by the lockdown during the second wave of Covid-19 in the city.In first, SpaceX to send all-civilian crew into Earth orbitSpaceX is preparing to send the first all-civilian crew into Earth's orbit Wednesday evening, capping a summer of private spaceflight with one of the most ambitious tourism missions to date.China launches emergency response after magnitude 6 earthquake hits SichuanChina said on Thursday it had launched an emergency response after a 6.0-magnitude earthquake jolted the southwestern province of Sichuan early in the morning, according to the official Xinhua news agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-september-16-2021-101631748713914.html
16-09-2021||India||44 students get 100 percentile in JEE(Main), 18 secure rank 1||New Delhi: A record 44 students scored 100 percentile, including 18 who secured the first rank, in the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) or JEE (Main) exams-2021, results of which were announced by the National Testing Agency (NTA) late on Tuesday night, reporting an increase of 83% from last year when 24 students secured 100 percentile.Officials cited an increase in the number of sessions for the exams as the reason for the record NTA scores. “Of the 939,008 candidates who appeared in the exams, 252,954 appeared in all four sessions. It increases the probability of more students scoring a 100 percentile,” an NTA official said. The NTA, which is the nodal agency to conduct various entrance exams in the county, said it has debarred 20 students from taking the exam for three years on account of using “unfair means”. The decision comes amid an ongoing Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) investigation into the alleged cases of “impersonification” and “misconduct” at some exam centres during the fourth session of the JEE (Mains), conducted from August 26 to September 2.“On account of using ‘unfair means’, a total of 20 candidates have been debarred from appearing in future examinations for a period of three years. Their results have also been withheld,” NTA said in a statement. A senior NTA official, who wished not to be named, said the nodal agency was also looking into the cases wherein the percentile has jumped “unrealistically” from one session to another. “The results of around 400 students are under observation. These are the cases where the percentile has increased unrealistically from one session to another,” said the official.This year, for the first time, the JEE (Mains) was conducted four times in a year in order to offer more opportunities to students and to give them more chances to improve. While the first phase was conducted in February, the second phase was held in March. The third phase, which was scheduled in April and May, got postponed due to the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. It was later held between July and August.The fourth phase, for which the results were announced late on Tuesday night, was conducted on August 26, 27, 31 and September 1 and 2. Until last year, the exams were conducted twice a year.On Wednesday, after all four sessions were concluded a final merit list of best of four was issued by the NTA. For candidates who appeared in more than one session, the best NTA score has been accounted for, the agency said.According to the NTA, out of the 44 candidates who scored 100 percentile, seven each are from Telangana and Delhi, six each from Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan, five from Maharashtra, two each from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Bihar, and Punjab and one candidate each are from Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, West Bengal and Chandigarh. The rank has been allotted on the basis of the tie-breaking policy of the NTA. “According to the policy, candidates with higher marks in Mathematics are given preference while allotting ranks. It is followed by an NTA score in Physics and then in Chemistry. If still the tie remains, the candidate with a lesser ratio of negative to positive response will be preferred. It means the candidates who have attempted lesser wrong questions will be given preference. Therefore, only 18 out of 44 candidates with 100 percentile scorers scored rank 1,” said another NTA official.Despite the introduction of four sessions, the JEE (Mains) this year witnessed a decrease in overall registration. Last year, 1,174,000 students had registered for the exams, of which 1,023,000 had appeared. This year, the number of registration came down to 1,048,012 and of these 939,008 candidates appeared in the exams.A total of 658,000 male and 280,000 female candidates appeared in the exams this year. Last year, 715,000 male and 308,000 female candidates had appeared in the exams. Officials attributed the decrease to Covid-19 pandemic. “The pandemic has badly affected the education system. We will also analyse other possible reasons behind the decrease,” said an official. The JEE (Mains) is conducted for admissions to various engineering courses including the National Institutes of Technology (NITs), Indian Institutes of Information Technology and other centrally funded technical colleges. Besides, it is also an eligibility criterion for the JEE (Advanced) exams for admissions to the Indian Institutes of Technologies (IITs). Registration process for the JEE (Advanced), which will be conducted on October 3, started on Wednesday. Candidates, who will meet the NTA’s cut-off for JEE (Advanced), can only appear in the exam.The JEE (Main) exam was conducted at 915 examination centres in 334 cities, including 12 outside India in Bahrain, Colombo, Doha, Dubai, Kathmandu, Kuala Lumpur, Lagos, Muscat, Riyadh, Sharjah, Singapore and Kuwait.The test was held in 13 languages, including English, Hindi, Gujarati, Assamese, Bengali, Kannada, Malayalam, Marathi, Odia, Punjabi, Tamil, Telugu and Urdu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/44-students-get-100-percentile-in-jee-main-18-secure-rank-1-101631744045064.html
16-09-2021||India||Only Dalai Lama can decide on his reincarnation: CTA head Penpa Tsering||The Dalai Lama alone can decide the matter of his reincarnation and the Chinese government has no say in the matter, the head of the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA), Penpa Tsering, has said against the backdrop of Beijing’s assertions that it will choose the next Tibetan spiritual leader. Tsering said in an interview that China’s efforts to play a decisive role in the selection of the next Dalai Lama amounted to “politicisation of the whole reincarnation issue”. The Dalai Lama’s reincarnation is a spiritual issue whereas China’s communist regime doesn’t even believe in religion, he said. The current impasse in the Tibetan parliament-in-exile – where 22 of the 45 members have not taken oath in line with the official charter – provides an opportunity for “the Chinese government to create trouble” within the Tibetan community and affect the image of the Tibetan movement, Tsering said. Tsering, who was elected the Sikyong or head of the executive branch of the CTA in May, said if the Chinese government is serious about the Dalai Lama’s reincarnation, it “should be giving more attention to the living 14th Dalai Lama than the future 15th Dalai Lama”. He said, “And as a communist regime which does not believe in religion or life after death, this is purely a spiritual matter.” He added, “When you talk about reincarnation, it’s the person who’s going to be reincarnated who decides where or how he or she should be born...We are talking about [the Dalai Lama’s] reincarnation, so it’s completely up to his holiness to decide where he will be born, not the Chinese government.” Amid growing concerns about the health of the current Dalai Lama – he turned 86 in July – Tsering said he personally believed the CTA shouldn’t have any role in the issue of reincarnation. “This is a purely spiritual and a religious process. So it’s up to the religious leader, particularly his holiness the Dalai Lama, to decide, not the administration, but once his reincarnation is recognised, then the role of the CTA comes into being,” he said. With 22 of the 45 lawmakers of the Tibetan parliament-in-exile not having taken oath in line with the Tibetan Charter because of political differences, Tsering said the impasse had created “a lot of space for the Chinese government to create trouble within the [Tibetan] community, and it also affects the image of the Tibetan movement”. He added, “But whenever you have a problem, there are also opportunities. This creates more awareness within the public about the laws and the system and all that. So I believe now people are more aware of what is happening within the community and I think the elected leaders should be about of where it’s heading to.” Tsering said the elected members would have to play a key role in ending the impasse as there was no clarity on how to resolve the matter, “other than the role of the election commission”, since the Tibetan Charter doesn’t specify “as to what happens if some members do not take oath of office as per the laws”. He also said the devotees of the Karmapa Rinponce, Ugyen Trinley Dorje, are very concerned about the issue of his return to India. “But at the same time, there has to be mutual understanding between the government of India and Karmapa Rinpoche himself. We are talking about how to smoothen things out and look at ways where there could be a mutual consensus on how he should return and how he will be treated in India,” he added. The Karmapa Rinpoche, who fled from Tibet to India in January 2000, left the country in May 2017 and travelled to Europe and then the US using his Identity Certificate, a document issued by the Indian government to stateless citizens from the Tibetan Autonomous Region of China. Since then, Dorje has cited various reasons for not returning to India. Tsering also spoke about the CTA’s plans for restructuring in the years to come in response to social and demographic changes in the Tibetan community in India. This will focus on “the integration of settlements and integration of schools, because we are scattered in more than 45 different communities” across India. “So in the long run, when more people move out of the settlements, then it becomes expedient on us to integrate the settlements into more compact, larger communities so that it becomes administratively more manageable for us,” he said, adding this will also enable the Tibetan community to preserve its language, culture, religion and way of life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-dalai-lama-can-decide-on-his-reincarnation-cta-head-penpa-tsering-101631743807051.html
16-09-2021||India||Amid farm protest, Tomar holds talk with Lieutenant Governors over agri schemes||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday held a virtual conference with all Lieutenant Governors (LGs) of Union Territories to discuss a raft of federal farm schemes, especially the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund, a long-term-debt financing scheme aimed at boosting private infrastructure investment in the food and farm economy. Similar exercises would likely be held with state governments, an official familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.The move to collaborate closely with provincial authorities on policies in the farm sector, which supports half the Indian population, comes amid the ongoing farm protests in states, especially in states such as Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Major farm unions have opposed the three agricultural laws enacted in September last year to liberalise farm trade. “The objective of the meeting was to understand the views of the L-Gs on the ground situation regarding schemes like the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund and its uptake,” a second official said. Uptake refers to the utilisation of funds. The participants included J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha and Lieutenant Governor of Andaman and Nicobar Island Admiral DK Joshi. These two top administrators also gave presentations on the implementation of various schemes. An official statement said “modifications and (the) current status of the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund were explained”. A presentation by the agriculture ministry stated “investment opportunities of around ₹1,700 crore and employment generation opportunities of more than 20,000 in 7 UTs under activities like dry storage, pack house, cold storage, ripening chamber, reefer vehicles, smart and precision farming etc.” were being done under the fund. The fund, which figured in the ₹20-lakh crore first stimulus package to deal with the Covid crisis, aims to offer medium-to-long term debt financing for investment in farm projects. It will provide loans on easy terms totalling ₹1 lakh crore over four years, starting with a sanction of ₹10,000 crore for 2020-21 and ₹30,000 crore each for the next three financial years. Borrowers get an interest subvention, where part of the interest is paid by the government, of 3% per annum up to a loan limit of ₹2 crore for a period of seven years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-farm-protest-tomar-holds-talk-with-lieutenant-governors-over-agri-schemes-101631742482551.html
16-09-2021||India||FCRA: Govt restricts funding by 10 foreign agencies to Indian NGOs||New Delhi: The Union government has put 10 foreign donor agencies based in the US, Europe and Australia under the “Prior Reference Category”, restricting any funding by them to Indian non-governmental organisations (NGOs) or individuals without the approval of ministry of home affairs (MHA), people familiar with the development said. The action was taken under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA).These include US entities Omidyar Network, supported by e-Bay founder Pierre Omidyar and involved in social impact funding across sectors in India, Stardust, and Humanity United; the European Climate Foundation; the UK-based Freedom Fund, Children’s Investment Fund Foundation, Laudes Foundation and Legatum Fund; and Australia-based organisations Walk Free Foundation (WFF), and Minderoo. A circular to this regard was sent by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to all the banks on July 1. “RBI has instructed that any fund flow from these donor agencies to any NGO/voluntary organizations/associations/person(s) in India should be brought to the notice of ministry of home affairs so that the funds are allowed to be credited to the accounts of the recipient only after clearance/prior reference from FCRA Wing,” the circular stated. A senior ministry of home affairs (MHA) official confirmed the development on Wednesday evening. “A lot of audits which were pending due to Covid-19 were done, and foundations which are indulging in work other than what they have mentioned in their FCRA documents have been put under the prior reference category. This is a routine exercise,” he said. HT reached out to Omidyar Network, Laudes, Minderoo, Walk Free, Legatum, European Climate Foundation, and Children’s Investment Fund Foundation for comments, which were awaited at the time of going to print. Over the last few years, the government has taken action against several international organisations including Greenpeace, Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, Compassion International, and Open Society Foundation. Amnesty and Greenpeace have shut their India operations. According to the amended FCRA rules, which were tightened in September 2020, any association with specific religious, educational, economic, cultural and social activities require FCRA registration or prior reference from the MHA before they can receive or utilise foreign contribution. Moreover, foreign contribution to such entities should be credited to a designated FCRA account, and no other transaction should be allowed in such designated accounts. On tightening FCRA rules, the government said last year that “the annual inflow of foreign contribution has almost doubled between the years 2010 and 2019, but many recipients of foreign contribution have not utilised the same for the purpose for which they were registered or granted prior reference under the said Act”. It added that many of these recipients were found wanting in ensuring basic statutory compliances such as submission of annual returns and maintenance of proper accounts, which has led to a situation where the central government had to cancel certificates of registration of more than 19,000 recipient organisations, including NGOs, during the period between 2011 and 2019. Criminal investigations were also initiated against dozens of such non-governmental organisations which indulged in outright misappropriation or misutilisation of foreign contribution. According to a reply by the MHA in Parliament on August 10, 22,691 NGOs are registered or granted prior reference by central government for receipt and utilisation of foreign contribution including relief supplies from foreign sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fcra-govt-restricts-funding-by-10-foreign-agencies-to-indian-ngos-101631742062458.html
16-09-2021||India||Govt restricts funding by 10 foreign agencies to Indian NGOs||The Union government has put 10 foreign donor agencies based in the US, Europe and Australia under the “Prior Reference Category”, restricting any funding by them to Indian non-governmental organisations (NGOs) or individuals without the approval of ministry of home affairs (MHA), people familiar with the development said.These include US entities Omidyar Network, supported by e-Bay founder Pierre Omidyar and involved in social impact funding across sectors in India, Stardust, and Humanity United; the European Climate Foundation; the UK-based Freedom Fund, Children’s Investment Fund Foundation, Laudes Foundation and Legatum Fund; and Australia-based organisations Walk Free Foundation (WFF), and Minderoo.A circular to this regard was sent by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to all the banks on July 1.“RBI has instructed that any fund flow from these donor agencies to any NGO/voluntary organizations/associations/person(s) in India should be brought to the notice of ministry of home affairs so that the funds are allowed to be credited to the accounts of the recipient only after clearance/prior reference from FCRA Wing,” the circular stated.A senior MHA official confirmed the development on Wednesday evening.“A lot of audits which were pending due to Covid-19 were done, and foundations which are indulging in work other than what they have mentioned in their FCRA (Foreign Contribution Regulation Act ) documents have been put under the prior reference category. This is a routine exercise,” he said.HT reached out to Omidyar, Laudes, Minderoo, Walk Free, Legatum, European Climate Foundation, and Children’s Investment Fund Foundation for comments, which were awaited at the time of going to print.Over the last few years, the government has taken action against several international organisations including Greenpeace, Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, Compassion International, and Open Society Foundation. Amnesty and Greenpeace have shut their India operations.According to the amended FCRA rules, which were tightened in September 2020, any association with specific religious, educational, economic, cultural and social activities require FCRA registration or prior reference from the MHA before they can receive or utilise foreign contributions. Moreover, all the foreign contributions to such entities should be credited to a designated FCRA account, and no other transaction should be allowed in such designated accounts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-restricts-funding-by-10-foreign-agencies-to-indian-ngos-101631738837422.html
16-09-2021||India||Centre set to take charge of irrigation projects in Telugu states||The stage is set for the takeover by the Centre of all the completed and ongoing major and medium irrigation projects on Krishna and Godavari rivers in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh with effect from October 14, when the gazette notifications issued by the Union ministry of Jal Shakti on July 15, come into force.As per the gazette notification, the operation and maintenance of as many as 36 irrigation projects on Krishna river, including Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and Pulichintala, along with their canals and irrigation systems, would come under the purview of the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB).Similarly, another 70-odd projects on Godavari river including Kaleshwaram and Polavaram would be brought under the Godavari River Management Board (GRMB). Both the boards would be directly under the control of the Union ministry of Jal Shakti.On Sunday, Union Jal Shakti secretary A K Das issued orders appointing two chief engineers each to KRMB and GRMB to oversee the functioning of these boards. M K Sinha and G K Agarwal, both chief engineers in the Central Water Commission, would look after the GRMB, while T K Sivarajan from Coimbatore and Anupam Prasad from Lucknow were appointed for KRMB.The four CEs will look after the works of Boards for three months or till further orders, Das said.The Jal Shakti ministry also held a meeting with J Chandrashekhar Iyer, chairman of GRMB and M P Singh of KRMB on Monday in New Delhi to discuss the modalities of the implementation of the gazette notifications on the operation and maintenance of the projects located on the two rivers in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.Why should there be Central control over irrigation projects?In a bid to avoid river water disputes between the two Telugu states post bifurcation of the combined state, provisions were incorporated in the Andhra Pradesh Reorganization Act 2014 for the effective management of river waters by constituting river management boards for Godavari and Krishna rivers. An apex council headed by Union Jal Shakti Minister was constituted for the supervision of the functioning of these boards.Though the boards were constituted in 2014 itself, their jurisdiction over the projects and functioning had not been finalised for a long time, as a result which both the Telugu states had been at loggerheads over drawing of river water every monsoon, especially in Krishna basin.As per the Krishna tribunal award, out of 811 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) allotted to erstwhile combined state, Telangana was allocated 299 tmc ft of water and Andhra Pradesh 512 tmc ft. But both the states accused each other of drawing excess water than what was allocated, especially in Krishna river.At last in October 2020, it was decided at the apex council meeting to notify the jurisdiction of the two boards and entrust the administration, regulation, maintenance and operation of the projects under the two rivers to these boards.Accordingly, the Union ministry of Jal Shakti issued two separate gazette notifications on July 15, notifying the jurisdiction of KRMB and GRMB and entrusting them to take over the irrigation projects.States oppose total control by CentreHowever, both Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have their own reservations over the implementation of gazette notification. A senior official of the Andhra Pradesh irrigation department said on condition of anonymity that the state government was opposing bringing all the irrigation projects under the purview of the boards.“We requested that only major projects on Krishna river like Nagarjunasagar and Srisailam be brought under the purview of KRMB since there is a dispute with Telangana over water releases every year. The other projects can remain under the control of the state government,” he said.Telangana, too, has been opposing major projects like Kaleshwaram under the GRMB, because it was conceived much before the bifurcation of the combined state. Moreover, it would be difficult for the boards to run so many irrigation projects, since water releases should be done according to the requirement of the farmers in the command area.“We have been asking the Centre to defer the implementation of the gazette notification but there is no positive response from it,” a Telangana irrigation official said.As per the gazette notification, both the Telugu states would have to bear the expenditure on salaries and allowances of the personnel belonging to the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), who would man the irrigation projects. Besides, the two states would also have to deposit ₹200 crore each for the operation of the two boards within the next two months.It is learnt the two states have expressed their inability to deposit this money with the boards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-set-to-take-charge-of-irrigation-projects-in-telugu-states-101631735521707.html
16-09-2021||India||Crimes against women lowest in Coimbatore, Chennai, reveals NCRB report||Cities in Tamil Nadu -- Coimbatore and Chennai--- are the safest for women to live in as they have the lowest rate for crimes against women compared to 19 other metro cities in India, including Bengaluru and Mumbai, according to data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) for 2020.The rate of crimes against women last year in these metropolitan cities were Coimbatore (9.0), Chennai (13.4), Bengaluru (67.3), Mumbai (53.8), Kochi (37.5) while the crime rate was highest in Lucknow (190.7), Jaipur (162.9), Delhi (129.1).In Chennai, crimes against women have been declining between 2018 and 2020 at 761, 729 and 576. The city has a charge sheeting rate of 96.8%. In Coimbatore, however, the number of crimes against women was 107 in 2018 which dipped to 85 in 2019 and went up again to 97 in 2020 with a charge sheeting rate 97.9%.However, in terms of absolute numbers, last year metro cities in Kerala had fewer crimes compared to Chennai. Kochi and Kozhikode saw 403 and 294 whereas Chennai had 576. But Coimbatore in absolute numbers too is the lowest in the country with 97 crimes last year. The difference being that the crime rate is calculated as per one lakh of population and Chennai is the largest metro among these four cities. The populations of Chennai, Coimbatore, Kochi and Kozhikode are 43.1 lakh, 10.7 lakh, 10.8 lakh, 10.6 lakh respectively. Experts say that the lowest crime rate against women in Tamil Nadu cities can be attributed to two factors- lack of reporting and prevention mechanisms. “When there is a declining trend, we have to see through the data from various intersections. Are they complaining? If so, is their report being considered and registered or dismissed? Even in urban areas in gender based crimes there is stigma against reporting and some women get used to this and fail to report like in instance in sexual harassment in public places like buses,” says Sandhiyan Thiyagaran, founder of AWARE (Awareness for Women to Advocate their Rights and Empowerment) India. “However, compared to other metros in the country, in Tamil Nadu the law enforcement agencies help prevent crimes against women such as by patrolling and installing CCTVs. We have a few deterrents that other metros may not have in equal measure.”Amongst these 19 Metropolitan Cities, cities reporting highest charge-sheeting rate under IPC Crimes are Surat (96.7%), Coimbatore (96.6%) and Ahmedabad (96.3%). Among the states it is Gujarat (97.1%), Kerala (94.9%) and Tamil Nadu (91.7%).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crimes-against-women-lowest-in-coimbatore-chennai-reveals-ncrb-report-101631734140684.html
16-09-2021||India||CM Bommai calls Subramanian Swamy a ‘freelance politician’||BengaluruChief minister Basavaraj S Bommai on Wednesday termed senior BJP Rajya Sabha member Subramanian Swamy as a ‘freelance politician’ whose character and forte had been to speak against his own party and its leadership.“You know well about Subramanian Swamy. Whichever party he is in, he is like a freelance politician. He says whatever comes to his mind. Based on his analysis, he keeps saying things,” Bommai said during a debate on price rise in the Karnataka assembly.Bommai said Swamy spoke against the leadership of the Janata Party and then Janata Dal as well.“While being in the government, he spoke against the then Prime Minister Chandrashekhar. It is the character and forte of Subramanian Swamy,” he said.The chief minister’s statement came as the Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah quoted Swamy’s February 2, 2021 tweet, which read, ‘Petrol ₹93 in Ram’s India, ₹53 in Sita’s Nepal and ₹51 in Ravan’s Lanka.” Siddaramaiah quoted the sitting BJP Rajya Sabha member to point out the rising fuel prices in India and its cascading effect on other commodities.“It’s not me who has said this but Subramanian Swamy, who is a sitting Rajya Sabha member of the BJP. He was your father’s (former CM Late S R Bommai) friend,” Siddaramaiah quipped.He even challenged the BJP leadership to sack Swamy if he was not right.“I have no objection if the BJP leadership tolerates his statement. Don’t forget that he is an economist and you have made him your Rajya Sabha member,” Siddaramaiah said.To this, Bommai agreed saying Swamy is genius in economics and the party gave him due credit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-bommai-calls-subramanian-swamy-a-freelance-politician-101631733608020.html
16-09-2021||India||Haritha leaders criticise League for ignoring harassment complaint||Thiruvananthapuram: Former leaders of Haritha, the women students’ wing of the Indian Union Muslim League lashed out at the party on Wednesday for ignoring their complaints against some of their male colleagues who allegedly defamed and verbally attacked them. Addressing a press conference in Kozhikode in north Kerala, they alleged that they were subjected to severe “cyber attack and verbal rape” over the issue and they were victimised for airing their “genuine grievances”. They said instead of taking action against the alleged perpetrators they were expelled from the party. They said they approached the state women commission after all their pleas fell on deaf ears. “Our approach to the Kerala State Women’s Commission was seen as a major crime by the League leadership. But we were forced. We are being subjected to constant cyber attacks and character assassination over the issue,” Najma Thabsheera, a former office-bearer of Haritha, said. Another leader, Mufeeda Tasni, said they will provide enough evidence to police and women commission to support their complaint. She said some of the senior leaders’ attitude towards women members was really shocking and male hegemony was quite evident in the party. The League had recently dissolved the state committee of the Haritha after it rejected the party’s diktat to withdraw its complaint against male leaders of the Muslim Students Federation (MSF) who allegedly used derogatory terms and insulted them. Police arrested MSF leader PK Navas and later released him on bail. Earlier the party had tried to enforce a truce but failed and took action against Haritha leaders. At least 10 members of the Haritha had approached the women commission with a complaint against MSF state president PK Navas and a few others, alleging derogatory remarks and use of abusive language during a state committee meeting of their union on June 24. Police later registered a case against him as directed by the women commission and later arrested him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haritha-leaders-criticise-league-for-ignoring-harassment-complaint-101631733539897.html
16-09-2021||India||Covid-19: 1,116 new cases, 8 deaths in Karnataka||Bengaluru: Karnataka on Wednesday recorded 1,116 new cases of Covid-19 and 8 fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 2,964,083 and death toll to 37,537, the health department said.The day also saw 970 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries to 2,910,626.Of 1,116 new cases reported on Wednesday, 462 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 265 discharges and 5 deaths.Total number of active cases is at 15,892.While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.65 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 0.71 per cent.Of 8 deaths reported on Wednesday, 5 are from Bengaluru Urban, and one each from Dakshina Kannada, Tumakuru and Udupi.Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 462, Dakshina Kannada 102, Udupi 89, Hassan 81, Mysuru 76, followed by others.Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 1,242,332, followed by Mysuru 177,016 and Tumakuru 119,776.Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 1,218,938, followed by Mysuru 174,122 and Tumakuru 118,012.Cumulatively a total of 456,89,893 samples have been tested of which 1,70,306 were tested on Wednesday alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-1-116-new-cases-8-deaths-in-karnataka-101631733431360.html
16-09-2021||India||Crime rate against women lowest in Tamil Nadu’s Coimbatore, Chennai: NCRB data||Chennai: Coimbatore and Chennai in Tamil Nadu have registered the lowest crime rate against women among 19 big cities in the country, according to data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) for 2020.The rate of crime, which is incidence per 100,000 population, against women last year is 9 in Coimbatore, 13.4 in Chennai, 37.5 in Kochi, 67.3 in Bengaluru, and 53.8 in Mumbai. The crime rate is highest in Lucknow (190.7); it’s 162.9 in Jaipur and 129.1 in Delhi, according to the NCRB data.In Chennai, the crimes against women have been declining -- 761 in 2018; 729 in 2019; and 576 in 2020. The city has a charge sheeting rate of 96.8%. In Coimbatore, the number of crimes against women was 107 in 2018 which dipped to 85 in 2019 and went up to 97 in 2020 with a charge-sheeting rate of 97.9%, the data shows.In terms of absolute numbers, big cities in Kerala had fewer crimes last year compared to Chennai. Kochi recorded 403 crimes and Kozhikode 294 whereas Chennai had 576. Coimbatore with 97 crimes last year stands at the lowest in the country. The difference also reflects the calculation of the crime rate as per 100,000 population and Chennai is the largest among these four cities. The populations of Chennai, Coimbatore, Kochi and Kozhikode are 4.31 million, 1.07 million, 1.08 million, 1.06 million, respectively. Experts say the lowest crime rate against women in Tamil Nadu cities can be attributed to two factors -- lack of reporting and prevention mechanisms. “When there is a declining trend, we have to see through the data from various intersections. Are they complaining? If so, are their reports being considered and registered or dismissed? Even in urban areas, there is stigma against reporting gender-based crimes. Some women get used to this and fail to report instances of sexual harassment in public places like buses,” said Sandhiyan Thiyagaran, founder of AWARE (Awareness for Women to Advocate their Rights and Empowerment) India. “However, compared to other metros in the country, in Tamil Nadu the law enforcement agencies help prevent crimes against women, such as by patrolling and installing CCTVs. We have a few deterrents that other metros may not have in equal measure.”Amongst the 19 big cities, those reporting highest charge-sheeting rate under IPC crimes are Surat (96.7%), Coimbatore (96.6%) and Ahmedabad (96.3%). Among the states, Gujarat reported 97.1% charge-sheeting rate, Kerala 94.9% and Tamil Nadu 91.7%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crime-rate-against-women-lowest-in-tamil-nadu-s-coimbatore-chennai-ncrb-data-101631733300584.html
16-09-2021||India||CBI court dismisses plea seeking cancellation of Jagan’s bail||Hyderabad A special court for Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) cases, dismissed a petition seeking cancellation of bail of Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy in connection with the alleged quid pro quo case pending against him, in Hyderabad on Wednesday.The petition was filed by Kanumuru Raghurama Krishnam Raju, a rebel Lok Sabha member of YSRCP from Narasapuram in West Godavari district in April this year. Raju requested the CBI court to cancel the bail granted to Jagan on the grounds that the latter had violated the bail conditions and was trying to influence the witnesses in the CBI case against him.The CBI court also dismissed a separate petition filed by Raju seeking cancellation of bail of Jagan’s close aide and YSRCP parliamentary party leader V Vijay Sai Reddy, who is the second accused in the alleged case.The court, which completed the hearing of arguments from both the sides on July 31, reserved its judgement for August 25, but later postponed it to September 15.In 2012, the CBI filed a case against Jagan alleging that he had, in a criminal conspiracy with others, received bribes from various companies and individuals who had invested in his group companies as a ‘quid pro quo’ deal for securing undue favours from the then combined Andhra Pradesh government headed by his father late Dr YS Rajasekhar Reddy during 2004-2009.Simultaneously, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) also filed cases of money laundering against Jagan.The CBI arrested Jagan in May 2012 and he was in jail for 16 months, before being let off on bail in September 2013. He became the chief minister of residuary Andhra Pradesh in May 2019.Raju contended in his petition that Jagan had tried to influence several officials, who were co-accused in his case, by posting them in key positions such as chief secretary, special chief secretary, principal secretary and advisor to the government.He also pointed out that after becoming the chief minister, Jagan had been avoiding attending the trial in the CBI court on the pretext that he was preoccupied with his Constitutional responsibilities. “As a result, several witnesses mentioned by the CBI in the charge-sheets have not been able to come forward to depose against him in the trial court,” he argued.The CBI court disagreed with the arguments of the rebel YSRCP MP that Jagan had violated the bail conditions.The court observed that there was no complaint from any of the witnesses stating that Jagan tried to intimidate them or influence them after coming to power. It also felt that Raju’s apprehensions were purely hypothetical and not substantiated by any material evidence.Reacting to the CBI court’s judgement, the rebel MP said he would challenge it in the high court. “If I don’t get justice in the high court, too, I will move the Supreme Court,” he said.Earlier in the day, the Telangana high court dismissed a petition of Raju requesting for transfer of his petition seeking cancellation of Jagan’s bail from the CBI special court to another criminal court, on the suspicion that the judgement could have been leaked to Sakshi, the media house owned by the chief minister.The high court found fault with the MP for not trusting the CBI court. It observed that the reasons cited by Raju for seeking the transfer of case to another court lacked any merit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-court-dismisses-plea-seeking-cancellation-of-jagan-s-bail-101631733180570.html
16-09-2021||India||PMK to contest rural body polls alone, to remain in NDA||Chennai: In what appears to be the first crack in the AIADMK-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Tamil Nadu, the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) president GK Mani has announced to contest next month’s rural local body polls in nine districts alone.Mani, however, clarified that there were no problems in the alliance and “we are still in the NDA”.Mani explained that the PMK’s senior leadership and office bearers of the nine districts had a meeting via Zoom on Tuesday to discuss the polls where they decided that they should contest alone. “The poll dates were announced only a day ago and there are only a few days left to file nomination. So, everyone felt that if we go back to discussing with the AIADMK it will get delayed further and there will be confusion over who should contest so it was a singular demand that we contest alone,” said Mani. On late Tuesday night, Mani released a statement announcing that they will go alone in the polls to be held on October 6 and October 9. He added that this was being made with approval of PMK founder Dr S Ramadoss and youth wing secretary Anbumani Ramadoss.The districts that will go to the polls include Kanchipuram, Chengalpattu, Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Tiruppattur, Vellore, and Ranipet.News quickly spread that the PMK had walked out of the alliance and that Ramadoss spoke ill of the AIADMK. “People are scheming and spreading rumours. I want to clarify that ‘doctor ayiah’ (the way the party addresses its founder) hasn’t spoken bad about Edappadi Palaniswami or anyone in the AIADMK.” It appears that the AIADMK was caught unawares. “We know under what pressure the PMK has taken this stand,” AIADMK spokesperson D Jayakumar told reporters. “The PMK will be the loser going on their own.”PMK, an influential Vanniyar-caste based party, has a stronghold in seven of the 9 districts where polls are to be held. A PMK leader, on condition of anonymity, said contesting alone will work in their favour. “Local body polls aren’t like the assembly or parliament elections,” the leader said. “The individual matters here and people will vote based on a local person who will get things done for them.”Elections in these nine districts were not held in 2019 along with the rest of the state due to the bifurcation of old districts and creation of new ones.The NDA-led by AIADMK in the state with the BJP and the PMK as constituents has been in place since the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.The PMK confirmed its alliance with AIADMK for the assembly elections only at the last minute after the state government rushed through a legislation to provide 10.5% reservation to Vanniyars within the 20% MBC quota in jobs and educational institutions to appease its core vote bank. The PMK won only 5 of the 23 seats it contested in the April 6 assembly election.After the DMK came to power, the PMK has supported it on a few issues inside the assembly. The PMK voted in favour of resolutions to repeal the CAA and farm laws, while the AIADMK and the BJP had walked out. Meanwhile, the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) led by actor-turned-political Vijayakanth also announced that his party will contest the rural polls alone despite being in an alliance with the TTV Dhinakaran led Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmk-to-contest-rural-body-polls-alone-to-remain-in-nda-101631733062042.html
16-09-2021||India||Low conviction rate continues to haunt Karnataka police: NCRB data||Bengaluru: Despite its recent strides in introducing technology in police investigations, a low conviction rate continues to haunt Karnataka police. According to the data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), Karnataka police recorded a conviction rate of 51.2% in cases registered under the Indian Penal Code, while their counterparts have registered a far higher number. While Delhi police registered a conviction rate of 85.6%, neighboring Chennai recorded 66.0% convictions in cases investigated by their police. Telangana and Maharashtra police too scored more than Karnataka police, with conviction rates of 64.5% and 58.0%. Bengaluru city police too recorded a low conviction rate compared to the police departments in other major metro cities. Chennai, New Delhi, Hyderabad, and Mumbai recorded conviction rates of 69.9%, 85.5%, 55%, and 65.9%, respectively. While Karnataka police chief, DG & IGP Praveen Sood said that the state police will be working towards increasing these numbers, another senior officer said the state suffers from bad investigation practices. “We have a good detection record, especially in major cases. But we also have a system where the police inspectors get transferred as early as one year, from the city. This is not the case in other states. This clearly affects the trial,” said the officer on the condition of anonymity. Meanwhile, according to the report, Karnataka saw a reduction in cases of crime against women registered in the state. While 13,514 and 13,828 cases of crime against women were registered in the state during 2018 and 2019, the cases in 2020 reduced to 12,680. A case of assault on a woman with intent to outrage her modesty was recorded the most in the state. 4,751 cases was registered under the section which amount to sexual harassment. “Compared to many states, the numbers in Karnataka are low. It will be unfair to say women in Karnataka are unsafe because so many cases are registered. Police have started several initiatives to ensure women’s safety in the state and they will continue. At the same, we are encouraging women to come forward and lodge complaints; if you look at our track record, you can see that we have arrested the accused in all major cases of crime against women,” said Sood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/low-conviction-rate-continues-to-haunt-karnataka-police-ncrb-data-101631733060915.html
16-09-2021||India||Crime rate against women lowest in Coimbatore, Chennai: NCRB data||Chennai: Coimbatore and Chennai in Tamil Nadu have registered the lowest crime rate against women among 19 big cities in the country, according to data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) for 2020. The rate of crime, which is incidence per 100,000 population, against women last year is 9 in Coimbatore, 13.4 in Chennai, 37.5 in Kochi, 67.3 in Bengaluru, and 53.8 in Mumbai. The crime rate is highest in Lucknow (190.7); it’s 162.9 in Jaipur and 129.1 in Delhi, according to the NCRB data. In Chennai, the crimes against women have been declining -- 761 in 2018; 729 in 2019; and 576 in 2020. The city has a charge sheeting rate of 96.8%. In Coimbatore, the number of crimes against women was 107 in 2018 which dipped to 85 in 2019 and went up to 97 in 2020 with a charge-sheeting rate of 97.9%, the data shows. In terms of absolute numbers, big cities in Kerala had fewer crimes last year compared to Chennai. Kochi recorded 403 crimes and Kozhikode 294 whereas Chennai had 576. Coimbatore with 97 crimes last year stands at the lowest in the country. The difference also reflects the calculation of the crime rate as per 100,000 population and Chennai is the largest among these four cities. The populations of Chennai, Coimbatore, Kochi and Kozhikode are 4.31 million, 1.07 million, 1.08 million, 1.06 million, respectively. Experts say the lowest crime rate against women in Tamil Nadu cities can be attributed to two factors -- lack of reporting and prevention mechanisms. “When there is a declining trend, we have to see through the data from various intersections. Are they complaining? If so, are their reports being considered and registered or dismissed? Even in urban areas, there is stigma against reporting gender-based crimes. Some women get used to this and fail to report instances of sexual harassment in public places like buses,” said Sandhiyan Thiyagaran, founder of AWARE (Awareness for Women to Advocate their Rights and Empowerment) India. “However, compared to other metros in the country, in Tamil Nadu the law enforcement agencies help prevent crimes against women, such as by patrolling and installing CCTVs. We have a few deterrents that other metros may not have in equal measure.” Amongst the 19 big cities, those reporting highest charge-sheeting rate under IPC crimes are Surat (96.7%), Coimbatore (96.6%) and Ahmedabad (96.3%). Among the states, Gujarat reported 97.1% charge-sheeting rate, Kerala 94.9% and Tamil Nadu 91.7%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crime-rate-against-women-lowest-in-coimbatore-chennai-ncrb-data-101631732881985.html
16-09-2021||India||Bengaluru reported most cases filed against civic agencies for causing death: NCRB data||: Bengaluru led the country in registering cases against civic authorities for causing death due to negligence in 2020, according to the National Crime Records Bureau’s (NCRB) latest report. Its 18 cases account for 85% of all such cases reported in the country. Mumbai and New Delhi accounted for the three other cases reported in this category, while all other major cities didn’t book any civic authorities for death due to negligence.Even though the number of cases is less compared to 49 in 2019, the numbers remain promising as in 2018, the city had booked civic authorities for their negligence only thrice. However, no data was available on how many of them were charge-sheeted and how many convictions were reported.A senior traffic police official said that in the past few years, there has been demand among people to hold the civic agencies responsible for the death due to bad infrastructure. Taking the example of a recent case where a 64-year-old was killed in an accident because of the bad condition of the road, he said a case was registered against the civic agencies. But police face criticism from city-based activists for not taking these cases to their logical conclusion. The city was also a fifth in the country in the number of cases reported under the Indian Penal Code. The rate of crime in the city, that is, number of crimes per 100,000 population, was 234.9. In comparison, Chennai reported a crime rate of 1,016.4, while Kochi and Hyderabad reported 282.2 and 206.2, according to the NCRB data.Bengaluru also topped the country for the number of cases registered under the Information Technology Act. While it reported 8,892 cases under this section, the second-highest number under this Act was reported in Lucknow, which accounted for 1,451 cases.“We have been booking cases meticulously for the past few years and this could be seen in the number of cases registered in the city,” said Karnataka police chief Praveen Sood. “Yes, we are registering the highest number of cases, but since many of the cybercrimes originate outside the country, detection is difficult. So we have started a process, where people can recover the money they lost due to Phishing or other cybercrimes by calling a dedicated number -- 112,” he said.We have created a network with the banks and whenever someone calls us, we are freezing the account used for stealing money. The money from the frozen transaction is later returned to the victim through a court process,” he said. In major crimes, Bengaluru reported the second-highest number of murders in the country, after Delhi. As many as 179 murders were reported, and 191 persons lost their lives in the city. In comparison, 204 murders were reported in Bengaluru in 2019 and 210 people had lost their lives.Bengaluru also reported the highest number of cases of abetment to suicide. With 99 cases and 101 victims, the city surpassed New Delhi in this section, which reported 88.Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant said this is an area where a revision is required. “We have come across many instances where abetment to suicide is reported without solid evidence to back the claim. But, we are not denying anyone their right to register a complaint,” he added. The city also reported the highest number of cases under the Dowry Prohibition Act. Bengaluru reported 580 cases, followed by Delhi at 14 cases. “Number of cases being high is a good sign and concern as well. The higher numbers show police are taking more complaints, but there are allegations of this rule being misused,” said a senior police officer. The last two categories where Bengaluru recorded high number of cases were drug cases under (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985) and action taken against foreigners. In 2020, Bengaluru booked 2,766 cases under NDPS, second only to Mumbai which recorded 3,509 cases. “This is the result of the campaign Bengaluru police started in early 2020. We have been cracking down on drug suppliers in the city,” said Sood. He added that the increase in cases registered under the foreigner’s Act is directly related to those filed under NDPS and IT Act. “We have seen involvement of overstaying foreign citizens in drug cases and cybercrimes,” the police chief said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-reported-most-cases-filed-against-civic-agencies-for-causing-death-ncrb-data-101631732826819.html
16-09-2021||India||Despite ban, workers continue to demand gawking charges in Kerala||Thiruvananthapuram: A consultant with a Mumbai-based private logistics company, Rajeswari S Pillai, who was transporting heavy equipment cargo to the Vikram Sarabhai Space Research Centre (VSSC), took 10 days to cover 70 kms from Kollam to Thumba on the outskirts of Thiruvananthapuram. Almost every day she walked six to 10 kms with the consignment-laden truck with 80 wheels that moved at a snail’s pace, and rested in the accompanying car for several days. She was happy to notice that people waited for the giant truck along the national highway and clicked enough, and that police and district authorities were at their best to ensure smooth passage to the heavy vehicle. But a dramatic twist was awaiting her at the finishing point -- a group of people lied on the road asking for ‘nokku koolie’, gawking charges, for unloading the cargo. Nokku koolie is the money charged by trade union workers for the work either done by machine or others from the customer as their right. Pillai told the people that only heavy cranes can unload the equipment. They said they have no problem with it, but they should get gawking charges. Initially the demand was ₹I0 lakh, later it came down to ₹5 lakh. But she stood her ground. Stranded on the road for three hours, the blockade was finally lifted after the CM’s office intervened and some of the protestors were arrested. Later 50 people were booked. “I am against paying people who are not doing any work. I don’t want to explain the incident anymore. But I wish it is the last such ‘nokku kooli’ incident in my beautiful state,” Pillai said. Last week the Kerala high court cited the incident while hearing another case related to ‘nokku kooli’ and asked the government to explain new measures taken to end the menace once and for all. “This practice was banned years ago, but it is still continuing. It is inviting bad name to the state. We are getting regular complaints. The government should take strict action against those who demand it,” the HC said, seeking a detailed report from the state police chief in two weeks. ‘Nokku koolie’ was banned in 2018 by the Left Front government, but it is still prevalent in many parts of the state. In 2002 a law was framed -- Kerala Loading and Unloading (Regulation of wages and restriction of unlawful practices) Act -- to restrict the practice, but it continued. In 2017 the high court had pulled up the state government, forcing it to ban the practice in 2018, but the menace is far from over. There were many judgments against the organised crime of fleecing, but often police and the government authorities turn a blind eye to it, fearing retaliation by militant trade union workers. Investors say the practice debilitates industrial growth of Kerala.Facing criticism, the government is planning to give more teeth to the law banning “nokku kooli’. “The government is considering stringent provisions, including non-bailable provisions, to deal with the menace,” said a senior official who did not want to be named. Though almost all trade unions admit that such worn-out practices invite bad name to the state, they discreetly support such elements. Last week K N Nair, who was building a house on the outskirts of Thiruvananthapuram, brought marbles and other household material from north India, and headload workers sought ₹25,000 to unload them. When he refused, he was threatened and he finally called the police. Though police settled the issue, he met some of the headload workers on the advice of local leaders and paid them ₹8000 even as the work was done by others. “I was scared that they will destroy unloaded material in the night,” he Nair. Around 300,000 headload workers are registered under the workers’ welfare board representing various trade unions and their resting places on roadsides are a common sight in the state. Besides these registered workers, many others also play their role to fleece money. They survey industrial areas and residential colonies frequently to spot vehicles carrying goods and reach there immediately. They demand payment though they only watch while goods are unloaded by cranes or in-house workers. Statistics with the labour department shows that only 11 major cases were filed since the ban came into force in 2018, but industrialists and others say it was only tip of the iceberg and many complaints are getting withdrawn forcefully. They say the practice is continuing because militant workers enjoy political patronage. Though there are units the of Kerala headload workers’ welfare board and labour offices in every district to deal with such issues, many do not approach them fearing retaliation, say builders and industrialists. “Gawking charge is an unhealthy practice and it invites enough bad publicity. If workers are facing any problem, it should be addressed. There should be a proper mechanism to enforce labour rules at the grassroots,” said a spokesman of the Confederation of Indian Industry Kerala chapter on condition of anonymity. “Leaders’ words and deeds never match in the state. They support such elements and disown them in public. These leaders are responsible for making the state a graveyard of industries,” said Kitex group MD Sabu Verghese. His group had recently shifted its bases to Telangana alleging witch-hunt. Many trade union leaders said they are against the practice but a concerted campaign is on to portray workers in bad light and dent the state’s image citing isolated incidents. “We are against it. We have taken strong action against erring ones. But some vested interests portray isolated incidents to paint a grim picture,” said CITU (Centre of Indian Trade Unions) state president Anathalavattom Anandan. He said the equipment-laden truck at Thumba was blocked by local people led by a parish priest demanding jobs to locals, but the blame was put on workers of the area. The priest was not available for comments. But many said headload workers provoked local people to join the blockade and when it turned a big issue, they backtracked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-ban-workers-continue-to-demand-gawking-charges-in-kerala-101631732821041.html
16-09-2021||India||BJP’s proximity to Chirag Paswan irks JD(U) in Bihar||BJP’s proximity with the LJP (Chirag) group and its leaders openly saying that he is a part of the NDA has not gone down well with its alliance partner, the JD (U), which has made it clear that its return to NDA should be a collective decision. The way LJP leader Chirag Paswan played a role in the Bihar assembly elections, it became clear that his entry into the NDA would be difficult. Along with JD (U), BJP leaders also kept their distance from him. But after the death anniversary of his father Ram Vilas Paswan, suddenly, a section of the BJP in Bihar seems to be reaching out to him. After Bihar minister and BJP leader Neeraj Kumar Bablu raised the political heat by maintaining that Paswan is part of the NDA, BJP state president Sanjay Jaiswal also toed the same line but diplomatically. “Things are absolutely clear. Those who are part of NDA are in front. Today LJP is a part of NDA and Pashupati Paras is our minister. It’s not about the individual here, it’s about the party. Today LJP is a part of NDA and parties do not belong to individuals. A party is a party and there is no compromise with the individual, there is a compromise with the party,” he said on Tuesday. This was followed by a statement of Muzaffarpur BJP MP Ajay Nishad that he was welcome in the NDA. “He has a good support base and his return will definitely strengthen the NDA,” said Nishad on Wednesday. The growing closeness of BJP leaders, who turned up in large numbers to attend Ram Vilas’s death anniversary event on Sunday has not gone well with the JD (U). “An accepted norm of the coalition should be followed. When we are part of the alliance, we will sail and sink together,” said JD (U) national principal general secretary, K C Tyagi. “How can we forget the damage done to our party by the LJP in assembly polls? Why is our alliance partner maintaining a soft corner?” asked Tyagi. He, however, said that all is well within the NDA and maintained that is why the party (JD-U) is demanding a co-ordination committee to look into such issues. “Despite ideological differences, such statements should be avoided,” he said. A top JD (U) functionary said that the senior BJP and NDA leaders had made it clear that anyone who does not accept Nitish Kumar’s face as the leader of Bihar NDA cannot be a part of NDA, hence Chirag Paswan’s LJP is not part of the NDA. Political experts believe that the BJP does not want to totally alienate Chirag Paswan as his faction can take control of the party any time. “The response that Chirag got during his Aashirwad Yatra is an eye opener for the BJP. The BJP knows that Ram Vilas Paswan’s vote bank will remain with him. And in case of any future break-up, he can be an asset for the BJP,” feels Gyandendra Yadav, associate professor of sociology, College of Commerce, Patna. A senior NDA leader said that the BJP has started teasing the JD (U) after the party embarrassed the government on the Pegasus and caste census issue. The BJP countered this when PM Modi talked to Chirag and his family and sent a two page obituary letter also. “The letter was a clear message to BJP leaders in the state that we cannot afford to ignore Chirag Paswan,” said a senior BJP leader. The developments come after a split in the LJP in June and after a quick turn of events when Pashupati Paras was made a Union minister. The Lok Sabha Speaker was quick to give recognition to the Pashupati faction.The Paswans are the most aggressive section of Dalits. Out of the 16 per cent Dalit population in the state, 5-6 per cent are Paswans, according to the 1931 Census data. Since 1999, the late Ram Vilas Paswan was able to swing the results in favour of whichever alliance he was a part of.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjps-proximity-to-chirag-paswan-irks-jd-u-in-bihar-101631732760496.html
16-09-2021||India||EC powers not ornaments, should act against parties that breach norms: HC||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Wednesday observed that the Election Commission’s (EC) powers are not “ornaments” and the panel should take action against political parties who violate its guidelines on “corrupt practices”.“You are doubtful about your powers. There is a judgment by the Supreme Court. That means some wrong is committed by the party. You are ECI. If some party is committing a wrong, what power you are vested with, take action…,” the bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh observed.The high court was hearing a petition filed by two lawyers, Parashar Narayan Sharma and Capt Gurvinder Singh, which asked the high court to declare election promises by political parties to give money to people without doing any work as a corrupt electoral practice.The petition cited the Nyuntam Aay Scheme, or NYAY, announced by the Congress in 2019 ahead of the general elections as one example. It said the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) also offered cash to certain sections of the society ahead of the general elections the same year. The proposed minimum income guarantee scheme, which sought to guarantee ₹72,000 a year to the country’s poorest 20% of households, was a major poll plank for the Congress in the Lok Sabha elections.When the Election Commission’s lawyer Anjana Gosain said during Wednesday’s hearing that the poll panel has already issued guidelines in relation to “corrupt practices” and sent the same to the political parties, the high court shot back.“Why are you shying away from taking action? Start taking action. Don’t just issue notices and letters. Let us see what action you are taking. Proposed actions also, you can state…. Powers are not ornaments. Use your powers for the welfare of the public at large, this is what the petitioner is saying. Take action, not (just) issue notices and orders,” the bench said.To be sure, the high court did not get into the details of the arguments presented by the petitioner during Wednesday’s hearing. Apart from the EC, the high court also issued notices to the Congress and the TDP, the two parties who promised cash transfers in their election manifestoes in the past.Senior counsel Soumya Chakraborty, appearing for the petitioners, said that “when cash is offered, not against any labour, it is not supported by any policy.”“In Covid-19, funds were put in accounts of people. (But) it was an extraordinary situation. If political parties start the trend of giving money not against any work, our industries, agriculture will finish,” he submitted.The plea contended that “note for vote” promises violate Section 123 of the Representation of Peoples Act which deals with corrupt practices and bribery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-powers-not-ornaments-should-act-against-parties-that-breach-norms-hc-101631732640301.html
16-09-2021||India||Power to L-G disenfranchises the people of Delhi: AAP to SC||The Delhi government has told the Supreme Court that an amendment act enacted by the Centre in March gives overriding powers to the Lieutenant Governor (LG) over the Delhi legislature and executive, and is unconstitutional because it has “disenfranchised” the people of Delhi by taking away power from their elected representatives and violating the lawmaking authority of the Delhi assembly.The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act, 2021 and the Transaction of Business of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) Rules, 1993 came into effect from March 28, 2021, by which some crucial provisions of the earlier act stood amended.The term “government” as referred to in any law passed by Delhi assembly was amended to mean “Lieutenant Governor” (by adding a new clause (3) to Section 21 of the GNCTD Act), and the opinion of the LG was made mandatory for executing any decision of a minister or council of ministers on certain matters under any law in force (by adding a proviso to Section 44(2) of the Act).The Delhi government has submitted in a petition to the Supreme Court that saying “government” means LG extends the Union’s executive power beyond the three excepted subjects – land, law and order and police -- over which the Centre has authority. “The amendment to Section 44 turns this entire scheme on its head and gives the LG executive power through the back door. Hence, this amendment also ought to be struck down,” the petition argued.The petition, filed on August 9, through advocate Shadan Farasat, was mentioned by the Delhi government represented by senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi on Monday before the Chief Justice of India (CJI) for an urgent listing. The CJI agreed to list the matter without specifying a date. The copy of the petition was made available only on Wednesday.“The impugned provisions as amended by the Amendment Act have in effect disenfranchised the people of Delhi, and violated their political rights under the Constitution in as much as the Amendment Act takes away the power from their elected representatives and gives it to an unelected official, being the LG,” the petition said.It further stated: “The Amendment Act, by giving the LG overriding powers over the Delhi legislature and the executive, strikes at the root of representative democracy….. giving the LG the power to veto the will of the people of Delhi…from expressing their sovereign will through their elected representatives.”The petition also contended that the GNCTD Act “diminishes the constitutionally guaranteed powers and functions of the elected legislative assembly and council of ministers of the NCT of Delhi” and overturns the constitutionally stipulated balance between the Delhi and Union governments.The provisions of the 2021 Act, the petition said, “are an attempt to treat the LG as the default administering authority over the NCT of Delhi” by authorising him to withhold consent from bills that, in his judgment, may be “incidentally” outside the scope of legislative assembly’s legislative powers and by empowering him interfere in the day-to-day administration of the NCT.The provisions “impermissibly encroach” on the scope of the Delhi legislative assembly’s “core legislative functions” by interfering with the assembly’s power to frame its own rules of business or to hold the executive to account, the petition added.The new law prohibits the assembly from making any rule to enable itself or its committees to consider matters of day-to-day administration of the Capital and conduct any inquiry in relation to administrative decisionsThe accompanying amendments to the 1993 Transaction of Business Rules have dented the independence and working of the assembly, according to the petition. Article 239AA of the Constitution recognises Delhi as the National Capital Territory having an LG and an assembly allowed to legislate on all other matters other than three excluded subjects – land, law and order and police, where Centre alone can legislate.“Introduction of a deeming provision in Rule 49 of 1993 Rules now allows for any and every matter to be referred by the LG to the central government,” the petition said, adding that the amendments have vested direct executive authority in the secretaries of the Delhi government, allowing them to perform without reference to and even in derogation of the orders of the concerned ministers or council of ministers.The petition held the current amendments violate a 2018 decision of the Supreme Court in Government of NCT of Delhi v Union of India which interpreted Article 239AA and said: “The exercise of establishing a democratic and representative form of Government for NCT of Delhi… would turn futile if the Government of Delhi that enjoys the confidence of the people of Delhi is not able to usher in policies and laws over which the Delhi Legislative Assembly has power to legislate for NCT of Delhi.”The petition said that the basis of this judgment still remains as Article 239AA has not been amended.The Union Ministry of Home Affairs had on April 29, 2021, said that the “objective of the Amendment Act is to make it more relevant to the needs of the Capital” and “further define the responsibilities of the elected government and the Lt. Governor (LG)”. “The Amendment would ensure better governance in the NCT of Delhi and lead to improved implementation of schemes and programmes meant for the common people of Delhi... The amendments to the GNCTD Act, 1991, in no way alter the constitutional and legal responsibilities of the elected government to take necessary action, in respect of the subjects transferred to them in the State and Concurrent Lists of the Constitution of India, including subjects such as health, education, etc,” the statement said.“…In 2016, disputes and differences arose between the L-G and the Delhi government in respect of powers, duties and governance... The constitutional bench of Supreme Court had held that the council of ministers shall inform all its decisions to the L-G but that does not mean that the concurrence of the L-G is required,” said AAP in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/power-to-l-g-disenfranchises-the-people-of-delhi-aap-to-sc-101631732583504.html
16-09-2021||India||Centre to take over irrigation projects in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana||Hyderabad The Central government is set to take over all the completed and ongoing major and medium irrigation projects on Krishna and Godavari rivers in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh with effect from October 14, according to the gazette notifications issued by the Union ministry of Jal Shakti on July 15.As per the notification, the operation and maintenance of as many as 36 irrigation projects on Krishna river, including Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and Pulichintala, along with their canals and irrigation systems, would come under the purview of Krishna River Management Board (KRMB).Similarly, another 70 projects on Godavari river, including Kaleshwaram and Polavaram would be brought under Godavari River Management Board (GRMB). Both the boards would be directly under the control of the Union ministry of Jal Shakti.On Sunday, Union Jal Shakti secretary AK Das issued orders appointing two chief engineers each to KRMB and GRMB to oversee the functioning of these boards. MK Sinha and G K Agarwal, both chief engineers in Central Water Commission, would look after the GRMB, while TK Sivarajan from Coimbatore and Anupam Prasad from Lucknow were appointed for KRMB.The four CEs will look after the works of Boards for three months or till further orders, Das said.The Jal Shakti ministry also held a meeting J Chandrashekhar Iyer, chairman of GRMB and M P Singh of KRMB on Monday in New Delhi to discuss the modalities of the implementation of the gazette notifications on the operation and maintenance of the projects.WHY CENTRA CONTROL OVER IRRIGATION PROJECTS?In a bid to avoid river water disputes between the two Telugu states post bifurcation, provisions were incorporated in the Andhra Pradesh Reorganization Act 2014 for the effective management of river waters by constituting river management boards for Godavari and Krishna. An apex council headed by Union Jal Shakti Minister was constituted for the supervision of the functioning of these boards.Though the boards were constituted in 2014 itself, their jurisdiction over the projects and functioning had not been finalised for a long time, as a result of which both the Telugu states had been at loggerheads over drawing of river water every monsoon, especially in Krishna basin.As per the Krishna tribunal award, out of 811 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) allotted to erstwhile combined state, Telangana was allocated 299 tmc ft of water and Andhra Pradesh 512 tmc ft. But both the states accused each other of drawing excess water than what was allocated, especially in Krishna.At last in October 2020, it was decided at the apex council meeting to notify the jurisdiction of the two boards and entrust the administration, regulation, maintenance and operation of the projects under the two rivers to these boards.Accordingly, the Union ministry of Jal Shakti issued two separate gazette notifications on July 15, notifying the jurisdiction of KRMB and GRMB and entrusting them to take over the irrigation projects.STATES OPPOSE TOTAL CONTROL BY CENTREHowever, both Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have their own reservations over the implementation of gazette notification. A senior official of the Andhra Pradesh irrigation department said on condition of anonymity that the state government was opposing bringing all the irrigation projects under the purview of the boards.“We requested that only major projects on Krishna river like Nagarjunasagar and Srisailam be brought under the purview of KRMB since there is a dispute with Telangana over water releases every year. The other projects can remain under the control of the state government,” he said.Telangana, too, has been opposing major projects like Kaleshwaram under the GRMB, because it was conceived much before the bifurcation of the combined state. Moreover, it would be difficult for the boards to run so many irrigation projects, since water releases should be done according to the requirement of the farmers in the command area.“We have been asking the Centre to defer the implementation of the gazette notification but there is no positive response from it,” a Telangana irrigation official said.As per the gazette notification, both the Telugu states would have to bear the expenditure on salaries and allowances of the personnel belonging to the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), who would man the irrigation projects. Besides, the two states would also have to deposit ₹200 crore each for the operation of the two boards within the next two months.It is learnt the two states have expressed their inability to deposit this money with the boards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-take-over-irrigation-projects-in-andhra-pradesh-telangana-101631732581872.html
16-09-2021||India||Karntaka MLAs allege corruption in Covid tests at Bengaluru airport, govt denies charge||Bengaluru: Authorities at Bengaluru International Airport are trying to profiteer from Covid-19 tests for inbound and outbound passengers, legislators alleged in the state assembly on Wednesday. The state government, however, denied the charge.Vinsha Nero, the sole nominated member in the 225-member lower house of the legislature, said officials in charge of Covid-19 testing at the airport were openly taking bribes for providing results in quick time.Narrating her own experience, Nero said: “There is a lot of corruption at the airport.”“I had tested myself in Bowring hospital and went there (airport), they did not scan it and said they won’t accept it. They said that if you pay ₹800, it will take 6 hours. If you give ₹3,200, it will take 2 hours and you won’t miss your flight,” Nero told in the ongoing monsoon session of the assembly.“There are four to five people (and) they said that if I pay ₹1,200, he (official) will only get me the result. Not even 3 minutes and I paid ₹9,000 in the airport despite of them knowing I am an MLA,” she said.The statements come at a time when the state government has been trying to closely monitor people entering the state and minimise chances of spreading the virus.Nero said an official at the airport told her that the staff work only if they are paid.“Like this in one flight there were more than 100 people who paid ₹3,200 plus ₹1,200 bribe to airport officials. Not even 3 minutes, by the time I walked from corner to entrance, they printed the RTPCR and gave it to me,” she alleged.The matter came up after NA Harris, the Congress legislator from Shanthinagar, alleged that the airport was forcing passengers to take RAT tests which cost ₹3,200 as against RTPCR which costs ₹800.He said RAT costs just ₹150-200 outside and officials were forcing people to take tests at the airport at these high prices.The legislator also referred to Abbott Testing, an express cartridge-based test, in which results are given in 30-40 minutes as against RTPCR which takes at least four to five hours.Harris said the RAT test itself was being conducted as Abbott tests and fleecing people.Dr K Sudhakar, minister for health, family welfare and medical education, said there was no rule to take RAT tests and the government has only specified RTPCR. “RTPCR test costs ₹800 and this is given in 4-5 hours,” he said. The minister said only a few Abbott testing was done since it was cartridge-based.Assembly speaker Vishweshwara Hegde Kageri asked the government to take notice and take action in the matter.A spokesperson of Auriga Research Pvt Ltd Lab, the company that conducts test at the airport, said: “The prices charged by us are approved by the state government at ₹3,200 for the Rapid RTPCR (reports within 30 minutes to 1 hour) and ₹800 for the RTPCR (reports within 4 to 5 hours).” “As per the corruption charges, our systems are totally transparent and we have been operating on 24/7 basis since December 2020. We have been giving reports in the stipulated time. Since the Rapid RTPCR are given within 20 to 30 minutes, some passengers feel whether the tests are done or not. But since there are a lot of VIP customers who travel on a regular basis we would have considered some passengers at priority and given their reports at the earliest possible time,” the company said in a statement on Wednesday.It added that decision of accepting the RTPCR reports was at the discretion of airline operators. “We have seen that RTPCR reports of any lab are accepted by them and passengers only choose our services based on the convenience we offer at the airport.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karntaka-mlas-allege-corruption-in-covid-tests-at-bengaluru-airport-govt-denies-charge-101631732524740.html
16-09-2021||India||Six children die in Haryana’s Palwal in 2 weeks; dengue, Covid ruled out||Six children died during the past fortnight at Chilli village in Haryana’s Palwal district due to fever and other illness, said officials ruling out dengue and Covid as the cause of their death. An official said apart from them, a child died at home “due to aspiration of milk and had nothing to do with illness”. Palwal’s Chief Medical Officer Dr Brahm Deep, who visited the village on Wednesday said the six children who died were aged under 10. They died in hospital, he said, adding that “all patients tested negative for Covid”. All of them did not test positive for dengue, he told PTI over the phone. The authorities at Nuh’s Nalhar Medical College said one of the six children had congestive heart failure with severe anemia. Among other children who died were having symptoms of fever with pneumonitis, loose motion and fever with stiffness of body. Some local residents reportedly complained about poor sanitation in the village. “We have done a survey of all 300 houses in the village. We did 400 tests for malaria, 12 Elisa test for dengue and 400 tests for Covid. All of them were negative,” the chief medical officer said. As for fever, he said, “We are conducting a house-to-house survey. On Sunday, when the survey was started, we had 64 fever cases that day. Today, there are only 12 cases of fever in the total population,” he said, adding that the situation is “under control”. No death has taken place in the past two days, the doctor said. He said no death occurred due to lack of care. All facilities were available, he said. “The situation has been handled very firmly. On Saturday, we came to know about the situation, the same day I stationed my team there,” he said. The Health Department has set up a temporary hospital in the village with the facility of oxygen and medicines, he said, adding that an ambulance has also been stationed. “In every home, we have distributed a mosquito net and we have also disturbed face masks,” he said. The Palwal CMO further said earlier there was resistance related to Covid vaccination in the village. “We are hopeful of covering this village with 100 per cent vaccination this week,” he said. PTI SUN VSD RDK RDK RDK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-children-die-in-haryana-s-palwal-2-weeks-dengue-covid-ruled-out-101631731981120.html
16-09-2021||India||Not informed by Mysuru administration about temple demolition plans: Karnataka Minister||BengaluruThe Karnataka government on Wednesday said that it was not informed by the Mysuru district administration of its temple demolition plans and termed the action as “wrong”, assuring to discontinue the drive.KS Eshwarappa, minister for rural development and panchayat raj, said all deputy commissioners will be told not to take hasty action. “The government will sit, decide and then direct what needs to be done,” he said.“There is a fear among people about action to demolish temples. I would like to tell all the state’s people that when there is a BJP government in place, the decision to demolish the temple in Mysuru is wrong.” The statements come days after a video showed the Mysuru district administration demolishing a temple.The Karnataka high court had pulled up authorities for failing to take action against illegal structures built on government land, prompting the Mysuru district administration to act. On August 12, the HC said the Supreme Court has stated that all illegal religious structures that were built after September 29, 2009 shall not be tolerated.Eshwarappa said, “This was not just about temples but also that the alleged illegal structures include churches and mosques as well. The BJP government will protect all of them.”Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has assured to discuss the issue in the cabinet meeting on Thursday.Prathap Simha, BJP MP from Mysuru-Kodagu, had used the incident to mobilise support from the Hindu community against the drive. He had even termed churches and mosques as “just prayer halls”, justifying the focus to protect temples.The incident had also seen a rare bonhomie between the BJP and the opposition parties which came together to condemn the incident.Eshwarappa said the action of the administration has given people who protect Indian culture the right to question why only temples were targeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-informed-by-mysuru-administration-about-temple-demolition-plans-karnataka-minister-101631731980057.html
16-09-2021||India||Punjab CM orders high alert as four more arrested in tiffin bomb blast case||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesdayordered an high alert in the state a day after four more members of an Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI-backed) terrorist module, involved in an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) tiffin bomb last month, were arrested on Tuesday. With the recent arrests, the state police busted the fourth terror module with links to Pakistan over the past 40 days.“Taking note of the increased attempts by terror groups to disturb the state’s peace, the CM has directed the police to be on high alert, particularly in view of schools and educational institutions reopening, the festive season and the assembly polls to be held next year”, reads a press release issued by the state information and public relations department on Wednesday.Police said the four men arrested were identified as Rubal Singh, Vicky Bhutti, Malkeet Singh and Gurpreet Singh, alias Gopi. Rubal, also wanted in a murder case of September 1 . While Gurpreet was picked up from Ambala, the other three were nabbed from their villages in Ajnala, Amritsar, the police said. Their fifth accomplice, Gurmukh Brar, was arrested on August 20, the police added.Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said two terrorists from Pakistan named in the case registered in August are International Sikh Youth Federation chief Lakhbir Singh Rode and Qasim, an intelligence officer.On August 8, 2021, these terrorist operatives carried out a recce of Sharma Filling Station during the day and placed the IED at about 11pm, with the timer set to eight minutes. The blast took place at 11.30pm.All five arrested operatives, along with Rode and Qasim, have been booked under Sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Unlawful Activities (prevention) Act and the Explosive Substance Act.The DGP added that Qasim and Rode had promised to transfer over ₹2 lakh to five arrested accused for carrying out the blast. “Rubal and Vicky Bhutti were in touch with Qasim, who had reportedly tasked the four members to blast an oil tanker for causing maximum damage to people and property,” the top cop said, adding that the blast was made on August 8 when, at about 11.30 pm, the Ajnala police received information that an Oil Tanker (PB-02 CR 5926) parked at Sharma Filling Station Ajnala, located on the Amritsar-Ajnala Road near village Bhakha Tara Singh, had caught fire. Ultimately, the fire brigade doused the flames.Preliminary investigations revealed that Gurmukh had placed the tiffin IED at Hambowal on Jalandhar-Amritsar highway, from where, on August 6, 2021, Vicky, Malkeet and Gurpreet Singh picked it up on the directions of Rode and Qasim. The trio hid the bomb near a canal in the Rajasansi area.A pen-drive was attached with the tiffin box, which contained intructions to operate the Tiffin Bomb IED.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-orders-high-alert-as-four-more-arrested-in-tiffin-bomb-blast-case-101631731682783.html
16-09-2021||India||Crimes against Dalits, tribals increased in Covid pandemic year: NCRB||A scheduled caste (SC) person faced crime every 10 minutes in India in the past year, cumulating to a total of 50,291 cases registered in 2020, an increase of 9.4% from the previous year, data from the National Crime Records Bureau said. Crimes against scheduled tribe (ST) communities also increased by 9.3% to a total of 8,272 cases in the year. The rise in crimes against SCs and STs bucked the broader trend of a drop in crime under some major heads – except Covid violations -- last year, due to the pandemic and the 68-day-long lockdown that began on March 25, 2020. Overall crimes rose 28% due to criminal cases related to Covid-19 violations, but crimes against women slowed 8.3%, rape cases dropped 12.4%, and abduction decreased by 19.3%. “Our experience says that when it comes to atrocities on Dalits, efforts are made to dilute the seriousness of the violence and shield accused people. It is a serious matter that despite a pandemic and the presence of constitutional and legislative safeguards, crimes against them are increasing,” said Rahul Singh of the National Dalit Movement for Justice.The data on crimes offered four broad takeaways. One, the largest chunk of crimes against SCs and STs in the past year was that of simple hurt – bruises, injuries resulting out of skirmishes or fights as opposed to more serious broken limbs or maiming. A third of the crimes against SCs was registered as simple hurt, while the figure stood at a fourth for STs. This confirmed anecdotal evidence of rising social tensions in the countryside as migrant labourers – many of whom came from marginalised castes and tribes – were forced to return from the city to their home villages, where very few of them owned land or commanded social capital. To be sure, simple hurt always form a big proportion of crimes against SCs, but the 2020 figures represented a four percentage point rise from 2019. Two, crimes against SCs continued to be concentrated in a handful of states. Uttar Pradesh constituted 25% of all crimes recorded against SCs and reported 12,714 cases in all. To be sure, this can be attributed to the state’s high population (it also has the highest population of SCs) and better reporting mechanisms owing to a dense network of ground-level activists. It was followed by Bihar (7,368), Rajasthan (7,017) and Madhya Pradesh (6,899). Together, these four states account for two-thirds of all crimes against SCs in India despite accounting for only around 40% of the country’s 197 million scheduled caste people. The rate of crimes – which is a measure of crime cases relative to the population of SC -- was highest in Rajasthan, followed by Madhya Pradesh and Bihar. This was identical to last year. A similar analysis for STs doesn’t hold because they’re concentrated in a few states, unlike SCs who are more evenly spread. Three, the nature and quantum of crimes against Dalits is very different in big cities and the countryside and smaller hamlets. This underlines the logic behind migration of lower-caste communities from villages to cities since Independence, and the exhortation of BR Ambedkar to leave the “sink of localism” in India’s villages. In 2020, a total of 1,485 crimes against SCs were registered in India’s 19 metropolitan cities with a population of two million or more – indicating that 97% of the crimes against Dalits occurred in small towns and villages. The figure in big cities represented a drop of 10.9% from the previous year – a sharp contrast to overall numbers that went up. To be sure, it could also mean that lockdown strictures were more rigidly enforced in big cities, leading to lower crimes. The nature of crimes against SCs in big cities was also different. In the 20 big towns, criminal intimidation and rape were the most common crimes against Dalits. Overall, simple hurt and atrocities cases were the most common. Four, the court pendency rate of cases, especially in cases filed under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of) Atrocities Act, continues to be low. This also confirms standalone reports of cases of major caste crimes taking years to reach final stage in courts and difficulty faced by Dalits in proving crimes against upper-castes. The court pendency rate of cases under the SC/ST Act stood at 96.5% in 2020, up from the 94% last year. At the end of the year, 177,379 cases were pending trial under the special legislation meant to protect the marginal castes and tribes. The overall pendency rate in the country for all cases was 91.3% for special and local laws (SLL) crimes and 93.8% for Indian Penal Code crimes. Only 216 cases from the 50,291 crimes against SCs in 2020 resulted in convictions. 3,192 cases resulted in acquittals. “These pendency numbers bring the adequacy of existing  court infrastructure to adjudicate these cases in question,” said Raja Bagga, a senior programme officer of the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative. He pointed out that in a state like Bihar, with 49008 atrocity cases for trial , only 55 were disposed by the courts during the year, leaving 48, 953 ( 99.9% of the cases) pending. Out of these 55 cases, 43 led to acquittal.In West Bengal, only 723 atrocity cases were in court on trial ( one of the lowest among big states), but only two of them were disposed off during the year, both ending up in acquittal.  “Connected to the slow pace of the trials is the low conviction rate of 42.4 % in atrocity cases. The average conviction rate in the country is 59.2 % for IPC cases and 87.5 % in SLL cases.,” Bagga added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crimes-against-dalits-tribals-increased-in-covid-pandemic-year-ncrb-101631731260293.html
16-09-2021||India||Assam teen missing since Sunday found dead; family says she was gang-raped by 6||SILCHAR: A 16-year-old missing since Sunday morning from southern Assam’s Silchar town was found dead on Wednesday; her body floating in the Barak river that flows through the district. Her death touched off massive outrage in the town; scores of people blocked a prominent road and set some vehicles - one of them was a motorcycle owned by one of the accused - afire.The teenager’s family told the police that his daughter was abducted, gang-raped and murder by six men and filed a formal complaint against them at Silchar Sadar police station. Two of the six suspects were immediately arrested; the other four are missing.Her family blamed the police as well, complaining that the local police did not take their complaint seriously when they first reported on Sunday that their young daughter had gone missing.“My daughter has been gang-raped and murdered after being kidnapped. Just after she went missing, we informed the police but today they called us for identifying our daughter’s body. I have appealed to senior officials of the police to catch all the culprits and hang them,” he said.After news of his daughter’s death spread in the town earlier in the day, people came out on the streets in the town’s Ashram Road area and blocked a bypass road. At one point, the mob also pelted stones on security personnel and set two shops owned by relatives of the suspects ablaze. Police fired blank shots to control the mob. At one point, the mob pelted stones on police personnel and burnt down two shops owned by the relatives of an accused.Superintendent of police of Cachar district Ramandeep Kaur Dhillon said, “Family members of the girl have claimed that their daughter was raped. They have lodged a complaint also.”Dhillon said investigators were looking at all angles. The body has been sent for postmortem.On the protests, she said, “People were angry and we can understand their emotions. Our officials tried to convince them by saying that we have arrested few of the accused. But some people were continuously provoking the others, so we had to take a step. Non-lethal weapons were used just to control the situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-teen-missing-since-sunday-found-dead-family-says-she-was-gang-raped-by-6-101631731080115.html
16-09-2021||India||Cyber crimes registered 11.8% increase last year: NCRB||Cases of cyber crime recorded an 11.8% increase in 2020, a year when most rates of serious crimes fell, the Crime in India 2020 report shows.Released late on Tuesday by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), the report quantifies for the first time the unusual trends in crime and law and order in a year when much of the country was in a lockdown for over two months.HT reported on Wednesday that overall, the number of cognizable cases rose by 28% but if Covid-related violations were removed, the number of new cases dropped compared to 2019. Some of the stark reductions were in cases of kidnapping and abduction, which fell by 19.3%, crime against women (down by 8.3%), crime against children (down by 13.2%) and crime against senior citizens (down by 10.8%). The murder cases increased by one percent.But in case of complaints filed under sections dealing with cyber crime, the number of cases registered last year rose to 50,035 from 44,735 a year before. This ties in with trends seen across the world as more people moved to working and studying from home, spending more time with digital tools.Most of the increase came from states such as Telangana, Assam, Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand and Maharashtra while cases from the top 20 major cities rose by only 0.8%, suggesting more people were being targeted in smaller cities.The total rate of cyber crime per 100,000 people increased from 3.3 to 3.7 in 2020.“The picture provided by NCRB on cyber crime is very limited,” said Pawan Duggal, an independent expert in cyber security, who has been watching this space for more than two decades. He added that cyber frauds have increased in several countries during pandemic.“The ground reality is overwhelming. Every second person would have been targeted by a cyber fraudster. The actual cyber fraud is much higher. The Covid pandemic has turned cyber fraud as a cottage industry, which was once known to be run from Jamtara in Jharkhand, to several other parts of the country,” he added.To be sure, cyber crime sections include several types of crimes that are either carried out using or primarily target computer systems or assets linked to the internet, such as internet banking and email accounts.Duggal’s allusion was to financial frauds that target citizens by fooling them into sharing sensitive credentials like one-time password (OTP). State police departments have identified several hotbeds of including Bharatpur in Rajasthan, Deoghar in Jharkhand, Gwalior-Chambal region in Madhya Pradesh, Palgar in Maharashtra and Noida in Uttar Pradesh.Officials in Rajasthan said police opened a dedicated cyber police post in Bharatpur on Rajasthan-Uttar Pradesh border, where police from at least 22 states have visited since January 2021. About 40% of cyber fraud cases reported from Hyderabad was traced to Bharatpur.Bharatpur superintendent of police, Devdendra Kumar Bishnoi admitted that many cyber frauds gangs are operating from Pahadi and Kaman areas of the district. “The area of operation of these people are southern states as they believe that police from those states would not come here tracking them. And that is true to some extent. They do not commit local crime,” he said.On average police, from two states come to Bharatpur every week looking for cyber criminals.Police officers said several cases of cyber fraud committed by people living in Bharatpur’s neighbouring districts of Agra and Meerut in Uttar Pradesh, Nuh in Haryana and Gwalior-Chambal belt in Madhya Pradesh have also been reported.Cyber fraud gangs have also been seen to be increasingly active in Maharashtra and are targeting people in several southern states, said Hyderabad Assistant Commissioner of Police (Cybercrime) KVM Prasad.In Jamtara district of Jharkhand, often considered as the epicentre for cyber fraud, close to 150 people were arrested and police of 20 states visited the district in 2020. Local officials now say efforts are being made to wean youth away from such crime, including by opening a library in each panchayat to help them prepare for various government job recruitment tests. “We tried our bit to take youth away from negative activities. But, can’t say it worked fully,” said then district deputy collector Faiz Ahmed Mumtaz.Jharkhand police officers said that cyber fraud has spread from Jamtara to neighbouring Deoghar, from where close to 100 cases have been reported in the last nine months. “We have also made several arrests from this primarily rural district but it appears that many educated young people have found cyber fraud as easy way to make money,” said a Deoghar police officer, who was willing to be not quoted.The spurt in such crimes is now prompting several states to setup dedicated units. Rajasthan has decided to have a cyber police station in every district, Kerala is forming a new cyber police battalion, Telangana has a dedicated cyber crime investigation department, Delhi Police has set up a separate wing for cyber crimes and have a cyber fraud detection unit in every district, and Karnataka has made cyber crime detection training mandatory police personnel in the state.The home ministry now has a dedicated portal for reporting cyber crime ---cybercrime.gov.in. Close to 200,000 complaints have been lodged since the portal was launched in January 2020. The department in November, 2020 asked all states to registers FIRs on complaints received through this portal. Cases were registered in 5,000 of close to 2,00,000 complaints received through the portal in 2020, MHA had said in January 2021.Duggal said the home ministry needs to look at revamping laws to check rising cyber fraud. “In most cases, the person would be out of jail in a few years, if not months. Penalty is not a deterrent. We need more stringent provisions in the Information Technology Act, which was last amended in 2008,” he said.(With inputs from Sachin Saini in Jaipur, Srinivasa Rao Apparasu in Hyderabad and Vishal Kant in Ranchi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyber-crimes-registered-11-8-increase-last-year-ncrb-101631731021285.html
16-09-2021||India||Indo-US cooperation will boost economic dynamism: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday highlighted the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic that have disrupted businesses globally and said that Indo-US cooperation would go a long way in boosting “economic dynamism.”“Covid-19 pandemic has brought newer challenges in terms of disruption of supply chains, downturn in industrial activities, negative growth in travel and tourism industry and there is no doubt Indo-US cooperation will go a long way to restore normalcy and further boost economic dynamism,” Singh said.He was speaking at the Indo-US Economic Summit organised by the Indo-American Chamber of Commerce.Singh said various measures taken by the Union government had helped put economic activities back on track, and the first quarter of the year recorded a 20% growth compared to a 24% contraction last year.Singh added that the recovery was a sign of India’s “sound economic fundamentals.” The minister said the country was preparing for “dynamic growth” not just in the financial year 2022 but through the entire decade.“Over the last 100 months, the government has brought many major structural and procedural reforms, which have prepared India to make a quantum jump in terms of growth in this decade,” Singh said, enumerating the steps taken by the government to boost the Make in India initiative, enhance ease of doing business and to make the country an investor-friendly destination.Red tape has given way to red carpet, the minister said, inviting the US industry to participate in the government’s vision of “Make in India and make for the world.”On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India was shedding its image of being a major importer of military hardware and carving an identity for itself as a defence exporter. Modi said the world had taken note of the strides made by the country in defence manufacturing with locally produced equipment ranging from modern grenades, assault rifles and drones to fighter jets and warships.“We have formulated progressive and investor-friendly tax policies. We have said goodbye to retrospective taxation and corrected the mistake of previous governments,” the defence minister said.Talking about labour reforms, Singh said dozens of laws had been compressed into four sets of codes.The Union minister said the government’s decision to notify two lists of 209 defence items that cannot be imported (ban to be implemented progressively from 2021 to 2025) would boost business opportunities.“It may appear that this list will reduce business opportunities for the world. But I want to make it clear, that this list is actually an invitation to increase business collaboration,” the minister said.The items that cannot be imported include AEW&C (airborne early warning and control) systems, light combat aircraft, missile destroyers, ship-borne cruise missiles, long-range land attack cruise missiles, basic trainer aircraft, different types of helicopters and artillery guns.Singh said foreign original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) can set up manufacturing facilities on their own or forge partnerships with Indian companies through joint ventures or technology agreements to capitalise on the Make in India opportunity.“There is a lot of scope for the American and Indian defence industries for co-production and co-development. Indian industry can also supply components to the American industry,” he said. The Indo-US bilateral relationship had made good progress during the last five to seven years, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indous-cooperation-will-boost-economic-dynamism-amid-covid-challenges-rajnath-singh-101631731020122.html
16-09-2021||India||Bhabanipur bypoll: BJP candidate gets EC notice for Covid norms violation||The Election Commission of India on Wednesday issued a show cause notice to Bharatiya Janata Party candidate Priyanka Tibrewal, who is contesting against West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee in the Bhabanipur bypolls, for allegedly violating Covid-19 safety norms issued by the poll panel. Tibrewal, however, rubbished the allegations.The TMC had lodged a complaint on Tuesdaywith the ECI that Tibrewal had violated the Covid-19 protocols as a large number of BJP workers and leaders had accompanied her when she went to file her nomination on Monday.In view of the pandemic situation, the ECI had banned public meetings and processions before and after filing of nomination, while only three vehicles were permitted within 100 metres of the returning officer’s office where the nomination is filed.The bypolls are due to be held on September 30 and the counting of votes will take place on October 3.“I will reply to the ECI. Only Suvendu Adhikari was with me in my car. Apart from me there were security personnel in another vehicle. Dinesh Trivedi and Arjun Singh didn’t come with me and had reached the Returning Officer ‘s (RO’s) office directly. I cannot control vehicles or two wheelers which were plying on the road. That is the jurisdiction of the police. Why did they allow?” said Tibrewal.Meanwhile, the BJP moved the EC on Wednesday in Delhi seeking more additional central forces in Bhabanipur apprehending violence and rigging. The poll panel has already deployed 15 companies of central forces.Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday offered prayers in a Gurudwara in Bhabanipur. With large political gatherings prohibited because of ongoing Covid-19 restrictions imposed by the state government, both the BJP and the ruling TMC are relying mostly on door-to-door campaigns and their public relations skills for the upcoming bypolls.“Every day Rujira (wife of Mamata’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee) comes to this Gurudwara and even goes to Kalighat temple to offer prayers. She also reads out the scriptures from the Guru Granth Sahib to her daughter. I have visited this Gurudwara many times as it soothes my mind. So we already have a relation with you (Sikh community). I would love to visit the Golden Temple once,” Banerjee said while extending her support once again to ongoing farmers’ protests against the three contentious farm bills.The constituency in the heart of south Kolkata has 206,389 electors out of which 95,143 are female voters, which comes to around 46%. It has a sizeable population of Sikhs and Gujaratis. However, the area is dominated by middle-class Bengalis.While the Congress has already decided not to field any candidate the BJP’s unit in West Bengal the Left Front has announced the name of Srijib Biswas, an advocate, from Bhabanipur.In the April-May 2021 polls, nine candidates contested from Bhabanipur out of which deposit of seven candidates were forfeited. The fight was primarily between the TMC and BJP. Banerjee has to win this bypoll to retain her chief minister’s post after having lost to BJP’s Suvendu Aadhikari in Nandigram in the assembly elections held earlier this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhabanipur-bypoll-bjp-candidate-gets-ec-notice-for-covid-norms-violation-101631730960240.html
16-09-2021||India||RSS, BJP ‘fake Hindus’, says Rahul Gandhi; BJP hits back||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday dubbed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) as “fake Hindus” who only “use religion for their benefits”. Addressing the All India Mahila Congress on its foundation day here, the former Congress president said the Congress’ ideology was in complete contrast to that of the RSS and the BJP and “only one of the two ideologies can rule the country.”In his strongly-worded speech at the event, he also accused the duo of indulging in “dalali”. Drawing a comparison with Mahatma Gandhi, the Wayanad MP said: “The BJP-RSS people say they are a Hindu party. In the last 100-200 years, if anyone has understood and practised Hinduism in the best possible way, it is Mahatma Gandhi. So, if Mahatma Gandhi understood the Hindu religion and spent his whole life understanding it, then why did the RSS ideology pump three bullets in his chest.” As a Congress worker, Gandhi said he can never compromise with the ideology of the BJP and RSS. Referring to demonetisation and Goods and Services Tax (GST), the Congress MP said the Narendra Modi government has attacked the “Shakti of Lakshmi” and “Shakti of Durga”. “They call themselves a Hindu party and in the whole country, they attack Lakshmi and Durga. Wherever they go, they kill Lakshmi or Durga and then say we are Hindus,” he alleged. Gandhi claimed that the RSS suppresses “women power” but the Congress party gives an equal platform to women power. The Congress leader alleged that “there are 10-15 people who have the power of Durga and Lakshmi, they are Modi ji ‘s friends.” Lashing out at the Congress leader, the BJP accused him of being “disconnected from the ground”. BJP national general secretary Arun Singh said no one takes the Congress leader seriously.“Rahul Gandhi should not make these statements. He is totally disconnected from the ground. He has no information. That is the main problem,” Singh told reporters.Reacting to Gandhi’s potshot at the RSS over respect for women, Singh said if the Congress leader has any confusion on this he should visit the ground.“No one takes him seriously. He is not a serious person. Look at the track record of Rahul Gandhi. Sometimes he speaks after reading papers, sometimes after copying two three lines, he doesn’t know what is happening on the ground,” Singh said.BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said Gandhi’s statement has hurt Hindu sentiments. “In his address, Rahul Gandhi hurt Hindu religious sentiments. Laxmi, Durga, Saraswati are the centre of the sentiments of crores of people. To say that Durga ji has been attacked, using such words is not right in reference to any religion,” Patra told a television channel.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-bjp-fake-hindus-says-rahul-gandhi-bjp-hits-back-101631730840168.html
16-09-2021||India||8.3% dip in crimes against women in 2020: NCRB report||Cases of crime against women in cities were down by 8.3% in the year 2020 when compared to 2019, even though nearly 77 rape cases were reported across the country on an average every day that year, data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) showed.In its latest report on Tuesday, the NCRB, which functions under the Union home ministry, said that a total of 371,503 cases of crime against women were reported across the country last year in comparison to 405,326 in 2019 and 378,236 in 2018.Among states and Union territories, Uttar Pradesh topped the list with maximum number (49,385) of such cases followed by West Bengal (36,439), Rajasthan (34,535), Maharashtra (31,954) and Madhya Pradesh (25,640).Crimes against women includes cases of rape, outraging modesty, dowry deaths and harassment, acid attacks and kidnapping.“Majority of cases under crime against women were registered under ‘Cruelty by Husband or his Relatives’ (30.2%) followed by assault on women with intent to outrage her modesty’ (19.7%), kidnaping and abduction of women (19.0%) and rape (7.2%),” the report said. Of the total cases of crimes against women during the Covid pandemic-induced lockdown, there were 28,046 incidents of rape involving 28,153 victims. Out of the total victims, 25,498 were adults, while 2,655 were below the age of 18 years, the report stated. The number of rape cases, as defined in Indian Penal Code section 376, stood at 32,033 in 2019, 33,356 in 2018 and 32,559 in 2017. The figure for 2016 was 38,947, as per NCRB data from corresponding years.With 5,310 cases, Rajasthan reported the maximum number of rapes in 2020 while Uttar Pradesh reported 2,769 cases, Madhya Pradesh 2,339 cases, Maharashtra 2,061 cases and Assam 1,657 cases. However, Rajasthan saw a decline of 11.45% in rape cases last year when compared to 2019. Similarly, it also saw a dip in crimes against women by 16%. “It is our government’s mandate that none of the complainant, especially women, should return without lodging a complaint. Rape cases are increasing but around 42% are found false after probe or sometimes, the victim forms an agreement with the accused and don’t want to pursue the case,” Rajasthan’s additional director general of police, crime, Ravi Prakash Meharda, said. In case of rape of minors, Madhya Pradesh recorded the most number of incidents with 3,259 cases followed by Maharashtra (2,875) and Uttar Pradesh (2,630). The state saw a mere 1% dip in rape of minors unlike other states such as Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan were the decline ranged from 5% to 10%. Madhya Pradesh also reported the maximum number (17,008) of crimes against children. As the accused in majority of the rape cases known to the victim, a senior police officer on condition of anonymity said it was not a “problem of law and order but a social problem.”“The number is high because of 100% reporting of cases,” said Madhya Pradesh additional director general of police Pragya Richa Shrivastava. Women activists such as Sarika Sinha, convener of Action Aid (an organisation which helps destitute and victims of crime against women), said a poor conviction rate was a major reason behind the high crime rate against children. “Despite making strict laws, including capital punishment, for raping a minor of less than 12 years, the number of cases is not coming down significantly. One of the major reasons is delay in justice and a lower conviction rate,” she said.The NCRB data also showed the rate of crime against women in two Tamil Nadu cities -- Coimbatore and Chennai -- were the lowest when compared to 19 other metro cities.“When there is a declining trend, we have to see through the data from various intersections. Are they complaining? If so, is their report being considered and registered or dismissed? Even in urban areas for gender-based crimes, there isa stigma against reporting and some women get used to this and fail to report,” Sandhiyan Thiyagaran, founder of AWARE (Awareness for Women to Advocate their Rights and Empowerment) India, said, adding: “However, compared to other metros in the country, in Tamil Nadu, the law enforcement agencies help prevent crimes against women such as by patrolling and installing CCTVs. We have a few deterrents that other metros may not have in equal measure.”Among the 19, cities which reported the highest chargesheet rate under the IPC are Surat (96.7%), Coimbatore (96.6%) and Ahmedabad (96.3%). Among states, it is Gujarat (97.1%), Kerala (94.9%) and Tamil Nadu (91.7%). The crime rate is calculated for per one lakh of population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/83-dip-in-crimes-against-women-in-2020-ncrb-report-101631730781414.html
16-09-2021||India||Tension in Assam’s Silchar after missing girl’s body found in Barak River||Tension broke out in Silchar town of Assam on Wednesday afternoon after the body of a 16-year-old girl, who went missing on Sunday, was found floating in the Barak River.According to the police, at least two persons were arrested after the girl’s father lodged a complaint of abduction, gangrape and murder against six people at Silchar Sadar police station. Efforts are underway to nab the remaining accused, they said. “My daughter was gangraped and murdered after being kidnapped. Just after she went missing, we informed the police on Sunday but today, they called to identify our daughter’s body. I have appealed to the higher officials to catch all the culprits and hang them to death,” the minor’s father said. Outraged over the incident, several locals blocked a bypass road, which connects two national highways through Silchar town, and also set ablaze some vehicles in the Ashram Road area alleging police inaction in the case, people familiar with the matter said. The mob also reportedly pelted stones on security personnel and set on fire two shops owned by the relative of an accused, prompting police to blank fire to disperse the crowd, the people cited above added. A team of police, including DIG south Assam, Devjyoti Mukherjee, Cachar district DSP, Dr. Kalyan Kumar Das, officer incharge of Silchar Sadar police station, Chandan Borah, rushed to the spot along with CRPF personnel and a team of fire brigade personnel to take stock of the situation. “Family members of the girl have claimed that their daughter was raped, they have also lodged a complaint. We are investigating the matter from different aspects. After recovering the dead body, it was sent to Silchar Medical College and Hospitals for postmortem. We have so far apprehended two of the accused individuals and the other accused will be behind bars soon,” Cachar district superintendent of police Ramandeep Kaur Dhillon said. Some locals in Ashram Road claimed the prime accused was involved with supply of drugs to students in the area and that the alleged murder was connected to this case. Police, however, could not confirm the allegation and said a probe would be launched into the matter. On the blank fire, Dhillon said, “People were angry and we can understand their emotions. Our officials tried to convince them by saying that we have arrested a few of the accused. But some people were continuously provoking others, so we had to take a step. Non-lethal weapons were used to control the situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tension-in-assam-s-silchar-after-missing-girl-s-body-found-in-barak-river-101631730780219.html
16-09-2021||India||Over 100 drafting changes proposed to JPC on data protection bill||The joint parliamentary committee on personal data protection, which met after a hiatus of nearly nine months, is looking at over 100 drafting changes introduced by the new chairperson and BJP MP PP Chaudhary. The committee has also agreed to circulate the draft report, penned under the chairpersonship of Meenakshi Lekhi, as a summary of proceedings, people familiar with the matter said.“Most of the changes appear to be of a legislative drafting nature and majority of them seem cosmetic in nature,” a person familiar with the matter said, asking not to be named. “The panel will meet again on Thursday to discuss the bill clause by clause.”The bill will now be referred to as the data protection bill and not the personal data protection bill. Under section 91, it allows the government to access non-personalised and anonymised data for policy purposes. The data protection authority’s ambit under section 49 has also been proposed to be expanded to include covering data breaches and not just personal data breaches, the person mentioned above added.Chaudhary, a former Union minister of law and justice who took over barely two months ago, has offered his own suggestions in report with reference to a number of the clauses. On Wednesday, the panel touched upon the changes, while also seeking that the old draft report, which had been agreed upon by the panel, be circulated among the members. The BJP MP took over from Meenakshi Lekhi, who had to step down as panel chair after she was appointed as a Union minister. The members in December last year had already agreed upon the amendments required to the bill but the report was never presented to Parliament on its due date in the Budget session. The draft report was then deferred to the monsoon session. Hindustan Times on July 8 reported that the data privacy law faced new delays as several members of the parliamentary committee, including its head, were made ministers weeks before the crucial report was due during the Monsoon Session. Moreover, the four new members who have replaced the newly appointed union ministers —BJP MPs Rakesh Sinha, Vinay Sahashrabuddhe, Sudhanshu Trivedi and Aparajita Sarangi — will also be offered a chance to present their own views on the bill.Members are concerned that with the process facing new hurdles, the data protection framework may see another delay. “The committee may end up examining a whole new report, the new members will also make their suggestions,” a second person familiar with the matter said, asking not to be named.The draft Personal Data Protection law was introduced in Parliament in December 2019 and is meant to provide the legal framework for the right to privacy of Indian citizens. But it was soon referred to a Joint Parliamentary Committee to iron out several contentious issues. The committee has now sought until the winter session to submit its report.The committee has met various stakeholders as it debates far reaching reforms for data protection. It has also carefully analysed the bill that covers cross border transfer of data and the use personal data by government and private companies. Provisions of the bill related to localization of data within the country and curbs on data sharing across borders have come in for criticism from global technology companies. But like many other countries in the world, India wants to ensure the data of its citizens is safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-100-drafting-changes-proposed-to-jpc-on-data-protection-bill-101631730726756.html
16-09-2021||India||PM Modi at Sansad TV launch: ‘In India, democracy is our life stream’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday suggested that better debates and conduct can help parliamentarians connect with more people, as he launched Sansad TV jointly with Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla.Sansad TV has been created by merging Lok Sabha TV and Rajya Sabha TV.During his speech, the Prime Minister said that while people usually say that content is king, in his experience, content is also “connect” as better content can reach out to more people.“As much as this applies to the media, it is equally applicable to our parliamentary system. There is not only politics in Parliament, there is also policymaking. When Parliament is in session, debates are held on diverse subjects, and there is so much for the youth to learn. Members of Parliament also get inspiration for better conduct, better debate inside Parliament when the country watches them,” Modi said.Vice President Naidu echoed similar sentiments and said that Parliament needs “voice, not noise”, an apparent reference to frequent disruptions that marred the last monsoon session in both Houses of Parliament. The Chairman of the Upper House, currently considering an allegation of disruption against several Opposition MPs, added: “We need to have meaningful debates echoing people’s aspirations. The loud disruptive noise should not drown the voice of people.”Addressing the event, the PM backed the new television channel as technology is rapidly changing. Lauding the channel as “a new chapter in the story of Indian democracy”, PM said: “The country is getting a medium of communication and dialogue which will become a new voice of the nation’s democracy and people’s representative.”Reiterating that India is the mother of democracy, Modi said: “India has more responsibility when it comes to democracy. It is not just a system, democracy is an idea, a spirit in India. It is our life stream.” Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said that Sansad TV will help the country watch the entire democratic system from Parliament to panchayet. “This will show positive and inspiring works of our elected representatives and make young people aware of our parliamentary work.” Earlier in the day, Birla, in a conference of presiding officers, emphasised maintaining discipline and decorum in Parliament and other legislatures. “Collective and coordinated efforts are required by the Presiding Officers, Leaders of all parties to ensure the implementation of the earlier resolutions and decisions (to maintain decorum).”He suggested a separate meeting of presiding officers on decorum and discipline.Naidu sought parliamentary debates to “amplify concerns, clarify doubts and deepen shared understanding”. “Debates in the legislatures throw up solutions to the problems. But disruptions only dissipate our collective energies and delay the task of building a new India.”Sansad TV CEO Ravi Kapoor said that the new channel will reduce cost by 25% and run around 60 programmes such as Defenders (for India’s armed forces) and “Itihas”, to narrate the history of modern India. Women’s issues will be discussed in “Meri Kahani” and special programmes such as “India’s start up journey”, “Healthy India”, “Smart kheti” and “Art of science” will be telecast on related subjects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-at-sansad-tv-launch-in-india-democracy-is-our-life-stream-101631730723982.html
16-09-2021||India||Centre may tweak IT Act, bring in new penalties||The central government is considering amendments to the information technology act, 2000 to bring in new penalties, such as fines, for social media companies and individuals, in addition to retaining some of the criminal provisions that are part of the law, officials familiar with the matter have said.According to these people, the plans are part of an overhaul of the mainstay law to deal with information technology in an effort to update the legal framework to keep in step with developments in the area. “At present, most of the provisions only have penal consequences,” said an official familiar with the matter. “One of the major gaps in implementation of IT act is that it wades into criminal liability straightaway. The case is not always one of wilful illegality, wherein a crime may have been committed but may not be intentional. You have to penalise but not convict them.” The official added that the ministry is also working to figure what denominations should be fixed for the offences and, while the penal liabilities include fines, the civil ones will be continuous and free of criminal liability.According to this person, sections where such fines are under consideration are section 66, which allows the government to impose a fine of up to ₹2 lakhs and imprisonment for life for participating in cyber terrorism, cheating, and identity theft. Section 67 too is being studied – this part allows the government to impose a fine up to ₹10 lakh for publishing or transmitting explicit content, including those relating to child sexual abuse. A second official stressed that the discussions were at a preliminary stage. “It would be a little premature to say how the discussions will pan out,” this person said, asking not to be named. “These are internal conversations taking place at the ministry. At present, new IT rules have been introduced. They form the framework that intermediaries need to follow.” The official added that the amendments would take time to be understood and introduced. At present, sections 43-46 of the IT act allows for civil penalties for which compensation may also be paid to victims. These include provisions pertaining to personal data protection and hacking.Supreme Court lawyer and founder of Cybersaathi, NS Nappinai, said that the Act already provides for an adjudicating officer (AO) under section 46 who can impose civil fines up to ₹5 crore. The designated officer for the post is the secretary of the ministry of electronics and information technology, who has the powers of a civil court.Nappinai added that “there are substantial civil penalties under the extant IT act”. “Even these have remained dead letters as a separate office of AO has not been formed 21 years after passing of the IT Act in 2000 and the ad hoc delegation to the state secretaries, ministry of IT continues till date,” she said. “Further, the office of the Cyber Appellate Tribunal was closed and the jurisdiction for appeals from AOs was moved to TDSAT. Any proposed changes ought to focus and ensure effective enforcement,” she added.Nappinai cautioned that mere additions, therefore, of civil penalties would not suffice and that there has to be effective enforcement. “Whilst additions to civil penalties are welcome care should be taken to ensure that first principles are met as also the proportionality test emphasised by the Supreme Court in the case of Puttaswamy,” she said. As for revising fine denominations, Nappinai said that in 2019, a committee under the ministry of home affairs submitted its report raising the importance of amendments to IT Act. “This also included suggestions for clarity and specificity in the offences covered under section of the 43 IT Act, while also providing for heavier penalties for larger violations, as one size may not fit all,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-may-tweak-it-act-bring-in-new-penalties-101631730722211.html
16-09-2021||India||Air India receives bids from suitors||The Union finance ministry has received multiple bids for Air India and the process for the loss-making state-run airline’s disinvestment now “moves to the concluding stage”, a government official said on Wednesday.The announcement was made in a tweet by Tuhin Kanta Pandey, secretary, Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (Dipam), although he did not disclose who or how many bidders expressed interest.Tata Sons later announced it had submitted bids and other people aware of the matter separately identified SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh as one of the other bidders. Singh did not respond to requests for a comment.“Financial bids for Air India disinvestment received by Transaction Adviser,” said Pandey in a tweet.“Process now moves to concluding stage,” he said.The financial bids will be evaluated against an undisclosed reserve price and the bid offering the highest price above that benchmark will be accepted. The bid will be initially examined by the transaction advisor before the recommendation is sent to the Cabinet for approval.If Tatas emerge successful, this will mark the return of Air India to the Tata fold after 67 years. The Tata Group founded Air India as Tata Airlines in October 1932. The government nationalised the airline in 1953.The Union government has renewed a push to sell its entire interest in the loss-making airline, which has been kept aloft by a bailout since 2012.The government is seeking to sell 100% of its stake in the state-owned national airline, including Air India’s 100% shareholding in AI Express Ltd and 50% in Air India SATS Airport Services Private Ltd.As per the Air India expression of interest floated by Dipam in January 2020, the airline has a total debt of ₹60,074 crore as of March 31. The bid has boosted prospects for the sale after the government sweetened the deal by allowing suitors to decide how much of the carrier’s debt they want to take on. The rest will be transferred to Air India Assets Holding Ltd (AIAHL), a special purpose vehicle.Despite the mounting debt and losses, Air India has some lucrative assets, including valued slots at London’s Heathrow airport, a fleet of more than 100 planes and thousands of trained pilots and crew.Two previous attempts to offload the airline failed. In 2001, Singapore Airlines Ltd. dropped its bid for a stake in Air India, citing political opposition as one of the reasons.In 2018, IndiGo, India’s biggest airline, pulled out of the running, saying it didn’t have the means to buy the carrier in its entirety and make it profitable.The airline’s stake sale process began afresh in January 2020 but faced delays due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The government however asked potential bidders to put in financial bids in April this year before extending the deadline to Wednesday. The deadline was extended on multiple occasions prior to this but civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, who took over a little over two months ago, said last week that the September 15 deadline would not be extended.“We do not know for sure if it’s the Tata group that is taking us over. However we definitely intend to put our best foot forward and help the future owner bring Air India back to its former glory. We hope that the process will also enhance employees working conditions for a harmonious productive environment under the new owner,” said a committee member of the Indian Pilots’ Guild, airline’s Boeing pilots’ union.Tatas operate a premier full-service carrier, Vistara, in partnership with Singapore Airlines and own a majority stake in AirAsia India. It was not immediately known if the group put in the bid on its own or through budget carrier AirAsia India, agencies reported.Experts said the confirmation of bids was an important development. “Submission of financial bids is the most important step. This is the first time that the airline has got its financial bids. Moreover since there are two bidders, the process will be faster and we will have the new bidder taking up by December. According to me, the coin will swing in Tata Sons’ favour,” said CS Subbiah, former CEO of Alliance Air, regional arm of Air India.“Air India is potentially a strategic opportunity but with high structural complexity. Investment in Air India will bet on Indian aviation’s long term potential- which is significant- but keeping in mind the massive cost of restructuring and the continuous flow of funding required to turnaround. I don’t think government of India should expect anything significant from Air India’s privatisation and may require to make the offer viable given the very poor financial and operational condition of Air India,” said Kapil Kaul, chief executive officer of CAPA advisory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-receives-bids-from-suitors-101631729580649.html
16-09-2021||India||3rd NEET aspirant dies by suicide in 4 days across Tamil Nadu||A 17-year-old girl, a NEET aspirant and the daughter of daily wage labourers, is believed to have killed herself over the fear that she may not clear the crucial entrance exam to pursue medical courses in Tamil Nadu’s Vellore district, police said, in the third such case to be reported in the state this week.This is the third suspected suicide of a NEET aspirant in four days, and adds to the dozens of deaths since the common entrance exam for medical courses was first introduced in 2017. There is staunch opposition against the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for undergraduate admission to medical courses in Tamil Nadu. The state assembly on Monday passed a bill that supported scrapping of the NEET exam and admitting students into courses based on their performance in the Class 12 tests. The legislation requires the President’s assent to be enacted.  The bill, which said it was in favour of “social justice” was supported by all parties with the exception of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The argument in the state, now led by the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), is that NEET puts at a disadvantage students from rural and poor backgrounds (who cannot afford coaching), and those studying in boards other than the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). On Wednesday, the teenager was found hanging at her home in a village around 9am after her parents left for work. The girl, a student of a government school in Vellore’s Thottapalayam, had appeared for the exam on Sunday. “For the past three days she had been very upset and had expressed to her family that she had not written the exam well,” said a police officer who did not wish to be named. The girl’s parents -- both labourers -- said they consoled her and told her she could pursue other professions if she didn’t clear the exam, he said, adding that she had scored 85% in Class 12 final exams. The girl was the youngest among four siblings and her three sisters are married. Her body has been sent to the Vellore Government Hospital and Medical College for post-mortem. NEET 2021 was conducted across 202 cities on Sunday, after the Supreme Court recently rejected a plea by a group of students to postpone the exam. The top court said it did not want to interfere with the process and it will be “very unfair” to reschedule the test.Hours before the exam was held, the 19-year-old son of a farm labourer was found dead in the state’s Salem district. On Monday evening, an 18-year-old female student from Ariyalur district is also believed to have killed herself over the fear of not clearing NEET. Chief minister MK Stalin on Wednesday condoled the deaths and urged candidates to seek help from mental health experts on the state helpline: 104. “Life is priceless and your future is the country’s future,” Stalin said in a statement. He also blamed the central government, saying: “NEET shuts down opportunities for students. The Union government is stone hearted.”The Opposition All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), however, pointed the blame towards the state government. “Students do not trust this government anymore,” former chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3rd-neet-aspirant-dies-by-suicide-in-4-days-across-tamil-nadu-101631729579340.html
16-09-2021||India||Cabinet clears relief package for struggling telecom sector||India on Wednesday took several steps to offer relief to telecom companies burdened by large regulatory dues and attract foreign capital into the telecom sector.Relief on computing dues relating to AGR, adjusted gross revenue, a four-year moratorium on dues, and the option for the government to convert dues into equity after the moratorium period expires are key elements of the relief package approved by the Union Cabinet.The cabinet also liberalised foreign ownership rules by allowing 100% foreign direct investment through the automatic route with safeguards. Currently, 100% FDI is allowed in the telecom sector, but only 49% was on the automatic route, and any investment above that limit required government approval.The steps are expected to benefit Vodafone Idea and Bharti Airtel, saddled with large AGR dues. The relief is likely to ease their financial burden, help save jobs in the sector and ensure much-needed competition in the industry, and comes at a time of concerns that the sector could become a duopoly and scuttle investment in customer service and new technology.Telecom minister Ashwini Vaishnaw said AGR dues were a contentious and highly litigated issue. “It has been decided to rationalise the AGR definition. Non-telecom revenue will be removed from AGR. This resolves this contentious issue,” Vaishnaw said.Vodafone Idea had in August approached the Supreme Court for a review of its July 23 order rejecting a plea from companies to allow the government to correct errors in the computation of AGR dues.After the four-year moratorium, the government will have the option to convert the remaining dues into equity in the companies. “Whatever instalment is left after four years, if it is felt that dues are to be converted to equity, the government will have that option. It is not the company’s option,” Vaishnaw told reporters after the cabinet meeting.He said the cabinet approved nine structural changes and five reform measures that are expected to change the framework of the telecom sector and bring qualitative change.To protect government revenues, companies availing of the moratorium will have to pay interest. This would be at the rate of marginal cost of funds based lending rate (MCLR) plus 2%. This moratorium would resolve the cash flow problem faced by the industry, and the improved cash flow can be utilised to upgrade technology, the minister said.The other structural reform is about spectrum user charges, and license fees and other charges. The minister said that heavy interest, penalty and interest on penalty have been levied so far on these charges.“This regime was an undue burden on the industry participants. Today, it has been rationalised. Monthly compounding of interest has been changed to annual compounding. A very reasonable interest rate of MCLR plus 2% has been approved, and the penalty has been eliminated completely. These two decisions open up the way for big investments into the telecom sector,” Vaishnaw said, adding that fresh investments will also create more jobs.The cabinet also approved the removal of spectrum usage charges in future telecom auctions. In such auctions, spectrum allocation would be of 30 years instead of 20 years. Also, businesses could surrender spectrum after a 10-year lock-in period after paying a defined surrender charge.Asked whether the policy measures would facilitate new investors in the telecom industry, Vaishnaw said the government believes that there should be healthy competition in the sector. “For that, there will be further reforms when 5G spectrum is auctioned…so that more and more players can get into the sector. More players, healthy competition and more choices to customers is the stated commitment of the government,” the minister said.Industry leaders Bharti Airtel chairman Sunil Bharti Mittal, Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani, Aditya Birla Group chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla and Vodafone Group chief executive officer Nick Read welcomed the move.Birla said the measures “will go a long way in unshackling the telecom sector” and “demonstrate the government’s commitment to ensuring healthy growth of the industry”. “The measures also reflect the decisiveness of the Prime Minister, the telecom minister, and the government to address long-standing issues. These reforms will bring alive the digital aspirations of 1.3 billion people and accelerate India’s journey to be a digitally powered economy as envisaged by the honourable Prime Minister,” a Vodafone Idea statement quoted him as saying.Mittal described the policy steps as seminal reforms to lift an industry that is at the core of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Digital India vision. “The latest reforms ensure that the industry is able to invest fearlessly and support India’s digital ambition. Bharti Airtel is fully committed to responding to the call by the Honourable Prime Minister to invest in and accelerate India’s growth,” Mittal said in a statement.Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd, in a statement, described the policy as timely steps towards strengthening the telecom sector, which will accelerate India’s transformation to a digital society.“The telecom sector is one the prime movers of the economy and the key enabler for making India a digital society. I welcome the government of India’s announcement of reforms and relief measures that will enable the industry to achieve the goals of digital India,” said chairman Mukesh Ambani, according to a statement from RIL. Ambani termed the policy steps as a bold initiative.Nick Read commended the government’s resolve to find a comprehensive solution “that would support a competitive and sustainable telecom sector in India”.The cabinet also decided to simplify KYC norms by eliminating physical paperwork for customers and simplified the process of setting up telecom towers. Also, customs procedures have been changed to make it easier for telecom companies to import equipment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-clears-relief-package-for-struggling-telecom-sector-101631729579979.html
16-09-2021||India||CDS brushes aside IAF concern on asset division under theaterisation||Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat on Wednesday brushed aside concerns of the Indian Air Force (IAF) about the division of its assets under the theaterisation model under consideration to best utilise the military’s resources, arguing that the 36 Rafale fighter jets ordered from France were split into two squadrons to tackle likely threats emanating from the westerns and eastern sectors.One Rafale squadron is based at Ambala in Haryana while the other is coming up at Hasimara in West Bengal.Rawat also said that India was looking at the possibility of raising a rocket force with different types of missiles in its arsenal.CDS said the Rafale aircraft had been split ab intio between the air force’s western and eastern air commands but when the time comes the assets would be operated together along either front. “Assets are distributed ab initio before war starts, and they are allocated and reallocated depending on how the threat evolves. Grouping and regrouping of military assets before, during and after combat will always happen,” Rawat said while delivering a talk on defence reforms at the India International Centre.He said allocation and reallocation of assets took place during the 1971 India-Pakistan war, which was fought on the two fronts. The current theaterisation model, which has the full backing of the government, seeks to set up four new integrated commands for synergy in operations — two land-centric theatres, the Air Defence Command and the National Maritime Theatre Command.In July, IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria flagged concerns about the theaterisation model, arguing that it was critical to first get the structure right, even as Rawat gave out details of the plan to achieve jointness and brushed aside the reservations. Asset split, leadership and dilution of the powers of the chiefs are key concerns for the IAF on the theaterisation move, as previously reported by HT.CDS said that the three chiefs will be responsible for raising, training and sustaining their respective services after the theatre command model is fully functional.“Theatre commanders will become operational commanders in the long run, and they will report to the chairman, chiefs of staff committee (COSC),” Rawat said. CDS wears three hats — he is the permanent chairman of COSC, heads the department of military affairs (DMA), and is the single-point military adviser to the defence minister.In response to a question on the IAF needing more combat squadrons, Rawat said fighter jets were only one of the elements of the air force’s power.“The S-400 air defence missile systems are coming (from Russia), the IAF last week inducted the medium range surface-to-air missile systems…Look at the modern aircraft and other systems you have. We are looking at creating a rocket force because the more aircraft you keep in the air, the more will also be on the ground. Look at the air defence systems that are coming up.”Rawat said aircraft like Rafales and Sukhoi-30s were capable of undertaking up to six sorties a day compared to three for the older MiGs. CDS said future wars would be different and integration among the three services was critical to tackle new threats.Last week, HT reported that the creation of theatre commands could take two to three years, with senior officers from the three services being assigned key responsibilities to finalise the joint structures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cds-cites-rafale-deployment-in-theaterisation-push-101631728080548.html
16-09-2021||India||Khairlanji episode: Caste divide cemented by brutality from 15 years ago||Khairlanji (Maharashtra): In September 2006, Khairlanji was just another village in Maharashtra’s Bhandara, its 700 strong populace fairly nondescript. 150km from Nagpur, there was nothing to separate the homes in its dingy lanes from each other. Most roads were kuccha. Most houses were kuccha too. Fifteen years later, there are signs of change. Some roads have gone from dirt to cement, some homes now have tap water. But what hasn’t changed is the distrust in the social fabric of the village, borne out of a heinous crime that sparked angry protests, brought ignominy to the village, and came to be known across the country as the “Kharlainji massacre”. On September 29, 2006, a group of villagers, mostly Kunbis -- who consider themselves equivalent to the Marathas in western Maharashtra but are classified as other backward classes (OBC), attacked four members of the family of Bhaiyyalal Bhotmange, all Dalits. They dragged out Bhaiyyalal’s wife Surekha, 44, her sons Roshan, 23, Sudhir, 21, and daughter Priyanka, 18, a Class 12 student, and subjected them to a brutal assault. The victims were paraded naked in the village, the women sexually violated, and all four of them hacked to death. The massacre rocked the country and sparked protests by Dalit groups across the country. It was a rude reminder that despite stepping into the 21st century, caste attitudes continue to stagnate in primitivity, and Dalit people, especially women, were as vulnerable to the power of upper-caste structure as they were half a century ago. It belied the promise of modernity for India’s most marginal groups. Today, the violence is gone but its memory lingers -- and Dalits complain that the caste divide is wider than ever. “If we get vocal, they (the upper caste) try to gag us. The reason why there has been no conflict between the Dalits and caste Hindus in Khairlanji for the last 15 years is because Dalits want peace,” said Siddhartha Gajbhiye, Surekha’s cousin. THE MASSACREAmong the first triggers was a petty dispute in the middle of September 2006. The village, dominated by Kunbis, beat up Gajbhiye, who lived in the village of Dushala nearby, and frequently visited the Bhotmange family. The villagers suspected Gajbhiye had a relationship with Surekha. Gajbhiye managed to reach Kamptee near Nagpur where he filed a police complaint, with the case later referred to the Andhalgaon police station. On September 28, 12 villagers were arrested, but got bail from a lower court in Mohadi the next day. Seething in anger, the villagers stormed Bhotmange’s house at 6.30pm the same evening and broke into his mud hut looking for Gajbhiye. Since he was not present, the villagers directed their ire at the Bhotmange family. The mob dragged out all the members of the Bhotmange family, beat them up with bicycle chains, sticks and other sharp weapons. The violated bodies of Surekha and her daughter were found in a nearby canal the next day. Bhaiyyalal managed to escape and hid behind a tree from where he helplessly watched his family members killed. Bhaiyyalal pursued the case with the support of several rights activists and subsequently a special court in Bhandara awarded the death sentence to six accused and two were given life imprisonment on September 24,2008. However, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court commuted the death sentence of six to life imprisonment on July 14, 2010. The high court ruled out caste discrimination as the reason for the killings, and said it was an act of revenge by the accused who felt that they were falsely implicated by Gajbhiye. While holding that it was not the rarest of rare case, the court also rejected the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) appeal for convicting the accused under the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. Bhaiyyalal then moved the Supreme Court but the apex court upheld the HC judgment. THE STRUGGLERavi Shende, a Dalit activist who regularly accompanied Bhaiyyalal to court hearings, alleged that the charges framed under SC/ST Act could not stand scrutiny before courts because the district and police administration – right from the lower level to higher ups – diluted the police investigation in favour of higher castes. “Moreover, we also failed to follow it up properly before the high courts over the last few years and hence the rulings,” Shende said. At the time, a government report on the killings indicted top officers, doctors and even local politicians. The report, prepared by the social justice department and YASHADA – the state academy of developmental administration – described the killings as an “organised conspiracy.” Uttam Shewde, another Dalit activist and state spokesman of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), echoed similar views. He alleged that there was tremendous political pressure from Day One. “They (upper caste people) succeeded in their mission. However, everyone knew that the entire episode was an outcome of caste bias,” Shewde said. However, former village sarpanch of Khairlanji, Hasan Dhande, who was detained by the police after the killings, said that it was not a caste-based conflict at all as claimed by politicians – particularly Dalit leaders. He said the incident was entirely the result of a trivial dispute between the Binjewar and Bhotmange families. (Sakru Binjewar and Gopal Binjewar were accused in the case and awarded life imprisonment). “We have no grudge against Bhaiyyalal. He was here twice after the incident and everyone in the village treated him well. The incident was unfortunate and inhuman,” he said. 15 YEARS ONKharlainji has not seen any violence in the past decade-and-a-half, but many people from the Dalit community are still conscious of the walls erected around them, often unspoken. Amol Meshram, 29, a distant relative of Bhaiyyalal said, “The upper caste-Dalit divide has minimised in the sense that no such things happen right now. But Dalits are still not involved in the planning of development in the village.” “They (upper caste community) hardly talk to us and while the social fabric has not been broken since then, bonhomie is glaringly missing,” said Meshram, who received a Bachelor of Science degree from Nagpur university and is now unemployed. “I was 14 when the incident took place. I was so horrified that I remember I stayed indoors for two months and didn’t go to school or anywhere else,” he added. Durvash Khobragade, another Dalit from Khairlanji, said most Kunbis held the Dalits responsible for the massacre. “They blamed us after the accused were jailed, and that has widened a chasm between us. There is hardly any conversation between people of different castes, and they maintain a safe distance. There are no intercaste marriages in the village,” Khobragade said. But village sarpanch, Moreshwar Dhumankhele, a Kunbi, rejects these charges of differences, and insists that both communities live in “harmony.” “There has been no dispute or any untoward incident between the communities in the last 15 years. The village was also adjudged as “Tanta Mukti Gaon” (dispute-free village) by the government in 2009,” he said. Dhumankhele said Dalits form a small minority of the total population of the village, less than 40 residents. To him, the biggest evidence of harmony is the priest in the village temple. “Those trying to raise any unfounded casteist conflagration in the village, here’s a fact-check -- the priest of local Hanuman temple, Kashiram Nathuji Kawase, is a Dalit belonging to the cobbler community,” Dhumankhele said. MEMORIES LINGERIn January 2017, Bhaiyyalal died at a Nagpur hospital at the age of 62. With nobody from the Bhotmange family remaining in Kharlainji, his relatives, who live in other villages nearby, have now leased out the family’s 5 acre plot to a man named Bhagwan Dhenge, a Kunbi. Yet, as the one protagonist of the 2015 massacre that still remains in and around Kharlainji narrates, this 5 acre plot of land was integral to the attack on the Bhotmanges. Gajbhiye, now 62, was then a “police patil”, a state government employee whose job was to coordinate between villagers and the police. He alleged that the villagers were bent on grabbing a portion of the land to lay an approach road to their farms. This land was also used as a common passage to go to the agriculture fields of other farmers in the village whenever it was left uncultivated. In 1982, Bhaiyyalal married Surekha and after a few years the couple settled down at Khairlanji . He started developing the land for cultivation 1989 onwards. Gajbhiye said that Surekha was an assertive person, who often confronted villagers for illegal trespass. She was considered very argumentative and would often mince no words. This assertive trait of Surekha did not go down well with the higher castes, he said. “I was a police patil of the neighbouring village and I used to help them in resolving such matters through police and other administrative sources. As they could not grab the land and failed to convince Surekha and her family, they targeted me for my frequent visits to her family,” Gajbhiye said. Gajbhiye also alleged that the Bhandara police didn’t take prompt action against the accused because of political pressure. Since 2006, he has not returned to Khairlanj. Ramu Dhande, one of the convicts in the case out on parole from the Gadchiroli prison due to the pandemic, said all he wanted to do was forget. “It was a bad phase for us. We want to live together in peace,” Dhande added. For the Dalits, a sense of harmony is still a pipe dream. What they will settle for is for history not to repeat itself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/khairlanji-episode-caste-divide-cemented-by-brutality-from-15-years-ago-101631727662814.html
16-09-2021||India||Dr Reddy’s gets DCGI nod to conduct phase 3 Sputnik Light trials||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has allowed Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy’s Laboratories to conduct phase 3 bridging trials of Sputnik Light, the single dose formulation of the Russia-made Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine. The approval was granted last month on the basis of a recommendation from the subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), which assessed the updated safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data from phase 3 trials that happened in Russia.The SEC in June had directed Dr Reddy’s to submit data from Sputnik Light trials in Russia before seeking permission to conduct local trials. Sputnik Light comprises the first dose of the usual two-dose regimen.“In light of the recommendations of the SEC dated 30.06.21, the firm presented updated safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data of phase III clinical trial of Sars-Cov-2 virus vaccine (Sputnik Light) — single dose vaccine conducted in Russia along with the proposal to conduct phase III clinical trial. The committee noted that the firm has now presented the safety and immunogenicity along with the longevity of the antibodies which gives a measure of persistence of antibodies in the participants,” minutes of the meeting that HT has accessed said. “After detailed deliberations, the committee recommended grant of permission for conduct of phase III immune-bridging clinical trials in the Indian population subject to the condition that the primary endpoint should be assessed at day 42, 90 and 180, and interim analysis can be conducted at day 42…,” it added.Sputnik V vaccine is developed by Russia’s Gamaleya Institute with assistance from Russia’s sovereign wealth fund, Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), that is also marketing the vaccine globally. Sputnik V, in its two-dose regimen, is one of six Covid-19 vaccines that have been granted emergency use approval by the Indian drugs regulator. The vaccine has shown a 91.6% efficacy rate in preventing serious illness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dr-reddy-s-gets-dcgi-nod-to-conduct-phase-3-sputnik-light-trials-101631727372513.html
16-09-2021||India||‘Very unhappy’: SC pulls up Centre over appointments to tribunals||Observing that it is “very, very unhappy”, the Supreme Court on Wednesday said that in a democratic country governed by the rule of law, the government cannot assert its authority to reject the names recommended by selection committees, headed by the judges of the top court, for appointments to various tribunals.“If the government has the last laugh, what is the sanctity of the selections made by us after conducting interviews?... We are very, very unhappy the way in which things are going on and how the government has been acting,” a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, told attorney general KK Venugopal.“You cannot deny access to justice. How can people be left in the lurch? This is the problem everywhere. We are waiting very patiently. You have to make appointments to the tribunals...tell your government,” the bench, which also comprised justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao, told the AG.It gave the government two weeks to make appointments to the tribunals and file a comprehensive affidavit in this regard. “Please, file your affidavit with vacancy and appointment positions. And give reasons wherever appointments cannot be made,” directed the court.The bench further pointed out that some recent appointments to tribunals depict “cherry picking” and “lack of service jurisprudence” where the government decided to exclude the names from the main selection lists and chose members from the wait lists, which were prepared for future appointments.Hours before this hearing on a clutch of petitions that have highlighted massive vacancies across all 15 tribunals in the country, the Centre filed an affidavit stating that it has appointed 84 members to various tribunals since 2020 and there are no recommendations pending with it anymore. Of them, 39 members were appointed in the current month after the court on September 6 lashed out at the government for sitting over recommendations made by the search cum selection committees (SCSCs) more than a year ago. There are around 200 posts lying vacant across 15 tribunals.Commenting upon the recent appointments, the bench said: “The selection committee selected 11 judicial members and 10 technical members for the national company law tribunal (NCLT). But the members were cherry-picked. There were four names selected from the main list and six were selected from the wait list. What type of selection is this? What kind of appointment is this? What kind of service jurisprudence is this? The same thing happened with the ITAT (income tax appellate tribunal).”The AG, representing the Centre, replied that the government has the discretion under the 2021 Tribunal Reforms Act to select names from the list of names forwarded by the SCSCs and not all names have to be cleared. “Just like the government has the power not to accept any name recommended...” added Venugopal.“We think we are a democratic country governed by the rule of law. You cannot say the government will not accept anything. We don’t know how you can continue like this even after more than a year,” retorted the bench.The CJI told the A-G: “We interviewed 534 candidates for the post of judicial members and 400-odd candidates for technical members for NCLT. Your two secretaries were also with us. We travelled across the country during Covid on the request of your government. We wasted our time conducting interviews, meeting people. And then you delayed these appointments for almost two years. They were 62 when we selected them. They are now 64. If they have to retire at 65, why will a judge take up an assignment for one year? It is very unfortunate and the government has to realise this.”As justices Chandrachud and Rao mentioned the recommendations made by the committees headed by them for appointments in the national consumer commission and appellate tribunal for telecom disputes, the AG said that two members picked up by the selection committee for TDSAT were appointed elsewhere while the government was considering their appointments.“This is the problem. If there is a delay of more than a year, the very utility of these selections will go...they become useless,” said the bench, adding there have been judgments by the apex court favouring constitution of a national tribunals commission as an umbrella body to supervise working of tribunals and appointing members.“The government will have to make a separate body, then only something will happen. In several judgments, starting with the L Chandrakumar case in 1997, we talked about the national tribunals commission. We have given you the solution too. It is for you to now do something... Please make arrangements and make appointments without inviting us to pass orders, which we can also do very happily,” the bench told Venugopal.Justice Rao went on to point out an appeal by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) against the SAT order in the PNB Housing Finance case that relates to the housing finance company’s ₹4,000 crore equity capital raise plan. The judge said that two members in SAT gave split verdict and the case cannot go to a third technical member since there is none.“It is very difficult for tribunals to function... Whatever problems we have, appointment of members is the real solution,” the court added.On his part, Venugopal asked for some time to get instructions on all the aspects of the matter, including the challenge to the 2021 law, which the bench had on September 6 pointed out, brought back the exact same provisions that were struck down by the top court in July.Senior advocate Arvind Datar complained about the manner in which appointment letters were being issued to the tribunal members. He said that these letters included an additional clause - ‘until further orders’- for continuance of a member, which he said, was not under the law that mentioned that a member shall continue for a certain tenure till he attains a particular age.“Let some appointments come first...we will then examine this,” the bench told Datar.Advocate Siddharth R Gupta, representing the state bar council of Madhya Pradesh, rued that litigants in Jabalpur were compelled to travel to Lucknow since the charge of debt recovery tribunal at Jabalpur has been given to the Lucknow tribunal because there is no member at Jabalpur. “And DRT at Lucknow says it will take up only those cases where files have been received by it physically. Only urgent matters are being taken up.No cases of borrowers are being heard,” Gupta said.Justice Chandrachud concurred with Gupta. “A litigant from Jabalpur will have to travel to Lucknow, How will this work? In March, Kerala high court struck down such transfers of jurisdiction but you are still doing it. The high courts are not willing to entertain such petitions directly. There is no recourse to a debtor today. They will take your house, your factory and other assets and there is no remedy at all,” said the judge.Thirty-nine names were cleared by the government for different tribunals in September. Of these, 18 members were appointed to the national company law tribunal (NCLT); 1 member to telecom disputes and settlement appellate tribunal (TDSAT); 13 members to income tax appellate tribunal (ITAT); 1 member to appellate tribunal for electricity and 6 members to armed forces tribunal (AFT).The court was hearing a clutch of separate petitions on vacancies across the tribunals and a challenge to the Tribunal Reforms Bill, which was passed by both the houses in the Monsoon session of the parliament. Petitioners before it included State Bar Council of Madhya Pradesh, advocates Amit Sahni and Amarjit Singh Bedi, Congress MP Jairam Ramesh and Delhi Bar Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/very-unhappy-sc-pulls-up-centre-over-appointments-to-tribunals-101631727059762.html
