17-09-2021||India||More youngsters chasing passions over stable jobs: Survey||A greater number of youth now believe in following their passions instead of chasing a stable job, according to a survey.However, over two-thirds of those in the 15-25 years age group want to earn from their passions, a survey of over 23,000 such youngsters done by MTV has said.The survey showed that 21 per cent of the 'Gen Z' feel it is the most important thing in life to follow their passions instead of having a stable job, which is a massive increase from nine per cent in 2016, the survey said.Seventy per cent of those interviewed said "side-hustles" or moonlighting are the real shot to fame and 69 per cent said they would want to earn from their hobbies.The importance of money seems to have grown during the pandemic, with 46 per cent of the respondents saying they would focus on getting rich as against 21 per cent in 2019, the report said.It added that nearly three-fourths of the youth are confident that there are untapped areas where they can make money.When it comes to matters of heart and fidelity, the survey showed that half of the respondents flirted outside of their relationships during the lockdown period.The number of those not believing in marriage is also inching up, with 10 per cent now questioning nuptials as against 8 per cent two years ago, it said.There is a greater propensity to watch shows to escape from the reality, it said adding that watching the content makes a majority feel free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-youngsters-chasing-passions-over-stable-jobs-survey-101631901892925.html
17-09-2021||India||In high court, Haryana Police blame farmers for Karnal violence||Chandigarh: Haryana Police blamed farmers for the violence that broke out during a protest against three central laws on August 28 in Karnal town and asked the Punjab and Haryana high court to direct cultivators to not block highways during their events. In an affidavit, the police also claimed that a controversial clip, where then Karnal sub-divisional magistrate Ayush Sinha could be heard telling police to “break the heads” of protesters, was shot 13km from the main protest site.“The petitioners talk about the right to protest but right cannot be enjoyed at the cost of right to freedom of movement and right to life and liberty,” the police said. The affidavit was filed by inspector general of police (IGP), Karnal range, Mamta Singh, in response to a plea seeking judicial inquiry and alleging that Sinha’s instructions violated fundamental rights. On August 28, around 10 protesters were hurt in clashes with police in Karnal as farmers tried to march towards the venue of a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) meeting, in which chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and other senior state leaders were present. Farm leaders claimed that a protester died later, an allegation rejected by the administration. At the time, farmers had blocked the Ambala-Delhi highway.Hours after the clashes, a video clip showed Sinha purportedly instructing a group of policemen: “Hit them hard…We shall not allow this cordon to be breached. We have enough force available. No one should break the cordon and reach me. If someone does, make sure he has a broken head.” The IAS officer alleged the video was edited and consisted only of selected portions of his overall instructions to the police.The controversy later sparked a tense standoff between farmers and the administration outside the mini secretariat in Karnal, which was only resolved on September 11 when the administration agreed to a judicial probe into the incident. In the affidavit, police say farmers were supposed to protest in Karnal city on August 28 but around 800 cultivators gathered at Bastara toll plaza, which is 13 km from the city and allegedly surrounded the vehicle of state Bharatiya Janata Party chief, Om Prakash Dhankar, and sat on a dharna.Police claimed that farmers were armed with sticks, iron rods and farm equipment, and attacked security forces with spades. Police said four farmers were injured against 24 policemen, and the lathi charge was done in response to stone pelting by farmers.Police also told the court that the video showing Sinha was filmed 13km from the toll plaza, where lathi charge occurred and that no policemen from there had joined the force at the plaza.The 2018-batch IAS officer has since been transferred out of Karnal and posted as additional secretary of Citizen Resources Information Department (CRID), as per a government order.Jagdip Singh Aulakh, BKU (Charuni) Karnal district president, who was leading the protest at Karnal’s Bastara toll plaza, said: “In the morning we held a meeting the officials of Karnal district administration and they allowed us to hold the protest peacefully but on the morning the SDM Ayush Sinha also reached at Bastara toll plaza and asked us not hold protest and told is that he has orders not to allow farmers to reach Karnal, where the BJP was going hold a meeting. Even, BJP’s state president’s vehicle left one hour before the lathicharge and it doesn’t not have any relevance with the lathicharge”He said the police was told to lathicharge even with out using water cannons or tear gas. Aulakh said the Gharaunda SDM, Pooja Bharti, was on duty at the toll plaza but there are videos that purportedly showed Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha also sent to the toll plaza despite he was duty magistrate of Karnal city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-high-court-haryana-police-blame-farmers-for-karnal-violence-101631903126991.html
17-09-2021||India||Air India flight makes priority landing at IGIA due to hydraulic malfunction||A Newark-Delhi Air India flight-- AI 106-- made a priority landing on Friday at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA), due to a hydraulic malfunction. It landed safely but had to be towed away from the runway.People aware of the development within the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) confirmed the incident. An airline official said, “The Boeing 777 aircraft safely landed at the Delhi airport at around 11.50 am. However, the pilots had asked for special assistance and hence the aircraft was towed till the parking bay.”A Boeing 777, an aircraft with seating capacity of 350 passengers, has three hydraulic systems. According to officials, one of the three hydraulic systems had failed. “The aircraft registered VT-ALJ made priority landing after Aircraft Communication Addressing and Reporting System (ACARS), a digital datalink system for transmission of short messages between aircraft and ground stations via air band radio or satellite) message indicated, ‘low center’ hydraulic failure,” said the airline official. Director General of DGCA Arun Kumar said that inspection was in progress. “Hydraulic related issues are a serious matter; however, the pilots did a good job and landed safely,” said an airline official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-india-flight-makes-priority-landing-at-igia-due-to-hydraulic-malfunction-101631902766694.html
17-09-2021||India||Essay writing competition on PM Narendra Modi in Gujarat schools||Ahmedabad: As part of the celebrations on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday on Friday, primary education officers of all districts in Gujarat issued identical circulars to government and aided schools to organize an essay writing competition on the theme, “My Favourite PM is Narendra Modi”.The circular was issued by district primary education officers September 14, a day after the new chief minister Bhupendra Patel took oath of office. HT has reviewed the circular.The circular asked all district primary schools to ensure that at least 10 students participate in the essay competition and required education officers to make a list of all participants and schools, and then rank the top three performers. The results will be declared on Saturday.It added that the decision to hold the essay competition was taken by the Gujarat Rajya Baal Adhikar Sanrakshan Aayog (Gujarat State Child Rights Protection Commission). The circular cited a meeting over video conference that took place earlier on Tuesday asking schools to conduct the essay competition. The competition was held for students of Classes 5 to 8.A similar circular was also issued by municipal corporations to municipal schools in cities.“We just followed the instructions from the child rights commission,” a senior government official said on conditions of anonymity.Gujarat Congress’ chief spokesperson Manish Doshi said holding such an essay competition for a living national leader was “too much”. “In this case, there is no space for opinion and the children have been asked to do write-ups praising the current prime minister. There are no choices at all,” he said.Political analyst Ghanshyam Shah said, “We must understand that Gujarat and now the country are ruled through bureaucracy. Narendra Modi introduced this, and so even before the politicians -- in this case the new chief minister -- figured out governance, the bureaucracy was already on the job.”Earlier on Monday morning, Gujarat Bharatiya Janata Party president CR Patil also unveiled a 71-foot cutout of PM Narendra Modi at Rajdhani Township, a residential colony, on the Mehsana-Radhanpur highway. The event was attended by newly appointed minister of state Manisha Vakil and members of parliament Shardaben Patel and Jugalji Thakore.The party also organised several events including planting 71,000 saplings and 71 open heart surgeries as part of the PM’s birthday celebrations, according to a party statement.Besides this, as many as 71 open heart surgeries were performed on needy children at the Shri Satya Sai Hospital on the Sarkhej-Dholka highway near Ahmedabad, In the evening, folk artist Sairam Dave performed under a Namotsav cultural event, the BJP statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/essay-writing-competition-on-pm-narendra-modi-in-gujarat-schools-101631900968249.html
17-09-2021||India||466 doses per second: How India achieved record Covid vaccination on PM Modi's birthday||Till 9pm on Friday, India administered 2.25 crore Covid-19 vaccination doses with the Co-Win website refreshing every second throughout the day, as a mega vaccination drive was planned on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday. "Every Indian would be proud of today's record vaccination numbers. I acknowledge our doctors, innovators, administrators, nurses, healthcare and all front-line workers who have toiled to make the vaccination drive a success. Let us keep boosting vaccination to defeat COVID-19," PM Modi tweeted hailing the achievement.
17-09-2021||India||'Third Covid wave will not be as devastating as second if…': Top vaccinologist||There will not be a third wave of Covid-19 of the size and consequence the country witnessed during the second wave unless there is a new variant of coronavirus, top vaccinologist Gagandeep Kang said Friday.She stressed the need to develop better vaccines that can deal with new variants, and strengthening of the regulatory mechanisms. "Unless there is a new variant there will not be a third wave of the size and consequences that we saw in the second wave. What we will see is local flare-ups where there are unprotected populations and where the virus has not been before," Kang said.The second wave of coronavirus in the country between March and May killed thousands and infected lakhs, overwhelming the health infrastructure. "Are we done with Covid? No we are not. Are we going to be done with Covid? Not anytime in the near future," she added. Kang, a professor with Christian Medical College, Vellore, was speaking in a virtual event at the CII Lifesciences Conclave.Last month, Manindra Agrawal, a scientist with IIT-Kanpur who is in the three-member team of experts tasked to project the surge in cases, had said the country may see a third wave peaking between October-November if a more virulent mutant of coronavirus emerges by SeptembeKang said the Indian vaccine industry has been absolutely phenomenal in dealing with the pandemic, but it still has a long way to go. "I can't say the same thing (about the regulatory system) as people know about our regulatory systems. But it is something we should use as a lesson for the future because we really really need informed, strong regulators that work with industries to show what is required," she said.Kang also stressed the need for a translational research ecosystem of clinical researchers that are willing to take risk, and are supported by the government and academia.She said new technologies carry risks and there is a need for a regulatory system that is prepared for clinical risks."We need the academic medical environments that work with the industry to make sure that we can safely test these interventions in people. We do not have this at this time so strengthening regulation is key."She said surveillance diagnostics is still dependent very heavily on imports. The routine PCR kits are being made by many companies in the country but the best laboratories are not yet using those tests, she observed.  "We have to recognise that we need to be thinking about the quality of what we use so that we use what we make in diagnostics just as we do in vaccines and in drugs and in terms of sequencing," she said. In another seminar during the conclave, Krishna Ella, Chairman & Managing Director of Bharat Biotech said Indian vaccine manufacturers have tremendously contributed globally as two of the three children across the world are jabbed by Indian vaccines. He said the Indian industry was more focused on children's vaccines, and the shift is happening towards adult vaccines. "We need clinical trial centers across the country and have partnerships with countries all over the world especially in South East Asia, Africa, and Latin America," he said."The access to supply chain for reusables, re-agents in biologics and manufacturing is imperative, and it is important that we indigenise a lot of these requirements, so we don't have any supply chain disruptions," Kiran Mazumdar Shaw, Executive Chairperson & Founder Biocon said. She added, "The future belongs to biotech, bioscience and biopharma and we need to invest right now. We need to create a conducive environment to provide the necessary risk capital to scale up. This would require specialised venture funds."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-covid-wave-will-not-be-as-devastating-as-second-if-top-vaccinologist-101631899228793.html
17-09-2021||India||Misinformation by Oppn led to vaccine hesitancy in India: Union minister Puri||Union petroleum minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Friday continued to attack opposition parties over spreading misinformation which led to hesitancy in taking the vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India.Addressing reporters on Friday, Puri lauded the current ongoing vaccination drive and said, “The opposition parties were spreading misinformation that led to vaccine hesitancy. It is a matter of real happiness that we are manufacturing vaccines in large numbers. Vaccination drive has reached maturity.”On Thursday, the Union minister alleged that opposition parties resorted to false narratives and succeeded in creating vaccine hesitancy which the Centre had to face. He reminded them (opposition) that Covid-19 is the real enemy and not their political opponents. Puri also said vaccination was happening at record speed at present and the numbers would go up substantially in the coming months.Previously, several leaders of the opposition, including the likes of Congress’ Jairam Ramesh, Shashi Tharoor, Digvijaya Singh and Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav among others had questioned the Centre’s vaccination programme.In December 2020, Digvijaya Singh stated that India should not be made an experiment lab and the citizens should not be made guinea pigs for vaccine trials.After the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) gave emergency use approval to Serum Institute’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin on January 3, Congress leaders Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor doubted the approval given to Bharat Biotech vaccine.To this, Union minister Puri said in January that both leaders of the Congress were in-house cynics, adding they were unhappy that the two vaccines to get DCGI’s approval were made in India.Authorities have so far administered more than 770 million doses to eligible beneficiaries. On Friday, a record number of over 200 million doses were given on the occasion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 71st birthday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/misinformation-by-oppn-led-to-vaccine-hesitancy-in-india-union-minister-puri-101631895943676.html
17-09-2021||India||How Nitin Gadkari earns ₹4 lakh from YouTube? What is there in his channel?||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday said that he earns ₹4 lakh per month from YouTube as his viewership skyrocketed during the pandemic. "Viewership of my YouTube channel increased and YouTube now pays me ₹4 lakh per month as royalty," the minister said laughing at an event where he was reviewing the progress of the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway in Bharuch. He never imagined that his speeches will garner so many views and that they will be translated into money, the minister said.The minister said that during the lockdown he started cooking and giving lectures through video conferences. He was invited by international organisations, universities to deliver speeches virtually and all those videos were uploaded on his YouTube channel."I became a chef and started cooking at home and giving lectures through video conference. I delivered more than 950 lectures online, including lectures to foreign universities students, which were uploaded on YouTube," he said.Watch: Nitin Gadkari shares how much earns from YouTube and his lockdown lessonsA quick look at Nitin Gadkari's YouTube channel reveals that the channel is a compendium of all his speeches -- be it a press conference, or an interview with a channel, or a live address from a public meeting. And the channel goes back to six years before though at that time the Union minister's activity on YouTube was limited. Only a few videos of the minister inaugurating a project or replying to a question in Parliament used to be uploaded on his channel. The activity picked up a pace in the last two years and now he has 206K subscribers.In July this year, he also uploaded a video on himself titled 'Things to know about Nitin Gadkari' where he has been described as a visionary leader with an impressive track record. "When all industries were shut in the pandemic, Gadkari empathised with people by conducting over 800 webinars," the video said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-nitin-gadkari-earns-rs-4-lakh-from-youtube-what-is-there-in-his-channel-101631897633276.html
17-09-2021||India||'We will not rest...': PM Modi ‘humbled beyond words’ after birthday wishes, record vaccinations||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday expressed gratitude to everyone who wished him on his birthday, saying he was “humbled and overwhelmed beyond words.” PM Modi also thanked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers who had pushed for record vaccination as a part of the ‘Seva and Samarpan’ campaign.In a series of tweets, the prime minister said that he cherishes every wish and it gives him the strength to work harder for the nation.“I am humbled and overwhelmed beyond words. To each and every person who has wished me today - I would like to express gratitude from the bottom of my heart,” he tweeted.The BJP's plan to boost the inoculation drive led to a record-breaking feat of administering two crore Covid-19 vaccine shots in a single day. India had administered more than 2.11 crore doses of theCovid-19 vaccine before 6pm, according to data available on the government-run Co-WIN portal.
17-09-2021||India||Indian, Chinese officials to meet again soon to discuss remaining issues of LAC standoff||India and China have agreed that their military and diplomatic officials should meet again for discussions on speedily resolving remaining issues related to the standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the external affairs ministry said on Friday after a meeting of foreign ministers of the two countries. A readout issued by China’s foreign ministry after the meeting between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the margins of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Summit in Dushanbe was silent on further meetings and only spoke of consolidating the “disengagement results of the frontline troops”. Jaishankar said in a set of tweets he had discussed disengagement in the border areas with Wang, and “underlined that progress in this regard is essential for restoration of peace and tranquillity, which is the basis for development of bilateral ties”. This was the first meeting between the two ministers since July 14, when they had held talks on the sidelines of a meeting of SCO foreign ministers in Dushanbe. After several rounds of military and diplomatic talks, India and China withdrew frontline troops and armoured units from the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February. In August, the two sides ended forward deployments at Gogra and dismantled all temporary structures in this area. India has linked disengagement at other friction points on the LAC, including Hot Spring and Depsang, to the overall normalisation of bilateral relations. China, however, has said the LAC standoff should be delinked from other aspects of relations between the two sides. The external affairs ministry’s statement issued on Friday quoted Jaishankar as saying it “was necessary to ensure progress in resolution of remaining issues so as to restore peace and tranquillity along the LAC”. It added, “In this regard, the ministers agreed that military and diplomatic officials of the two sides should meet again and continue their discussions to resolve the remaining issues at the earliest.” Jaishankar also recalled Wang had said at their last meeting on July 14 that India-China relations “were at low ebb”, and that both sides had agreed a “prolongation of the existing situation was not in the interest of the either side as it was impacting the relationship in a negative manner”. The Chinese foreign ministry’s readout quoted Wang as saying that China has “always been positive” to seek a solution to the standoff and that the “overall situation in the border area was gradually de-escalated” because of recent communication between diplomatic and military officials. Wang hoped that “India will meet China halfway to move the situation towards stability and shift it from urgent dispute settlement to regular management and control”. The readout added that both sides “need to consolidate the disengagement results of the frontline troops, and strictly abide by the protocols and agreements and the consensus reached between the two countries” to safeguard peace and tranquillity and prevent “recurrence of border-related issues”. Wang also said China and India must continue to be “opportunities of development to each other rather than threats” and push cooperation onto a “healthy and stable track”. The external affairs ministry said the two ministers also exchanged views on recent global developments, and Jaishankar said India “had never subscribed to any clash of civilisations theory”. He said India and China “had to deal with each other on merits and establish a relationship based on mutual respect”. The statement added, “For this, it was necessary that China avoid viewing our bilateral relations from the perspective of its relations with third countries. Asian solidarity would depend on the example set by India-China relations.” Though the statement didn’t give details, Jaishankar’s remarks were an apparent reference to the situation in Afghanistan, where China has been working closely with its traditional ally Pakistan since the Taliban takeover in Kabul. China has provided aid worth millions of dollars to the Taliban setup and is among the handful of countries that have kept open their embassies in Kabul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-chinese-officials-to-meet-again-soon-to-discuss-remaining-issues-of-lac-standoff-101631897306124.html
17-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu govt withdraws 5,570 cases filed against protestors since 2011||The Tamil Nadu government has decided to withdraw over 5,570 cases registered against people who protested against the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the three farm laws that were passed in Parliament in September 2020, a government order indicated.The cases that have been withdrawn also include those filed against the media, and those who protested against the Kudankulam nuclear plant and the eight-lane road projects in Tamil Nadu, officials said.Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin made the announcement in the state assembly recently. The DMK in its election manifesto had also promised to withdraw the cases lodged against protesters during AIADMK’s rule.The government on September 4 issued an order withdrawing 5,570 cases in the past 10 years of AIADMK government. Stalin-led DMK government took over in May, after defeating the AIADMK. The order was made public on Friday.The order signed by SK Prabakar, additional chief secretary, showed that the cases withdrawn include 26 cases registered against journalists (that were filed between 2011 and 2021), 2,831 cases for agitations against the farm laws, 2,282 cases over protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), 405 cases over the eight-lane Salem express way project and 26 cases filed against people who protested the Kudankulam nuclear power plant project.The cases that have been withdrawn are those in which the investigation is still pending or a charge-sheet has not been filed, the order said. The order added that it was recommended by the government that any further action in such cases may be dropped by the police.In cases that are pending trial, the Assistant Public Prosecutor in charge has been directed to move an application for withdrawal of the case from the court.For cases filed against MPs and MLAs, as per Supreme Court directions, no case shall be withdrawn without the permission of the High Court. The order said the government will furnish details of the same before the Madras High Court soon. “The Director-General of Police is directed to furnish the details of cases involved against sitting or former MPs/MLAs to the government, for taking up the matter with the High Court of Madras,” the order said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-govt-withdraws-5-570-cases-filed-against-protestors-since-2011-101631894425996.html
17-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rahul Gandhi's fresh ‘mitron’ jibe on PM Modi's b'day and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Had BJP worked not only for 'mitron': Rahul Gandhi's fresh jibe on PM Modi's birthdayCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said that his party would not have to observe National Unemployment Day, had the BJP worked for the public and not for its 'mitron', taking a jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi's style at beginning his address with 'Mitron'. [Read more…]Petrol, diesel not under GST. Sitharaman explains why it was discussedFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday clarified that the petrol, diesel GST was on the agenda of the GST council only because of the Kerala high court order. The Council felt it was not time to bring petrol and diesel under GST, Sitharaman said. The decision will now be conveyed to the court, the minister said. [Read more…]Islamic State trying to spread in India through constant propaganda online: NIAThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday said that it has probed as many as 37 cases of terror attacks associated with the Islamic State (IS) so far, with the most recent being registered by the agency in June 2021. [Read more…]Afghanistan had a ministry for women affairs. Taliban replace it with ‘vice and virtue’The ministry of virtue and vice is not new for the Taliban as they had this ministry when they ruled in Afghanistan between 1996 and 2001. Now they have not only brought it back but have replaced the ministry of women affairs with the ministry of virtue and vice, a Reuters report said. [Read more…]Nitin Gadkari shares how much he earns from YouTube and his lockdown lessonsUnion Minister for Road, Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari got candid about his learnings during the pandemic enforced lockdown. Gadkari shared that he learnt how to cook from YouTube during the Covid lockdown and he used to cook new dishes every single day. The Union Minister also opened up about his earnings from YouTube and how due to the pandemic he had to deliver online lectures which were later uploaded to the video-sharing platform. [Watch video here]'NZ just killed Pakistan cricket': Shoaib Akhtar, Ramiz Raja react to New Zealand abandoning Pakistan tourPakistan fast bowling legend Shoaib Akhtar came down hard on New Zealand Cricket's decision to pull out of tour of Pakistan and said that they 'killed' Pakistan Cricket. NZC announced their decision to abandon the tour on Friday following a security alert issued by their government minutes before the toss of the first ODI between the two countries in Rawalpindi. [Read more…]Cadbury gives a contemporary twist to iconic ad involving cricket matchRemember the iconic Cadbury ad from the 1990s involving a cricket match. The ad showed a woman sitting in the stands during a cricket match enjoying a chocolate bar and rooting for the batsman playing on field. Once the cricketer scores, she zooms past the security guard to reach him. [Read more…]Jackie Shroff slams trolls comparing Tiger Shroff's looks to Kareena Kapoor'sJackie Shroff has slammed trolls criticising Tiger Shroff's looks. A few trolls have suggested over the years that he looks feminine and some even compared him to Kareena Kapoor Khan. Addressing these comments in an interview with a leading daily, Jackie said that just because Tiger is his son, one cannot expect him to have been born with a beard. [Read more…]Best 5G Mobile Phones under ₹20,000: We’ve picked some out for youInitially, 5G smartphones were top-of-the-line and super expensive. But as we are closing in on officially getting 5G, more and more companies are rolling out affordable smartphones that support 5G. You no longer need to break your bank to buy a 5G-ready smartphone in India now. We’ve picked out four smartphones that support 5G and are all under ₹20,000. [Read more…]||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rahul-gandhi-s-fresh-mitron-jibe-on-pm-modi-s-b-day-and-all-the-latest-news-101631890827600.html
17-09-2021||India||Global community must ensure Afghan soil is not used for terrorism: Modi at SCO-CSTO meet||The world community must decide collectively on recognising the new setup in Kabul in view of questions about its legitimacy because the change of power in Afghanistan was “not inclusive” and done “without negotiation”, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday. In his virtual address to a joint meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and Russia-led Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO) that was convened in Dushanbe to discuss the situation in Afghanistan, Modi said the international community must ensure Afghan soil is not used to spread terrorism. He called on SCO members to develop “strict and common norms” based on the principle of zero tolerance towards terror to counter any terrorism emanating from Afghanistan’s territory. The norms should include a code of conduct to prevent cross-border terror and terror financing and a system for their enforcement, he added. Earlier in the day, Modi said in a virtual address to the SCO Summit, Modi said the developments in Afghanistan had highlighted challenges faced by the region, including the impact of growing radicalisation on peace and security. India has watched warily since the Taliban took over Afghanistan on August 15 following the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government. The establishment of a hardline setup by the Taliban that includes several key members of the Haqqani Network and the presence in Afghanistan of thousands of fighters from Pakistan-based groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) are among India’s key security concerns. Along with its partners, India has called for the creation of an inclusive government in Afghanistan that protects the rights of women and minorities. India has also insisted Afghan soil must not be used to plan or carry out terror attacks against other countries. Modi reiterated these concerns in his address to the SCO-CSTO meeting. Modi listed four issues that he said should be the focus of regional cooperation on Afghanistan – the new system put in place in Kabul, the spread of terrorist and extremist ideologies if instability continues in Afghanistan, the possibility of the uncontrolled flow of drugs, illegal weapons and human trafficking, and the serious humanitarian crisis in the war-torn country. He said that the “change of power in Afghanistan was not inclusive and has taken place without negotiation”, and that this raises “questions about the acceptability of the new system”. The representation of all sections of Afghan society, including women and minorities, is important, he said. “Therefore, it is essential that the world community decides on the recognition of the new system in a thoughtful and collective manner. India supports the central role of the UN on this issue,” Modi said, speaking in Hindi. Modi warned that continued “instability and fundamentalism” in Afghanistan would lead to the spread of terrorist and extremist ideologies around the world, and that “other extremist groups may be encouraged to seek power through violence”. All countries must work together to ensure that Afghan soil isn’t used to spread terrorism in any country, and SCO members should develop “strict and common norms” on this issue based on zero tolerance for terrorism, he said. These norms, which should include a code of conduct to prevent cross-border terror and terror financing, could become a template for global anti-terror cooperation. SCO’s Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure (RATS) mechanism can help monitor any flow of drugs, illegal weapons and human trafficking from Afghanistan. “A large amount of advanced weapons remain in Afghanistan. Due to these, there will be a risk of instability in the entire region,” Modi said. “From this month, India is presiding over the council of [RATS]. We have developed proposals for practical cooperation on this topic,” he said. All countries must work together to ensure humanitarian aid reaches Afghanistan, which is facing a serious humanitarian crisis, Modi said. People have been hit by the interruption of financial and trade flows and the Covid-19 pandemic, and India stands ready to deliver food and medicines to “our Afghan friends”, he added. In his address to the SCO Summit, Modi also said the grouping should develop a joint approach to fight radicalisation and extremism, and called for developing a network between moderate, tolerant and inclusive Islamic institutions in the member states. “The 20th anniversary of SCO is a suitable occasion to think about the future of the SCO. I believe the biggest challenges in this region are related to peace, security and trust deficit and the root cause of these problems is increasing radicalisation,” Modi said, speaking in Hindi. “Recent developments in Afghanistan have made this challenge more apparent. The SCO should take an initiative on this issue,” he said, recalling Central Asia’s historic role as a “bastion of moderate and progressive cultures and values”. Modi also welcomed Iran as a new member state of SCO, and Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Qatar as new dialogue partners, saying the expansion reflects the grouping’s growing influence. The current members of SCO are China, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, India and Pakistan. Afghanistan, Belarus and Mongolia have observer status with SCO, while dialogue partners include Armenia, Azerbaijan, Cambodia, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Turkey. Modi addressed both the meetings in Dushanbe virtually while external affairs minister S Jaishankar participated in person and held meetings with Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi, Iran’s foreign minister Hossein Amir Abdollahian and Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov. Jaishankar also held talks with Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi and Tajik President Emomali Rahmon and with his counterparts from Armenia, Belarus, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/global-community-must-ensure-afghan-soil-is-not-used-for-terrorism-modi-at-sco-csto-meet-101631889445538.html
17-09-2021||India||Islamic State trying to spread in India through constant propaganda online: NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday said that it has probed as many as 37 cases of terror attacks associated with the Islamic State (IS) so far, with the most recent being registered by the agency in June 2021.The NIA further stated that a “total of 168 accused have been arrested” in these 37 cases. “Charge sheets have been filed in 31 cases, and 27 accused have been convicted after trial,” a statement released by the NIA read.The agency noted that its investigation has revealed that the Islamic terrorist group is attempting to “spread its tentacles in India through continuous propaganda online.” “Gullible youth are targeted on open social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter and Instagram,” the statement added.The NIA said that once a person shows interest in the ideologies of the IS, he or she is then “enticed to communicate with online handlers” based overseas using encrypted social media platforms.The statement said that on the basis of the person’s gullibility, the handlers use the him or her for uploading digital content, translation of the terrorist group’s texts to the regional language, preparation of module, preparation of Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs), terror funding and even attacks, among others.Also Read | Al Qaeda likely to be capable of attacking US from Afghanistan in a year: ReportThe agency also made an appeal to the Indian citizens to immediately contact the NIA authorities at 011-24368800, if they notice any such activity on the internet.With Afghanistan falling into the hands of Islamist extremist group Taliban after 20 years and the US and its allied forces pulled out from the country, there is a constant fear of land being used for terror attacks in the coming future.Also Read | Why is Islamic State a threat in Afghanistan despite Taliban rule?Notably, on August 26, the Islamic State’s Afghanistan unit carried out suicide attack at Kabul’s Hamid Karzai International Airport while the evacuation of foreign nationals of various countries and Afghans were underway. The incident claimed the lives of 13 US troops and injured over 100 people, including several Afghan citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/islamic-state-trying-to-spread-in-india-through-constant-propaganda-online-nia-101631884042751.html
17-09-2021||India||SC permits Kerala to hold offline Class 11 exams||The Supreme Court on Friday gave its nod for the physical conduct of Class 11 examinations in Kerala as it said that the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic is not in the offing and trusted the authorities to follow all precautions.On September 3, the court had restrained Kerala from proceeding with its Class 11 examinations beginning September 6 on account of the “alarming” situation posed by surge in Covid-19 cases that posed a risk to health of students. More than 300,000 students in the state are supposed to appear for the examinations.The bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar said, “We are convinced by the explanation offered by the state government. We hope and trust that the authorities will take all precautions to ensure no untoward incident is faced by students who are of tender age and are appearing for the examination.” With this direction, the court disposed a petition filed by advocate A Rasoolshan who argued that the decision of the state to conduct offline examinations for Class 11 was creating tremendous mental stress among students and posed a serious risk to children as cases in the state were rising at an alarming rate.Explaining why it had swiftly intervened in the matter on September 3 ordering stay of the examinations, the bench said, “Earlier we had intervened thinking that by September, the possibility of the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic was there. Now the third wave does not seem to be in the offing immediately.”Also Read | Kerala high court rejects plea questioning new regulations in Lakshadweep“The authorities are conscious of their responsibilities. Last time when the grievance of holding physical examination was made before us, we did not have a convincing answer. Now the explanation has been given in the counter affidavit of the state. More than 700,000 students appeared in JEE and NEET. Even for APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University, the state conducted engineering entrance examination. So long as Covid protocols are followed, we have no objection,” the bench observed.The state convinced the court that separate rooms will be organised for those showing symptoms of illness, along with PPE kits for students and invigilators. Further, the state told the court that holding online examination will prejudice a large number of students who have no access to laptops, desktops or even mobile phones and in many areas, the internet connection or mobile data are not available. “These students will never be able to write online examinations,” the state said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-permits-kerala-to-hold-offline-class-11-exams-101631882364821.html
17-09-2021||India||Had BJP worked not only for 'mitron': Rahul Gandhi's fresh jibe on PM Modi's birthday||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said that his party would not have to observe National Unemployment Day, had the BJP worked for the public and not for its 'mitron', taking a jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi's style at beginning his address with 'Mitron'. The Congress observed National Unemployment Day across India on Friday – Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday. While the BJP and the BJP-ruled states decided to celebrate PM Modi's birthday through record vaccination against Covid, the National Unemployment Day was also Congress's planned agenda for the day. #राष्ट्रीय_बेरोजगार_दिवस की ज़रूरत ही नहीं पड़ती अगर भाजपा जनता के लिए काम करती- मित्रों के लिए नहीं!The youth wing of the party spearheaded the programme and organised protests in many states against the increasing unemployment rate in the country. The Indian Youth Congress claimed that the unemployment rate in the country has increased from 2.4 per cent to 10.3 per cent in just one year.National president of Indian Youth Congress, Srinivas BV, said, "The youth of the country is roaming unemployed on the streets today. The Modi government came to power by making big promises of giving 2 crore jobs per year, but today the central government is completely silent on the issue of employment."As PM Modi received wishes from several politicians cutting across parties, throughout the day, teh Congress too wished him but underlined that the country is paying the price for his failures on several fronts and so the day is being observed as unemployment day, anti-farmer day and high prices day.Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said birthdays of former prime ministers are celebrated as different days, with Jawaharlal Nehru's birthday as "Children's Day", Indira Gandhi's as "National Integration Day", Rajiv Gandhi's as "Sadbhavna Day" and Atal Bihari Vajpayee's as "Good Governance Day". But Modi's birthday is being observed as "unemployment day". "It is the prime minister's birthday and from this platform, we wish him a happy birthday. We pray for his well being, but we do believe that this day is being celebrated in many parts of the country as unemployment day, anti-farmer day, high prices day, crippled economy day, as winning over your crony capitalists friends day, as ED, IT, CBI raid day, and the corona mismanagement day," Shrinate said.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also wished PM Modi on Twitter. "Happy birthday, Modi ji," Rahul Gandhi wrote.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/had-bjp-worked-not-only-for-mitron-rahul-gandhi-s-fresh-jibe-on-pm-modi-s-birthday-101631881453775.html
17-09-2021||India||Thackeray ‘future colleague’ remark sparks speculation about Sena-BJP alliance||Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena chief sparked a fresh speculation in political circles on Friday when he referred to Union minister and Bharatiya Janata Party leader Raosaheb Danve as a probable “future colleague”.Thackeray, while speaking at a government event in Aurangabad, referred to the dignitaries, including minister of state for Railways Danve, on the dais as “my former, current, and if we come together, my future colleagues”. He then turned and looked behind, where Danve was seated. The statement assumes significance in the wake of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) action against his close aide and minister Anil Parab even as it led to speculations of BJP and Sena joining hands. Both Sena and Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis said there was no such possibility as of now. Thackeray later told reporters that “time will tell” what he meant by future colleagues. He said, “Leaving aside the lighter part of it, I feel that politics should not become perverse, as it has taken shape lately, and it should stop. There is a Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government in the state and a BJP-led government at the Centre but in the end, we are from this land. Without having any arrogance about the positions we hold, we must use our posts to do good for the state.”Also Read | I-T department conducts search at Anil Deshmukh’s premisesHe added that he asked Danve to come to Mumbai for the Centre’s plan to connect Mumbai and Nagpur through a bullet train project. He said he only meant that all should come together for the development of the state.Reacting to the statement, Fadnavis said, “We are not eyeing power and we are carrying out the role of an effective Opposition. I think the chief minister has realised that the unnatural alliance is harming Maharashtra and so, he expressed his feelings. In politics, anything can happen but as of today, I do not see any such possibilities.”Sena leader and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said, “Whoever wants to join MVA can come and change their status from future to current colleagues...When Danve was the BJP state president, everything was running smoothly. If CM has called him, then it is for bullet train project. There has to be good communication between state government and central ministers.”Thackeray’s statement gained momentum also because just a day ago, BJP state president Chandrakant Patil said he shouldn’t be called a ‘former’ minister and added that people will know soon why he said so. Reacting to that, Raut said, “Chandrakant Patil might be made governor of Nagaland, as per my information. Therefore, he said that he shouldn’t be called a ‘former minister’. If he wants to get rid of the ‘former’ title then either he must join MVA or accept the offer to become Nagaland governor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thackeray-future-collegue-remark-reignites-speculation-about-sena-bjp-alliance-101631881764716.html
17-09-2021||India||India administers record 2 crore Covid vaccines as govt, BJP mark PM Modi b'day||In a record-breaking feat, India administered over two crore vaccine doses against the coronavirus disease on Friday. The accomplishment came on a day the government initiated moves to boost the inoculation drive on the occasion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday.As many as 2,11,28,784 doses of the vaccine were administered during the day at the time of filing the report, according to data available on the government-run Co-WIN portal.This pushed the total number of vaccines administered across the country against the virus to 78.68 crore. It also helped the country cross the one-crore mark in the daily vaccination figures for the fourth time in a month.Sharing a tweet, the health ministry said India marched ahead with another achievement in its fight against Covid-19 with two crore doses administered on Friday and counting. With this, India also crossed the total number of vaccines administered across Europe so far. #LargestVaccineDrive #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/Uly8hVAZY6Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said this was the fastest pace at which one crore doses have been administered."On PM @Narendra Modi Ji's birthday, till 1:30 pm, the country has crossed the mark of 1 crore vaccines, the fastest so far, and we are continuously moving forward. I believe that today we will all make a new record of vaccination and give it as a gift to the prime minister," he said in a tweet in Hindi along with the hashtags "VaccineSeva" and "HappyBdayModiji".He later celebrated the feat with health workers at Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi. "Thanks to all health workers. Well done India," he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | India jabs over 10 million against Covid on PM Modi's birthdayThe daily Covid-19 vaccination in the country was over 1 crore on September 6, August 31 and August 27.On Thursday, Mandaviya called for a major push to the vaccination drive on the PM’s birthday on Friday, saying it would be the perfect gift for him. The BJP has asked its units across the country to help get a large number of people vaccinated on the occasion.India took 85 days to touch the 10-crore vaccination mark, 45 more days to cross the 20-crore mark and 29 more days to reach the 30-crore mark, according to the ministry.Also read | Rahul Gandhi's curt birthday wish for ‘Modi ji’ as Congress marks ‘Unemployment Day'The country took 24 days to reach 40 crore from 30 crore doses and then 20 more days to cross the 50-crore vaccination mark on August 6, it said.It took 19 more days to move past the 60-crore mark and took only 13 days to reach 70 crore from 60 crore on September 7, the ministry said. The total number of doses administered crossed the 75-crore mark on September 13.The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers started from February 2.The next phase of the drive began on March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specific comorbid conditions. From April 1, the government allowed all citizens above 45 years to receive their doses.The drive was opened for all adults on May 1 following which it was hit by shortage at several places leading to vaccination centres remaining shut for a day or two at a stretch.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-administers-record-2-crore-covid-vaccines-as-govt-bjp-mark-pm-modi-bday-101631880287876.html
17-09-2021||India||Kerala High Court rejects plea questioning new regulations in Lakshadweep||The Kerala High Court on Friday rejected a petition questioning the Lakshadweep administration’s decision to close dairy farms and remove meat from the mid-day meal in schools saying it can’t interfere in policy matters. Earlier, the court had stayed the operation of two controversial orders passed by the Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel. Hearing the plea filed by Ajmal Ahamad, a resident of the island, once again the administration contended that the court can’t interfere in such policy decisions. Counsel for administration S Manu also pointed out that dairy farm was running in losses and the island was losing ₹one crore every year. He also argued that nutrition needs of the children can be increased with an altered menu. The counsel listed out the nutritional value of the new menu and said it was well above the stipulated value. He argued that the petitioner, also an advocate, had filed a public interest litigation for raising unfounded and unverified allegations and for publicity. He also pointed out that the petitioner is a member of the Save Lakshadweep Forum which is leading the ongoing protests. But the counsel for petitioner, Peeyus Kottam, contended that such norms would infringe upon the ethnic culture, heritage, food habits and other rights of the residents under Article 19 of the Constitution. He said earlier food items like chicken, fish and eggs should be continued and sought re-opening of dairy farms. After considering the detailed reply justifying the policy decision, a division bench of Chief Justice S Mani Kumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly dismissed the public interest litigation. An archipelago in the Arabian Sea, Lakshadweep was in the news for all the wrong reasons recently.A section of residents protested against three draft regulations brought in by new administrator Praful Khoda Patel, saying they would affect the unique culture and tradition of the island. They opposed the move to make the island a tourist destination, a ban on cattle slaughter, two-child norm for local body members, liquor licence, goonda law and other new rules. But BJP leaders from the island said some vested interests were stoking the fire and provoking local people to stall developmental projects on the island. On May 31, the Kerala assembly had passed an unusual resolution demanding the recall of the administrator. But the administration also maintained that some leaders from Kerala were provoking residents and they desperately needed development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-high-court-rejects-plea-questioning-new-regulations-in-lakshadweep-101631880504818.html
17-09-2021||India||Dead Maoist leader’s wife Sammakka surrenders toTelangana Police||Citing health concerns, Jajjeri Sammakka alias Sharada (45), one of the top CPI (Maoist) leaders operating from Chhattisgarh, surrendered to the Telangana police on Friday.Sammakka is the widow of former central committee member of the Maoist party Haribhushan alias Yapa Narayana, who was also former secretary of the Telangana state committee. Haribhushan died of Covid-19 on June 21. Though Sammakka was also believed to have died of Covid-19, the Maoist party issued a statement denying any such idea.Sammakka, who was a Khammam district committee member operating from the bordering forests of Chhattisgarh, had a reward of ₹5 lakh on her head. Director General of Police M Mahendar Reddy, before whom she surrendered, handed over the cheque to her.Speaking to the media later, the DGP said several Maoist leaders were suffering from Covid-19 but were not getting proper treatment in the forests. “We have specific information that many senior Maoist leaders, including central committee members like Azad and Raji Reddy, are willing to surrender and join the mainstream. But the top leadership has not been giving them permission,” he said.Reddy said Sammakka was upset with the party for not providing proper treatment to her husband Haribhushan which led to his death. “The Maoists have lost the people’s support. If they surrender, we shall provide protection to them,” he said.Sammakka, who belongs to Gangaram village of Mahabubabad district, was attracted towards the Maoist party (then called CPI-ML People’s War) in 1994 and she married Haribhushan in 1995. She worked as a squad member between 1997-98 and later became North Telangana Special Zonal Committee member in 1999.She surrendered before the Warangal police in 2008, but returned to the Maoist party in 2011 and became a member of Sabari-Charla area committee in 2016, before being elevated to the Khammam district committee. She escaped from exchange of fire with the police at least six times.“After her husband’s death due to Covid-19 in June this year, Sammakka lost interest in the party and had been trying to surrender to the police,” the DGP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dead-maoist-leader-s-wife-sammakka-surrenders-totelangana-police-101631878764562.html
17-09-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Char Dham Yatra to start from Sept 18 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Char Dham yatra to start from Saturday with capping on number of pilgrimsAfter the Uttarakhand high the court lifted its stay on Char Dham yatra, it will officially start from Saturday with a capping on the number of pilgrims that will be allowed daily to the four revered Himalayan shrines., officials said. Read moreIndia jabs over 10 million against Covid on PM Modi's birthdayIndia on Friday administered more than 10 million vaccine doses against Covid-19 as part of the Centre’s vaccine sewa call to commemorate the 71st birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Read moreDelhi pollution: Govt comes up with 14-point guidelines for construction firmsThe Delhi government on Friday issued a set of 14 guidelines that construction companies would have to follow to prevent dust pollution in the national capital. Read more SCO countries should help Afghanistan: Xi JinpingChinese President Xi Jinping on Friday said the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) member states should facilitate a smooth transition in Afghanistan and encourage Kabul to install a broad-based and inclusive political government. Read moreTata Safari Gold Edition SUV launched at ₹21.89 lakhsTata Motors on Friday has launched the Safari Gold Edition at ₹21.89 lakh (ex-showroom). The automaker claims the Tata Safari Gold Edition comes with high-class and hi-tech features. Launched right ahead of the upcoming festive season, the Safari Gold edition is available in two different colour options - White Gold and Black Gold. Read moreDia Mirza shares son Avyaan's first pic, Priyanka Chopra blesses her ‘beautiful family'Actor Dia Mirza has shared her first picture with newborn son Avyaan. After four months of his birth, Dia shared a picture of Avyaan's face. In the photo, Dia is carrying the baby in her arms while he rests his head on her shoulder. Read moreYellow Pages on WhatsApp in India? What we know so far about new featureWhatsApp is constantly working on adding new features to its platform and reports keep giving us snippets about the messaging apps upcoming features. One such report back in July this year suggested that a WhatsApp feature that was being worked on is like the Yellow Pages directory. This WhatsApp feature is called Business Directory. Read moreNew Zealand abandon Pakistan limited-overs tour due to security concernsNew Zealand decided to abandon the ongoing tour of Pakistan, following a security alert, issued by their government minutes before toss of the first ODI between the two sides in Rawalpindi on Friday. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-char-dham-yatra-to-start-from-sept-18-101631876604773.html
17-09-2021||India||Manipur’s special oranges, chillis get GI tag||Manipur’s Tamenglong orange, a species of the mandarin family, and a unique fruit crop found in the state, along with Hathei, a special chilli variety, have acquired the Geographical Indication (GI) tag.Confirming this in a tweet on Friday, Manipur chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh wrote, “What a great start to the day for Manipur! I’m really happy to share that 2 (two) products of Manipur viz Hathei Chilly & Tamenglong orange have been granted GI tag.”“This is a historic milestone in the history of Manipur which will increase the income of the farmers immensely,” he said.Also Read | In joint op with Assam Rifles, Manipur police kill self-styled SDFK commanderThe GI status is an indication that identifies goods as produced from a particular area which has special quality attributable to its geographical origin.Manipur Organic Mission Agency (MOMA) applied for GI tags for Tamenglong orange and Sirarakhong Hathei chilli in 2019. MOMA’s project director K Debdutta Sharma said the GI certificates will be issued shortly.Tamenglong orange is a unique fruit crop found mostly in Tamenglong district which contributes over 50% of the state’s annual production.It is famous especially for its well blended sweetness and acidic taste.On the other hand, Hathei chilli, one of the best varieties of chillies with a distinct flavour and colour, grows in Sirarakhong village in Ukhrul district. Manipur has been promoting these two produce by celebrating the Orange Festival every December and Sirarakhong Hathei festival every August for over a decade now.Manipur black rice, scented glutinous rice which has been cultivated in the state over centuries and it is characterised by its special aroma, bagged GI tag in May 2020. Earlier Kachai Lemon, a unique lemon variety which grows at Kachai village in Ukhrul district, was also accorded GI registration tag.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipurs-special-oranges-chillis-get-gitag-101631877624952.html
17-09-2021||India||Leopards wreak havoc in Uttarakhand’s Kumaon||Leopards are creating terror in many parts of Kumaon, Uttarakhand, these days, underlining the need to take man-animal conflict more seriously. “Big cats, mostly leopards, find good hideouts near residential areas due to abundant growth of bushes. Their movements are more frequent from July to October,” said Tanuja Parihar, ranger, Bhakhra range of forest in Nainital. A leopard with two cubs was noticed here recently. In US Nagar’s Jaspur, a female leopard injured around six persons in a fortnight in Patrampur village. Camera traps and a cage have been installed there. Anil Chauhan, forest officer, Patrampur forest range, said, “The female leopard is moving in the area with her cubs. A few days ago, a biker hit her cub accidentally. Since then, it has become aggressive. We have installed a cage to trap the leopard.” Also Watch | Char Dham Yatra gets nod from Uttarakhand HC; How the pilgrimage will changeLeopards have been striking Kafaligair, Baset and Tunod villages in Bageshwar. According to Baset village head Devaki Devi, leopards stroll in broad daylight in the village, forcing people inside their homes. In Nainital, Pithoragarh and Almora, they are entering urban areas of the district headquarters for dogs as prey. Their movement has been caught on CCTV. In Pithoragarh, they are being spotted in pairs in more than five villages adjoining the district headquarters. “Our teams are patrolling leopard’s infested areas. Also, we are making aware people of rural as well as urban areas to take precautions to avoid attack.” A leopard was trapped in a cage installed by forest officials in Matena village under Hawalbag block in Almora on Tuesday. It had attacked and injured a minor girl last week. Mohan Ram Arya, ranger of the area, said, “The leopard is an 8-year-old male and healthy. It has been sent to a rescue centre in Almora and will be released in new habitat soon.” Over 400 people have been killed in leopard attacks in the state since it as formed in 2000. Human deaths in leopard attacks account for nearly half of the total deaths due to wild animals in the state, reveals the data of the state forest department. Wildlife experts say there are many factors due to which it has been difficult to check man-leopard conflict in the state, be it the hilly terrain which provides ample space to leopards to hide to human settlements scattered in hills overlapping leopard territories. In July this year, Uttarakhand forest department released instructions for checking and dealing with the man-leopard conflict in the Himalayan state. The directions issued stated that quick response teams be deployed in such areas by the officials concerned where leopard movement is spotted and leopard attacks are being reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leopards-wreak-havoc-in-uttarakhand-s-kumaon-101631875764228.html
17-09-2021||India||Uddhav Thackeray refers to Union minister as future colleague, BJP plays safe||Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena supremo sparked a fresh speculation in political circles on Friday after he referred to Union minister Raosaheb Danve as a probable “future colleague”.Addressing an event in Aurangabad where he shared a platform with Danve, Thackeray said (loosely translated from Marathi), “Present here is also my former and if we (Sena and BJP) come together, a future colleague…”Thackeray later reportedly said he only made the remark on a lighter not as he had met his old friend after a long time, according to an NDTV report.He was further quoted as saying, “I like the railways for one reason. You cannot leave the tracks and change direction. Yes, but if there is a diversion you can come to our station. But the engine does not leave the tracks.” Danve, a Union minister of state for railways and BJP MP from Jalna, soon after said the two parties shared the same ideology and his party was always willing to renew ties with the Sena.The duo was attending the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the Aurangabad zilla parishad building.Later, leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said anything can happen in politics but there was no scope of the possibility of a reunion between the two parties at present. “We are playing the role of an effective opposition party," Fadnavis added.State BJP president Chandrakant Patil said he had no idea what the chief minister was thinking while making the statement.The Sena severed ties with its decades-old partner in 2019 over power-sharing issues and joined hands with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) as a ruling alliance in the state. Ever since, there has been constant murmurs of dissent and open clashes among the three partners. Meanwhile, Congress leader Nana Patole, who earlier comments had led to rifts within the alliance, said the chief minister was only cracking a joke and the MVA government would complete its term. “The chief minister sometimes likes to crack a joke and that is exactly what he did. This government will run its full five year term. There is no problem with the government in Maharashtra,” Patole said. (With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-thackeray-refers-to-union-minister-as-future-colleague-bjp-plays-safe-101631874176154.html
17-09-2021||India||Awaiting WHO approval for Covaxin, Bharat Biotech says 'inappropriate' to comment on process||Amid speculations around the awaited approval of Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine for Emergency use Listing (EUL) from the World Health Organisation (WHO), the Indian biotechnology company on Friday said that it does not find it “appropriate” to comment on the approval process and its timelines.In a series of tweets, Bharat Biotech said it has responded to all clarifications sought by the WHO following the submission of Covaxin’s clinical trial data to the UN health agency for EUL in early July. The Phase 3 clinical trials data of Covaxin demonstrated 77.8 per cent efficacy.“We have responded to any clarifications sought by WHO and are awaiting further feedback. As a responsible manufacturer with several prequalified vaccines, we do not find it appropriate to speculate or comment on approval process & its timelines,” the Hyderabad-based company said in a statement.“However we are continuing to work diligently on obtaining WHO EUL at the earliest,” it added.Also Read | Initial findings from Biotech's nasal vaccine show 'promising results': GovtSo far, the WHO has approved Covid-19 vaccines manufactured by Pfizer-BioNTech, AstraZeneca, Johnson and Johnson, Moderna and Sinopharm. UN agency’s approval makes international travel easy for people who receive those vaccines and the company also gets a boost to market its product in the global market.Earlier this week, Dr VK Paul, NITI Aayog member (Health) told news agency ANI that the approval is expected any time soon as data sharing and data evaluation had been going on through multiple reviews. He indicated that a positive decision will be taken in this regard before the end of the month."We must give time to WHO to make their decisions based on science. However, we hope that these decisions can be taken quickly because people who are receiving Covaxin have certain imperatives of travel. Most of us, who chose the concurrency, is important in terms of licensure. We are hoping for an early decision," ANI quoted Paul as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/awaiting-who-approval-for-covaxin-bharat-biotech-says-inappropriate-to-comment-on-process-101631874005376.html
17-09-2021||India||Navjot Sidhu is Rakhi Sawant of Punjab politics, says AAP leader Raghav Chadha as Sidhu slams Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party MLA and national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said Navjot Singh Sidhu is the Rakhi Sawant of Punjab politics after Sidhu issued a video criticising Arvind Kejriwal and the Aam Aadmi Party regarding farm reforms. "Arvind Kejriwal ji, you notified the Private Mandi's central black law! Has it been de-notified or the masquerading is still going on?" the Punjab Congress chief asked in the video. The Rakhi Sawant of Punjab politics -Navjot Singh Sidhu- has received a scolding from Congress high command for non stop rant against Capt. Therefore today,for a change, he went after Arvind Kejriwal. Wait till tomorrow for he shall resume his diatribe against Capt with vehemence https://t.co/9SDr8js8tARaghav Chadha presented an explanation of why Sidhu suddenly targeted Kejriwal at a time when Sidhu himself is knee-deep in controversies. "The Rakhi Sawant of Punjab politics -Navjot Singh Sidhu- has received a scolding from Congress high command for non-stop rant against Capt. Therefore today, for a change, he went after Arvind Kejriwal. Wait till tomorrow for he shall resume his diatribe against Capt with vehemence," the AAP leader said.The power tussle between Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu is going on as the party cadre are divided between Amarinder and Sidhu who have never been on the same page. While Sidhu's advisers drew flak for some of their comments and the CMO restrained them from commenting on issues beyond their role, Sidhu continued criticism of his government. Recently, he questioned the Congress government's inaction on the drugs issue.In the past few days, Sidhu has taken up the issue of farmers and wrote a letter to Amarinder Singh on Sunday seeking action on farmers' demanding cancellation of 'unfair' FIRs registered during their agitation. While Sidhu's Friday video comes in that regard, the AAP slammed Sidhu's letter to Captain as a 'stunt'. Aam Aadmi Party legislator Harpal Singh Cheema said Congress leaders especially Sidhu are acting as if they are in the opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navjot-sidhu-is-rakhi-sawant-of-punjab-politics-aap-leader-says-as-sidhu-slams-kejriwal-101631871483115.html
17-09-2021||India||India jabs over 10 million against Covid on PM Modi's birthday||India on Friday administered more than 10 million vaccine doses against Covid-19 as part of the Centre’s vaccine sewa call to commemorate the 71st birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.This is the fourth time that the country has achieved the landmark of administering 10 million doses on a single day.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has also made elaborate arrangements to celebrate the PM’s birthday with the launch of the ‘Seva or Samarpan Abhiyan’ campaign, a mega 20-day public outreach programme focusing on Modi's 20 years in public life.The campaign was launched by party chief JP Nadda at the BJP headquarter in Delhi and will come to an end October 7.As part of the campaign, the party has asked its workers to facilitate the Covid-19 vaccination drive as it eyes record-breaking numbers on Friday.India's cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage surpassed 77.24 crore of which, 63,97,972 vaccine doses, were administered in the last 24 hours.The inoculation drive in India was launched in January with health workers and frontline workers as priority. In the following phases, the government expanded the drive to other groups deemed as vulnerable by health experts.From June 21, the new phase of universalisation of Covid-19 vaccination commenced, under which the government ramped up the availability of more vaccines and streamlined the vaccine supply chain.The BJP has also planned to distribute 140 million ration bags with Modi’s pictures among the needy under the sewa campaign. About 50 million BJP booth workers will send the PM postcards highlighting their commitment to public service.Modi was born in 1950 at Vadnagar in Gujarat. He is currently in the third year of his second consecutive term after the BJP won the parliamentary elections in 2019 with a landslide majority. He was the longest-serving chief minister of Gujarat with his term spanning from October 2001 to May 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-birthday-india-vaccinates-over-10-million-against-covid19-101631870679042.html
17-09-2021||India||Need joint approach to fight radicalisation, extremism: PM Modi at SCO Summit||Recent developments in Afghanistan have highlighted the challenges faced by the region, including the impact of growing radicalisation on peace and security, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday against the backdrop of the Taliban takeover in Kabul. In his virtual address to the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Summit in Dushanbe, Modi said the eight-member grouping should develop a joint approach to fight radicalisation and extremism. He also called for developing a network between moderate, tolerant and inclusive Islamic institutions in the SCO states. The 20th anniversary of SCO is a suitable occasion to think about its future. I believe the biggest challenges in this region are related to peace, security and trust deficit and the root cause of these problems is increasing radicalisation,” Modi said, speaking in Hindi. “Recent developments in Afghanistan have made this challenge more apparent. The SCO should take an initiative on this issue,” he said. Also Read | India shares challenges that prompted us to join AUKUS: Australian envoyIndia has watched warily since the Taliban took over Afghanistan on August 15 following the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government. The establishment of a hardline governing setup by the Taliban that includes several key members of the Haqqani Network and the presence in Afghanistan of thousands of fighters from Pakistan-based groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) are among India’s main security concerns. Along with its partners, India has called for the creation of an inclusive government in Afghanistan that protects the rights of women and minorities. India has also said that Afghan soil must not be used to carry out terror attacks against other countries. Modi said in his address that Central Asia’s historic role as a “bastion of moderate and progressive cultures and values” should help inspire the fight against extremism. Traditions such as Sufism flourished in the area over the centuries and spread across the region and the world, he pointed out. “We can still see their influence in the cultural heritage of this region. On the basis of this historical heritage of Central Asia, SCO should develop a common template to fight radicalisation and extremism,” he said. “In India, and in almost all SCO countries, there are moderate, tolerant and inclusive institutions and traditions associated with Islam. SCO should work to develop a strong network between them,” he added. Modi appreciated the work being done by SCO’s Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure (RATS), and called on members of the grouping to actively participate in activities being organised during India’s presidency of RATS. The prime minister welcomed Iran as a new member state of SCO, and Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Qatar as new dialogue partners, saying the expansion reflects the grouping’s growing influence. The current members of SCO are China, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, India and Pakistan. Afghanistan, Belarus and Mongolia have observer status with SCO, while dialogue partners include Armenia, Azerbaijan, Cambodia, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Turkey. Modi said fighting radicalisation is also necessary for the future of the younger generations, who have to be encouraged towards science and rational thinking in order to make the region a key player in emerging technologies. “We can promote this kind of thinking and innovative spirit by connecting our young entrepreneurs and start-ups,” he said. The economic potential of the region has remained untapped due to radicalisation and insecurity, and SCO has to emphasise “mutual connectivity”, Modi said. India is committed to increasing connectivity with the landlocked Central Asian countries, which can benefit by accessing India’s vast market, he added. “Unfortunately, many connectivity options are not open to them today due to lack of mutual trust. Our investment in Iran’s Chabahar port and our efforts towards the International North-South Corridor are driven by this reality,” Modi said. Connectivity initiatives “cannot be a one-way street”, and such projects should be “consultative, transparent and participatory to ensure mutual trust”. Respect for territorial integrity of all countries “should be implicit”, and SCO should develop norms for connectivity projects based on these principles, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-joint-approach-to-fight-radicalisation-extremism-pm-modi-at-sco-summit-101631870714860.html
17-09-2021||India||A year after Hathras gangrape||In a four-part series, starting one year to the day of the Hathras gangrape, Hindustan Times returned to the scenes of crimes against women in rural India that have shaken the country over the past three decades, launched protests, and affected the course of law, to examine what has happened since, and if the social conditions that allowed for, and perpetuated these crimes, have changed at all.--Hathras rape: A year on, still living in fear, buried under social stigmaIn Hathras, exactly one year ago, on September 14, 2020, a 19-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly raped and assaulted. Days later, amid national outrage, her body was cremated in the dead of the night.--His phone was buzzing. It was two days after his sister, 19, allegedly raped, died, with her body being consigned to flames with the administration watching. The stream of visitors was constant, from neighbours, to politicians, to an intrusive press. Most had never stepped into his mud and brick home before. There had been no peace. He was used to the ping, almost as if it was now a dirge for his loss.Yet, this alert was different. Ominous.Read the story here.--Badaun twin tragedy: Sanitation, dignity in tussle with poverty, customsBadaun tragedy: Poverty, imbalance, sanitation — the horrors remain. The tragic deaths of 14-year-old and 16-year-old girls, who were found hanging from a mango tree in an orchard seven years ago in Uttar Pradesh’s Badaun, still haunts the family.--She wakes up at around 4.30am, before any other member of the household. She picks up a mug, adjusts the knots of her sari around her waist, and makes her way to the fields behind her house. Once she’s back, she starts her day – cooking for the six people in her family, sweeping the mud floors of her small house, cleaning the front courtyard, and laying out the charpoys for the men to sit.Her morning ritual has remained unchanged through the decades, through a punishing pandemic, numerous village chiefs, elections, and floods that force villagers to flee every few years in Uttar Pradesh’s Badaun district.She does not like going to the fields, but sums up her predicament in one word: “majboori” (helplessness).Read the story here.--Khairlanji episode: Caste divide cemented by brutality from 15 years agoKharlainji episode: In 2006, a group of villagers, mostly Kunbis – who consider themselves equivalent to the Marathas in western Maharashtra but are classified as OBC – attacked four members of the family of Bhaiyyalal Bhotmange, all Dalits. The victims were paraded naked in the village, the women sexually violated, and all four of them hacked to death. The massacre rocked the country and sparked protests by Dalit groups across the country. It was a rude reminder that despite stepping into the 21st century, caste attitudes continue to stagnate in primitivity, and Dalit people, especially women, were as vulnerable to the power of upper-caste structure as they were half a century ago. It belied the promise of modernity for India’s most marginal groups.--In September 2006, Khairlanji was just another village in Maharashtra’s Bhandara, its 700 strong populace fairly nondescript. 150km from Nagpur, there was nothing to separate the homes in its dingy lanes from each other. Most roads were kuccha. Most houses were kuccha too.Fifteen years later, there are signs of change. Some roads have gone from dirt to cement, some homes now have tap water. But what hasn’t changed is the distrust in the social fabric of the village, borne out of a heinous crime that sparked angry protests, brought ignominy to the village, and came to be known across the country as the “Kharlainji massacre”.Read the story here.--Bhanwari Devi: Justice eluded her, but she stands resolute for othersBhanwari Devi’s legal battle birthed India’s sexual harassment protection laws for women, and forms the backbone of the Supreme Court’s landmark 1997 Vishakha guidelines for workplaces. Yet, her case has not resulted in convictions.--Thin and frail and in her early sixties, Bhanwari Devi sits, an orange ghunghat covering her head, her forehead furrowed. The last year has not been kind to her. As her hands sprinkle water on a buffalo calf in the courtyard of her home in the village of Bhateri in Rajasthan, she talks of her husband who died last year.Her body is racked by diabetes, and the loss of her companion has brought the idea of mortality closer. And yet, Devi betrays no weakness, her movements quick and decisive.For the last three decades, she has fought a case against five local men for rape, assault and harassment. Her legal battle has birthed India’s sexual harassment protection laws for women, and forms the backbone of the landmark Vishakha guidelines for workplaces laid down by the Supreme Court in 1997.Read the story here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-year-after-hathras-gangrape-101631868736561.html
17-09-2021||India||I-T search at Sonu Sood properties for 3rd day, 'Once BJP's favourite,' says Sena||The income tax department search at the properties of Bollywood actor Sonu Sood continues for the third day as the department widens its probe into the alleged tax evasion charges against the actor. Reports said multiple premises in Mumbai, Nagpur and Jaipur are being searched. On Wednesday, when the department initiated action against the Bollywood actor, searches were conducted at around six properties linked to Sonu Sood in Mumbai and Lucknow. Now, people linked to him are also on the radar of the I-T department, a PTI report said.Sonu Sood has recently become an ambassador of AAP's mentorship programme meant for students. The AAP has slammed the action against the actor and said he is being targeted by the central government only because of being a 'messiah' for the downtrodden. AAP chief and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had tweeted in support of Sonu Sood and said the Bollywood actor has the prayers of lakhs of families that he supported in difficult times. Sonu Sood got national and international recognition for his humanitarian action taken during the pandemic, which started with arranging transport for migrant workers. Shiv Sena criticised the action and said that once BJP praised Sonu Sood, but now it thinks he is a tax evader after the Delhi and Punjab governments tried to join hands with him."Filing false cases against the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) ministers, pressuring the state governor to withhold 12 members for their nomination to the state Legislative Council and raiding actors like Sonu Sood were signs of a small and narrow mind. This is foul play and it is sure to boomerang one day," the Sena said in its mouthpiece Saamana.The editorial also said the BJP leaders used to be present at all events of Sonu Soon, like when he announced scholarship programmes, when he set up oxygen plants in 16 cities. Even Maharashtra Governor BS Koshyari called him to Raj Bhavan and praised his efforts. But when Delhi and Punjab governments tried to join hands with him in his social work, the actor became a tax evader, the Sena editorial said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-search-at-sonu-sood-continues-for-3rd-day-sena-says-once-bjp-s-favourite-101631869026194.html
17-09-2021||India||In Chhattisgarh, the Congress leadership impasse refuses to end||Confusion continues to prevail over the Chhattisgarh government as even the Congress high command hasn’t really resolved the long-pending issues between chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and his colleague and party heavyweight TS Singhdeo.Almost a fortnight ago, Baghel seemed to have bought some time for himself when, on August 28, emerging from a long meeting with the high command in Delhi on suggestions that he should step down for Singhdeo as per a reported two-and-half-year power sharing agreement, the chief minister claimed that Rahul Gandhi would visit the state the next week to see all the work that had been done during his regime.The next day, when Singhdeo returned, he said he too had spoken to the leadership too and they had kept a “decision safe”. Thus, for both the camps, Gandhi’s proposed visit to the state was a metaphor to the resolution of the crisis. More than two weeks later, Gandhi is yet to visit and clarity is yet to prevail. On Wednesday, Baghel said on a TV interview that his office has sent to Delhi a three-day itinerary for Gandhi and is awaiting confirmation. Functionaries close to Baghel say “things are on hold” but decisions of the central leadership will be followed. “If Rahul ji (Gandhi) is not deciding the dates, it means it is not an urgent matter for the party and high command,” a leader said. Also Read | Maoist violence highest in Chhattisgarh in 2020, NCRB data revealsAnother leader close to Baghel said he was asked to continue in the meeting with the high command. Asked what Baghel would do if the party decided to remove him, the leader said, “It is clear that Baghel will not work under the chief ministership of Singhdeo.” Meanwhile, people close to Singh Deo say they were lying low, but that the leader was “waiting” for a decision and was “confident”. “Singhdeo is clear about his politics. Certain things have been conveyed to him by the high command which he keeps close to his chest. He is waiting for the high command’s decision,” said a close aide. This camp believes Baghel committed a “blunder” by orchestrating an ostensible show of strength in Delhi by asking MLAs to collect there. “He made a big mistake by seeming to challenge the high command. In Congress’s history, whoever has tried this has failed,” said a leader. Also Read | Man sentenced to death for rape, murder of 3-yr-oldWhile there have been reports of some attempts at garnering support, one MLA said, “Everyone is waiting for the high command’s decision. I can guarantee that most of MLAs will accept whatever high command decides.” The camps aside, confusion reigns supreme among the bureaucracy as well. A senior IAS officer in the state said, “Most bureaucrats are in confusion and fear. A group of civil servants who are close to the CM’s camp fear a change of guard, and others who are sidelined in this government are eagerly keeping an eye on every political development.” Even in Bastar, police officers have been instructed verbally to maintain status quo. “Bastar Police have been asked not to plan big anti-Maoist operations and maintain status quo for next few months. There could be many factors but one reason could be that since there is a political turmoil, the government does not want to give any ammunition to the opposition on tribal front. The Silger incident has caused enough damage for the present government as some leaders who met Rahul Gandhi told him that Congress is losing ground in Bastar,” said a senior police officer.The incident he was talking about was security forces opening fire on a protest on May 17, killing three people on the spot outside a newly established security camp in Sukma. Another villager who was injured in the firing died a few days later. Police claimed that Maoists were using the villagers as a shield. In the wake of the December 2018 assembly elections, where the Congress won 68 of 90 seats, Baghel and Singhdeo reportedly arrived at a power-sharing arrangement wherein they were to head the government for half the term each. Political observers believe that the CM is not willing to step down and hence it will be difficult for Congress to take any decision in near future. “Any politician would not want to step down after becoming the chief minister...look at Rajasthan and Punjab, other Congress-ruled states...It is only natural that the Chhattisgarh CM is not willing to step down even if a power-sharing formula was decided ,” said Sudeip Shrivastva, a political commentator based in Chhattisgarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-chhattisgarh-the-congress-leadership-impasse-refuses-to-end-101631869275078.html
17-09-2021||India||Delhi: Ashram underpass work may be completed before Dec 31, says Satyendar Jain||The construction work at Ashram underpass may be completed in November itself, much before its December 31 deadline, as per Delhi’s public works department (PWD) minister Satyendar Jain. Jain said on Friday that the work will be completed within two months.He said, “There has been a slight delay as high-voltage cables surfaced in the area where the ramp of the underpass is to be constructed. The cables are being shifted and that is likely to take around a month’s time.“We have expedited the process and are resolving all the issues. The entire work of the underpass will be completed in two months. We have also repaired the roads around the site. Further road repair work will be done after the monsoons,” he added.PWD officials say the project has been hit by multiple setbacks in the past two years but as the situation seems to be improving, the agency claims to be hopeful that they will complete the 750-metre Ashram underpass project by November-end, as against its December 2021 deadline.Also Read | Delhi hospital reports 5 cases of gall bladder gangrene after Covid recoveryAir pollution ban (starting 2019 September), assembly polls (March 8), pandemic-induced lockdowns (between March 2020 and June 5, 2021), labour shortage and financial crunch are some of the reasons this project’s deadline has repeatedly been missed.The initial deadline for the Ashram underpass project was December 2020, then it was shifted to April 2021, since most of the work was yet to be completed. That deadline too was, however, missed and the next deadline provided by the government officials was that of June 2021. After this, PWD missed the August 31 deadline too and now claims that the work will be done before the December 31 deadline.Delays not only result in increased costs but also hassle the commuters. PWD officials say they will open the stretch in two phases – one wherein the Ashram Chowk and the underpass will be made operational, and the other being the extension of Ashram flyover.Ashram intersection, which around 350,000 vehicles cross during peak traffic hours, is among the busiest and the most congested stretches in the Capital. It witnesses massive traffic snarls because of portions of Mathura Road being dug up by the construction agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhiashram-underpass-work-may-be-completed-before-dec-31-says-satyendar-jain-101631865614489.html
17-09-2021||India||Respected PM Modi: 4-year-old Assam boy seeks justice for father’s murder||A four-year-old boy from Assam’s Cachar district has appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma for justice after the murder of his father more than four years ago. Rizwan Sahid Laskar’s father, Saidul Alom Laskar, was killed on December 26, 2016, in Silchar town of Assam's Cachar district when he was just three months old.The boy has posted a video on Twitter and can be seen holding a placard that reads ‘I Want Justice’ as he puts in his request to PM Modi, Amit Shah and Sarma. “My name is Rizwan Sahid Laskar. Dear sir, when I was 3 months old, my father was brutally killed by 11 miscreants on December 26, 2016, case number 121/2017. Now, I request the Prime Minister, home minister, and respected chief minister to look after this matter and give justice to us. Thank you so much,” Rizwan Sahid Laskar is heard saying in the 45-second video.I want justice.@PMOIndia @HMOIndia @himantabiswa @cacharpolice @TheQuint pic.twitter.com/Cm0DeVw8TDAccording to reports, Rizwan’s father was a contractor and he was allegedly killed by members of the sand mafia near his office. Jannatul Ferdousy Laskar, his widow, lodged a complaint with the Cachar district police accusing 11 people of their alleged involvement in the murder of her husband, they added. Cachar Police registered a case under several sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPL).“They had used iron rods and other weapons to kill my husband. Police have arrested nine people but two among the accused persons are yet to be arrested,” Jannatul Ferdousy Laskar, Rizwan’s mother, told India Today. “The accused people are still roaming near our house. We are totally unsafe. We want justice,” she said.Rizwan’s uncle Mohidul Hoque Laskar said he helped his nephew open a Twitter account and upload the video to seek justice, according to India Today. He said police arrested nine of the accused but they managed to get anticipatory bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/respected-pm-modi-4-year-old-assam-boy-seeks-justice-for-father-s-murder-101631863148557.html
17-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Gall bladder gangrene cases reported in Delhi after Covid recovery||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi hospital reports 5 cases of gall bladder gangrene after Covid recoveryDoctors from Sir Ganga Ram hospital have reported cases of people who have recovered from Covid-19 returning with gall bladder gangrene (tissue death due to loss of blood supply). The doctors have treated five such patients over the past two months, with four of them reaching the hospital with a hole in their gall bladder. Read MoreAt SCO summit, PM Modi says radicalisation biggest challenge to peacePrime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday spoke about increasing radicalisation, which he said has become the biggest challenge to peace, security and trust deficit in the region, in his address to the plenary session of the 21st meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in Dushanbe. Read MoreRahul Gandhi's curt birthday wish for ‘Modi ji’ as Congress marks ‘Unemployment Day'Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday wished Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his 71st birthday in a curt tweet with the Indian Youth Congress marking the day – September 17 – as ‘National Unemployment Day’. “Happy birthday, Modi ji,” Gandhi posted on Twitter in a remarkably brief wish that many users considered odd. Read MoreIndia shares challenges that prompted us to join AUKUS: Australian envoyIndia shares the “challenging strategic environment” that prompted Australia’s move to forge a security alliance with the US and the UK, including territorial tensions across the Indo-Pacific and China’s massive military modernisation programme, Australian high commissioner Barry O’Farrell said on Friday. Read MoreUrsula Corbero aka Tokyo from Money Heist reacts to artworks by Indian fans. WatchMoney Heist, since the release of its 5th season, has been making headlines. The social media platforms are flooded with different kinds of posts related to the show. There is now a latest inclusion to that list and it is a video shared by Netflix India on YouTube. The video shows Tokyo, a character of the series played by Ursula Corbero, reacting to different artworks by Indian fans. Watch here‘Maybe he wanted to unburden himself by letting go of one format’: MSK Prasad ‘surprised’ by Virat Kohli’s decisionFormer chief selector MSK Prasad said he was surprised to know about Virat Kohli’s decision to step down as India’s T20I captain after the conclusion T20 World Cup in November. The latter took to Twitter and Instagram on Thursday to make the announcement through a lengthy post. He stated that he had a brief conversation with coach Ravi Shastri and teammate Rohit Sharma before taking this crucial step. Read MoreAnkahi Kahaniya movie review: Abhishek Chaubey is a genius; he shouldn't have to put up with Netflix anthologies anymoreAnkahi Kahaniya, the latest product of this anthology assembly line, makes perhaps the strongest case yet for why getting into the short film business might be a better alternative for Netflix. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-gall-bladder-gangrene-cases-reported-in-delhi-after-covid-recovery-101631862654217.html
17-09-2021||India||At SCO meet, Modi says Afghanistan proof that radicalisation key challenge to peace||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday spoke about increasing radicalisation, which he said has become the biggest challenge to peace, security and trust deficit in the region, in his address to the plenary session of the 21st meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in Dushanbe.In his six-minute virtual address, Modi said recent developments in Afghanistan had made this challenge more clear. He said the summit should develop a shared template to fight radicalism and extremism and work to develop a strong network among moderate, tolerant and inclusive institutions and traditions associated with Islam.Also read | India to join SCO summit in Dushanbe today, Afghanistan affairs high on agenda“Twentieth anniversary of the SCO is the right time to think about the future of SCO. The biggest challenges in this area are related to peace, security and trust deficit and root cause of these problems is increasing radicalisation. Recent developments in Afghanistan have made this challenge clear,” he said.He further said no connectivity initiative cannot be a one-way street. “To ensure mutual trust, connectivity projects should be consultative, transparent and participatory. There should be respect for the territorial integrity of all countries,” Modi added.“India is committed to increasing its connectivity with Central Asia. We believe that landlocked central Asian countries can benefit immensely by connecting with India's vast market,” he added.“This year we are celebrating the 20th anniversary of SCO. I welcome Iran as a new member country of the SCO. I also welcome the three new dialogue partners - Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Qatar,” he further said.He also said talented youngsters need to be encouraged towards science and rational thinking. “We can bring our startups and entrepreneurs together to make the innovative spirit towards making India a stakeholder in an emerging technology.”(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-sco-summit-pm-modi-says-radicalisation-biggest-challenge-in-peace-101631860849870.html
17-09-2021||India||India has administered at least 770 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 770 million Covid vaccine doses by Thursday, September 16. Kerala, the state that is currently contributing the most to the country’s Covid tally, inoculated more than 500,000 people in the past 24 hours, state health minister Veena George said in a press release on Thursday.A total of 519,484 people were administered the Covid vaccine in the state during the period. It was the sixth day for the state to crossed this benchmark of vaccinating at least 500,000 in a single day.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Thursday, 771,736,406 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 5,711,488 doses were administered on the day.Also Read | Biocon Biologics, Serum Institute announce strategic allianceIn the 18-45 age group, 311,709,349 people have been given the first dose while 50,460,225 have got their second shot as well.Among the healthcare workers, 10,366,083 have been given the first dose while 8,653,733 have got their second dose as well. Among the frontline workers, 18,340,933 have got their first dose and 14,252,816 have got their second dose too.
17-09-2021||India||‘India’s first solar mission likely to launch next year’: ISRO||India’s first solar mission, which was pushed from early 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic, is likely to be launched in the third quarter of 2022, when the country’s second space observatory Xposat, aimed at helping astronomers study cosmic sources such as pulsars and supernova, will also be launched, senior officials from the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) said.Talking about the purely scientific missions at a conference this week, director of human spaceflight centre, Dr Unnikrishnan Nair, said, “The solar mission Aditya L1 will be launched in the third quarter of next year (2022) and will provide more insights into the origin of the universe and many other unknowns.”The spacecraft in the Aditya L1 mission will be sent 1.5 million km away from the Earth to L1 Lagrangian, a point between the Earth and the Sun where the gravitational pull of both the bodies on the satellite is equal to the centripetal force needed to keep the satellite in orbit. It is like a parking area in space and is great for observing several phenomena without hindrances from eclipses.Xposat will be the other purely scientific mission that the space agency will undertake next year. It will be launched aboard a small satellite launch vehicle, which is currently in the development phase. The new launch vehicle is likely to have its first development flight by December this year. ISRO qualifies a launch vehicle to be mission-ready after two successful development flights.“Xposat will allow us to study the polarisation of celestial events. It will be launched by an SSLV which is under development. The first development flight will be by the end of this year. Academicians are looking forward to the data generated from this mission,” said Nair.The SSLV, which is being developed for the commercial launch of small satellites, costs only ₹30 crore as compared to ₹120 crore for a polar satellite launch vehicle (PSLV). The SSLV can be assembled by a team of six scientists within seven days in comparison to a team of 600 that takes a couple of months to assemble a PSLV.The Covid-19 pandemic severely affected the number of launches ISRO could undertake in 2020 and 2021. There has been a total of just four launches in the two years, of which, one was a purely commercial launch with the main payload being an earth observation satellite from Brazil called Amazonia-1.Before the pandemic, the space agency had planned for 20 launches in the financial year 2020-21, including the first unmanned flight under the Gaganyaan mission. The Gaganyaan mission is also likely to be undertaken by the end of 2022 or in early 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-first-solar-mission-likely-to-launch-next-year-isro-101631860455183.html
17-09-2021||India||India shares challenges that prompted us to join AUKUS: Australian envoy||India shares the “challenging strategic environment” that prompted Australia’s move to forge a security alliance with the US and the UK, including territorial tensions across the Indo-Pacific and China’s massive military modernisation programme, Australian high commissioner Barry O’Farrell said on Friday. The new military partnership called AUKUS will help improve Australia’s defence capabilities in line with the country’s 2020 Defence Strategic Update and will not affect the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad, which is more of a diplomatic forum, O’Farrell said during a virtual media briefing. AUKUS was unveiled by Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and US President Joe Biden against the backdrop of China’s assertive actions across the Indo-Pacific, and its first initiative is aimed at equipping Australia with nuclear-powered submarines. Also Read | Jaishankar, Chinese counterpart meet in Dushanbe, discuss disengagement at LACIndia has chosen to maintain a studied silence on the new security alliance, apparently due to sensitivities related to the strategic situation in the region and ties with key partners. France, a key strategic ally for India, was angered by Australia’s decision to scrap a $90-billion programme to build 12 French-designed conventional submarines and instead opt for nuclear-powered vessels. Explaining the rationale behind the creation of AUKUS, O’Farrell said: “The decision reflects a much more challenging strategic environment, an environment we share with India, where great power competition is intensifying, where territorial tensions in the South China Sea, Taiwan and elsewhere are becoming more challenging.” He said, “Indo-Pacific investment in military capability is proceeding at an unprecedented rate and of course that latter point is being driven by China, which has the largest military modernisation programme underway in the world.” AUKUS is also about “ensuring we have capabilities that contribute, along with India and other countries, to deterring the types of behaviour that threatens the peace and security in the Indo-Pacific today and in the future”, he added. Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison spoke to his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi to brief him about AUKUS before the formal announcement was made by the three countries. Similar calls were made by Australian defence minister Peter Dutton and foreign minister Marise Payne to their Indian counterparts. Amid reports that the new alliance was aimed at balancing China across the region, especially in light of Beijing’s aggressive and assertive actions in recent years, O’Farrell noted that AUKUS was not directed against any particular country or meant “to provoke any particular regional power”. It was, he said, based on a “sober assessment of the capability required to meet a more challenging strategic environment”. “As a three-ocean nation, nuclear-powered submarines will provide Australia with a capability it now believes it needs for its defence because they can travel faster, they can travel for a longer range and they have greater power and endurance,” he said. Strengthening Australia’s defence capabilities through nuclear-powered submarines will be part of the country’s “contribution to a secure and prosperous Indo-Pacific”, and this capability will increase Canberra’s “strategic weight and allow us to more effectively shape our region’s future trajectory”, O’Farrell said. “Australia is striving to retain an inclusive regional order where the rights of all states are respected, whether they are big states or small states,” he said. Australia wants to “contribute to strategic reassurance measures that ensure no one country believes they can advance their strategic ambitions through conflict and it’s not about seeking to provoke any particular regional power”, he added. Asked specifically about the fallout of France’s anger over the cancellation of Australia’s conventional submarine deal, O’Farrell said his country wants to continue working with India, France and Indonesia to ensure the Indo-Pacific remains free and inclusive. He acknowledged that Australia’s decision to move towards acquitting nuclear-powered submarines had not “been welcomed by France”, but this should not affect engagement in terms of working for security across the Indo-Pacific. Australia’s decision will ensure the trade across the Indian and Pacific Oceans remains secure for all countries, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-shares-challenges-that-prompted-us-to-join-aukus-australian-envoy-101631859734070.html
17-09-2021||India||Delhi hospital reports 5 cases of gall bladder gangrene after Covid recovery||Doctors from Sir Ganga Ram hospital have reported cases of people who have recovered from Covid-19 returning with gall bladder gangrene (tissue death due to loss of blood supply). The doctors have treated five such patients over the past two months, with four of them reaching the hospital with a hole in their gall bladder. The patients needed urgent surgery to remove the gall bladder and have recovered. Inflammation of the gall bladder, which led to gangrene in the current cases, usually happens in those with gall stones. An acute inflammation without stones is usually seen only in 10% cases where the patient is either has a weakened immune system or has suffered an injury. “Gall bladder inflammation without stone is usually seen in patients with HIV, those who have received nutrition through IV, prolonged fasting, those who have been in the intensive care unit for long, and those who have had an accident or burns. The patients did not have these factors; they developed the acute inflammation nearly two months after recovering from Covid-19 and not during their hospital stay,” said Dr Anil Arora, chairman, Institute of Liver, Gastroenterology, Pancreaticobiliary Science at the hospital. Also Read | Did Covid-19 jump from animals to humans on multiple occasions?He also said that mortality is high – 30 to 60% – in patients who develop gall bladder inflammation in the absence of stones because of the conditions that led to the inflammation in the first place. “Surgery in people with compromised immune system or with burns increases the risk of mortality. But, we did not see that in Covid-19 patients. All of them recovered and are doing well,” he said. Doctors suggest that those looking at patients with a history of Covid-19 with pain in the right upper abdomen should suspect gall bladder inflammation and start treatment early to prevent gangrene and perforations. Dr Praveen Sharma, senior consultant of gastroenterology, said, “There should be a high degree of suspicion of this in patients with pain in the right upper quadrant and a history of Covid-19.” Dr Shashi Dhawan, senior consultant pathologist at the hospital, found severe inflammation and injury due to lack of blood supply along with damage to the vessels in the patient samples. This led the doctors to believe that Covid-19 might be causing the gall bladder inflammation with the stones. “The Sars-CoV-2 virus enters through the respiratory system and affects the lungs the most as it has high number of ACE-2 receptors that the virus uses to bind to human cells. After lungs, the gastrointestinal tract and the biliary system (bile duct, gall bladder and associated structures) have the highest ACE-2 receptors. We think the virus might be attaching to the gall bladder lining and dysregulating the immune system causing injury to the gall bladder,” said Dr Arora. He added, “The virus might also be causing tiny clots due that are not detected due to damage to the blood vessels. This is a known mechanism of Sars-CoV-2 which is why we are hearing of cases of stroke and heart attacks after Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hospital-reports-5-cases-of-gall-bladder-gangrene-after-covid-recovery-101631858234159.html
17-09-2021||India||‘Ahimsa and karuna’: Modi gets a letter from Dalai Lama on his 71st birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who marks his 71st birthday on Friday, received a letter from the Dalai Lama greeting him on the occasion. Wishing the Prime Minister a long and healthy life, the Tibetan spiritual leader pointed out that the Indian age-old traditions of ‘ahimsa’ and ‘karuna’ are not only relevant in today's world but are also necessary.Also Read | 'Good health and long life': Wishes pour in as PM Modi turns 71“I offer my heartfelt greetings to you on your birthday,” the Dalai Lama, the 14th leader in his line, wrote in his letter to Prime Minister. “May you continue to live a long and healthy life. I am convinced that the age-old Indian traditions of doing no harm — ahimsa, backed by a compassionate motivation — karuna, are not only relevant but are necessary in today's world,” he said.He also said that he believes these principles can be readily combined with modern education for the wider benefit of humanity.The Dalai Lama, a supremely important figure in the Tibetan Buddhist tradition, has been living a life of refuge in India ever since he had to flee Tibet in the wake of a revolt in 1959.Expressing his gratitude once again to the Indian government and the people of the country for the “warm and generous hospitality”, the Dalai Lama wrote in his letter to Prime Minister Modi, “For us Tibetans living in exile, India is not only our spiritual refuge but for more than 62 years has also been our physical home.”Also Read | Only Dalai Lama can decide on his reincarnation: CTA head Penpa TseringThe Dalai Lama said that as someone who cares deeply for India, he noticed the Prime Minister's governance has brought about a “growing confidence” despite the challenges of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. “I congratulate you on the growing confidence you have brought about …Despite challenges such as the Covid-19 pandemic that has affected people around the globe,” the Dalai Lama wrote.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has made elaborate arrangements to celebrate the 71st birthday of Prime Minister Modi with the launch of the "Seva or Samarpan Abhiyan" campaign. The campaign will begin on September 17 and conclude on October 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahimsa-and-karuna-modi-gets-a-letter-from-dalai-lama-on-his-71st-birthday-101631850446597.html
17-09-2021||India||Ram Mandir foundation complete; granite from Karnataka, Mirzapur's sandstone to be used next||The construction of the foundation of the Ram temple in Ayodhya is complete and has been filled with the final and 48th layer of roller-compacted concrete, temple trust members have said. "The first phase has been completed. We will be setting up another layer made up of stones--Karnataka's granite and Mirzapur's sandstone--over this concrete base," Champat Rai, general secretary of Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, said on Thursday, according to news agency ANI.Rai also said that one lakh cubic feet of carved slabs of stone from Rajasthan’s Bansi Paharpur are ready for the construction that would follow.The foundation stone of the Ram Mandir was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 5, 2020. The ground floor of the temple, where the sanctum sanctorum will be located and where an idol of Ram Lalla will be placed, will be ready for prayers by December 2023. The temple complex is being built by Larsen & Toubro while Tata Consulting Engineers has been signed on as the project management consultant. It is expected to incur a cost of ₹900-1,000 crore and will be spread over 110 acres of land. The temple complex will also have a museum, a research centre, and an archival centre.Also watch: How Ram Temple site in Ayodhya looks after 1st phase of construction Also read | Ram temple likely to open for public by December 2023News agency PTI reported citing the final blueprint that six temples dedicated to Lord Surya, Lord Ganesha, Lord Shiva, Lord Durga, Lord Vishnu and Lord Brahma will be constructed in the Ram Janambhoomi premises. "These six temples of deities will be built along the outer periphery of the Ram temple but within the premises. Along with worshipping Lord Rama, worshipping these deities is also very important in Hindu dharma," Mishra told PTI earlier this week.Mishra said the construction of the base (plinth) of the superstructure of the Ram temple will start from the end of October or from the first week of November after the completion of the filling of the foundation. He also said that four tower cranes will be installed at four different locations for the in-situ setting of stones in the structure of the grand temple.Also read | UP polls: With ‘Ram Rajya’ in focus, AAP holds Tiranga Yatra in AyodhyaReports have said that the site needed a strong foundation as the soil at the site is unstable. A 50-foot deep pit, 400-feet by 300 feet, was first excavated and has been filled with 12-inch layers of compacted cement and other building material, including small stones and fly ash.The Ram Mandir trust was set up after the Supreme Court settled the Ram Janmaboomi-Babri Masjid land dispute in 2019, paving the way for the construction of the temple on the disputed site. The temple is expected to be opened to devotees by the end of 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-mandir-foundation-complete-see-images-101631854940761.html
17-09-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi's curt birthday wish for ‘Modi ji’ as Congress marks ‘Unemployment Day'||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday wished Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his 71st birthday in a curt tweet with the Indian Youth Congress marking the day – September 17 – as ‘National Unemployment Day’. “Happy birthday, Modi ji,” Gandhi posted on Twitter in a remarkably brief wish that many users considered odd.Happy birthday, Modi ji.While a Twitter user pointed out PM Modi's tweet on Rahul Gandhi's birthday and some wondered why the Congress leader was even extending the wish when the Indian Youth Congress is observing ‘National Unemployment Day'.Also Read | ‘Ahimsa and karuna’: Modi gets a letter from Dalai Lama on his 71st birthdayThe Indian Youth Congress has organised various programmes across the country on the occasion to mark the day as ‘National Unemployment Day’. The Indian Youth Congress claims that the unemployment rate in the country has increased from 2.4 per cent to 10.3 per cent in just one year.“The youth of the country is roaming unemployed on the streets today,” said Srinivas BV, the national president of the Indian Youth Congress. “The Modi government came to power by making big promises of giving 2 crore jobs per year, but today the central government is completely silent on the issue of employment.”He said the government is “busy in its branding by spreading its false propaganda.”Also Read | Madhya Pradesh to get NaMo garden in each block to celebrate PM’s birthdayThe Congress party alleged that the unemployment rate across India has gone up because the Modi government “has attacked” other businesses to benefit its ‘friends’. “The policy of the Modi government has made the youth self-reliant by increasing unemployment,” the party posted on Twitter.The Congress also posted a video clip alleging that the spread of ‘fake news’ increased during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic period because the Modi government intended it to.“When you have nothing to show for your accomplishments, you have to make something up,” the Congress wrote on Modi's birthday.Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) made elaborate arrangements to celebrate the 71st birthday of Prime Minister Modi with the launch of the 'Seva or Samarpan Abhiyan' campaign, aimed at vaccinating a record number of people against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The campaign will begin on September 17 and conclude on October 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-s-curt-birthday-wish-for-modi-ji-as-congress-marks-unemployment-day-101631852139585.html
17-09-2021||India||Shashi Tharoor accepts Congress colleague’s apology over derogatory remark||After causing an uproar with his derogatory remarks on party colleague and MP from Kerala, Shashi Tharoor, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president A Revanth Reddy sought to make amends on Thursday by rendering an apology which the lawmaker was generous enough to accept within minutes.The PCC chief, who is also an MP Malkajgiri parliamentary constituency, called up his colleague late on Thursday night and apologised for his remarks. “I spoke to shri @ShashiTharoor ji to convey that I hereby withdraw the remarks and reiterate that I hold my senior colleague in the highest regard. I regret any hurt that may have been caused to him by my words. We share our faith in the values and policies of the Congress Party,” Reddy tweeted.Within minutes, Tharoor replied on Twitter, “I received a gracious call from @revanth_anumula to apologise for what was said. I accept his expression of regret & am happy to put this unfortunate episode behind us. We must work together to strengthen @INCIndia in Telengana & across the country.Also Read | Maoist from Andhra escapes during police encounter at Odisha’s MalkangiriOn Wednesday, during an informal chat with reporters at Gandhi Bhavan, Reddy, who started off by criticising state IT minister KT Rama Rao [KTR] for his incorrect tweet on the Hyderabad rape accused, also referred to Tharoor for complimenting the state government’s efforts in developing the information technology sector in the state and said, “He who has praised the IT minister should also know about the state of affairs here. That gadha (donkey) should have been tagged in the minister’s false tweet. If both speak to each other in English, it won’t bring any change here.”He went on to say that language is not knowledge, but only a communicative skill and hoped that Tharoor would be expelled from the party as he was proving to be a liability.Within hours of the local media highlighting Reddy’s comments, TRS leaders began trolling him on social media. Minister KTR tweeted: “As the chairman of the IT standing committee, Shashi Tharoor Ji paid some compliments to the efforts of the govt of Telangana recently. His colleague in Parliament & PCC cheap calls him a donkey!! This is what happens when you have a 3rd rate criminal/thug leading the party.” He even tagged Rahul Gandhi to his tweet.The TRS posted an audio clip of Reddy’s comments on Tharoor and KTR on social media, which went viral.Tharoor also responded to Reddy’s comments and said, “I am sure he was only expressing his fraternal feelings.” Several senior Congress leaders, however, launched a tirade against the PCC chief.Former union information and broadcasting minister and AICC spokesperson Manish Tewari tweeted, “Dear Mr. Revanth Reddy, Dr. Shashi Tharoor is a valued colleague of yours & mine It would have been better if you would have spoken to him if you had some misgivings about a purported statement of his. Grace & Propriety demands you withdraw your words.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shashi-tharoor-accepts-congress-colleague-s-apology-over-derogatory-remark-101631854633579.html
17-09-2021||India||BBL to offer 15% stake to Serum Institute at valuation of $4.9 billion||Biocon Biologics Limited (BBL), a subsidiary of Biocon Ltd. and Serum Institute Life Sciences Private Limited (SILS) announced a strategic alliance on Thursday and BBL said it will offer around 15 per cent stake to SILS at a post-money valuation of about USD 4.9 billion.Serum Institute Life Sciences Private Limited is a subsidiary of Serum Institute of India (SII).As per the official release, under the terms of the agreement, BBL will offer approximately 15 per cent stake to SILS, at a post-money valuation of USD 4.9 billion, for which it will get committed access to 100 million doses of vaccines per annum for 15 years, primarily from SILS's upcoming vaccine facility in Pune with commercialization rights of the SILS vaccine portfolio, including Covid-19 vaccines, for global markets."Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, BBL will generate a committed revenue stream and related margins, commencing H2, FY23. Adar Poonawalla will have a Board seat in Biocon Biologics Limited," it said.In addition to vaccines, the strategic alliance will also develop antibodies targeting several infectious diseases like Dengue, HIV, etc.Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, Executive Chairperson, Biocon and Biocon Biologics, said, "This alliance will complement the strengths and resources of the two leading players in vaccines and biologics. Our shared vision of building large-scale businesses having global impact makes it a unique and synergistic value creation opportunity."The two companies will enter Service Level Agreements (SLAs) for manufacturing and distribution of the vaccines and antibodies."We look forward to complementing each other's capabilities and capacities in vaccines and biologics, with the objective of addressing inequitable access both in emerging and developed markets for life-saving vaccines and biologics," said Adar Poonawalla, CEO, Serum Institute of India.Biocon Biologics will also establish, at its cost, a vaccine R&D division to support the strategic alliance in developing both vaccines and biologics for communicable diseases.Additionally, wherever possible, it will make available its cell culture and sterile fill and finish capacities, for vaccine production under the strategic alliance."Biocon Biologics would issue shares and receive the contemplated rights through a merger with Covidshield Technologies Pvt. Ltd. (CTPL), a wholly-owned subsidiary of SILS, on customary closing conditions and receipt of regulatory approvals," it added.Both companies believe that this is an alliance that can make a significant impact on global healthcare through vaccines and biologics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bbl-to-offer-15-stake-to-serum-institute-at-valuation-of-4-9-billion-101631850284607.html
17-09-2021||India||Training of workers should be based on quality, quantity of programmes: Minister||Union minister for labour and employment Bhupender Yadav said that the focus of training workers should be based on 2Qs-Quality and Quantity of Training Programmes.In his message to a function organised to observe the Workers Education Day Bhupendra Yadav said there must be a Calendar of training programmes across the country, indicating places, processes, target group, topics and time, according to a press release.The Workers Education Day event was organised by the Dattopant Thengadi National Board for Workers Education and Development, an autonomous body under the ministry. The minister asked the Board to develop a charter to analyse all the trainings being conducted by it.Also Read | 4 labourers find 8.22-carat diamond in Panna after a 15-year huntReferring to the 4 Labour Codes recently launched by the government, he said they provide for legal right of minimum wages to the labour in the country.He said the labour laws create an environment of mutual cooperation and harmony between the employers and employees. He expressed the hope that Labour reforms will establish a positive and trust based work culture in the country.The minister called for increasing awareness about the National Career Service Portal as it is a repository of information related to employment and training.He also asked the Board to include the details about registering on the e-Shram portal which aims to create a database of over 380 million unorganised workers in the country for the first time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/training-of-workers-should-be-based-on-quality-quantity-of-programmesminister-101631851096283.html
17-09-2021||India||‘Elements from across border trying to foment trouble, disturb peace’: J-K DGP||Citing examples of three encounters in the Jammu region, J&K Director-General of Police Dilbag Singh said that elements across the border are continuously trying to foment trouble and disturb peace in the Union Territory by pushing militants.For the past many days, Singh has been reviewing the security situation in the Union territory and held several review meetings in different parts of J&K. These meetings were attended by top security officers of the areas where these meetings were held. This year so far, forces have killed more than 100 terrorists in various encounters.The latest review meeting was held on Thursday at Shopian district in south Kashmir which is considered one of the most sensitive districts in South Kashmir.Addressing the meeting, the DGP impressed upon the officers, to continue to put in the best efforts not only to maintain peace and order in Jammu Kashmir but also to ensure that the dividends of a peaceful environment are further consolidated. “Jammu and Kashmir Police, along with the other security forces, have contributed in a big way in building the current conducive security scenario and would not allow enemies of peace and people to disturb it.”Singh cited the examples of Manjakot, Thana Mandi and Nowshera encounters in Jammu and said that elements across the border are continuously trying to foment trouble and disturb peace in the UT by pushing terrorists in J&K. He said that the peaceful atmosphere has been achieved after a lot of sacrifices and hard work and we would not allow anybody to disturb it. DGP said that the police must continue to deal strictly with elements involved in pushing the youth towards terrorism and directed the officers to identify and book the persons involved in these activities.“Forces should remain more vigilant in view of increased infiltration bids by terrorists from across the International Border and Line of Control so that nefarious designs of anti-peace elements are foiled,” he said.Singh said that many successful operations on the borders have not only thwarted infiltration bids considerably but also killed many infiltrating elements. He told the officers to intensify operations against those involved in the Narco trade. He said that Pak sponsored elements are trying hard to spread false and fabricated stories and propaganda by circulating some old videos and warned that strong action will be taken against the elements involved in these activities.The DGP was briefed by the officers regarding the security measures put in place and operations underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elements-from-across-border-trying-to-foment-trouble-disturb-peace-j-k-dgp-dilbag-singh-101631851095007.html
17-09-2021||India||'Good health and long life': Wishes pour in as PM Modi turns 71||President Ram Nath Kovind, vice president M Venkaiah Naidu and several other leaders wished Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his 71st birthday on Friday. President Kovind took to Twitter to extend his greetings to PM Modi. "Happy birthday and best wishes to you. I wish you good health and long life and continue to serve the nation with your well-known spirit of 'Aharnish Sevamahe," the President tweeted.Vice president Naidu also extended his wishes and said that PM Modi's exceptional vision, exemplary leadership and dedicated service have led to the all-around growth of the nation. "My best wishes to Hon'ble Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Bhai Modi ji on his birthday today. His exceptional vision, exemplary leadership and dedicated service have led to the all-around growth of the nation. May he be blessed with a long, healthy and happy life ahead!" tweeted the vice President on Friday.Union home minister Amit Shah praised the Prime Minister, saying he not only gave the country the idea to think ahead of time and fulfil its resolve with hard work but also made it a reality.Defence minister Rajnath Singh also lauded the Prime Minister, saying he has written many new chapters in development and good governance in his tenure so far. Singh also wished that PM Modi fulfill his dream of making "India a strong, prosperous and proud country."Meanwhile, senior BJP leader Prakash Javadekar urged everyone to participate in the "Seva and Samarpan" campaign, a mega 20-day public outreach programme to be organised by BJP to commemorate PM Modi's 20 years in public life. The campaign commenced on Friday and will continue till October 7. Under the campaign, the party has asked its workers to facilitate the Covid-19 vaccination drive as it eyes record-breaking numbers on Friday.BJP president JP Nadda called PM Modi “a symbol of tireless work" and “the world's most popular leader" as he sent his birthday wishes.PM Modi was born in 1950 in Vadnagar in Gujarat. He is currently in the third year of his second consecutive term after the BJP won the parliamentary elections in 2019 with a landslide majority. PM Modi is also been the longest-serving chief minister of Gujarat with his term spanning from October 2001 to May 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/good-health-and-long-life-wishes-pour-in-as-pm-modi-turns-71-101631850053446.html
17-09-2021||India||Central Vista will be ready to host Republic Day parade 2022: Hardeep Puri||The Central Vista will be ready to host the next Republic Day parade in 2022, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Thursday.He said the redevelopment work of Central Vista Avenue, stretching from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, will be completed within two-and-a-half months.“We have ongoing work on Central Vista Avenue. The next Republic Day parade on January 26 will be held on the new Central Vista. We will ensure that the winter session of Parliament during the 75th year of Independence will be held in new Parliament,” news agency ANI quoted the minister as saying to media.The minister was speaking at the inauguration ceremony of two new multi-storey office complexes at Kasturba Gandhi Marg and Africa Avenue for over 7,000 employees of the Defence ministry and the armed forces.Also Read | ‘Agenda of spreading lies’: PM Modi hits out at critics of Central Vista revampEarlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated these two buildings where he slammed the critics of the Central Vista project for spreading “misinformation” and “lies”. “Those people who were after the Central Vista project were very conveniently silent on this aspect that construction of a place for 7,000 employees of the Defence ministry and armed forces is part of the project because they knew that their idea of spreading misinformation and lies would be exposed when this comes to the fore,” he said.“But the country is seeing today what we are doing under Central Vista. These modern offices constructed at KG Marg and Africa Avenue will help in getting the work related to defence done effectively,” he said.The redevelopment project of the Central Vista envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common central secretariat, revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath, from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, a new prime minister’s residence and PMO, and a new Vice President’s Enclave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-vista-will-be-ready-to-host-republic-day-parade-in-2022-hardeep-puri-101631849833530.html
17-09-2021||India||PM Modi's birthday: BJP workers in MP cut 71-feet-long syringe shaped cake||BJP workers in Bhopal city of Madhya Pradesh cut a 71-feet long syringe-shaped cake on the eve of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 71st birthday on Thursday. The Bharatiya Janata Party workers cut the cake, with "Thanks to Modiji for Namo Tikka" written on it, at Lalghati Chauraha in Madhya Pradesh's Bhopal. During the event, several party workers also wore white t-shirts with a slogan and Prime Minister's image. They also held his posters at the celebration. "We are viewing it as a day of service to people. A total of 71 people have pledged to donate blood today. Even the cake was 71-feet long," news agency ANI quoted a BJP worker as saying.In Varanasi, PM Modi's parliamentary constituency, BJP workers also celebrated their leader's birthday by lighting earthen lamps and cut a 71-kg laddu. A book titled 'Kashi Sankalp' was also launched in presence of BJP member of Parliament Roopa Ganguly and former Banaras Hindu University vice chancellor, GC Tripathi.The BJP has planned several events under the "Seva and Samarpan" campaign to mark PM Modi's birthday. The party has said it will inoculate a record number of people against Covid-19 to set a record of the maximum number of vaccinations in a single day.To achieve this milestone, the BJP is prepping its health volunteers to ensure that the maximum number of people get their Covid-19 vaccines on the day.India's vaccination drive was launched in January and since then the country has inoculated more than 18.1 crore people, making it the largest vaccination drive in the world. The Covid-19 cumulative vaccination coverage crossed a milestone of 77 crore doses on Thursday. The BJP is aspiring is to get more than 1.5 crore vaccines administered on Friday.The party has also planned other welfare activities like organising blood donation camps. It will also donate also distribute 140 million ration bags with Modi’s pictures among the needy and about 50 million BJP booth workers will send Modi postcards highlighting their commitment to public service.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-birthday-bjp-workers-in-mp-cut-71-feet-long-syringe-shaped-cake-101631848962909.html
17-09-2021||India||Scattered, moderate rain likely over NW India for next 4-5 days||Scattered light to moderate rain is likely over many parts of northwest India for the next 4-5 days in association with a cyclonic circulation that is likely to persist near Uttar Pradesh and northwest Madhya Pradesh, according to India Meteorological Department.A well marked low pressure area is now lying over northwest Madhya Pradesh and adjoining southwest Uttar Pradesh. The associated cyclonic circulation is very likely to persist during subsequent 2-3 days. A trough (line of low pressure) is running from Northwest Arabian Sea to the cyclonic circulation associated with the well marked low pressure area over northwest Madhya Pradesh and adjoining southwest Uttar Pradesh across Gujarat and East Rajasthan. The monsoon trough is lying south of its normal position. It is very likely to remain south of its normal position during the next 4-5 days. Also Read | CO2 emissions bounced back to pre-pandemic levels: United in Science reportA cyclonic circulation is lying over East central Bay of Bengal and adjoining Myanmar coast. It is very likely to move west-northwestwards and reach Northwest Bay of Bengal off north Odisha-West Bengal coasts around Saturday. Under the influence of these systems, widespread and very heavy rain is likely over West Madhya Pradesh till Saturday. Scattered rainfall with isolated heavy rain is very likely over Uttar Pradesh today and decrease thereafter. Very heavy rain is likely over Uttarakhand today and during 19th - 21th September. Light to moderate isolated/scattered rainfall activity likely over rest parts of northwest India during the next 4-5 days. Widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy rain is very likely over east Rajasthan and Gujarat region till September 21. Rainfall activity is also likely to increase over west Rajasthan and Saurashtra and Kutch till Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scattered-moderate-rain-likely-over-nw-india-for-next-4-5-days-101631849173731.html
17-09-2021||India||5 Maharashtra districts contribute 70% Covid cases in state||Even as Maharashtra sees an overall downward trend in daily Covid-19 infections, five districts have added 70% of the state’s active cases between September 5 and 14, and the weekly positivity rate from eight districts is higher than the state’s average. Maharashtra on Thursday added 3,595 fresh cases, taking its tally to 6,511,525. The state also added 45 fatalities, pushing its death toll to 138,322. Case fatality rate in the state was 2.12%.Mumbai added 446 fresh cases, taking its tally to 736,728. It also reported two fatalities, pushing the death toll to 16,039. City’s active case count stood at 5,589, up from 5,488 on Wednesday.Also Read | Maharashtra objects to GST Council meeting in LucknowThere were 49,342 active cases in the state. The state also saw 3,240 discharges in the last 24 hours. The state tested 168,793 samples during the same period and the daily positivity rate was 2.13%. So far, the state has tested 56,529,882 samples and the overall positivity rate was 11.52%. Positivity rate is the number of positive tests out of the total tests for an infection.On Thursday, of the 3,595 cases reported, 2,668 or 74.21% of cases came from Mumbai, Ahmednagar, Pune, Solapur, Satara, Sangli districts. Ahmednagar reported 618 new cases, while Pune added 898 fresh infections. Solapur logged 241 new cases, while Satara added 236 fresh infections. Sangli district added 229 new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-maharashtra-districts-contribute-70-covid-cases-in-state-101631848873642.html
17-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Under-construction flyover collapses in Mumbai; 14 injured and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Under-construction flyover collapses in Mumbai; 14 injuredAt least 14 people sustained injuries after a portion of an under-construction flyover collapsed in Bandra Kurla Complex in Maharashtra’s Mumbai on Friday. Read MoreJaishankar, Chinese counterpart meet in Dushanbe, discuss disengagement at LACIndia and China have agreed that their military and diplomatic officials should meet again and continue discussions to speedily resolve the remaining issues related to the dragging military standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Read MoreIAF to bolster fighter fleet with 24 second-hand MiragesThe Indian Air Force (IAF) is set to acquire 24 second-hand Mirage 2000 fighters, made by Dassault Aviation, in an attempt to strengthen its ageing fleet of the fourth-generation fighters and also secure parts for its two existing squadrons of the aircraft, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. Read MoreFormer India cricketers react after Virat Kohli says he will step down as T20I captain post World CupFormer India cricketers Venkatesh Prasad and Munaf Patel reacted to Virat Kohli's announcement of stepping down as India's T20I captain after the completion of ICC T20 World Cup in November. Read MoreFree Guy movie review: Flashy but frivolous proof that Ryan Reynolds has stopped taking chancesStamped with the sort of aggressive mediocrity that has come to define Shawn Levy’s glorified IP creation farm 21 Laps, Free Guy is a dispassionate science-fiction film that almost dupes you into thinking that it is clever. It really isn’t. Read MoreShraddha Kapoor lays style cues to sizzle at cocktail night in wine belted sareeAhead of revealing their Autumn Festive’21 collection, India's fusion wear brand Indya welcomed Shraddha Kapoor as the face of their label and we can't stop gushing over her glamorous occasion wear, wine foil pallu belted saree tunic. Read MoreWatch: How Ram Temple site in Ayodhya looks after 1st phase of construction||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-under-construction-flyover-collapses-in-mumbai-14-injured-and-all-the-latest-news-101631848339852.html
17-09-2021||India||Jaishankar, Chinese counterpart meet in Dushanbe, discuss disengagement at LAC||India and China have agreed that their military and diplomatic officials should meet again and continue discussions to speedily resolve the remaining issues related to the dragging military standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). This was decided when external affairs minister S Jaishankar met his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the margins of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Summit in the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe on Thursday. Jaishankar said in a set of tweets that he had discussed disengagement in the border areas with Wang, and “underlined that progress in this regard is essential for restoration of peace and tranquillity, which is the basis for development of bilateral ties”. A statement issued by the external affairs ministry on Friday quoted Jaishankar as recalling that Wang had said at their last meeting on the sidelines of a meeting of SCO foreign ministers on July 14 that India-China relations “were at low ebb”, and that both sides had agreed a “prolongation of the existing situation was not in the interest of the either side as it was impacting the relationship in a negative manner”. Also Read | PM Modi to address plenary session of SCO summit in DushanbeJaishankar had “emphasised that the two sides should work towards early resolution of the remaining issues along the LAC in Eastern Ladakh while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols”, the statement said. The minister underlined it “was necessary to ensure progress in resolution of remaining issues so as to restore peace and tranquillity along the LAC”. The statement added, “In this regard, the ministers agreed that military and diplomatic officials of the two sides should meet again and continue their discussions to resolve the remaining issues at the earliest.” Following several rounds of military and diplomatic talks, India and China withdrew their frontline troops and armoured units from the north south banks of Pangong Lake in February. In August, the two sides ended forward deployments at Gogra and dismantled all temporary structures and other infrastructure in this area. The disengagement at Gogra involved a relatively smaller number of troops on both sides. However, several friction points remain on the LAC, such as Hot Spring and Depsang. Both sides still have tens of thousands of troops deployed on the LAC as part of the standoff that began in May last year. The two ministers also exchanged views on recent global developments, and Jaishankar said India “had never subscribed to any clash of civilisations theory”. He said India and China “had to deal with each other on merits and establish a relationship based on mutual respect”. The statement added, “For this, it was necessary that China avoid viewing our bilateral relations from the perspective of its relations with third countries. Asian solidarity would depend on the example set by India-China relations.” Though the statement didn’t give any details, Jaishankar’s remarks were an apparent reference to the situation in Afghanistan, where China has been working closely with its traditional ally Pakistan since the Taliban takeover in Kabul last month. China has provided aid worth millions of dollars to the Taliban setup and is among the handful of countries that have kept open their embassies in Kabul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-chinese-counterpart-meet-in-dushanbe-discuss-disengagement-at-lac-101631846893657.html
17-09-2021||India||Nitin Gadkari says he once razed his father-in-law's home without telling wife||Nitin Gadkari, Union minister of road transport and highways, said on Thursday that he once ordered the demolition of his father-in-law's home without telling his wife. Gadkari shared the incident in a humorous light while speaking at an event in Haryana, where he also reviewed the progress of the new Delhi-Mumbai expressway.“I was newly married,” Gadkari said, cracking up about the incident. “My father-in-law's house was in the middle of the road. Without telling my wife, I had ordered the demolition of my father-in-law's house.” The minister added that officials informed him that he, too, has a house there and that it needed to be razed for constructing the road.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Gurugram Lok Sabha member Rao Inderjit Singh and senior officials of the state government, district administration, and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) were also present at the event.The Delhi-Mumbai Expressway, being built at the cost of around ₹95,000 crore, would be completed by March 2023 with a majority of the work having already been allotted to contractors, Gadkari said after reviewing the status of the ongoing project work at Lohtaki village in Gurugram. The union minister said that work on around 160 kilometres of the highway that falls in Haryana is expected to be completed by March 2022. A part of the road from Delhi to Dausa in Rajasthan and from Vadodara to Ankleshwar will be built by March 2022.The Delhi-Mumbai Expressway will be the longest such highway in the country, cutting across 1,380km, according to the central government. It will also be the first such structure to have underpasses for animals, at wildlife sanctuaries along the route, with five structures planned to ensure their safe passage.Besides the expressway, Gadkari said that 14 road projects are underway in Delhi-NCR, at ₹53,000 crore, which will significantly reduce noise and air pollution, due to a reduction in traffic issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitin-gadkari-says-he-once-razed-his-father-in-law-s-home-without-telling-wife-101631842647320.html
17-09-2021||India||After Covid-19 recovery, 5 patients treated for gallbladder gangrene in first such case in India||Five patients developed gallbladder gangrene after recovering from coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and were surgically treated at Delhi’s Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, which said they were the first such cases in India. Dr Anil Arora, the chairperson at the Institute of Liver, Gastroenterology and Pancreatobiiliry Sciences, said they have successfully treated the five patients with gall bladder gangrene between June and August this year."They reported severe inflammation of gall bladder without gall stones (acalculous cholecystitis) resulting in gangrene of gall bladder requiring urgent surgery. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time five cases have been reported from India in which the gall bladder gangrene had occurred in patients after recovery from COVID-19,” Dr Arora said.The five patients, including four men and a woman, were aged between 37 and 75 and all of them complained of fever, pain in the right upper quadrant of the abdomen and vomiting. While two of them have diabetes and one has heart disease and three received steroids for the management of Covid-19 symptoms.Also read | Did Covid-19 jump from animals to humans on multiple occasions?According to Dr Arora, the median duration between Covid-19 symptoms and diagnosis of acalculous cholecystitis was two months, which was confirmed through ultrasound and CT scan of the abdomen. “All these patients successfully underwent laparoscopic removal of necrotic perforated gallbladders," Dr Arora said.He added that acalculous cholecystitis with the gangrenous gallbladder is a serious condition associated with high morbidity—up to 30 to 60 per cent—and much higher mortality than "calculous cholecystitis".It is usually seen in patients suffering diabetes, HIV infection, vascular disease, total parenteral nutrition, those on prolonged fasting, in intensive care units and those with underlying history of trauma, burns and sepsis.“Gallbladder epithelial cells are very similar to bile duct cells, as they richly express receptors (ACE2), and could be a target for SARS-CoV-2 or body's dysregulated immunological response against the virus resulting in severe inflammation of the gallbladder,” the senior doctor said.Also read | Booster dose not the focus of vaccination drive: GovtA few case reports of similar illness have been described in the literature in its association with Covid-19 infection, he added.Dr Praveen Sharma, a senior consultant at the gastroenterology department of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, said that timely diagnosis is the key to the prevention of the condition. "In this smouldering pandemic, a high index of suspicion of this entity in a patient with fever and right upper quadrant pain especially with a history of recent recovery from Covid-19 infection besides timely diagnosis and early intervention with broad-spectrum antibiotics may prevent the development of onerous complication of gangrene and perforation of the gall bladder," Dr Sharma was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Gall bladder stone disease is very common in north India (eight per cent of the general population) and is responsible for 90 per cent of cases of acute inflammation called cholecystitis. Only 10 per cent of the patients have acalculous cholecystitis.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-covid-19-recovery-5-patients-treated-for-gallbladder-gangrene-101631844161849.html
17-09-2021||India||BJP aims to inoculate record number of people to mark PM Modi's 71st birthday||Friday marks the 71st birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) aims to create a record of maximum inoculations against Covid-19 through a mega 20-day public outreach programme. It will begin from Friday and will continue till October 7.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday called for a major push to the vaccination drive, saying it would be the "perfect gift for PM Modi on his birthday." "Tomorrow is the birthday of our beloved prime minister, lets do #VaccineSeva by helping all unvaccinated people including their loved ones, family members and all sections of the society by getting them vaccinated. This would be a birthday gift for the prime minister," the health minister said in a tweet in Hindi.Under the programme, the party has asked its workers across the country to facilitate the vaccination drive against the viral disease as part of its "Seva and Samarpan" campaign.The BJP will also distribute 140 million ration bags with Modi’s pictures among the needy and about 50 million BJP booth workers will send Modi postcards highlighting their commitment to public service.In long list of events, BJP president JP Nadda is also scheduled to inaugurate a photo exhibition to mark the completion of 20 years of Modi’s political journey.Born in 1950, PM Modi is the first chief minister to be born after independence. He is currently in the third year of his second consecutive term as the prime minister of the country. He has also been the longest-serving chief minister of Gujarat with his term spanning from October 2001 to May 2014.In the initial days of his life, PM Modi worked with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). He later joined politics and worked with the BJP at the national and state level.Known for being the most tech-savvy leader, PM Modi has sought to use technology to bring change in the lives of people during his tenure as the prime minister of the country. He is very active on social media platforms as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-aims-to-inoculate-record-number-of-people-to-mark-pm-modi-s-71st-birthday-101631844008805.html
17-09-2021||India||India to join SCO summit in Dushanbe today, Afghanistan affairs high on agenda||India will on Friday engage in the 21st meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), which is being held in a hybrid format at the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe. While Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lead the Indian delegation and join the summit of heads of state virtually, minister of external affairs S Jaishankar—who is already present in the Tajik capital—will represent India at the summit. This is the fourth such summit where India will be participating as a full-fledged member of the SCO, and it assumes a special significance in light of the rapidly evolving situation in the war-torn land of Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover.Also Read | PM Modi to address plenary session of SCO summit in DushanbeAhead of the SCO summit in Dushanbe, foreign minister Jaishankar met his counterparts from Iran, Armenia, and Uzbekistan on Friday and exchanged views on the ways to boost bilateral ties and the recent developments in Afghanistan. Tweeting from his official handle after the meetings, Jaishankar indicated that the leaders “positively reviewed” the strengthening of bilateral cooperation, as well as discussed the Afghanistan situation and challenges of combating terrorism and fundamentalism.Now, Modi will participate virtually in the key SCO summit on Friday and take forward the talks on the recent developments in Afghanistan as well as the overall regional security scenario. Jaishankar will on the same day represent India at a meeting on Afghanistan with the heads of state of SCO and the Russia-led Collective Security Treaty Organisation (SCTO).The joint meetings are expected to provide India with the opportunity to examine closely the situation in Afghanistan, especially in light of concerns about the military establishment in Pakistan and its ties with the Taliban regime in Afghanistan. India will also discuss counter-terrorism, economic cooperation, people-to-people exchanges, and other topical issues of regional and international importance, according to people familiar with the development.Watch | Is India facing a joint threat from Pak, China & Afghanistan? CDS Rawat answersThe SCO, seen as a counterweight to Nato, is an eight-member economic and security bloc and has emerged as one of the largest transregional international organisations. It was founded at a summit in Shanghai in 2001 by the presidents of Russia, China, the Kyrgyz Republic, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan.India and Pakistan became its permanent members in 2017. India was also made an observer at the SCO in 2005 and has generally participated in the ministerial-level meetings of the grouping which focus mainly on security and economic cooperation in the Eurasian region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-join-sco-summit-in-dushanbe-today-afghanistan-affairs-high-on-agenda-101631837729929.html
17-09-2021||India||IAF to bolster fighter fleet with 24 second-hand Mirages||The Indian Air Force (IAF) is set to acquire 24 second-hand Mirage 2000 fighters, made by Dassault Aviation, in an attempt to strengthen its ageing fleet of the fourth-generation fighters and also secure parts for its two existing squadrons of the aircraft, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. IAF has initialled a contract worth 27 million euros to buy the fighters, eight of which are in ready-to-fly condition, the people cited above added. That works out to a per-aircraft acquisition cost of 1.125 million euros. The people cited above said the aircraft will soon be shipped to India in containers.IAF’s 35-year old Mirage fleet, which performed exceptionally during the 2019 Balakot operation, is undergoing a mid-life upgrade, the people said – with the trigger for the acquisition of the second-hand aircraft being the immediate need for 300 critical spares. The aircraft is becoming obsolete in France, they added, and IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhaduaria decided to go in for the purchase.Out of the 24 fighters, 13 are in complete condition with engine and airframe intact with eight of them (nearly half a squadron) ready to fly after servicing. The remaining 11 fighters are partially complete but with fuel tanks and ejection seats, which will be scavenged to secure parts for IAF’s two existing squadrons of the fighter.IAF purchased around 50 fourth-generation Mirage 2000 C and B fighters way back in 1985 with a maintenance contract that expired in 2005. It signed another contract in 2015-2016 with the French original equipment manufacturer.The purchase highlights the importance of shifting spare parts and engine supply chains to India for future acquisitions as fighters abroad reach obsolescence much faster than in India. Until the Narendra Modi government took the decision of acquiring the 4.5 generation Rafale fighters (also from Dassault), the Mirage 2000 was India’s front-line fighter, a position it has held since the Kargil war. The new Aatmanirbhar Bharat campaign should ensure that original equipment and spares are now manufactured in India so that there is no shortage of spares till the time the fighter is decommissioned, the people cited above said.The other issue that flows out of this last-minute acquisition is that the IAF and the Indian Navy should plan their fighter acquisition so that there is synergy between the two forces and coherence is maintained in the supply of spare parts, experts said. It also points to the need for the defence ministry to accelerate decisions on replenishing the country’s fighter fleet, especially because China has already moved to fifth-generation fighters and armed drones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-to-bolster-fighter-fleet-with-24-second-hand-mirages-101631836620386.html
17-09-2021||India||Booster dose not the focus of vaccination drive: Govt||As discussion around the administration of booster shots of Covid-19 vaccines gathers momentum across the world, India on Thursday said that, as things stand, offering third doses of the vaccine was not the central focus of any government discussion on the country’s inoculation programme.The priority, they said, was universal inoculation for the Indian population, which the government aims to achieve by the end of the year though it is running behind in terms of the daily jab rate despite an uptick in the past few weeks.“[Administering] booster doses is not the central theme at the moment in the government’s scientific and public health care discussions... getting fully vaccinated with two doses remains the major priority,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), during the Union health ministry briefing on Covid-19 on Thursday.A “booster dose” refers to an additional dose of the vaccine that is given to someone who has already built enough protection after being fully vaccinated. Since a majority of Covid-19 jabs are two-dose vaccines, booster dose in this context refers to a third shot. Health experts in countries such the US are currently engaged in a debate over whether booster doses are needed for healthy adults and whether they should be given out once the entire population is fully vaccinated. This is an important debate as it can mean that despite being fully vaccinated, rich countries may consume even more doses as several poorer nations of the world remain largely unvaccinated.Experts agreed that it crucial for India to first fully vaccinate all eligible population before considering booster shots for those who have already received both doses. “What is important is to vaccinate all adults first as per plan. Booster doses can be thought about later. That is not our immediate requirement; however, it may be needed eventually,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonary and sleep medicine department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.As for low antibody levels found in some people according to recent studies, Bharagava said that several agencies have recommended that antibody levels should not be the sole determinant of immunity against Covid-19. The study, published in the Research Square pre-print, of 614 fully vaccinated health workers in India found a significant drop in their Covid-fighting antibodies within four months of the first shot.During the briefing, health officials also called a recent article by the New York Times on India’s Covid response a “provocative, attention-seeking” piece that came at a time when the country is doing well in handling the pandemic.The NYT article said that ICMR tailored its findings to fit Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s optimistic narrative despite a looming crisis. “We greatly value journalistic and editorial freedom and at the same time we must also realise that all of us -- Union government as well as the state governments -- are fully emerged in fighting a pandemic and all our energies and time is devoted to that,” said Rajesh Bhushan, Union secretary for health and family welfare.The ICMR chief added: “This is a provocative, attention seeking article published at a time when India is doing good and our vaccination is excellent and it is diverting attention.”On the question of including children under the national Covid-19 immunisation programme, government officials said that the matter was still being deliberated upon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/booster-dose-not-the-focus-of-vaccination-drive-govt-101631824469678.html
17-09-2021||India||Maoist from Andhra escapes during police encounter at Odisha’s Malkangiri||Three days after senior Maoist cadre Dubashi Shankar was arrested from Boipariguda area of Koraput district, another senior Maoist managed to escape during an encounter with the police near the Malkangiri-Koraput border.Malkangiri SP Prahalad Meena said a joint team of SOG, DVF commandos of the Odisha Police and BSF soldiers on Thursday busted a Maoist camp near Kumikhari-Badli Pahad reserve forest area on the Malkangiri-Koraput border and seized a huge cache of articles including a rifle and several rounds of ammunition.Meena said that top Maoist leader Suresh Surana from Andhra Pradesh managed to flee from the spot. However, two Maoists have been arrested and the combing operation has been intensified in the area.On Monday, Maoist leader Dubashi Shankar alias Mahender who was involved in at least 66 recorded incidents of Maoist violence in Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, including an attack on an explosives’ warehouse of Nalco at Koraput’s Damanjodi in 2009 that led to the death of 10 jawans of CISF was arrested from Boipariguda in Koraput district by a joint team of DVF, SOG and BSF.Shankar, who was a special committee member of the Andhra Odisha Border Special Zonal Committee that operates on the borders of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha, carried a reward of ₹20 lakh on his head. Shankar planned most Maoist ambushes on the Andhra-Odisha border and was involved in the 2009 attack on explosives’ warehouse of aluminium major Nalco at Koraput’s Damanjodi guarded by CISF jawans. The explosives stolen from the warehouse gave ample firepower to the Maoists for the next decades. He was also involved in the landmine blast at Govindpalli Ghat on the Koraput-Malkangiri border in April 2010 in which 11 policemen from Odisha were killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoist-from-andhra-escapes-during-police-encounter-at-odisha-s-malkangiri-101631819230334.html
17-09-2021||India||BJP leader Surendran quizzed over bribery case in Kerala||Kasaragod The Crime Branch wing of the Kerala police on Thursday questioned BJP state president K Surendran in a case registered against him on the allegations that he had “bribed” a rival candidate with a similar name to withdraw his nomination from the Manjeshwaram constituency in the last state Assembly elections.Talking to reporters after over an hour long interrogation at the guest house here, Surendran alleged that the case against him was politically motivated but cooperated with the investigation as he respects the rule of law.Sundara, a BSP candidate of Manjeshwaram constituency in the district and a namesake of Surendran, had on March 22 withdrawn his nomination papers thereby giving an edge to the BJP chief. Surendran, however, lost the election.Sundara had later revealed that a day after he filed the nomination papers, the BJP workers came to his place and asked him to withdraw the nomination.”They gave me the amount in cash,” Sundara had said. He had also alleged that he was threatened by the BJP workers.Following Sundara’s revelation, CPI(M) candidate V V Rameshan, who came third in the 2021 election, approached the Kasaragod district police chief seeking to register a case into the matters related to the revelation.The case was registered after recording Sundara’s statement. Later, the case was handed over to the Crime Branch.IUML’s A K M Ashraf won the seat with 65,758 votes while Surendran managed to bag 65,013 votes. Rameshan got 40,639 votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-leader-surendran-quizzed-over-bribery-case-in-kerala-101631818931379.html
17-09-2021||India||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat to visit Jammu on October 1||New Delhi: Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat will be in Jammu on October 1 to attend organisational meetings and address a select group of people, said a functionary aware of the details. This is Bhagwat‘s first visit to Jammu and Kashmir since August 2019 when the state was bifurcated into two Union Territories; that of J&K, and Ladakh. According to the functionary, the visit had been planned for long. “This is a routine visit which is part of the sarsanghchalak’s (Bhagwat) itinerary. Earlier, because of the Covid restrictions he could not travel but now he’s going to Jammu for three days to take part in meetings related to organisational issues of the Sangh. He will also address a meeting of eminent personalities, which again is a routine outreach programme,” the functionary said. In March, Bhagwat was scheduled to address the members of the Kashmiri Pandit community through an online interaction that was part of a programme organised to pay tributes to 15th century physician Shreya Bhat and King LalitAditya of the Karkota Dynasty. The programme was eventually addressed by the general secretary of the Sangh Dattatreya Hosabale since Bhagwat was taken ill. The visit comes at a time when the Sangh has begun to gradually restart its Shakhas and in-person activities. It also comes ahead of next month’s Karyakarni Mandal meeting scheduled to take place in Karnataka’s Dharwad. The meeting will be held between October 28-30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rsschief-mohan-bhagwat-to-visit-jammu-on-october-1-101631818823728.html
17-09-2021||India||Amit Shah to attend BJP’s ‘Telangana Liberation Day’ public meeting on Friday||Hyderabad Union Home Minister Amit Shah will address a public meeting at Nirmal town in Telangana on Friday which is being organised by state BJP on the occasion of ‘Telangana Liberation Day’.The meeting is being held to commemorate the sacrifices of freedom fighters who fought against the Nizam and Razakars, BJP said.Though the country got Independence on August 15, 1947, the erstwhile princely state of Hyderabad (under Nizam rule) was merged with the Indian Union on September 17, 1948.The BJP has been demanding for several years now that the day be celebrated officially as ‘’Telangana Liberation Day’’.The meeting, to be attended by Shah, is expected to raise the pitch vis-a-vis BJP’s demand for official celebration of the day.State BJP president and MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Thursday alleged that the ruling TRS has changed its stance on the issue after coming to power.Telangana BJP general secretary G Premender Reddy, who issued a statement on September 7 about the meeting to be attended by Amit Shah as chief guest, said that during the separate Telangana agitation, TRS president and incumbent Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had demanded official celebration of September 17.It is double standards on the part of Rao to go back on his stance after coming to power, he had alleged.Significantly, Nirmal town was witness to the martyrdom of a thousand people fighting the British and the Nizam, BJP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-attend-bjp-s-telangana-liberation-day-public-meeting-on-friday-101631818691753.html
17-09-2021||India||TTD gets a jumbo Board; 52 ‘special invitees’ included||Amaravati The Andhra Pradesh government has constituted a ‘jumbo’ 81-member Board for the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams, nominating 52 ‘special invitees’ on an unprecedented scale along with 24 regular and four ex-officio members, besides the Chairman.The government issued three separate orders to this effect around midnight on Wednesday claiming that the jumbo Board was constituted to “preserve the social, economic, religious and environmental character” of the TTD and to abide by the principles of welfare for pilgrims, devotees and the public at large.Justifying the appointment of 50 special invitees to the Board, the government claimed the scope of TTD’s administration spans across fields of development works, engineering, finance and accounting, marketing, media and publication, forestry, water supply and human resources management.“The scale and scope of these activities necessitates inclusion of special invitees who are experts from various fields. Moreover, it is the objective of the government to position the state as a preferred tourism destination nationally and globally,” the order, issued by Revenue-Endowments Principal Secretary G Vani Mohan, said.Tirupati attracts over 36 million worshippers annually and the TTD would vastly benefit with the addition of eminent personalities as special invitees, it added.Among the main members appointed to the Board are former minister of Puducherry Malladi Krishna Rao, YSR Congress MLA Katasani Ramabhupal Reddy, Tamil Nadu MLA A P Nanda Kumar, Karnataka MLA S R Viswanath Reddy, Shiv Sena secretary Milind Keshav Narvekar, former president of BCCI N Srinivasan and industrialist Jupalli Rameswara Rao.Tirupati MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy and AP Brahmin Welfare Corporation Chairman Sudhakar have been appointed as special invitees without any voting right.On August 8, the government appointed Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy’s uncle Y V Subba Reddy as TTD Chairman for a second consecutive term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ttd-gets-a-jumbo-board-52-special-invitees-included-101631818690499.html
17-09-2021||India||Bihar: Rs962 crore credited to two Class VI students’ bank accounts, probe ordered||Katihar: A day after the minor bank accounts of two Class VI students — which were opened to receive school scholarship and other government benefits — at a village in Bihar’s Katihar district were allegedly credited with a total of ₹962 crore, authorities at Uttar Bihar Gramin Bank (UBGB) on Thursday sprang into action to probe the matter. The incident came into light at Pastia village of Bhaghaura panchayat in Katihar on Wednesday when outgoing mukhiya (panchayat head), Lalan Vishwas, took some of the students to the local CSP (customers’ service point) to check whether their accounts were credited with money for books and school dress. “I was surprised when I was told about the money credited in the accounts of two Class VI students in Uttar Bihar Gramin Bank,” Vishwas said. The accounts of two students, identified as Ashish Kumar and Guruchand Vishwas, both with Belagunj branch of UBGB, showed ₹62,00,11,100 ( ₹62 crore) and ₹9,00,52,21,233 ( ₹900 crore) as balance, respectively, Vishwas said. Regional manager of UBGB, Ram Nath Mishra, on Thursday dismissed the reports, saying: “We have obtained the statement of these two accounts and found ₹100 and ₹128 in them.” “The account of Ashish Kumar has ₹100 in it while account of Guruchand Vishwas has ₹128. Both are the minor accounts,” Mishra said. “It could be a server error at the CSP. Since both are minor accounts, there is no question of any withdrawal,” he added. However, both the accounts were put on freeze after the matter was highlighted. “We are probing the matter,” Mishra said. A few days ago, a person named Ranjit Das of Khagaria district in Bihar was arrested after he refused to return ₹5.50 lakh credited in his UBGB account in April last year, claiming it was sent to him by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as help during the Covid-19 lockdown. He was arrested after bank officials lodged an FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-rs962-crore-credited-to-two-class-vi-students-bank-accounts-probe-ordered-101631818570393.html
17-09-2021||India||After row, Kannur University removes extracts from books of RSS ideologues Savarkar, Golwalkar||Thiruvananthapuram: After a two-week-long controversy, Kannur University (north Kerala) vice chancellor Gopinath Raveendran on Thursday said extracts of books of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) ideologues VD Savarkar and MS Golwalkar would not be taught in the post-graduate course on governance and politics. The VC said the syllabus of last year will be continued this year and a decision on lessons of another ideologue Deendayal Upadhyaya will be taken soon. He said changes were made after the two-member committee appointed by the government submitted its report. Inclusion of their books invited widespread criticism in the state. Activists of the Kerala Students Union, student wing of the Congress and the Muslim Students Federation, youth wing of the Muslim League, burnt copies of their books and the Communist Party of India (CPI), an ally in the ruling Left Democratic Front, also criticised the move. But the Students Federation of India (SFI), the CP(M) student wing, and the VC maintained that these books were in a post graduate courses and let students realise their ideology too. Many others, including author and Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and Governor Arif Mohammad Khan also said intellectual freedom should not be sacrificed in the name of politics. “I have quoted both, Savarkar and Golwalker, in my books and differed with their ideology. If you don’t read their books on what basis will you oppose their ideas,” asked Tharoor. “Students can learn all books and ideologies and arrive at their own conclusion. India is a free country. But banning books are not ideal,” the Governor had said while the issue raged. Extracts of VD Savarkar’s “Who is Hindu,” Golwarkar’s “We or Our Nationhood Defined”, Deendayal Upadhyaya’s “Integral Humanism” and Balraj Madhok’s “Indianisation, What, Why and How” were included in the syllabus among 30 other books.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-row-kannur-university-removes-extracts-from-books-of-rss-ideologues-savarkar-golwalkar-101631818450064.html
17-09-2021||India||Supreme Court allows immersion of Ganesh idols in Hyderabad lake||Hyderabad: As a one time measure, the Supreme Court on Thursday permitted immersion of Ganesha idols in the Hussain Sagar lake in Hyderabad city, after Vinayaka Chaturthi celebrations, on September 18. A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana passed the order on a petition filed by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. The civic body had approached the top court against the September 9 order of the Telangana high court, banning the immersion of Ganesha idols made of Plaster of Paris (PoP) in the lake. While allowing the symbolic immersion, the bench emphasised that the state government ought to have taken steps to stop water pollution caused due to immersion of PoP idols on its own. “Once upon a time, the water in the lake was used for drinking. That time passed long ago. Now, I believe, a lot of money was spent on beautification... If the water is polluted again, won’t it be a waste of the money spent on the beautification?” the bench, which also included justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta. Mehta, appearing for the civic body and the state government, argued that the HC order was well-intentioned but was passed in the middle of the celebrations. He assured the bench that there would be symbolic immersion of the idols which will be removed by the government through cranes deployed at the site and will be transported to solid waste dumping sites within 24 hours. Granting the relaxation to the state government for “one last time,” the bench observed that it was not supporting the government by staying the high court order but was acting on an assurance that there would be no immersion of PoP idols from next year. The court also took note that the high court order was passed when the celebrations were on and it would not be possible for the state government to implement all the directions immediately. The bench then stayed the high court order while asking the civic body and the state government to file their affidavits with assurances on stopping the immersion from next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-allows-immersion-of-ganesh-idols-in-hyderabad-lake-101631818392628.html
17-09-2021||India||Karnataka woman moves police to get back child she sold earlier for ₹5,000||A woman in north Karnataka’s Vijayapura district has lodged a complaint with childline and subsequently with police, asking them to return her child whom she had sold after delivery to a nurse in a hospital earlier this year. In the complaint registered with police, the woman - Renuka Kambale - claimed that a nurse in the district hospital had convinced her to sell her child for ₹5,000 and on August 26, she had sold the baby. In her statement to police, the woman said she delivered the baby in the district hospital on August 19. During that time, Renuka told Kasturi, a nurse, about financial problems at her home and Kasturi told her that if she is unable to take care of the baby, there are people ready to buy the child. On August 26, Renuka handed over her baby to Kasturi’s husband Manjunath and received a payment of ₹5,000. A few days later, repenting of the decision, Renuka returned to the district hospital and asked the nurse to return her child.When Kasturi avoided, there was an altercation between them. Later, she filed a complaint with the childline and then police. Police said initially, she didn’t talk about the sales but later during the interrogation, she opened up. Subsequently, police registered a case against Kasturi, Manjunath, and another man. All three are under police custody. According to police, so far they haven’t been able to track the baby. Childline is an emergency phone service for children in need of aid and assistance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-woman-moves-police-to-get-back-child-she-sold-earlier-for-5000-101631818094952.html
17-09-2021||India||Nobody will be allowed to dent communal harmony: Kerala CM||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday said strict action will be taken against those who try to disrupt communal harmony of the state. His statement assumes much significance as the state is witnessing a raging debate over the controversial remark of the Pala Bishop on “narcotic jihad”. “Kerala is a state known for its secular credentials and amity. We have noticed that some forces are trying to disrupt this. Stringent action will be taken against them,” he said, while addressing top officials of the state. He asked police not to spare anyone trying to wedge a difference in the society. “We will not allow anyone to foil the communal amity. Such forces will be sternly dealt with,” he said, adding people who take to social media to spread hatred will not be spared. Last week, the CM came down heavily against the Bishop’s statement saying social evils have no religion and it is not proper to put everything into the account of a particular community. He also made it clear that the government will not book the senior religious leader. Bishop Mar Joseph Kallaranghatt, while addressing a religious congregation in one of the churches in Pala (Kottayam) on Sept 9, had said Catholic girls and youth were becoming victims of “narcotic jihad” and decried authorities for turning a blind eye towards it. Though the opposition Congress criticised the Bishop in strong terms initially, later it toned it down. Meanwhile, actor-turned politician Suresh Gopi, BJP Rajya Sabha MP, called on the Bishop and pledged support. “Our meeting was cordial and we discussed all issues,” he said in Pala. Though many religious leaders and intelligentsia asked the Bishop to clear the air saying he was only referring to the social evil (growing use of narcotics among youth) he’s yet to dilute his statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nobody-will-be-allowed-to-dent-communal-harmony-kerala-cm-101631818092501.html
17-09-2021||India||Congress ally Muslim League calls for caste-based census in Kerala||Thiruvananthapuram: The Muslim League, a partner in the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF), on Thursday sought a caste-based census in Kerala and asked the state government to formulate a consensus on this regard. This is the first time a political party is seeking caste-based census in the state. Talking to mediapersons in Kozhikode (north Kerala), party leader KP A Majeed said there is no point in deferring the social reality and the party will first raise this in the next UDF meeting and later take it up with the government. He said the present reservation system was based on an old census and there are complaints that only a section of the backward classes are enjoying the benefit of reservation. Recently, Bihar assembly had passed a unanimous resolution and later an all-party team had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his intervention. Later, Bihar chief minister Nitish Yadav said he was optimistic and the Centre would take a speedy decision. “We feel in Kerala too it should be done. As long as reservation continues it is a natural process and we can’t postpone it like this. It will help some of the most backward classes which failed to get the benefits,” he said. When asked whether such an exercise will aggravate simmering social tension he said parties can’t run away from reality for long. He said the state government should talk to all parties and social organisation to reach a consensus. In Kerala, Muslims enjoy 10% reservation in government jobs and 12% in educational institutions. In the state, SC/ST communities get 10% and others backward section gets 40% reservation, including Muslims and a section of Christians. According to 2011 census, 54.73% population are Hindus, Muslims 26.56%, Christians 18.38% and 0.33% belong to other religions or have no religion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-ally-muslim-league-calls-for-caste-based-census-in-kerala-101631818090071.html
17-09-2021||India||Telangana Congress chief apologises after his reported derogatory remarks on Shashi Tharoor irk party leaders||New Delhi: After outrage by some Congress leaders over a media report quoting party’s Telangana unit chief Revanth Reddy making a derogatory reference to senior leader Shashi Tharoor, Reddy withdrew the remarks on Thursday and regretted any hurt that may have been caused to the MP from Kerala.“I spoke to shri @ShashiTharoor ji to convey that I hereby withdraw the remarks and reiterate that I hold my senior colleague in the highest regard,” Reddy tweeted.He regretted any hurt that may have been caused to Tharoor by his words, and said “we share our faith in the values and policies of the Congress Party”.Responding to the tweet, Tharoor said on Twitter, “I received a gracious call from @revanth_anumula to apologise for what was said. I accept his expression of regret & am happy to put this unfortunate episode behind us.” “We must work together to strengthen @INCIndia in Telengana & across the country,” the MP from Thiruvananthapuram said.Tagging AICC in-charge for Telangana Manickam Tagore, Reddy also said that he knows Tharoor joins him in wanting the Congress to win the support of the public to form the next government in Telangana. Tharoor responded by saying, “Absolutely. Onward & upward!” Reddy asserted that every congress soldier will strive towards reaching this goal in Telangana.Following the media report which quoted Reddy as making a derogatory reference to Tharoor and criticising him and Telangana minister K T Rama Rao, the Congress’ state chief tweeted, “Born liar and looter @KTRTRS can’t get away with hiding behind @ShashiTharoor ji and Fake news.” “It’s clear that you are trying to mislead current issues of child molestation and corruption charges against your family,” Reddy said.Taking strong objection to Reddy’s reported remarks, senior Congress leader Manish Tewari addressed Reddy on Twitter and said Tharoor “is a valued colleague of yours & mine”.“It would have been better if you (Reddy) would have spoken to him if you had some misgivings about a purported statement of his. Grace & Propriety demands you withdraw your words,” Tewari said.Another Congress leader Salman Anees Soz agreed with Tewari’s remarks and tweeted, “Dear Mr @revanth_anumula I couldn’t agree more. @ShashiTharoor is a terrific leader who isn’t about to join a race to the bottom.” “He is one of the foremost critics of the RSS & BJP. He fights for India & INC everyday. Party leaders must be careful not to alienate our own,” Soz said and tagged former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi.Reddy’s reported criticism of Tharoor had come after the latter’s recent visit to Hyderabad. PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-congress-chief-apologises-after-his-reported-derogatory-remarks-on-shashi-tharoor-irk-party-leaders-101631817973952.html
17-09-2021||India||Another former AIADMK minister booked in DA case||Chennai: Officials of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on Thursday held searches at 35 locations, including two in Bengaluru and six in Chennai, of former Tamil Nadu minister and All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) leader KC Veeramani in connection with a disproportionate assets case. From the raids, officials seized nine luxury cars including a Rolls Royce, 1.9 lakhs worth of cash in US dollars, 275 units of sand worth ₹30 lakhs, gold and diamond jewellery and five hard disks, the DVAC said in a statement.Veeramani is the third former AIADMK minister, besides MR Vijayabaskar and SP Velumani, to come under the DVAC net after MK Stalin-led Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) government came to power in May this year. Veeramani hasn’t spoken on the corruption charges levelled against him, but his supporters promptly gathered outside his house to protest the raids. His party also issued a statement, complaining that the raids were prompted by “political vendetta”.A first information report (FIR) registered by the vigilance directorate on Wednesday said Veeramani was “involved in corrupt activities” and acquired assets disproportionate to his income by 654% between 2016 and 2021 when he was a minister of commercial taxes in the AIADMK government.“Searches are ongoing in 28 places across the state and including four in Chennai,” a senior DVAC official said on the condition of anonymity, as he is not authorised to speak to the media.The two-time legislator won the 2011 and 20116 assembly elections from the Jolarpet constituency in Tirupathur district, 200 km north of Chennai. Veeramani, however, lost the seat to his DMK rival by a little less than 1,100 votes in the assembly elections held earlier this year.Arappor Iyakkam, a non-profit that first filed a complaint against Veeramani, alleged that the AIADMK leader started indulging in corruption in 2011 when he first became a legislator and minister in the J Jayalalithaa government and oversaw departments of school education and Tamil culture apart from holding additional charge as health minister in his first term.In the FIR, the DVAC said investigators decided to focus on his second term since he held charge of the sensitive commercial taxes department. During this period, the FIR said, his assets increased from ₹25.9 crore to ₹56.6 crore while his income was estimated to be ₹4.3 crore and expenses were pegged at ₹2.56 crore.The FIR further said Veeramani acquired properties and pecuniary resources in his name and in the name of his mother, C Maniyamal.The FIR, which accused him of criminal misconduct under the Prevention of Corruption Act, said he was estimated to have acquired assets worth ₹28.7 crore, “which works out to be 654% more than his total income.”The AIADMK has already formed an internal legal committee to help party leaders fight cases registered against them by the DMK government.Former transport minister MR Vijayabhaskar was the first prominent AIADMK leader to be raided by the vigilance team in July this year. DVAC officials had then claimed to have seized ₹25.5 lakh in cash, sale deeds, and other documents.In August, DVAC went after AIADMK heavyweight and former municipal administration minister SP Velumani, who is known to be close to former chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami.Last year, the DMK, while still in the opposition, submitted a list of corruption charges to outgoing Governor Banwarilal Purohit against half a dozen AIADMK ministers, and later in the run-up to the assembly elections, promised to establish a special court to try such graft cases.“The DMK hasn’t been able to fulfil its election promises so they are foisting false cases against our leaders,” the AIADMK said in a statement. A DMK leader without wishing to be named said that it was their election promise to bring corrupt former leaders to book. “They have to pay for their actions now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-former-aiadmk-minister-booked-in-dacase-101631817972897.html
17-09-2021||India||Synthetic drug manufacturing unit busted in Bengaluru||Bengaluru: The Central Crime Branch (CCB) raided a synthetic drug manufacturing unit and arrested a Nigerian national in Bengaluru on Wednesday. Following the raid, four kilograms of MDMA, a psychoactive drug worth approximately ₹2 crore was seized, said police. Sandeep Patil, the joint commissioner of police (crime), said the arrested man, identified as John, rented a house in Electronics City to manufacture the synthetic drugs. “He used to produce the drugs in the house using raw materials collected from medical stores in the city, and sold them with the help of a network of associates,” he said. The gang used to supply drugs in various parts of the city by storing them in a hidden compartment in a custom-made shoe. “Apart from selling it in Bengaluru, they sent it to New Zealand as well,” Patil added. The officer added that during the raid, documents related to the couriers sent abroad were found. “Since the tracking number was available, we have asked for these packages to be returned. We will use this as evidence in the court,” the officer said. Patil said that raw materials used by the suspects were easily available in the market. It still remains unclear how John learned to make the synthetic drug. “The quantity found at the house, which is around 4 kg, is a large quantity. The drug is sold in grams and he had enough stock to last a while. But this is a rare incident of drugs being manufactured in the city, we don’t have any information about any such manufacturing units,” he said. Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant said that John came to Bengaluru around a month back, before which he was living in New Delhi since 2018. “The interrogation of the suspect is underway. We have found leftover raw materials at the house, which clearly indicates that he was manufacturing the substance there. Following the interrogation and arrest of his associates, we will be able to get more information about the racket,” Pant said. Officers in the CCB said that police raided the house based on a tip-off. Following the raid, large quantities of raw materials such as acetone, hypophosphorous acid, plain acid, sodium hydroxide among others were found. The police have also seized measuring cylinder plastic, heating mantle, flask boiling, face mask, PH measure stick, hose pipe, panel, and shoes used to transport the crystals. This is the first time such a manufacturing unit has been located by the police, who are on the lookout for other suspects in the case. As per the data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), Bengaluru recorded the second-highest number of cases under the (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985). In 2020, Bengaluru booked 2,766 cases under NDPS, second to Mumbai which recorded 3,509 cases. This was a considerable increase in comparison to 768 cases registered in 2019. Pant said that the increase in the number of cases is the result of an ongoing campaign against drugs in the city. “In 2020, the number of cases registered under NDPS has gone up. These numbers will be much higher in 2021 since our teams have been relentlessly chasing drug traffickers in the city. We have reported some of the biggest drug busts in the state this year,” Pant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/synthetic-drug-manufacturing-unit-busted-in-bengaluru-101631817791349.html
17-09-2021||India||Climate Action Tracker rates India’s climate action ‘highly insufficient’||India’s nationally determined contribution (NDC), which was rated as 2 degrees compatible or “almost sufficient” by the Climate Action Tracker until last month, has now rated India as “highly insufficient” in its action and policies on climate change.This is because Climate Action Tracker, an independent scientific analysis that tracks government climate action and measures it against Paris Agreement goals, has updated its rating system on Wednesday.Only Ethiopia, Kenya, Nigeria, Morocco, Nepal and United Kingdom have been rated as “almost sufficient” and only Gambia is “sufficient” or 1.5 degree compatible. USA, which used to be rated as “critically insufficient”, is now “insufficient” as per the new rating system, after incorporating US President Joe Biden administration’s new climate policies.Describing CAT’s new rating system, its website states that according to many fair share assessments, it would be considered fair that some countries continue emitting at high levels. “We are now in a situation where these countries can no longer follow a high emissions path, but other, richer countries do need to help them to rapidly decarbonise. We’ve also seen that it’s not only targets that matter, but the policies that governments put in place to meet those targets. The CAT not only evaluates government targets, but we also provide an estimate of countries’ emissions given implemented action,” adding that the new rating system takes a more granular look at domestic policies of countries.Under India’s current targets and policies, emissions will continue to rise and are consistent with 4 degree C or more of warming shows a modelled domestic emissions pathway according to CAT. India’s NDC has three main elements--an economy-wide emissions intensity target of 33%–35% below 2005 levels; electric power capacity target of 40% installed capacity from non-fossil-based energy resources by 2030 (conditional to international support); and creating a carbon sink expansion target of creating an additional (cumulative) carbon sink of 2.5–3 GtCO2e through additional forest and tree cover by 2030. CAT has rated the 40% non-fossil energy as “Critically insufficient” and the emissions intensity target as “Highly insufficient.”If all countries were to follow India’s approach, warming would exceed 4°C according to CAT. The rating is based on what global least cost modelled domestic pathways say India needs to be doing, with international support, to achieve the Paris Agreement’s 1.5 degree C limit. As of July 2021, India had 39% non-fossil installed capacity based on Central Electricity Authority’s data.India is poised to achieve its 40% non-fossil capacity target a decade early. India is on track to achieve around 60-65% of non-fossil installed capacity by 2030 states CAT. “If India were to achieve the top of that range - 65% non-fossil installed capacity in 2030 - instead, our rating would improve, but only by one category to ‘Highly insufficient’. Even if India is not responsible for paying for all reductions, it should plan on how fast it could reduce its emissions if there were sufficient international support available, and not to lock into a high carbon future. This would mean to begin phasing out coal use and adopt emission reduction plans across the economy, and to clearly specify what international support it requires to achieve this goal,” CAT states. India’s current policies also indicate rising, rather than falling of emissions and is not at all consistent with the Paris Agreement’s 1.5 degree C temperature limit. India also doesn’t have net -zero emissions target by 2050, flags CAT which is supported by several foundations and governments including the European Climate Foundation and the German Ministry for Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety (BMU) etc.Among various other policies, CAT has highlighted that while India has been reducing its share of global coal power, it continues to be the second largest coal pipeline globally, behind China and has over 200 GW of coal-fired capacity in operation. The Central Electricity Authority projects this will increase to almost 266 GW over the next few years. There is a significant risk that India’s coal assets will be stranded, especially when considering that two thirds of India’s coal-fired power plants were built in the last 10 years, CAT states.Interestingly, India has used CAT’s analysis several times in the past to showcase that it was among few countries globally to have a 2 degree C compliant NDC.“Countries should be assessed on the promises delivered not just words but deeds,” said a senior environment ministry official who did not wish to be named, responding to the analysis.“The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has given the world a ‘code red’ warning on the dangers of climate change reinforcing the urgent need for the world to halve emissions by 2030. An increasing number of people around the world are suffering from ever more severe and frequent impacts of climate change, yet government action continues to lag behind what is needed. While many governments have committed to net zero, without near-term action achieving net zero is virtually impossible,” said Bill Hare, CEO of Climate Analytics, a CAT partner on the CAT website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/climate-action-tracker-rates-india-s-climate-action-highly-insufficient-101631817670113.html
17-09-2021||India||Murder of man inside Bengaluru football stadium result of fight over playground: Police||Bengaluru: The murder of Aravind, 27, inside the Bengaluru football stadium was a result of a conflict over a playground and it was in the planning for weeks, Bengaluru police said on Thursday, a day after four suspects were arrested. On September 12, Aravind, a rowdy-sheeter in the city, was chased and killed in the football stadium before an A-division women’s league match. “The gang of four people was waiting for Aravind at a smaller ground adjacent to the stadium. They had information about Aravind coming there to meet his friend, who was playing in the tournament. The plan was to murder during the match. But Aravind managed to escape and ran into the stadium, where was hacked to death,” said Kamal Pant, Bengaluru police commissioner. The arrested men have been identified as Stalin, who is also a rowdy-sheeter with KG Halli police station, Louis Jack, Arun Kumar, and Vijay Kumar. One suspect is still at large. According to Pant, the murder was a retaliatory attack. “The rivalry had started some time ago, over a public ground. Arvind, who is a rowdy sheeter, used to organize games, and the domination over the ground was a contested issue. Sometime last year, there was an altercation between Aravind and Stalin’s brother. Aravind assaulted him during this. A case was registered and the Aravind was let off on station bail,” the officer said. A senior officer said this incident had led to bad blood between both parties. However, in November 2020, Prashant was sent to jail for around 40 days after the Goonda act was slapped against him. “When he came out of jail there was another altercation with Stalin’s brother. This time, they assaulted him, stripped his clothes, and took some photos. When this news reached Stalin he planned for the murder of the Prashant,” said the official. Incidentally, it was believed that Prashant was involved in a plan to kidnap Vinay, then personal assistant to BJP leader and now minister KS Eshwarappa, in 2017. But police confirmed that he was not involved in the case. “We have interrogated the suspects, who have explained motive behind the murder. We were able to verify details given by them,” Pant said. The motive was control over a playground. Meanwhile, Bengaluru police said following the lockdowns there has been an increase in gang-related crimes in the city. Pant said since June since the lockdown was relaxed, there have been 41 murders in the city. Out of these 13 were related to family disputes, the reasons being five feuds between friends, five were over relationships and 5 were over gang wars. A crime branch officer said while it will be difficult to track murders related to family issues and personal matters, police are keeping a tab on the gang-related activities in the city. “The lockdown had put a lid on such incident it is possible that the instances may increase in the coming days. Our networks are looking out for any planned gang attacks,” said the official, who didn’t want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/murder-of-man-inside-bengaluru-football-stadium-result-of-fight-over-playground-police-101631817610106.html
17-09-2021||India||Karnataka’s new bill seeks to collect samples of prisoners for surveillance||The Basavaraj Bommai-led government has tabled the Identification of Prisoners (Karnataka Amendment) Bill, 2021 for authorities to collect blood, DNA, voice, and retina samples in addition to fingerprints, footprints and photographs of persons imprisoned for over one month. The amendment reduces the earlier prison term of one year to one month to monitor repeat offenders and contain the growing rate of crime in the state.The bill was tabled in the ongoing monsoon session in Karnataka assembly on Tuesday. The amended bill seeks to include collection of blood, DNA, voice, and iris scan samples under the definition of the word “measurements” of offender for effective surveillance and prevention of breach of peace and crime.According to the amendment from the original bill in 1920, the words “rigorous imprisonment for a term of one year”, will be substituted with “imprisonment for a term of one month”, according to the newly tabled bill. The amendment also includes giving powers to superintendents of police and deputy commissioners of police to order the collection of samples which was earlier only with the magistrates. Data released by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) on Wednesday shows that the Karnataka police recorded a conviction rate of 51.2% in cases registered under the Indian Penal Code while their counterparts have registered a far higher number, Hindustan Times reported.ST Ramesh, the former Director and Inspector General of Police (DG & IGP) of Karnataka said that the existing act allows for collection and storage of photographs, finger and footprints.“I don’t see any problem because Iris (collection technology) did not exist earlier. It has come 20-25 years back and it is settled and we have access to this technology. DNA was a nascent kind of forensic science and it has been established and in Karnataka also we have a DNA centre and it is a very important forensic tool,” Ramesh said. He added that voice identification assumes importance since we live in the digital age and voice happens through phone and other online mediums. He said that the colonial acts including the Indian Penal Code and evidence act “assumes a certain distrust of the police” as confessions made before such officials are not admissible in court. However, he said that the SP and DCPs have already been empowered with significant powers and there is no reason that they should not be trusted on this one as well.“You do not have to give extra weightage to a police officer’s statement but don’t undermine it also,” he said. The bill also has a provision of destruction of photographs and records on measures of acquittal.“Where any person who, not having been previously convicted of an offence punishable with imprisonment for a term of one month or more has has his measurements taken or has been photographed in accordance with the provisions of this Act is released without trial or discharged or acquitted by any court, all measurements and all photographs (both negatives and copies) so taken shall, unless the Court or or the District Magistrate or the Superintendent of Police or the Sub-Divisional magistrate or in any area for a which a Commissioner of Police has been appointed, the Deputy Commissioner of Police, for reason to be recorded in writing, otherwise directs, be destroyed or made over to him after a lapse of ten years from the date of such acquittal or after the said person attains the age of Sixty, whichever is later,” according to the amendment.However, experts voiced concerns over the specification of the prisoner who will be subject to this collection of such evidence, storage and issues regarding privacy and right to life.The bill adds to apprehensions of the technology and its use to solve crimes or create a database.“The state has to impress upon us (public, courts and society at large) as to how the security aspect will be taken care of. If it does not match the standard operating procedure, then this will be a most dangerous exercise,” Dr Dinesh Rao, a forensics expert said.Though there is consensus that scientific evidence would help to solve crimes and rate of conviction, Rao said that it was important to categorise the offences.He said that a technology that should be used for terror, mafia and drug-related or other heinous crimes of such intensity should be subject to this law and not all offences and sought to know if a sophisticated process like DNA will be used even for crimes like theft, civil or marital cases.Though such scientific evidence is crucial for solving crimes, the proposal comes at a time when investigation authorities continue to revert to old school techniques like fingerprint and photographs.Even though Bengaluru is known as the technology capital of the country, the city police were using the archaic method of using ink for taking fingerprints until two months ago. It was only in January this year that the state police launched a digital database of fingerprints and introduced software from Japan to record and compare fingerprints from a central database, Hindustan Times reported in February.The DNA Technology Bill is pending before the parliament. However, DNA tests are performed at a very low and limited rate in India, according to a PTI report in August.There are approximately just 30-40 DNA experts in 15-18 forensic labs who conduct less than 3000 tests per year, the report said.But experts who did side with the creation of a national DNA database also highlighted the importance of handling sensitive biological data and a strong regulatory framework among other requirements to prevent any misuse.Rao also pointed out that law enforcement authorities have still not been given access to Aadhar database as yet which makes the system redundant to identify suspected persons or worse, unclaimed and unidentified dead bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnatakas-new-bill-seeks-to-collect-samples-of-prisoners-for-surveillance-101631817550140.html
17-09-2021||India||Karnataka assembly clears bill to limit poll panel’s powers||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in Karnataka on Thursday managed to get the contentious Karnataka Gram Swaraj and Panchayat (Amendment) Bill passed in the lower house amid heated exchanges between the ruling and opposition parties with the latter choosing to walkout after at least three and half hours of discussion.The bill was tabled on Tuesday at the ongoing monsoon session of the state legislature. The proposed law will in effect take away the powers from the state election commission and give the government the powers to set up the commission who will be tasked with the duties.The bill, discussed amidst heated exchange on political history and reservation, proposes to take away delimitation and powers of allocation of reservations of wards and other segments or rural panchayats and done by a commission set up by the government, which the opposition said, was a ploy by the BJP and “an assault on the constitution.”KR Ramesh Kumar, senior Congress leader and former assembly speaker, said the bill was a “manipulation to stall progress, bring down the importance of local self parties and an assault on the constitution of the country”.The opposition accused the BJP of trying to use the bill to further stall the yet-to-be announced zilla and taluka panchayat elections.In August, the Karnataka high court declined to interfere in delimitation of wards in zilla and taluka panchayat that were carried out by the state election authorities.Priyank Kharge, a Congress legislator and former minister, said the government has filed a writ petition before the court challenging the delimitation and reservations made by the state election commission as “arbitrary, illegal and ultra vires.”The tabling of the bill comes at a time when all three political parties are gearing up to face the zilla and taluka panchayat polls, expected to be held later this year or early next year, which would be a good indicator to gauge the mood of the grassroots ahead of the 2023 assembly elections.The Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) set aside their bitter rivalry to oppose the bill against an adamant ruling party who had made it clear that the proposal had to be passed on Thursday and be sent to the upper house before submitting it to the court on Monday.JC Madhuswamy, Karnataka’s minister for law, parliamentary affairs and minor irrigation, said delimitation should not be under the state election commission as there is no connection between the two and the only job of poll authorities is to “supervise, monitor and conduct elections”.“We are not against reservation,” Madhuswamy said, fending off accusations that the BJP was trying to impose reservations that would be beneficial to the saffron party in the upcoming polls.HD Revanna, a senior JD(S) leader, said the BJP was eyeing Hassan and Mandya, two JD(S) stronghold districts with the passage of this bill. “Both national parties (Congress and BJP) have an eye on Hassan and Mandya. Even if you make the reservation as ST (scheduled tribe), you wont be able to shake us (JD(S)).”The BJP is trying to expand its support base beyond Lingayats and to communities like Vokkaligas and the backward classes to help the saffron party come back to power on its own in 2023.Caste plays an important role in Karnataka’s social and political life.The BJP is known to have the backing of the Lingayats while the Congress largely enjoys the support of the minorities and backward classes. The JD(S) has been backed firmly by the Vokkaligas, another dominant community found in large numbers in the Old Mysuru region, where the BJP has been trying hard to penetrate to accomplish its goal of returning to power with a full majority.“They are trying to make a very significant change to this bill. If it was done with good intent it was fine, but this is being done with bad intent,” Siddaramaiah, the Congress’s leader of the opposition said. He added that the ruling party can take another date from the court and do not have to pass the bill in haste.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-assembly-clears-bill-to-limit-poll-panel-s-powers-101631817490122.html
17-09-2021||India||Union minister Bhupender Yadav to attend closed-door meeting on climate targets on UNGA sidelines||New Delhi: Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav will likely participate in an informal meeting called by UN Secretary-General, António Guterres, and UK Prime Minister, Boris Johnson ahead of the UN climate change negotiations (COP 26) in Glasgow, to discuss how nationally determined contributions (NDCs) of major emitters can be enhanced to meet the 1.5 degree warming goal.The meeting will be held on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly, on Monday September 20. The Informal Climate Leaders Roundtable on Climate Action follows the recent report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and comes less than six weeks before the COP26 Climate Change Conference in Glasgow. According to senior officials in the UN, the agenda of the meeting will be a roadmap to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees above pre-industrial levels and climate mitigation and adaptation finance, particularly the commitment to mobilise 100 billion dollars per year by 2020 by developed countries.IPCC’s report last month flagged that the world may have lost the opportunity to keep global warming under 1.5 degree C over pre-industrial levels. The 1.5 degree C global warming threshold is likely to be breached in the next 10 to 20 years by 2040 even if carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions decline rapidly to net zero around 2050, it said.“Environment minister Bhupender Yadav has been nominated to represent India. It is a closed-door meeting on climate change with UN secretary general,” said a senior environment ministry official who asked not to be named. Yadav recently said that the goal of net zero emissions by 2050 is not enough to deal with the climate crisis. The need of the hour is “deeds: and not “plain words” to deal with climate change and reaching “net zero” alone is not enough, a statement from the environment ministry said on Tuesday. It stressed that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report published recently is a clarion call for developed countries to undertake immediate deep emission cuts and decarbonize their economies,  Guterres said on Thursday that he expects COP 26 to be a turning point and all countries to commit to a target of net zero emissions by 2050. “COP26 this November must mark that turning point. By then we need all countries to commit to achieve net zero emissions by the middle of this century and to present clear, credible long-term strategies to get there. We need all countries to present more ambitious and achievable Nationally Determined Contributions that will together cut global greenhouse gas emissions by 45% by 2030, compared to 2010 levels. Nothing less will do.”Achieving a net zero emission target implies that all remaining human-caused greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are balanced out by removing GHGs from the atmosphere in a process known as carbon removal. For this human-caused emissions from industries, vehicles etc should be reduced to near zero.Guterres released a new report by multiple international scientific agencies titled “United in Science” on Thursday which flagged that fossil fuel emissions from coal, gas, cement etc are back at 2019 levels or even higher in 2021. Fossil CO2 emissions from coal, oil, gas and cement peaked at 36.64 GtCO2 in 2019, followed by a significant drop of 1.98 GtCO2 (5.6%) in 2020 due to the Covid 19 pandemic. Based on preliminary estimates, global emissions in the power and industry sectors were already at the same level or higher in January-July 2021 than in the same period in 2019, before the pandemic, the United in Science report said. It cited data from the Global Carbon Project which indicates that between January and May 2021 the reduction in CO2 emissions was around 1% vis a vis 2019 compared to a 9% reduction in 2020. China has recorded a substantial increase in CO2 emissions in 2021 compared to 2019. India’s CO2 emissions have increased compared to peak of the pandemic period in 2020 but are still about 4% lower compared to 2019 in the January- May 2021 period.United in Science is coordinated by the World Meteorological Organization (WMO), with inputs from the UN Environment Programme (UNEP), the World Health Organization (WHO), the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), and the Global Carbon Project (GCP).Concentrations of all major greenhouse gases – carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (NO) continued to increase in 2020 and the first half of 2021, the report said adding that overall emissions reductions in 2020 likely reduced the annual increase of the atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases “but this effect was too small to be distinguished from natural variability.”The report has also flagged that there still remains a large gap between NDCs and the emission reduction needed to meet the Paris Agreement goals of keeping global warming under 2 degrees, and preferably under 1.5 degrees above pre-industrial levels.NDCs in mid-November 2020 remained largely inadequate to achieve the climate goals of the Paris Agreement and would lead to a temperature increase of at least 3 degree C by the end of the century, it added. Countries must collectively increase their NDC ambitions threefold to get on track to a 2 degree C goal and more than fivefold to get on track to the 1.5 degree C goal, it said. Preliminary estimates of the impact of NDC target updates in 2021 by the US, the EU and the United Kingdom, and announcements of Canada, China and Japan, indicate that emissions projections could be reduced by 12%–15% compared with the projection in 2020. “This is still far from sufficient to bridge the emissions gap in 2030,” the report said.“We need an NDC+ strategy now because we need climate action as a co-benefit agenda. We need to articulate what we will do to mitigate local and global emissions. The driver will be reducing local emissions but will also help reduce global emissions. We need a plan now because it’s important for the people of India,” said Sunita Narain, director general of Centre for Science and Environment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-bhupender-yadav-to-attend-closed-door-meeting-on-climate-targets-on-unga-sidelines-101631817190465.html
17-09-2021||India||‘Agenda of spreading lies’: PM Modi hits out at critics of Central Vista revamp||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday took a dig at critics of the ambitious Central Vista revamp plan, saying that they are likely to ignore the good coming out of the project because their agenda is only to spread lies about what the government is doing. Modi’s comments came during the inauguration of defence office complexes at Kasturba Gandhi Marg and Africa Avenue that will together accommodate more than 7,000 defence officials. These officials are moving into the new offices from their decades-old workplaces in a clutch of pre-Independence era hutments in the vicinity of the North and South Blocks to make way for the Central Vista revamp. Some of these hutments served as barracks and as stables for British Army horses more than 75 years ago. “Those people who are forcefully opposing the Central Vista project will very cleverly stay quiet on this aspect of project that offices have been created for 7,000 defence officials, because they know that their agenda of spreading lies will be exposed. But today the country is seeing what we are doing under the project,” the PM said. The total cost of the Central Vista revamp is estimated to be around ₹20,000 crore. The redevelopment has been criticised by the Opposition as wasteful expenditure at a time when the country is battling the Covid-19 pandemic. Addressing a gathering of defence officials at the Africa Avenue complex, the PM said that with the inauguration of the two complexes, India has taken another step in developing the nation’s capital according to the needs and aspirations of a new India in the country’s 75th year of India’s independence. He said that for decades, defence-related work was being carried out from hutments constructed during the Second World War to serve as stables and barracks. “This new defence office complex will strengthen the efforts of making the working of our defence forces convenient and effective,” he said. He said work on the two complexes has been completed way ahead of time --- it was to be completed in 24 months but took only 12 months. “When policies and intentions are clear, willpower is strong and efforts honest, everything is possible,” the PM said, adding that modern infrastructure played an important role in ease of living and ease of doing business. “The ongoing construction work of Central Vista is going on with this thought only,” he said. Optimal use of available land with various departments of the government was a priority, he said. The complex at Africa Avenue is spread across four blocks and offers a space of 5.08 lakh square feet while the KG Marg facility has three blocks and an office area of 4.52 lakh square feet. The new office complexes have been constructed at a cost of ₹775 crore provided by the defence ministry, with the work carried out by the ministry of housing and urban affairs as part of the Central Vista project. The two complexes together have parking space for 1,500 cars. According to the Central Vista plan approved by the Centre, the North and South Block office complexes will be turned into national museums, the Indira Gandhi National Centre will be relocated, and the National Archives will be remodelled. The Prime Minister’s residence will be shifted behind the existing South Block complex while the residence of the Vice President is proposed to be relocated behind North Block. HT on June 30 reported the vice president’s enclave and the new Parliament House will be the first buildings to be completed, and work on shifting the national museum to the North and South Block will commence last, in the elaborate plan for the Central Vista revamp that requires moving people and offices over the course of the next six years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agenda-of-spreading-lies-pm-modi-hits-out-at-critics-of-central-vista-revamp-101631817010156.html
17-09-2021||India||Roads institutions in J-K to be named after poets, academics, slain cops||An award-winning Dogri littérateur, a policeman lynched by a mob, and a former Doordarshan director gunned down by militants will have roads, schools and government-owned institutions named after them in the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, people familiar with the matter said. A senior government functionary said a long list of names has been drawn up for this, which will be the state’s tribute to academic and literary stalwarts and also to those who laid down their lives in the line of duty. The proposed list includes poet Padma Sachdev who passed away in August; deputy superintendent of Jammu and Kashmir Police Mohammed Ayub Pandith, who was lynched by a mob outside a mosque in Kashmir in 2017; and Lassa Kaul, who, as Doordarshan director in 1990, was gunned down by militants outside his house. Also on the list are Makbool Sherwani, a National Conference worker who played a key role in holding off Pakistani intruders in 1947 and bought time for the Indian military to arrive; celebrated poet Dina Nath Nadim, who played a stellar role in Kashmir’s progressive movement; noted poet, broadcaster and freedom fighter Sarwanand Koul Premi, who was gunned down along with his son Virendra in 1990; J&K Police inspector Arshad Ahmed Khan who died in a fidayeen attack in Anantnag in 2019; and Brigadier Rajendra Singh who died fighting Pakistani raiders in Kashmir in 1947. The list was drawn up after consultation with local people in each district of Jammu and Kashmir; also surveyed were members of the panchayat and district development councils, the police and the paramilitary. “The renaming drive is being undertaken to acknowledge distinguished citizens. The divisional commissioners of Jammu and Kashmir have been asked to come up with more names and the places that can be named after them. To ensure proper representation from each of the 20 districts, the deputy commissioners have also been asked to send in suggestions,” said the functionary quoted above. To pick the roads, areas, or institutions that will be renamed, the administration is looking at those whose names have no historical relevance. For instance, it hasn’t found the name Bhatindi (an area in Jammu) in any of the old gazette notifications. “There are many places with names that have no relevance or historical detail. For example, the Zero Bridge in Kashmir. It could be named after any of the eminent people,” the functionary said. Last week, the Srinagar district administration recommended the renaming of a college in Hyderpora after playwright Padma Shri Moti Lal Keemu, and a street in downtown Kashmir after Kashmiri poet Zinda Koul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-roads-and-institutions-to-be-named-after-poets-academics-slain-cops-101631816709395.html
17-09-2021||India||India maintains silence as China fumes over AUKUS||India on Thursday opted to maintain a studied silence on the creation of a new security partnership by Australia, the UK and the US, apparently due to sensitivities related to the strategic situation in the region and ties with key partners. The new alliance called AUKUS was unveiled by Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and US President Joe Biden against the backdrop of China’s assertive actions across the Indo-Pacific, and its first initiative is aimed at equipping Australia with nuclear-powered submarines. China strongly criticised the trilateral partnership, saying it would severely damage regional security and spark an arms race. France was angered by Australia’s decision to scrap a $90-billion programme to build 12 French-designed submarines and instead opt for nuclear-powered vessels. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that India did not want to be seen as embracing a new security alliance that is a counter to China’s assertive actions, especially at a time when New Delhi and Beijing are engaged in a dragging military standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that is not close to being fully resolved. At the same time, India is sensitive to the concerns of France, a key strategic and defence partner that has supplied advanced military hardware such as the Rafale combat jets, the people said. Asked about the launch of AUKUS at a regular media briefing, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said: “I do not have anything to share on this at this moment, on AUKUS or related stuff.” The new partnership was launched days ahead of the first in-person summit of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad in Washington on September 24. The meeting, being held six months after the maiden virtual Quad Summit, will be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, Australian Prime Minister Morrison and US President Biden. On Wednesday, Australia’s top leadership spoke to their Indian counterparts to brief them about the launch of AUKUS. Modi said in a tweet he and Morrison had “exchanged perspectives on regional developments” and the upcoming Quad Summit. Australian foreign minister Marise Payne made a phone call to her Indian counterpart S Jaishankar, while defence minister Peter Dutton spoke to his counterpart Rajnath Singh. Responding to another question at the briefing on whether the launch of AUKUS could dilute the impact of the in-person Quad Summit, Bagchi said the upcoming meeting of the four leaders in Washington stands on its own. “I think the Quad summit stands on its own. It is extremely important as I mentioned. Clearly, the Quad partners attach a lot of importance to it. You can see that in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic, an in-person summit is happening. I would not like to comment or speculate on the implications (of AUKUS). As I said, I don’t have much to say on the AUKUS initiative for the moment,” he said. Bagchi noted that Jaishankar had highlighted the importance of Quad as a platform where four countries had come together for their own benefit and the benefit of the world. The Quad is tackling the immediate issues of the day, including vaccine supply chains, education, maritime security, climate change, humanitarian assistance and disaster relief, and connectivity infrastructure, and its four members have a shared vision for a free, open, inclusive and prosperous Indo-Pacific based on respect for international law, he added. However, France’s foreign minister Jean-Yves Le Drian and defence minister Florence Parly said in a joint statement that Australia’s decision to scrap the submarine deal was contrary to the letter and the spirit of cooperation between the two countries, based on a relationship of political trust. Australia’s decision to go with the American choice leads to the removal of an ally and a European partner from a relationship at a time of “unprecedented challenges in the Indo-Pacific region”, and “marks an absence of coherence that France can only...regret”, the two ministers said. The cooperation between the US and Australia through AUKUS is expected to build on the initiatives the two countries are engaged in under the framework of the Quad. AUKUS also dovetails with the Boris Johnson government’s tilt towards the Indo-Pacific under a comprehensive revamp of foreign and security policies in order to unlock new opportunities across the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-maintains-silence-as-china-fumes-over-aukus-101631816592451.html
17-09-2021||India||Ten DCPs paid ₹40 cr each to Deshmukh, Parab: Sachin Vaze tells ED||Mumbai: Dismissed Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze in his statement to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has claimed that ₹40 crore was collected from ten deputy commissioners of police (DCPs) and “paid to former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and transport minister Anil Parab” for “letting the order of then city police commissioner Param Bir Singh to transfer them go through”. In the statement recorded by ED on June 19 at Taloja jail, 52-year-old Vaze claimed that Deshmukh and Parab were not happy with Singh’s order regarding transfer and postings of the 10 DCPs and had got the order reversed. “After 3-4 days, I came to know that after some adjustments and consideration of money, the said order was issued,” Vaze told ED in the statement. The statements are part of the ED charge sheet filed last month against Deshmukh’s personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde in a money laundering case, in which the former minister is the main accused. HT accessed the ED charge sheet on Thursday. “I came to know that a total sum of Rs. 40 crore was collected from the police officers listed in the said order and out of which ₹20 crore each was given to Shri. Anil Deshmukh, through Shri Sanjeev Palande, PS to Home Minister and Shri Anil Parab through one Shri. Bajrang Karmate, RTO Officer,” the statement read. The money laundering case against Deshmukh and his aides was registered after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) filed a first information report (FIR) against him on April 21. In another statement recorded on June 21, also part of the ED charge sheet, Vaze claimed: “Shri Sanjeev Palande, PS to the Home Minister and Shri. Bajrang Karmate, RTO officer used to handle the dealings in connection with transfers and postings of police officers for Shri. Anil Deshmukh and Shri. Anil Parab, respectively.” Vaze is lodged in Taloja jail in connection with cases pertaining to Antilia explosives scare and the subsequent murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran. According to the charge sheet, Vaze also corroborated the allegations of corruption against Deshmukh, stating that in October 2020, the NCP leader called him at his official bungalow, Dnyaneshwari, where one Karunakar Shetty gave him a list of 1,750 bars and restaurants, on alleged instructions of the minister and “asked me to collect ₹3 lakh from each of the bars in lieu of favouring them for operating beyond restricted time and without any restrictions for occupancy”. Vaze further said that after having meetings with the bar owners between December 2020 and February 2021, he collected a total of ₹4.7 crore from orchestra bar owners. He added that on instructions of Deshmukh, in January 2021, he handed over ₹1.60 crore in cash in five bags to Kundan Shinde outside Sahyadri guest house. Remaining ₹3 crore was handed over to Shinde in February, said the statement, adding that in a later meeting held at Dnyaneshwari in the same month, it was decided that a system for collection from hookah bars be developed on the lines of orchestra bars. NCP spokesperson Mahesh Tapase said, “Vaze himself has been arrested for a serious offence like murder by the NIA. He is tainted; he carried out a murder just to save himself. He is unnecessarily blaming an innocent and workaholic NCP leader Anil Deshmukh. We are hopeful Deshmukh will come out of this case innocent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ten-dcps-paid-rs-20-cr-each-to-anil-deshmukh-anil-parab-sachin-vaze-in-his-statement-to-ed-101631816591334.html
17-09-2021||India||14 die as rain batters Uttar Pradesh, officials say toll may rise||At least 14 people, including three children, were killed and several injured in separate rain-related incidents across Uttar Pradesh on Thursday, state relief department officials confirmed.“Several incidents of kuccha houses caving in due to heavy showers have been reported across the state since Wednesday night. Around 14 deaths were reported in these incidents till Thursday evening, as per information provided by the respective districts magistrates. The information is being compiled and districts officials have been directed to ensure proper medical treatment to the injured and monetary relief to the kin of the deceased,” said Ranvir Prasad, relief commissioner of UP.As many as seven deaths were reported from Prayagraj and Pratapgarh districts. A 55-year-old woman, identified as Anita, died when a mud wall caved in and fell on her at Muthiaganj in Prayagraj on Thursday morning. A mud house collapsed at Semra Veerbhanpur village in Mauaima area of Prayagraj, causing the death of 49-year-old Rammurat Yadav. In a similar incident, two people were injured at Bongi village in Ghoorpur area of the district.Ramzan Ali, 18, died while four of his family members sustained serious injuries when their house collapsed at Reri village in Jethwara area of Pratapgarh due to heavy rain. At Lauli village in the district, 65-year-old Kalawati died when her house collapsed on Thursday morning. Another woman, 67-year-old Urmila Devi, succumbed to her injuries she sustained when her mud house collapsed at Gehrichak village of Kandhai in Pratapgarh.Meanwhile, three members of a family died in two incidents of wall collapse in Jaunpur. In Saraikhani village, Bharat Lal Jaiswal, 38, his wife Gulaba Devi, 34, daughter Sakshi, 10, sister-in-law Rekha Devi, 45, and niece Kajal, 12, got trapped under the debris when the wall of their kutcha house collapsed. Local residents rushed them to the hospital where Jaiswal, Gulabo Devi and Sakshi were declared brought dead. Two others of the family were being treated for their injuries.In Ramsanehi Ghat area of Barabanki, two people were killed after a mud house collapsed. Deaths were also reported from Ayodhya, Sitapur and Kaushambi districts.“The toll due to rain-related incidents could rise in the next 24 hours,” said Prasad..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-die-as-rain-batters-uttar-pradesh-officials-say-toll-may-rise-101631816531527.html
17-09-2021||India||Speculation over Kanhaiya Kumar’s entry into Cong grows; CPI's D Raja meets him||The Communist Party of India (CPI) general secretary D Raja met party leader Kanhaiya Kumar in Delhi on Thursday amid intense speculations that the former JNU students’ union president is in talks with Congress leaders to join the party.“I did ask him about the speculations. And after our conversation, I want to condemn these ongoing speculations. He is the youngest member of our national executive and as an asset for the party,” Raja told HT.But a section of the party is sceptical, as Kumar, arguably the most popular CPI leader among the young people, has remained silent about the rumours on public platforms. Kumar recently met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi—a step widely seen as a precursor to his joining of the Congress.Raja, however, defended Kumar and said, “he is a member of our national executive (equivalent to CPIM politburo). He is free to meet any political leader. Would you speculate if he meets Sitaram Yechury? Earlier, he has met other political leaders too.”Raja and Kumar met at the Ajoy Bhawan, the CPI headquarters in New Delhi.Kumar had fought the Lok Sabha elections in 2019 on a CPI ticket from Begusarai but lost to BJP stalwart Giriraj Singh. Kumar’s popularity soared during his tenure as the president of the Jawaharlal Nehru University’s students’ union, even as he courted major controversies.CPI leaders claimed that Kumar has refuted the speculations in his personal meetings with CPI leaders. He has been appointed as the central executive of the party and is currently its youngest member of the top executive body.But, some Congress leaders are hopeful that Kumar will join the party at some point. The Congress also requires a young, dynamic leader in Bihar, where its political fortunes have plummeted over the years.Meanwhile, CPI MP Binoy Viswam claimed that the news on Kanhaiya Kumar is nothing but fake. “He just called me from Ajoy Bhavan. He is the NEC member of the party, deeply committed to the communist cause,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/speculation-over-kanhaiya-kumar-s-entry-into-congress-grows-cpi-gen-secy-d-raja-meets-him-101631816530081.html
17-09-2021||India||Bad bank to help monetise chronic NPAs worth ₹2 lakh crore||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday announced ₹30,600 in government guarantees that will back the securities issued by the National Asset Reconstruction Company Ltd (NARCL) to acquire bad loans worth ₹2 lakh crore.NARCL, effectively a bad bank, will buy these loans that are fully provided for by banks; the move will reduce bad loans on the books of banks, Sitharaman said. Of the ₹2 lakh crore, around ₹90,000 crore of bad loans will be transferred to NARCL in the first phase of the exercise.While the bad bank (NARCL) will pay up to 15% of the agreed discounted value of the loans from banks in cash, the remaining 85% will be government-guaranteed security receipts (SRs), which could be invoked if realisation is less than the agreed threshold value. The guarantee will cover these receipts. The discounted value will be arrived after a valuation process. Financial services secretary Debasish Panda said that the valuation of all ₹2 lakh crore of bad loans is complete and that there is a “18% weighted average accorded”. This means the ₹2 lakh crore of bad loans has been valued at ₹36,000 crore.Of this, 15%, or ₹5,400 crore, will have to be paid in cash. It wasn’t immediately clear how NARCL will raise that money.NARCL and the Indian Debt Resolution Company Ltd, or IDRCL, are both part of the plans of the government to address the issue of bad loans on the books of banks. The latter will manage the assets and help resolve the debt. The creation of the two, an asset reconstruction company (NARCL) and an asset management company (IDRCL) was announced by the finance minister in her budget speech this year.NARCL will be liable to pay an annual guarantee fee, Sitharaman said, giving details of Wednesday’s Cabinet decision that approved the ₹30,600 crore government guarantee. According to finance ministry officials who requested anonymity, the guarantee fee will initially be 0.25% of the amount in the first year and would progressively increase in subsequent years.It is expected that the asset management company – India Debt Resolution Company Ltd (IDRCL) – will resolve stressed assets worth ₹2 lakh crore in five years.The bad bank structure will assist in consolidation of debt, currently fragmented across various lenders, thus leading to faster, single-point decision making, including through Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) processes, Sitharaman said. “It will incentivise quicker action on resolving stressed assets, thereby helping in better value realisation,” she added.This approach will also permit freeing up the management bandwidth of banks to focus on increasing business and credit growth, she said. As the holders of these stressed assets and SRs, banks will receive the gains. The government’s guarantee will also enhance liquidity of SRs as these are tradable, officials said. This basically means banks can sell these down to the market.Sitharaman said the decision is in keeping with the government’s commitment to reduce non-performing assets (NPAs) of public sector banks (PSBs) through the four “R” strategy -- Recognition, Resolution, Recapitalisation and Reform. Giving the background of the strategy, she said it was a result of an asset quality review of banks that took place for cleaning up their balance sheets in 2015, which revealed very high incidence of NPAs. “Everybody is aware of the story,” she added.Sitharaman said the strategy worked. “In the last six financial years, banks have recovered ₹501,479 crore... of this ₹3.1 lakh crore has been recovered since March 2018,” she said, adding that recoveries also included “written-off” assets worth ₹99,996 crore from Bhushan Steel and Essar Steel.The government has also recapitalised PSBs, the finance minister said. In 2017-18, the government infused ₹90,000 crore; ₹1.06 lakh crore was infused in 2018-19. In 2019-20, it infused ₹70,000 crore and in 2020-21, ₹20,000 crore. “In the current budget, we said the government would infuse ₹20,000 crore in this financial year,” she said.Giving details of reforms in the banking sector, she said several structural and procedural reforms took place in the last six years. These include bank mergers, managerial reforms, bringing cooperative banks under the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), creation of the Bank Board Bureau, setting up a framework for key performance indicators for banks, strengthening of risk management practices, setting up of new Debt Recovery Tribunals (DRTs) for faster recovery, and action taken against wilful defaulters such as debarring them from accessing the capital market, she said.“In 2018, only two of the 21 PSBs were profitable, in 2020-21 only two reported loss,” she said. Now banks are so strong that they are also raising money from the market. “Union Bank of India (UBI) raised ₹1,447 crore through a QIP in July 2021. Canara Bank has raised ₹2,500 crore in August 2021. Bank of India announced a QIP for ₹3,000 crore. And State Bank of India’s (SBI) board has approved raising Basel-3 compliant debt of ₹14,000 crore. So, banks are not looking at the government to infuse equity but going to the market for capitalisation,” she said.Underscoring the need for a bad bank, Sitharaman said one of the reasons why NPAs existed was because bank personnel did not have adequate specialisation in dealing with NPA disposal. “Bank professionals, however, good they are in their professionalism about banking-related matters, cannot deal with asset reconstruction. And, therefore, many banks are sitting wondering how to dispose these [stressed] assets. So, banks themselves will feel that it is no more their headache to find the best buyers, negotiate with them and so on... That job is going out to professionals, so banks’ staff will be free to do their basic, original core competence jobs,” she said.Uday Bhansali, president, financial advisory at consulting firm Deloitte India said establishment of the NARCL and Debt Resolution firm were long awaited and in line with global practices. “A government guarantee for the SRs is vital to support the necessary liquidity for the banks,” he said.Sanjay Aggarwal, president at PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said, “This will unclog the capital locked in the form of bad assets that can be further leveraged for lending and spending on other priority areas. Since the guarantee is in a form of contingent liability, it will not lead to immediate cash outflow and therefore is unlikely to impact the fiscal position in near future. This initiative will boost investments and unleash the ‘animal spirits’ to strengthen high economic growth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bad-bank-to-help-monetise-chronic-npas-worth-2-lakh-crore-101631816471483.html
17-09-2021||India||Book on Kashmir by R&AW officer’s daughter fans furore||A book on Kashmir written by an Indian anthropologist from the University of California is at the centre of a major controversy after it came to light on Thursday that the author’s father was an officer with India’s external intelligence agency, Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW) who was posted in the Valley in the 90s.Saiba Varma’s book The Occupied Clinic: Militarism and Care in Kashmir has been published by Duke University in the US and Yoda Press in India. However, a series of tweets by a pseudonymous twitter handle, @Settler_Scholar accusing the author of writing a book on trauma in the Valley while her father “create(d) the trauma’’, has led to Yoda now distancing itself from the book. A group of anthropologists are also planning to write a letter of protest to the American publishers regarding the book.“Just found out something about an author and a book we value deeply that puts all her work in question. These are terrible moments for a small independent publisher like ourselves,’’ tweeted Arpita Das of Yoda Press, adding, “and this is also why scholars MUST locate themselves clearly and transparently in their research writing -- full disclosure or nothing!.’’Varma did not immediately respond to HT’s queries.Yoda’s Das claimed Verma has not responded to her queries too.The incident has become a major talking point with some arguing that her father’s work should have no bearing on Varma’s, while others have called out her failure to declare her antecedents, and that she accompanied her father during his posting in Jammu and Kashmir. Yet others, see it as another example of the cancel culture.Krishan Varma retired from R&AW eight years ago, and according to two retired officers that HT spoke to, was not completely identified with his work in Kashmir. He retired as special secretary and used to head the Aviation Research Centre or ARC in the agency. “ He is a China expert and was also staff officer to two chiefs, Vikram Sood and CD Sahay,’’ said one of the officers, who didn’t wish to be quoted.While Das describes the book as “brilliantly written” and “powerful”, she now feels that it is problematic. “It’s the sort the thing you do declare if you are writing a book on Kashmir-- how can you not declare it?” said Das.But others disagree. Especially former RAW secretary AS Dulat, who has also written on Kashmir. “It’s a lot of bunkum. Krishan is a good friend. I have seen her book, and my only grouse and my complaint was that my book wasn’t in the bibliography. He was there ages ago and she has done her thesis there. Krishan doesn’t know half of what his daughter knows about Kashmir.’’The Twitter handle which went public with this said that they were a group of intellectuals and activists in the Valley who didn’t want to go public, fearing a backlash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/book-on-kashmir-by-r-aw-officer-s-daughter-fans-furore-101631816410161.html
17-09-2021||India||India raises concerns over pro-Khalistan groups in US ahead of Modi visit||India on Thursday expressed concern over a reported increase in activities by Pakistan-backed Khalistani separatist groups from US soil ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Washington for several crucial meetings next week. Ensuring security for the Prime Minister and his delegation is an important issue, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a weekly news briefing, in response to questions on reports that a banned Khalistani group plans to organise protests in Washington and New York during Modi’s visit. “I do not know about the specific call given by the banned outfit. I am not going to comment on that. But we certainly take a lot of interest in ensuring the security of the Prime Minister and his delegation,” he said. Pointing to a new report by the think tank Hudson Institute about the spike in activities of Khalistani groups with apparent backing from Islamabad, Bagchi said this reflects Pakistan’s efforts to undertake activities against India from US soil. “We convey and share (this) with the host country – in this case, the US. If the organisation is banned, it should not be undertaking these kinds of activities,” he added. The issue was less about protests and more about security, Bagchi said. The organisations behind the protests had “problems in the past in terms of terrorist activities”, he said, without going into details. The Hudson Institute’s report makes it clear that Pakistan was continuing with its efforts to carry out anti-India activities, including terrorism. “I do hope authorities in the US will see that and understand the risks that this kind of activity poses for countries that have a shared vision against terrorism and violence,” Bagchi said. The think tank’s report said Pakistan-backed Khalistani groups, which are proscribed by India, are quietly gaining ground in the US and the American administration has been indifferent to appeals made by New Delhi to curb their operations. US-based Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) was banned by India in 2019 for its alleged anti-national activities. Modi will be in the US next week to participate in the maiden in-person summit of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad in Washington on September 24 and to address the UN General Assembly the following day. He is also expected to hold bilateral meetings with the leaders of Quad states – Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and US President Joe Biden. The Quad Summit is expected to focus on the situation in Afghanistan, measures to boost the grouping’s ambitious vaccine partnership that seeks to distribute one billion doses of anti-Covid-19 shots across the Indo-Pacific and China’s assertive actions across the region. The Biden administration is hosting the Quad Summit to send a signal that it remains a key player on the global stage, especially after widespread criticism of its handling of the chaotic withdrawal from Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-raises-concerns-over-pro-khalistan-groups-in-us-ahead-of-modi-visit-101631816356279.html
17-09-2021||India||IT rules rob press of its freedom: HC||The Centre’s new Information Technology (IT) Rules could rob the media of its independence and the fourth pillar of the democracy may cease to exist, judges of the Madras high court said as they ordered on Thursday a stay on parts of the government’s new regulations, and restrained it from taking action against social media companies for now. The IT Rules, notified in February, contain a host of new directions and liabilities for social media companies (also known as intermediaries), news websites and streaming content providers (also known as OTT services) such as Netflix and Amazon Prime. On Thursday, the Madras high court became the third appellate court in the country to stall operations of rules pertaining to the last two – particularly two clauses contained under Rule 9 – subclauses 1 and 3. It also said action under Rule 3 and Rule 7, which deals with social media companies and their safe harbour status, cannot be taken until it decides on the petitions.The court was hearing two petitions – one filed by Carnatic music vocalist TM Krishna and another by a set of 13 news websites as part of the Digital News Publishers Association (DNPA). “Prima facie, there is substance to the petitioner’s grievance that the oversight mechanism to control the media by (the) government may rob the media of its independence, and the fourth pillar, so to say, of democracy may not at all be there,” the court of first bench of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice PD Audikesavalu said, while staying the sub rules.Sub rule 1 requires digital publishers to adhere to a code of ethics while sub rule 3 provides for a three-tier regulatory mechanism that is ultimately headed by the government. On July 9, the Kerala high court said the new rules appear to give “excessive powers” to “unreasonably and impermissibly” restrict the freedom of speech and expression of the media, and on August 15, a Bombay high court bench said these particular provisions were an intrusion into the rights to free speech and beyond the scope of the main law under which the rules have been framed, the Information Technology Act, 2000.While the operation of these sections virtually amounted to have been put into suspension with the second order – the one by the Bombay high court on August 15 – the new order now covers more ground as it restrains the Centre from taking action by invoking either Rule 3 or Rule 7. Rule 3 relates to the due diligence that social media intermediaries will need to carry out by ensuring certain types of content, such as those that are defamatory or false, do not stay on their platforms, while Rule 7 lays down the government’s power to remove what is known as safe harbour provisions. Safe harbour provisions essentially mean social media companies will not be liable for what users post on their platform.On this, the court referred to the 2015 Supreme Court order (in the Shreya Singhal vs Union of India) and drew on the top court’s observation that “it would be very difficult for intermediaries like Google, Facebook etc. to act when millions of requests are made and the intermediary is then to judge as to which of such requests are legitimate and which are not”. The Madras high court agreed with the present petitions that even though the petitions have not been brought by hosts of website platforms, social media platforms “are used by one and sundry and there is a genuine apprehension that a wink or a nod from appropriate quarters may result in the platform being inaccessible to a citizen”.According to the court, action invoking either of these rules will be “subject to the results of writ petitions”.The judges in their order also note a second reason for passing a fresh order after the Bombay high court stay: “...there may have been no need to pass an independent order. However, it is submitted on behalf of the petitioners that notwithstanding the order passed by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay, which ought to have a pan-India effect, notices have been issued to the petitioners subsequently requiring the petitioners to adhere to, inter alia, the said Rules and Rule 9 thereof.” The additional solicitor general, R Sankaranarayanan, representing the Union government agreed during the hearing that it would have a pan-India effect. Presently, there are a total of 19 writ petitions pending across high courts and each emanate out of a unique set of circumstances, the Union ministry of electronics and information technology (Meity) told the Madras high court on August 25. On Thursday, Meity spokesperson did not respond to requests for a comment.The ministry has separately moved the Supreme Court asking for all these petitions to be transferred to the top court. On September 3, the Supreme Court ordered for the government’s petition to be listed six weeks later.Experts welcomed Thursday’s order. “This is the right legal and constitutional position taken by both courts,” said Gurshabad Grover, senior researcher at Centre for Internet Society. “If you look at the intermediary guidelines, and the digital media code were notified under sections 69A and 79 of the IT Act, 2000, both of them were applicable to what the IT Act called intermediaries. Whereas if we look at Rule 9, we will see that it is applicable to digital news publishers and online curated content platforms. The parent provisions were never meant to regulate these entities. Therefore, it is clearly a violation of both the power of delegated legislation given to the central government and the separation of powers. Because without a parent law that authorises this, the executive should not be regulating these entities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-rules-rob-press-of-its-freedom-hc-101631816349937.html
17-09-2021||India||Blood donation camp to free ration: BJP’s mega plans for PM’s birthday||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is planning a mega public outreach to mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 71st birthday on Friday, people familiar with the matter said on Thursday. The 20-day mega campaign, titled ‘Seva aur Samarpan Abhiyan’, will be held between September 17 and October 7.To mark the special occasion, the party high command has instructed the cadre to achieve the milestone of delivering 15 million vaccines in a single day, organise health and blood donation camps, distribute rations to the poor and e-auction the gifts and mementoes received by the PM. On Friday, BJP president JP Nadda will also inaugurate a photo exhibition to mark the completion of 20 years of Modi’s political journey.Since PM Modi assumed office in 2014, the BJP has been celebrating his birthday as ‘Seva Diwas’ (Service Day) and organises welfare activities across the country for a week, but this time it has been extended to 20 days as he is completing his two decades in public office.On Thursday, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya called for a major push to the vaccination drive on Friday, saying it would be the perfect gift for Modi on his birthday. “Tomorrow is the birthday of our beloved prime minister, let’s do #VaccineSeva by helping all unvaccinated people including their loved ones, family members and all sections of the society by getting them vaccinated. This would be a birthday gift for the prime minister,” he said in a tweet in Hindi.According to news agency PTI, as part of the campaign, over 140 million ration bags with Modi’s pictures will be distributed among the needy and about 50 million BJP booth workers will send Modi postcards highlighting their commitment to public service.The cadre has also been tasked with encouraging at least 10 people to take the vaccine. “The workers have been asked to address vaccine hesitancy and ensure people in their respective areas are vaccinated,” a  BJP functionary, who asked not to be named, told HT.As part of the campaign, the ministry of culture has organised an e-auction of gifts and mementoes received by the PM. “The memorabilia includes sports gear and equipment of the medal-winning Olympians and Paralympians, a replica of the Ayodhya Ram Mandir, Char Dham, Rudraksh Convention Centre, models, sculptures, paintings, angavastras among others,” the ministry said in a statement.All proceeds from the e-auction will go to the Namami Gange Mission, which aims to conserve and rejuvenate Ganga.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/blood-donation-camp-to-free-ration-bjp-s-mega-plans-for-pm-s-birthday-101631816291623.html
17-09-2021||India||100 dead as fever grips 5 states, MP worst-affected||Nearly 100 people have died after suffering high fever across five states in north and eastern India over the past month, officials said on Wednesday, with Madhya Pradesh becoming the latest state to get afflicted with 3,000 cases and six suspected deaths.
17-09-2021||India||Hyderabad rape-murder accused found dead on train tracks||A 30-year-old man suspected of raping and murdering a six-year-old tribal girl in Hyderabad was found dead on railways tracks in Telangana’s Jangaon district, about 25km from Warangal town, on Thursday morning, police said. Briefing reporters, Warangal commissioner of police Tarun Joshi said the mutilated body of the accused was found on tracks near Pamunuru village around 8.45am, minutes after the Bhubaneswar-Secunderabad Konark Express passed through the route. He said it appeared to be a case of suicide. “Some railway workers found the man walking on the track and tried to alert him but he did not listen. By the time they reached out to him, the speeding train had run over him, killing him on the spot,” Joshi said.Railway workers informed the police who rushed to the spot. “The face was badly mutilated but we could identify him as the man who was accused in the rape and murder of the girl in Hyderabad last week, with the help of the tattoos on his hands,” the police commissioner said.A search for the accused was on since September 9 when Hyderabad Police found the body of the minor girl in his room at Saidabad following a missing complaint by her parents. The postmortem report later revealed that the girl was brutally raped and strangled to death. On Wednesday, Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar announced a cash reward of ₹10 lakh for information related to the accused, amid protests by locals and an “encounter” threat by Telangana labour minister Ch Malla Reddy. Reddy said on Tuesday the accused in the case would be caught and that there should be an “encounter”, a euphemism for extrajudicial killing. “There is no question of leaving him,” Reddy said at a party meeting last week.Local residents demanded that the accused be killed in an encounter. In 2019, a huge uproar had erupted over the encounter killing of four accused in the gang-rape and murder of a veterinarian in Hyderabad. In August this year, the Supreme Court gave another six months to a three-member inquiry commission set up to probe the circumstances leading to the encounter.On Thursday, even though police called it a case of suicide, the deceased’s family claimed that the man was killed in an encounter. His mother told reporters in her village in Nalgonda district that her son was caught by police three days ago and after subjecting him to torture, they forced him to jump in front of a running train. “The police had detained me and my daughter-in-law for three days but nobody came to us for questioning. On Wednesday, suddenly, senior officials came to us and asked us some questions. They told us that my son had not been traced yet. But I overheard police officials saying that they had orders from higher-ups to kill him in an encounter. They let us off at around 10pm last night and this morning, we were told that he had died by suicide,” she alleged. Making similar allegations, the accused’s wife said: “The police took my signature on a blank paper but refused to tell me the reason for the same.” The accused was booked for rape and murder, besides under sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012. As many as 15 special teams were constituted to track him, police said. Based on inputs from colony residents, police had widely circulated the identification marks of the accused, particularly the tattoos on his hand. The deceased was known to frequently sleep in bus stands and pavements, police said. According to Hyderabad Police, the girl belonged to Nalgonda district and was staying at Saidabad for the past few years. Her father is an auto driver. Warangal town assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Giri Kumar said the body was shifted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) government hospital for a postmortem examination in the presence of railway police. “We have brought the brothers-in-law of the deceased from his native village in Suryapet district who identified him based on the tattoos on his hand, his height and the clothes he was wearing. We shall shift the body to his village soon and cooperate with Hyderabad Police in further investigation,” the ACP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-rape-murder-accused-found-dead-on-train-tracks-101631816049901.html
17-09-2021||India||SC raps Centre, NCLAT chief to be reinstated||The Supreme Court on Thursday forced the Union government to reinstate the acting chairperson of the national company law appellate tribunal (NCLAT) for another four days while sending the man currently holding this position on leave till September 20.In a dramatic turn of events, the government was nudged to issue a fresh appointment letter to justice Ashok Iqbal Singh Cheema, who was sent off hurriedly on September 11 instead of September 20, when he would have reached the retirement age of 67. The top court rejected the government’s suggestion that Cheema be retained as NCLAT’s acting chairperson “only on paper”.At the core of the matter is a legal battle surrounding a recent legislation on appointments to tribunals that overwrites several judgments of the apex court.Justice M Venugopal, who was appointed the acting chairperson of NCLAT by the government after unseating justice Cheema, will be sent on leave till September 20, and he will come back as the acting chairperson once again on September 21.A bench, led by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, observed that it is the government that is responsible for such an “awkward situation” and that any more insistence on its authority to pass such orders by citing the 2021 Tribunal Reforms Act would compel the court to suo motu (on its own motion) stay the new legislation.“Your (government’s) officers cannot wake up at seven in the morning and decide to throw out anyone from the tribunal...if the government thinks it can do whatever it likes then we will also have to do something...we will suo motu stay your legislation,” the bench, which also included justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli told attorney general (AG) KK Venugopal.The court was hearing justice Cheema’s petition in which the retired judge questioned the manner in which he was removed on September 11 by issuing a letter when he was due to retire on September 20.On Wednesday, too, the top court reproached the Centre while hearing a bunch of cases relating to vacancies across the tribunals and a challenge to the Tribunal Reforms Bill, which was passed by both the Houses in the recent monsoon session of Parliament. Observing that it is “very, very unhappy”, the court on Wednesday said that in a democratic country governed by the rule of law, the government cannot assert its authority to reject the names recommended by selection committees, headed by the judges of the top court, for appointments to various tribunals.When the hearing on Justice Cheema’s petition commenced on Thursday, Venugopal, representing the Centre, said that the government is willing to consider justice Cheema’s “deemed continuance” till September 20 and he will be treated to have retired on September 20 but that this would only be “on paper”.“He will be given all the benefits but he cannot continue since we have already appointed another acting chairperson. How can we remove that person? This gentleman (Cheema) will be deemed to continue on his post only on paper. We cannot put him back. It will be very awkward,” the AG told the bench.But the bench was unimpressed with this submission. “The way you removed him was also very awkward. And what do you mean by ‘only on paper’. Once he is allowed to continue, all consequential benefits will have to follow. This gentleman has five judgments to deliver and you suddenly removed him,” it told Venugopal.This made the AG assert that the letter to remove justice Cheema was written under the 2021 Act which has overwritten the previous judgments of the Supreme Court. “The new Act gives such authority to the government,” added the law officer.“Then, we will suo motu stay your 2021 legislation,” retorted the bench while giving AG some time to consult the officers in the government and revert.Around 15 minutes later, when Venugopal returned, he conceded. “I have taken instructions in the matter that he (Cheema) can be reinstated for delivering judgments and the other gentleman can go on leave.”The court then commended Venugopal’s efforts and recorded his undertaking in its order that justice Cheema will be reinstated till September 20 with all consequential benefits and the incumbent acting chairperson shall go on leave during this period.On Wednesday, the apex court took an adverse view of the government’s argument that it had the authority to select only a few names or even reject all the names recommended by the selection committees, which are headed by the judges of the top court.“If the government has the last laugh, what is the sanctity of the selections made by us after conducting interviews?... We are very, very unhappy with the way in which things are going on and how the government has been acting,” a special bench, comprising CJI Ramana, justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao, told the AG on Wednesday.“You cannot deny access to justice. How can people be left in the lurch? This is the problem everywhere. We are waiting very patiently. You have to make appointments to the tribunals...tell your government,” said the bench, giving the government two weeks to make appointments to the tribunals and specify wherever appointments cannot be made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-raps-centre-nclat-chief-to-be-reinstated-101631815809903.html
17-09-2021||India||No ministers from ex-CM Rupani’s term part of Gujarat cabinet||Gandhinagar: Gujarat chief minister Bhupendra Patel inducted 24 ministers, of which 21 were new faces, on Thursday, dropping all ministers from the previous Vijay Rupani-led administration, three days after taking charge in a surprise change of guard.At a low-key ceremony at Raj Bhavan in Gandhinagar, governor Acharya Devvrat administered oath to 24 ministers -- 10 cabinet members and 14 ministers of state. Of this, three legislators held portfolios in previous Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) governments, and the rest are first-time ministers.“Congratulations to all p[arty colleagues who have taken oath as ministers in the Gujarat government,” tweeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Patel, who is a first-time MLA, retained key portfolios and didn’t name a deputy. Rupani’s deputy, Nitin Patel, was also dropped. “It is unprecedented in the country’s history that the entire Cabinet was dropped, but if the party leadership has decided they will have their logic,” Nitin Patel told reporters after the ceremony.The 59-year-old chief minister, a lawmaker from Ahmedabad hailing from the influential Patidar community, was named as the new chief minister on Monday after Rupani resigned a little over a year before assemble elections are to be held. This was the fourth chief minister changed by the BJP this year, and experts blamed Rupani’s handling of the pandemic and the lack of a strong base for his resignation. Patel took oath on Sunday but no other ministers were named. A senior BJP leader said on condition of anonymity that Patel faced problems while implementing the no-repeat theory envisaged by Prime Minister Modi and home minister Amit Shah for Gujarat. On Wednesday, the swearing-in ceremony had to be postponed after protests and internal dissent.The new CM inducted legislators from all the regions and key castes, and balanced young leaders with experienced MLAs. There are three women on the list. Equal representation has been given to central and south Gujarat -- two regions that earlier got overshadowed by Saurashtra and North Gujarat, which dominate the state’s politics.Saurashtra and Kutch, which send the maximum 54 MLAs got seven ministers; south Gujarat, represented by state BJP president CR Paatil and comprising 20 seats, also got seven. Patel kept crucial departments, including home, with himself. He will also oversee the general administration department, information, industries, mines and minerals, capital projects, urban development, urban housing and Narmada and ports departments.Harsh Sanghvi, the 36-year-old lawmaker from Majura constituency, was named minister of state for home. Kanu Desai, the 70-year-old MLA from Pardi, was given the finance portfolio. Purnesh Modi from Surat West will handle road transport and building, apart from tourism and pilgrimage development. Former state BJP president, Jitubhai Vaghani, is the new education minister, and Rishikesh Patel will handle health and water resources. Raghavji Patel, who was a minister in the Anandiben Patel cabinet, will handle agriculture and animal husbandry.The council comprises six ministers from the Patidar community and other backward classes each, four from the scheduled tribes, three from the scheduled castes, two each from the Brahmins and the Kshatriyas, and one from the Jain community.Political expert Ghanshyam Shah said, “Changing faces irrespective of experience and competence is Narendra Modi’s old style. He started this in 2007 with a message that it is he who counts at the end of the day.” Political analyst Vidyut Joshi said the BJP was trying to create a balancing act by strengthening central and south Gujarat, “Charismatic personalities disrupt organisational structures and system. This is what Modi has done. The new batch of ministers are young for sure but there is no guarantee of their competence vis-a-vis those who have gone out,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-ministers-from-ex-cm-rupani-s-term-part-of-gujarat-cabinet-101631815575567.html
17-09-2021||India||India to have key strategic pavilion at Dubai Expo 2020, says UAE envoy||India will have one of the most strategic pavilions at the Dubai Expo 2020, which will aim to foster solutions for the world’s biggest challenges, United Arab Emirates (UAE) ambassador Ahmed AlBanna said on Thursday.The Indian pavilion is crucial, both in terms of location and size, for the expo that is expected to draw 25 million visitors, the envoy told a media briefing. Each Indian state will be given an opportunity to showcase its economy and culture at the pavilion.The expo, which was postponed for a year because of the Covid-19 pandemic, will begin on October 1 and run till March 31, 2022. The Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci) will supervise the Indian pavilion, which will be retained and run by the Indian government even after the expo.The theme for the expo is “Connecting minds, creating the future”, and the event has the subthemes of opportunity, mobility and sustainability. The subthemes are aimed at unlocking the potential of communities to shape the future, creating smarter and more productive movement of people, goods and ideas, and living in balance with the world.AlBanna said the UAE eased Covid-19-related travel restrictions on all Indian nationals holding visit, tourist or work visas about two weeks ago. A mechanism has also been created for expediting the issuance of visas of all categories, he said.The envoy highlighted the importance of cooperation between India and the UAE in key sectors such as IT, education and health care for shaping the future of both countries. These factors are also important to create the right workforce in the aftermath of the pandemic, he said.AlBanna said the expo will also boost a key goal of the UAE and India – boosting the traditional people-to-people interactions between the two countries.Ficci secretary general Dilip Chenoy said India will have a strong participation in the 11 theme weeks of the expo that will focus on urban development, water, space, tolerance and inclusivity, climate and biodiversity, and health.AlBanna said Indian leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, have made a strong commitment to the success of the expo. Modi conveyed his best wishes for the expo during a phone conversation with UAE Crown Prince Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.Two-time Oscar-winning composer AR Rahman will mentor and creatively lead the Firdaus Women’s Orchestra and put his name to a studio at the expo site. The studio will remain post the event to boost Dubai’s credentials as an international music hub.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-have-key-strategic-pavilion-at-dubai-expo-2020-says-uae-envoy-101631814856302.html
17-09-2021||India||Adults can choose their partner irrespective of religion: Allahabad HC||The Allahabad high court on Thursday reiterated that two adults have the right to choose their matrimonial partner irrespective of the religion professed by them while granting protection to an interfaith couple.The bench, comprising justice Manoj Kumar Gupta and justice Deepak Verma, passed the order while hearing a petition filed by a Muslim woman, and her Hindu partner.The two approached the high court claiming that there is a threat to their lives. The court took note of the fact that both the petitioners are major, aged 19 and 24 years. The court granted protection to the interfaith couple and said that not even their parents can object to their relationship.The bench said, “It cannot be disputed that two adults have the right of choice of their matrimonial partner irrespective of the religion professed by them. As the present petition is a joint petition by the two individuals who claim to be in love with each other and are major, therefore, in our considered opinion, nobody, not even their parents, could object to their relationship.”The court directed the police authorities to ensure that the petitioners are not subjected to any harassment by the father of the girl or by any other person in connection with their relationship with each other.The court proceeded to grant them protection while clarifying that the order is not any final opinion regarding the age of the petitioners as the findings are only prima facie in nature for the purposes of deciding the issue regarding protection of the life of the petitioners.The petitioner submitted that she had also filed an application for conversion from Islam to Hinduism.On the said application, the district magistrate had called for a report from the police station concerned. As per the report, the boy’s father is opposed to the marriage though his mother is ready for the same. Both parents of Hasan are opposed to the marriage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adults-can-choose-their-partner-irrespective-of-religion-allahabad-hc-101631814309062.html
17-09-2021||India||Bhanwari Devi: Justice eluded her, but she stands resolute for others||Thin and frail and in her early sixties, Bhanwari Devi sits, an orange ghunghat covering her head, her forehead furrowed. The last year has not been kind to her. As her hands sprinkle water on a buffalo calf in the courtyard of her home in the village of Bhateri in Rajasthan, she talks of her husband who died last year.Her body is racked by diabetes, and the loss of her companion has brought the idea of mortality closer. And yet, Devi betrays no weakness, her movements quick and decisive.For the last three decades, she has fought a case against five local men for rape, assault and harassment. Her legal battle has birthed India’s sexual harassment protection laws for women, and forms the backbone of the landmark Vishakha guidelines for workplaces laid down by the Supreme Court in 1997.Yet, her case has not resulted in convictions, underlining the problems underprivileged women face in legal battles, deeply entrenched patriarchal attitudes in the countryside, and the dangers faced by female activists in trying to change those mind sets.But her refusal to bow has given sustenance to women’s movements, mitigated child marriages in rural Rajasthan and changed the course of Indian law.Her voice is still fierce, a steely determination in her eyes. “Akeli ke liye ladi thi kya? Pure desh ke liye ladi thi. Mujhe to nyay nahi mila magar meri bahan betiyo ko to milega. (Did I fight for myself? I fought for the entire country. I did not get justice but my sisters and daughters will get),” said Devi.The incident In May 1992, Devi was a “saathin”, an employee of the Rajasthan government’s women and child department, mandated to spread awareness about hygiene and family planning, education for girls, and campaign against female foeticide, infanticide, dowry and child marriages in the villages. So, when Devi got wind that a nine-month-old girl was being married off to an infant, a practice rampant at the time, all she did was her job. She tried to talk the families out of it.They refused to relent. Devi is a Kumhar, a caste listed as other backward class (OBC) in Rajasthan, largely engaged in pottery. The families were Gujjar, also OBC, but the divide and hostility in the village was stark. Having failed to make an impression on the families, Devi’s seniors handed over a list of such “bal vivaahs”(child marriages) taking place on the auspicious Akha Teej festival on May 5, 1992 to the district collector of Jaipur. On the day, the local police and the sub divisional magistrate arrived in Bhateri, 45km from the state capital, to stop the marriage. Despite this intervention, the infants were married -- just on the terrace of another home, instead of the one it was originally planned on.The Gujjars were livid that Devi had spoken out of turn. They began a boycott. People were asked not to buy the pots that she made, or the milk that she sold. Her husband was attacked, and Devi and her four children were threatened. On September 22, when Devi and her husband had gone to the fields to get fresh fodder for their cattle, they were allegedly accosted by five men. Two caught held on to her husband, and three others allegedly gang raped her. The act was meant to strike fear into Devi’s heart, and send a message to the village that such insubordination was unacceptable.But Devi did the unthinkable – especially in a village with clear power hierarchies. She fought. She filed a case.The fightThe FIR took more than a day, the medical examination 52 hours. As women’s organisations coalesced around her cause, the case was transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). In September 1993, a charge sheet was filed, and by October 1994, the five men had been arrested and charged with harassment, assault, conspiracy and gang rape.For a time, there seemed to be some hope for justice. In December 1993, while denying the five bail, the Rajasthan high court said that it was “convinced” Devi was gang raped for attempting to “stop the marriage” of the daughter of one of the accused.But in November 1995 when the Jaipurtrial court issued its order, it acquitted the five accused on the grounds that men from different castes could not be involved in rape, that two of the accused, over 60 years old, were too old to be involved in the act, and that it was impossible for rape to happen if her husband was present.The acquittal set off another round of protests in Rajasthan, spreading as far as Delhi. As women rights activists made their way to Bhateri, worried for her safety, Devi shooed them away, asking them to focus on justice. She filed an appeal against the judgment in the Rajasthan high court in 1995. Twenty-six years since, the case has yet to be taken up in earnest.Simultaneously though, four NGOs working on women’s rights, Vishakha, Women’s Rehabilitation Group from Rajasthan, and Jagori and Kali for Women from Delhi, petitioned the Supreme Court. Their argument was that Devi was an employee of the Rajasthan government discharging her duties, and suffered the assault in the workplace, with laws wholly inadequate in dealing with the crime.In 1997, in a historic judgment, the Supreme Court detailed the country’s first guidelines for sexual harassment in the workplace, becoming part of common parlance as the “Vishakha guidelines”, the precursor to the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. Devi may have lost her own battle. But she had struck a blow for all of India’s working women.The falloutForty-five kilometres from Jaipur, and 10km off the Agra-Delhi National Highway, Bhateri is a cluster of 1,200 residents. The Bairwas, a Dalit community, have a considerable population, but Gujjars and Meenas live here too, and exert considerable influence. The Kumhars are a small minority. Everyone either farms, or works in Jaipur. The nearest health centre is in Lawan, 5km away, or at Banskho, 15km away.The village has been home all of Devi’s life but there was a time she contemplated leaving. In the years after the gang rape, Devi became a national icon. She was awarded a sum of ₹25,000 for her bravery by Prime Minister Narasimha Rao, travelled to Beijing in 1994 to be part of the UN’s Fourth World Conference for Women, and won the Neerja Bhanot Memorial Award for her “extraordinary courage, conviction and commitment”. In 2002, chief minister Ashok Gehlot announced a grant of ₹40,000 for the construction of a house for her.And yet, Devi’s acceptance within her own community and village, despite being a victim, was hard to come by. The money she received from Rao, she gave to her brothers, who arranged a Kumhar Mahapanchayat, designed to end her boycott. Twenty-nine years later, in the courtyard of her government aid funded home, Devi has not an ounce of regret at the act that started it all. Her voice incredulous, she asked, “Should I not have intervened? The child was nine months old. Nine months. It was my job,” she said.There is perhaps another reason that Devi has kept going, despite personal tribulations. She has seen Bhateri, particularly in its attitudes towards caste and women, change before her eyes. Even until eight months ago, Devi continued to work as a “saathin” in Bhateri, and now lives off a government pension. “In all, I myself must have stopped twelve to fifteen child marriages. Even now, despite no longer working as a saathin, I will continue to keep an eye out, and intervene wherever possible,” Devi said.The changeIt’s 8am, and in front of Devi’s courtyard, a gaggle of young girls in school uniforms chatter together as they make their way to the senior secondary school in the village. There is no higher education in Bhateri yet, the closest institutions in Dausa or Jaipur, but one battle at a time. Pointing at the group of girls, Devi said, “A huge change has come for girls. Not a single girl used to go to school in my days but today you can see for yourself how things have changed.”Devi believes her struggle has found slow acceptance within the community, the outrage and attention sparked by her case putting a spotlight on the issue of caste and child marriage in Rajasthan, prompting government intervention and a focus on education.“Certainly, the mind sets of people have changed, because of my struggle, education and the spread of awareness. Now, even intercaste marriages are taking place as youngsters are educated and are able to take their own decisions,” Devi said.In his home close by, sarpanch Vedraj Bairwa says the village administration now actively looks out to prevent any child marriages. Like many others, he says he was not in the village 29 years ago, and was in Delhi for work. “In 1992, after the incident, Devi raised these issues, and that too curbed these practices. People began to fear the administration. Awareness has spread, and if parents want to force them, they resist. Moreover, I, and other officials, all keep an eye out when marriages take place to check if child marriages are taking place.”Additional director general of police, Ravi Prakash Meharda, says that much progress has been made since 1992, particularly on two fronts, the position of women and their representation. “Initially, when women were elected in panchayat polls, it was said that their fathers, brothers or husbands were running the show. Now there is much greater independence, and women are coming into their own as public representatives,” Meharda said.Activist and co-founder of Vishakha, Kavita Srivastava, says Devi’s case was a turning point in the anti-rape movement in India, and an example of how a non violent struggle can continue over three decades.“She grew out of the victim hood and became an inspiration. We broke the silence on rape and the denial of rape, and ignited an anti-rape struggle in Rajasthan and all over the country. For the first time, there was rehabilitation and relief money. She went abroad and represented India,” she said.Srivastava however still believes that the system has completely denied Devi her personal justice. “Her husband died waiting. The question should be asked of the judicial system. It’s not about winning or losing a case …It’s about how a system completely denies you justice,” Srivastava said.Back in Bhateri, Devi’s concern for the future, and her continuing quest for justice, is less about herself, and more about her four children. But the fear will not debilitate her. “I will not sit silently and will continue to fight till my last breath,” she said. Nearly three decades have passed, and four of the five accused have breathed their last. “Yaha nyaya nahi mila, Bhagwan ki adalat mein toh milega.(I may not have got justice here, but they will be tried in God’s court),” Devi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhanwari-devi-justice-eluded-her-but-she-stands-resolute-for-others-101631811309362.html
17-09-2021||India||Himachal Pradesh leads the country, as vax pace maintains momentum||On September 16, India’s grand vaccination drive completed eight months. Till Thursday evening, the country administered over 771 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, with six out of every 10 adults (61.9%) in the country having received at least one jab, and a little over two out of 10 (20.2%) having been fully vaccinated.Three states (Himachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Goa) and four Union territories (Ladakh, Lakshadweep, Chandigarh, and Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu) have announced in the past two weeks that they have administered first doses to their entire populations.A look at how different states are performing, and the road ahead for the country’s vaccination drive.1. National vaccination drive off peak levels, but pace remains highIndia’s pace of vaccination, which has been extremely patchy in the past, is currently going through one of its finest phases. In the past week, an average of 7 million daily doses has been administered across the country every day, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard. While this is a dip from the peak vaccination rate (for the week ended September 1, the seven-day average of daily doses touched a peak of 8.5 million doses), it is still better than anything seen till late August. One concern is that over the past week this number has been steadily dropping.2. Himachal Pradesh leads in all metrics, with Kerala and Uttarakhand not far behindHimachal Pradesh, which was India’s first state to cover its entire adult population with single doses on August 29, continues to lead the country in key vaccination metrics – population covered with at least one dose, and proportion of adults fully vaccinated. Around 63.7% of all adults in the state are partially vaccinated, while another 37.8% fully vaccinated. This translates into nearly 100% of the state’s estimated adult population (according to the Census of India’s National Commission on Population) having received at least one dose. To be sure, the coverage appears to exceed 100% because the adult population figures are projected estimates, and may be off by small margins in some regions.In overall coverage, Uttarakhand is at the second spot with nearly 57.1% of the state’s adults partially vaccinated and 31.1% having received both doses of the vaccine – translating to around 88.2% of adults receiving at least one jab. Kerala, with 87.2% of adults receiving jabs, has the third highest overall coverage of population among states for which adult population projections were available. Interestingly, the state ranks second only to Himachal Pradesh in proportion of adults fully vaccinated – 35.4%. The numbers from the southern state are significant especially because it has been a hotspot over the past few months, accounting for, on some days, in excess of 60% of the country’s daily case total. However, the seven-day average of new infections in the state has now been consistently dropping over the past 10 days.Gujarat, another large state, has covered 79.2% of its adults with at least a single dose and 30% are fully vaccinated. With 78% of adults having been jabbed, Madhya Pradesh wraps up the country’s Top 5 by overall coverage. The state, however, lags behind the national average in terms of second dose coverage (only 19.2% of MP’s adults are fully vaccinated), data shows. To be sure, disaggregated population projections are not available for the north-eastern states other than Assam, so they have been grouped together under a single category – “North-east excluding Assam”. This group is marginally ahead of the national average in overall coverage (64.6%), but fares among the best regions in the country in proportion of population fully vaccinated (27.7%).At the other end of the spectrum, West Bengal has the lowest proportion of adults covered by a single dose in the country at 47.7%. It is followed by Jharkhand (49.3%), Uttar Pradesh (50.9%), Bihar (51.8%) and Telangana (53%), rounding off the bottom five. When the proportion of people fully vaccinated in taken into account, West Bengal (19.5% adults having received both jabs) drops out of the bottom five. Uttar Pradesh (10.5% adults fully vaccinated) is the lowest in the country, followed by Bihar (11.3%), Jharkhand (13.4%), Tamil Nadu (14.6%) and Assam (16.8%).3. The states still maintaining an impressive paceAnother key statistic to monitor is the rate of vaccinations at the state-level. For this too, daily dose administration data is seen against a region’s population to give states of varying population a common comparison base. This is particularly interesting statistic to map for regions that have high overall coverage, because if there is vaccine hesitancy among some sections of the population, then it should reflect in a drop in numbers here.In the past month, among India’s 10 states with best overall coverage, Kerala is again performing well – on average the state (despite its third highest overall coverage) has administered 9,861 doses per million adults every day, the highest in India. In second spot is Haryana (10th highest overall coverage) with 9,736 new doses administered per million adults per day. It is followed by Madhya Pradesh (fifth highest coverage; 9,144 doses per million) and Uttarakhand (third place overall, 9,086 doses).This analysis shows that Kerala in particular, and Uttarakhand to some extent are states where the pace continues to be high despite a large proportion of adults already jabbed. For context, Himachal Pradesh is on the last spot in this metric (6,320 daily doses per million in the past month), but that is to be expected as the state is only giving second shots.4. What's needed to cover all adults by end-DecemberWhile the pace of the drive has seen improvement, particularly from the low rates seen in previous months, data shows that there is still room for progress if India wants to achieve its stated target of vaccinating its entire adult population of 940 million by the end of 2021, a commitment the government has made in a submission to the Supreme Court. In total, India needed to administer around 1.88 billion doses by the end of the year to meet this target. Since 765 million of these have already been administered, that leaves around 1.115 billion doses to be administered in the remaining 107 days in the year, or 10.4 million doses every single day till December 31. While the country has come close to matching (even exceeding) this required rate on a few days it has not been able to do so on a daily basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-pradesh-leads-the-country-as-vax-pace-maintains-momentum-101631801708176.html
17-09-2021||India||Assam to destroy nearly 2,500 rhino horns; to preserve few as exhibits||The Assam cabinet on Thursday decided to destroy over 2,000 rhino horns which have been preserved in government treasuries across the state during the past four decades. The horns, which were seized from poachers and traders of animal parts or recovered from dead rhinos in the state’s national parks and wildlife sanctuaries from 1979 till now, are stored in 12 district treasuries at present. “At present, we have 2,623 such horns. Of these, 50 are associated with pending court cases (and can’t be destroyed). Of the rest, 94 others will be preserved for exhibition or educational purposes. The cabinet today decided that the remaining 2,479 horns will be destroyed,” forest and environment minister Parimal Suklabaidya said in Guwahati. Also Read | Assam teen missing since Sunday found dead; family says she was gang-raped by 6“In past weeks, experts have been verifying the horns using scientific methods. Ninety-four horns will be kept at a natural history museum to be set up near Kaziranga National Park, the cabinet decided. The museum will also have other wildlife exhibits from Assam,” he said. HT had reported last month that the forest and environment department is planning to destroy nearly 2,500 rhino horns. Though no date for destroying the horns have been announced yet, a formal event is expected on September 22, which is celebrated as World Rhino Day. Though there is no scientific basis, rhino horns are part of traditional medicine in some Asian countries such as China and Vietnam. Each horn, which is made up keratin (found in hair, nails), is valued over thousands of US dollars, leading to rampant killing of rhinos in Asia and Africa. Assam is home to the world’s largest population of one-horned rhinos. According to a 2018 census, there are nearly 2,650 rhinos in the state with around 2,400 of them concentrated in Kaziranga National Park. Rhinos are listed in Schedule 1 of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 as an endangered animal and there is an international ban on trade of rhino horns under CITES (Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna). Wildlife experts have welcomed the government’s move to destroy the horns as they believe preserving them might send the message that they are indeed very valuable, which in turn could lead to more poaching of rhinos. “Scientifically, rhino horns don’t have any value, but it has a price in some markets based on superstitions about its medicinal properties. If we preserve them, it will convey the message that we believe in such superstitions. The horns stored in Assam should be destroyed,” Rathin Barman, joint director, Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-to-destroy-nearly-2-500-rhino-horns-to-preserve-few-as-exhibits-101631785567576.html
17-09-2021||India||Uttarakhand HC lifts stay on Char Dham yatra; caps number of daily pilgrims||The Uttarakhand high court on Thursday lifted its June 28 stay on the Char Dham yatra and directed the state government to conduct the annual pilgrimage with strict adherence to Covid-19 guidelines. The yatra will be open to all. Allowing the resumption of the yatra, a division bench of the court comprising chief justice RS Chauhan and justice Alok Kumar Verma limited the daily number of devotees to the temples, and said they would have to carry negative Covid test reports and vaccination certificates.Putting a cap on the number of devotees visiting the Himalayan shrines, the high court said that only 800 pilgrims for Kedarnath, 1,000 for Badrinath, 600 for Gangotri and 400 for Yamunotri will be allowed per day. Pilgrims will also not be allowed to take a bath in any of the springs around the temples, it added. According to advocate general SN Babulkar, Char Dham yatra will be open to all with Covid-19 curbs. On June 20, the state government had announced the opening of Char Dham yatra in two phases- from July 1, for locals from three districts and from July 11 for people across the state, as at that time, the state was still reporting significant Covid-19 cases dailyThe bench was hearing the state government’s petition seeking resumption of the yatra which was stayed by the court on June 28. The state sought to begin the pilgrimage for locals of Chamoli, Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi districts where the temples are located from July 1. Besides the state, several local businessmen and traders also moved the court with the same request. Shiv Bhatt, counsel of one of the petitioners said the bench directed the state government to station helicopters and ambulances at all shrines. “The court has directed the government to provide various facilities on the route to Char Dham from Haridwar. The court also said medical facilities such as beds with medical oxygen will be enhanced” Bhatt said. After the high court’s June 28 decision, the state government approached the Supreme Court with a special leave petition (SLP) to vacate the former’s stay on the yatra. As the matter was pending in the apex court, the high court was not in a position to hear the state government’s plea seeking lifting of the ban. However, the state recently withdrew its SLP in the top court, paving the way for the high court to hear its petition.Meanwhile, the high court is also hearing a bunch of public interest litigations filed by lawyers and activists Sachdanand Dabral, Dushyant Mainali, Anu Pant and Rajendra Arya related to various issues pertaining to the Covid-19 situation in the state.Kedarnath, Badrinath, Yamunotri, and Gangotri are collectively called Char Dham and millions visit them annually. The pilgrimage begins from Yamunotri in the west. It then proceeds to Gangotri and finally to Kedarnath and Badrinath in the east.Last year, the pilgrimage could not be held as per schedule on April 26 with the opening of portals of Yamunotri and Gangotri, the first two shrines that are opened after winter, because of the lockdown imposed to check the pandemic spread in March 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-hc-lifts-stay-on-char-dham-yatra-caps-number-of-daily-pilgrims-101631784907504.html
