18-09-2021||India||‘Humiliated’, says Captain as he resigns as Punjab CM||Chandigarh Punjab’s chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh became the fifth chief minister (across four states) to be pushed to resign, although experts said the Congress’ decision could end up hurting its prospects in elections early next year. With under five months to go for the state elections, Singh resigned on Saturday after the Congress summoned a meeting of its lawmakers in the state , saying that he feels “humiliated”, but adding that he won’t accept newly appointed party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu as the next CM or the party’s face in the coming polls. Analysts said the infighting could work to the advantage of the Aam Aadmi Party, widely seen as the strongest contender in the state at this point in time. The two-time chief minister submitted his resignation along with those of his council of ministers to Governor Banwarilal Purohit at the Raj Bhawan barely minutes before a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP), widely seen as having been called to remove him from the CM’s post. The meeting was announced by the Congress high command late on Friday, and it appeared to catch Singh, who is the leader of the CLP, unawares.The development came amid a power tussle that divided the ruling party in the state, with Singh and Sidhu at loggerheads. Sidhu was made the state Congress chief earlier this year despite opposition by Singh. Sidhu and several Congress lawmakers in the state have targeted Singh for not fulfilling promises made in the 2017 manifesto, being soft on the Badals of the Akali Dal , and an over-reliance on a small group of bureaucrats. “I feel humiliated...this is the third time they (Congress high command) have called the MLAs. Apparently, they do not have confidence in me and didn’t think I could handle my job. But I felt humiliated at the manner in which they handled the whole affair,” Singh told reporters outside the Punjab Raj Bhawan after submitting his resignation, attributing his decision to the stance of the Congress leadership over the past two months.Singh said he spoke to Congress president Sonia Gandhi in the morning and told her about his decision to quit. “I have resigned and the (Congress) leadership can now make anyone it trusts the chief minister,” he said. However, there was no decision on his successor till late on Saturday. CLP passed a resolution authorising party chief Sonia Gandhi to take a decision in the matter. The names of Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, his predecessor Sunil Jakhar and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa were doing the rounds as possible contenders for the post. Singh’s resignation came following a long-drawn tussle with newly appointed Punjab Congress president Sidhu, four cabinet ministers and several MLAs. It also comes amidst fears that anti-incumbency arising from his style of functioning could hurt the party’s chances in he coming polls. The BJP effected changes in Uttarakhand and Gujarat recently citing similar concerns. While the process wasn’t entirely smooth -- especially in Gujarat, where the entire cabinet was dropped -- the party still managed to avoid making the changes the kind of public spectacle that has played out in Punjab over the past few months. Asked about his future course of action, Singh said he would decide this in consultation with his supporters. “I have been in politics for 52 years. I am going to be here. In politics, there are always options. I will use that option when the time comes… At the moment, I am still in the Congress,” he said. He was accompanied by his wife, Patiala MP Preneet Kaur, and son Raninder Singh. Lok Sabha MPs Gurjit Singh Aujla and Ravneet Singh Bittu were also present. Before going to the Raj Bhawan, Singh was a huddle with at least a dozen ministers, MLAs and MPs, according to people aware of the development. He insisted that the MLAs attend the CLP meeting later. In another interaction with the media, the Congress leader said he won’t accept Sidhu as the Punjab chief minister, describing him as “a total disaster”. The man who could not handle one ministry, can never run entire Punjab, he said. If Sidhu is made the face of the Congress for the Punjab polls, Singh said he will oppose him “tooth and nail”. He also added that Sidhu’s close association with Pakistan PM Imran Khan could end up compromising India’s national security. Punjab shares an international border with Pakistan. Singh’s exit leaves the electoral battle in Punjab interestingly poised. The Shiromani Akali Dal has still not shrugged off the fall out of the sacrilege and police firing case, and its alliance with the BJP at the time the controversial farm laws that have spared a protest by farmers that is now into its eleventh month. Between June and October 2015, three incidents of sacrilege of the Guru Granth Sahib took place in Faridkot district, sparking protests across the state. On October 14, 2015, two protesters were killed in police firing in Behbal Kalan. The same day, police also opened fire on protesters in Kotkpaura. Amarinder had promised strict action against those responsible for sacrilege and police firing. On April 9 this year, the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the investigation carried out by the state police’s Special Investigation Team (SIT) in the Kotkapura police firing case. The state government has constituted a new SIT in accordance with the court order. The obvious beneficiary of the fallout of these cases, analysts said, could be the Aam Aadmi Party. A Congress leader, asking not to be named, said that Singh should have sent his resignation to the party president instead of giving it to the Governor in keeping with his long association with the Gandhi family and the party.The CLP meeting was attended by 78 out of the 80 Congress MLAs. Besides Singh, Vidhan Sabha speaker Raja Kanwarpal Singh did not join the meeting because of his constitutional obligation. The resolution was passed in the presence of two central observers, general secretary Ajay Maken and revenue minister in Rajasthan, Harish Chaudhary. Harish Rawat, in charge of Congress affairs in Punjab, said that all the MLAs passed the one-line resolution requesting Sonia Gandhi to decide the name of the next chief minister. The resolution was moved by Brahm Mohindra and seconded by the party’s Dalit MLA from Amritsar West, Raj Kumar Verka, the Congress’s working president and Urmur MLA Sangat Singh Gilzian and four-time MLA from Samrala, Amrik Singh Dhillon.Rawat said a copy of the resolution has been sent through email to Sonia Gandhi and the decision in this regard is expected soon.The CLP also passed a resolution hailing Singh’s tenure as the chief minister. The resolution in this regard was moved by Maken and was seconded by rural development and panchayati raj minister Tript Bajwa, who was among the first ones to revolt against Singh . “The party praised Amarinder for his tenure of as the chief minister. He tried to his best to serve the state under tough conditions the state was facing when he took over. He provided solutions to the problems the state was facing,” said Rawat. Maken said he hoped that Singh will continue to guide the Punjab Congress, being the most senior leader of the party.Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal said Amarinder Singh’s resignation is an admission by the Congress that it failed to perform in the state and has nothing to show for its tenure of over four-and-a-half years.“The Congress party cannot hope to save its incompetent government and befool Punjabis with a mere change of face,” he said, and alleged that the entire state cabinet was steeped in corruption.The BJP also termed Singh’s resignation a “failure” of the Congress in the state, and accused the ruling party of protecting “mafia raj”.BJP national general secretary Tarun Ghugh said, “The entire Punjab cabinet failed. The chief minister failed. Congress has failed in Punjab.”“Replacing the Congress chief minister is a panic reaction of the Congress high command to salvage the party’s situation after it failed to deliver in the past four-and-a-half years,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/humiliated-says-captain-as-he-resigns-as-punjab-cm-101631989414897.html
18-09-2021||India||8, including 7 children, drown in Jharkhand district||Eight people, including seven girls, drowned at two places in Jharkhand’s Latehar district on Saturday during ‘Karma Puja’ festivities, a senior official said.The incidents took place at Bukru village under Shregada and another village under Shibla Panchayat in the district when they had gone to a pond for immersion after Karma Puja, a major festival in Jharkhand, deputy commissioner Abu Imran said.The deputy development commissioner of the district, Shekhar Verma has been asked to hold an inquiry into the drowning of the seven girls aged between 12 and 20 years at Bukru, Imran said.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren expressed shock over the incident.“Shocked to hear about the death of seven girls due to drowning during ‘Karam Dali’ (branch of Karam tree) immersion at Sheregada of Latehar district. May God grant peace to the departed souls and give strength to the bereaved families to bear the loss,” Soren said in a tweet.Commissioner, Palamu Range, Jatashankar Choudhary said the incident occured during immersion of the ‘Karam dali’ and the bodies of the girls, who drowned while trying to save each other, were sent to the Latehar district hospital.As soon as the news about the tragedy spread, the festivities gave way to mourning, and wails of distraught family members could be heard at many homes outside which sullen crowds collected.According to officials, a group of 10 girls from the village had gone to the pond with ‘Karam Dali’ for immersion when two of them started drowning and shouted for help. In an effort to save each other, seven of them drowned in the deep pond while three other girls are undergoing treatment.Officials said after hearing their desperate cries, villagers rushed to their rescue.“Four girls died on the spot while three others breathed their last on way to Balumath CHC,” they said. District officials also rushed to the scene.Those dead included three sisters - Rekha Kumar (18), Reena Kumari (16) and Lakshmi Kumari (12), daughters of Aklu Ganjhu.The others were identified as - Sushma Kumari (12) daughter of Charan Ganjhu, Pinky Kumari (18) daughter of Jagan Ganjhu, Sunita Kumari (20) daugher of Fifa Ganjhu, Basanti Kumari (12) daughter of Laldeo Ganjhu and Suraj (10) son of Yashwant Vishwakarma.Meanwhile, agitated villagers in Bukru blocked the Balumath-Chatra Road-National Highway 98, alleging that the incident occured due to widening of the pond for excavation.The blockade could only be lifted late in the evening after a senior official assured them of a compensation of ₹4 lakh each for the families of the seven girls.Karma is a major festival in Jharkhand related to worship of mother nature and is celebrated with great enthusiasm, mostly by tribals||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-including-7-children-drown-in-jharkhand-district-101631988875692.html
18-09-2021||India||‘Wait and watch’: TMC says more leaders to join after Babul Supriyo’s entry||Former Union minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Babul Supriyo, who announced his retirement from “politics” only two months before, joined Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Saturday, saying that he got a “huge opportunity” in the West Bengal’s ruling dispensation.Following his entry, TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh and the party’s national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee said that the shift is only the beginning of a pattern and that more such moves are in the pipeline.“Many BJP leaders are in communication with [the] TMC leadership. They are not satisfied with the BJP. Babul Supriyo joined today, another wants to join tomorrow,” Ghosh told news agency ANI, adding that the process will continue.“Wait and watch,” he said.Kunal further stated that the BJP is only a “gas balloon” with no ideologies and that no one can withstand their “anti-people policies” – which is why people are bidding adieu.Echoing Kunal’s views, TMC Rajya Sabha MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said that significant leaders from various political parties are set to join the TMC. Commenting on Supriyo’s entry, he noted that it’s a “welcome move” as he is a well-known face not only in West Bengal but also outside the state.Also Read | Babul Supriyo's security cover scaled down to Y-categoryEarlier in the day, Supriyo said that his decision to make the move took place in the last four days “to be exact.” The former Union minister of state for environment, who is a sitting MP from Asansol town, said that he spoke to TMC leader Derek O’Brien regarding his daughter’s school and later to TMC supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Abhishek.“Huge trust and faith were entrusted upon me. I will resign from the MP’s post from Asansol. I will play by the rule book. I will meet Didi (Banerjee) on Monday. I didn’t expect this development. It was an unexpected opportunity,” Supriyo told Hindustan Times.Tensions first arose pertaining to Supriyo’s stand in the BJP leadership after he took to Facebook in July to write a post related to him being “asked” to resign following the Union cabinet reshuffle – where Supriyo saw himself as no longer the minister. Although the former BJP leader had later clarified any controversy regarding his choice of word, BJP’s West Bengal president Dilip Ghosh took a jibe at the singer-turned-politician.“That is how a party functions; you need to have faith in the due process. If he were to be fired instead, would that have made things any better?” Ghosh said, adding that none of the 12 ministers who resigned made such comments about the saffron party.Meanwhile, TMC turncoat and West Bengal’s Leader of Opposition from the BJP, Suvendu Adhikari said that Supriyo should have informed the state opposition party before deciding to depart. Hailing Supriyo as his “good friend,” Adhikari said that the former’s exit is “not a loss for BJP.”Babul Supriyo should have told BJP before leaving the party. His exit is not a loss for BJP. He is not a mass leader & not a good political organizer. However, personally, he is my good friend: West Bengal LoP Suvendu Adhikari on former BJP leader Babul Supriyo joining TMC pic.twitter.com/OSyZs7Oj8s“He is not a mass leader and not a good political organiser. However, personally, he is my good friend,” Adhikari, who himself left TMC after more than two decades being its member, told ANI.Supriyo’s entry to TMC remains a shock since he showed his support for BJP’s Bhabanipur bypoll candidate Priyanka Tibrewal only a few weeks before and was also picked up as the saffron party’s top 20 start campaigners for the upcoming polls. Moreover, after the TMC registered a landslide victory in the West Bengal Assembly elections this year, Supriyo had taken to Facebook to unleash a rant on the people of the state for their voting choice – even saying that the citizens made a “historic mistake” by not giving the BJP a chance and bringing back “the cruel lady (Mamata Banerjee) to power.”However, he deleted the post later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wait-and-watch-tmc-says-more-leaders-to-join-after-babul-supriyo-s-entry-101631988000714.html
18-09-2021||India||Babul Supriyo joins TMC, says will resign as Asansol MP||Former Union minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Babul Supriyo, who was dropped from the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government’s Cabinet in July, joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in Kolkata on Saturday.The 50-year-old joined West Bengal’s ruling party in the presence of TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and MP Derek O’Brien. “Today, in the presence of National General Secretary @abhishekaitc and RS MP @derekobrienmp, former Union Minister and sitting MP @SuPriyoBabul joined the Trinamool family. We take this opportunity to extend a very warm welcome to him!” the TMC tweeted. Weeks after he was dropped from the Union cabinet, the playback singer-turned-politician said he was quitting politics and will soon resign from the Lok Sabha. However, he went back on his decision after a meeting with BJP president JP Nadda and said he would continue to work as a parliamentarian.“I meant it from my heart when I said I will leave politics. However, I felt there was a huge opportunity that was entrusted upon me. All my friends said my decision to leave politics was wrong and emotional. I am very proud that I am changing my decision. I am coming back for a great opportunity to serve Bengal. I am very excited. I will meet Didi (chief minister Mamata Banerjee) on Monday. I am overwhelmed by the warm welcome,” he said.The former Union minister of state for environment said he will resign as the Asansol MP. “Didi and Abhishek have given me a great opportunity. As I have joined the TMC, there is no point in holding on to my seat in Asansol. I have come into politics because of Asansol. I will do for that constituency as much as possible,” he added.Supriyo is the fifth leader to switch from the BJP to the TMC after the Mamata Banerjee-led party won the state elections in May. Three days ago, TMC’s Arpita Ghosh resigned as a Rajya Sabha MP, leaving the post vacant. She was named as the party’s state general secretary. TMC MP Saugata Roy said Supriyo’s exit showed that BJP was losing ground in the state. “The BJP has no future. Already, a few BJP legislators have joined the TMC. More are willing to join. This much I can say that the house of JP Nadda has started to crumble and except for Dilip Ghosh, none would be left in the BJP,” he said. The BJP, which had listed Supriyo as one of its star campaigners for the upcoming Bhabanipur bypoll, downplayed his exit.“He joined the BJP with a ticket to contest the Lok Sabha elections and was given a ministerial berth after winning. Now that his ministerial berth is gone he is joining the TMC despite the fact he had said he is leaving politics and won’t join any party. This could be a blow to his credibility,” said senior BJP leader Rahul Sinha.Reacting to the development, Congress’s Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said: “There are professional stars who joined BJP to gain something. He was made the minister. Later when he was dropped he joined the TMC. Mamata is always ready to accept such leaders.”Political analysts said that while Supriyo’s exit may not hurt the BJP on the ground, it might lead to the party losing the perception battle in the state. “I don’t think it would be a big organisational blow to the BJP as Supriyo was not given any key portfolio. But this definitely would be a blow to the party as far as public perception is concerned. With one after another leader quitting, a message is going out that not only has the BJP lost the assembly polls, it may not continue to remain as a strong opposition,” said Biswanath Chakraborty, political commentator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babul-supriyo-joins-tmc-says-will-resign-as-asansol-mp-101631987316880.html
18-09-2021||India||Goa to reopen casinos, night clubs next week: CM Pramod Sawant||Goa will further relax the Covid-19 curfew and allow the reopening of casinos, spas, nightclubs and other tourism avenues from Monday onwards, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant announced on Saturday, but said they will open only for those who are fully vaccinated or those who have tested negative for the viral infection. A detailed order is expected to be issued by the administration later. “Casinos can open from Monday at 50 per cent capacity,” Sawant said.The decision follows a recommendation by the State Expert Committee consisting of doctors and experts in the field, who said that it would be safe to reopen casinos and other closed spaces with a limited capacity and with strict protocols being followed. “The economy needs to be revived, it should start. It is not just the casino industry, but the hotel industry too. Tourism related activities need to start,” Sawant said. Earlier in the day, the Prime Minister while interacting with state leaders and healthcare workers called for resumption in tourism activity now that the state has given the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine to more than 11.66 lakh people for a population of 15.5 lakh. The Chief Minister also announced that 42% of the state is fully vaccinated with both doses and that the target has been set for completing the second dose for most of the population. “Our target of vaccinating 11.66 lakh people with the first dose has been completed. We have administered 102% of the initial target with the first dose. We have also completed vaccinating around 5-lakh people which is around 42% of our target with both doses,” Sawant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-to-reopen-casinos-night-clubs-next-week-cm-pramod-sawant-101631986295282.html
18-09-2021||India||'Innovative thinking': Rajnath Singh says Water from 115 countries to be offered at Ayodhya||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said that procuring water from 115 countries of seven continents for offering in the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya is an "innovative thinking" and it replicates the message of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam. Water from rivers, streams and oceans from these 115 countries was received by Singh at his residence at Akbar Road in presence of Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra general secretary Champat Rai and ambassadors and high commissioners from several countries including Denmark, Fiji and Nigeria.The water was procured by NGO Delhi Study Circle, which is led by BJP leader and former Delhi MLA Vijay Jolly.Lauding this effort, Singh said, "Procuring water from all the countries of the world replicates the thinking of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam of India. Bringing water from 115 countries is an excellent work. I hope water from remaining 77 countries would also be procured by the time construction of the temple is completed. We will do 'Jalabhishek' of our Ram Lala from that water." He further said that construction of Ram Temple is a moment of pride for everybody."Indian culture is very rich and there is no discrimination on the basis of cast, creed and religion in India," he asserted.Addressing the gathering, Rai said procuring water from across the world it is a historic moment. "In Ayodhya, there is a place called 'Saptasagar'. It is believed that water from all oceans of the world was brought during the coronation of Lord Ram in Treta Yuga. And now when his temple is being made at his birth place, water from all the oceans of the world has again been brought. It is a sentimental issue for me," he said.Rai also said that the first phase of the foundation of the Ram Temple has been completed. Jolly said that during the Covid pandemic, when people could not step out of their homes, his organisation procured water from 115 nations across the world. “Not just Hindus but also Muslims, Sikhs, Christians, Jews and Buddhists of the world have contributed to this noble cause. People from all religions in different countries helped us in procuring water from their counties," he said, adding the water has been put in 115 small pots mentioning their respective countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-says-water-from-115-countries-to-be-offered-at-ayodhya-101631981794122.html
18-09-2021||India||These symptoms need immediate attention if occurring within 20 days of vaccination||The Central government has listed some post-vaccination symptoms that may require immediate attention. While tiredness, headache, muscle pain, chills, fever, nausea are some of the common side effects after vaccination, some symptoms, in rare cases, can be a cause of concern.Common side effects may affect the ability to do common activities but they disappear after few days. However, some side effects can be life-threatening such as blood clots, as was reported in few cases after administration of the AstraZeneca vaccine.Cases of cardiac myocarditis have also been reported among adolescent boys who were administered with mRNA technology-based Pfizer vaccine. But the vaccine is yet to be approved for use in India.On Saturday, the ministry of information and broadcasting shared a graphic on social media, suggesting people immediately consult a doctor if those symptoms occur within 20 days of administration of any vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Here’s the list of symptoms within 20 days of vaccination that may require immediate attention:Meanwhile, India has reached the milestone of administering 80 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines, a day after it achieved the extraordinary feat of administering over 2.5 crore shots in a single day. The government noted that the single-day vaccination numbers were around equal to the entire population of Australia, two-thirds the population of Canada, and five times the entire population of New Zealand.Prime Minister Narendra Modi lauded everyone involved in the remarkable feat, saying “every Indian would be proud of today’s record vaccination numbers.”“Countless individuals and organisations have immersed themselves in some or the other noble deed of community service today. I salute them for their noteworthy efforts. There is nothing better than giving back to society and helping others,” PM Modi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-symptoms-need-immediate-attention-if-occurring-within-20-days-of-vaccination-101631982967400.html
18-09-2021||India||BJP working to realise Ambedkar's dream: Nadda at SC wing’s national executive meeting||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda on Saturday inaugurated the national executive meeting of the party’s Scheduled Caste (SC) wing via video link. Addressing the inaugural session, Nadda said that the BJP is working to realise the dreams of BR Ambedkar who advocated for equal rights for poor and marginalised sections of society.The BJP chief said the party is committed to ensuring social justice and is moving forward with the mantra of ‘Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas’ so that the benefits of development reach all sections of society. He accused other political parties of using caste-related issues for vote bank politics, saying the benefits of development never reached the marginalised communities.“I want to draw your attention to the issue of the caste divide that resulted in society's downfall. It was the biggest impediment to India's development,” he said, adding that the major reason behind BJP emergence as the “largest political party” in the world was that it never accepted caste politics.Nadda was earlier scheduled to visit Varanasi for the two-day event but, as he told the party workers virtually, he had to cancel it for “some reason”. Lamenting the cancellation of the visit, the BJP chief said that he wanted to connect with the members of BJP SC Morcha in person and analyse the programmes run by them in detail.The wing’s national president Lal Singh Arya was present in Varanasi along with several officer bearers for the meeting. HT had earlier reported that the BJP national general secretary Dushyant Kumar Gautam, national and regional office bearers of the party’s SC wing, several party MPs and MLAs will offer prayers at Sant Ravidas Temple in Varanasi on Sunday. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath in Varanasi will attend the concluding session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-working-to-realise-ambedkar-s-dream-nadda-at-sc-wing-s-national-executive-meeting-101631978951102.html
18-09-2021||India||Domestic flight fare band applicable for 15 days a month: Here is what it means||The ministry of civil aviation has increased the passenger capacity from 72.5 per cent to 85 per cent in a breather to the airlines as the Covid situation in the country is improving. At the same time, the ministry has tweaked the fare band rule by making it applicable for only 15 days in a month which, in effect, may increase the price of flight tickets.The ministry explained that if the current date is September 20, then the fare band will be applicable till October 4. So if you are booking a flight on September 20 for a date beyond October 4, then the fare band will not remain applicable. Similarly, if the booking is done on September 21, then the fare band will remain applicable only for 15 days that is till October 5. What is the domestic price fare band?The civil aviation ministry had fixed the upper and lower limit of airfares in 2020, when domestic flights resumed operation in a limited and staggered way after being suspended during the national lockdown. The aim of the exercise was to boost air traffic as aviation was one of the worst-affected sectors by the pandemic-induced lockdown. Recently, the ministry has revised the caps and increased both the upper and the lower limit. The new directive says that this cap will remain applicable only if the tickets are being booked 15 days in advance.How will it affect airfares?Emergency air travel will continue to be subsidised as the cap will be applicable to tickets being booked in 15 days advance. But if tickets are booked before a month, which is mostly the case for planned trips, there will be no price cap, which means, the airlines are free to fix their own fare chart.This year, air fares have been hiked four times already and according to the present fare band, a flight under 40 minutes can cost a minimum of ₹2,900 and a maximum of ₹8,800. The highest duration flights of 180 to 210 minutes can cost a minimum of ₹9,800 and a maximum of 27,200. These caps will remain applicable when the ticket is booked only 15 days in advance. In May 2020, the government cut down the capacity of domestic airlines t0 33% to reduce the risk of the spread of Covid. Gradually, the capacity was increased to 45% and so on to finally reach 85 per cent now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-flight-fare-band-applicable-for-15-days-a-month-here-is-what-it-means-101631977988074.html
18-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Kerala schools to reopen from November 1 onwards and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Schools to reopen in Kerala on Nov 1 as state adds 19,325 new Covid-19 casesAfter a one-and-a-half-year interval, schools in Kerala will reopen on November 1 even as the state reported 19,325 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday. The decision was taken at the core committee meeting on the pandemic chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in Thiruvananthapuram. All schools have been asked to make necessary arrangements. Read more.Videos shot with consent: Raj Kundra seeks bail, says no evidence against himBusinessman Raj Kundra has approached a Mumbai court seeking regular bail on the ground that the investigation against him is now complete as the Mumbai Police have filed a 1,467-page supplementary chargesheet in the case, and now he is entitled to file a regular bail application. In his application, he mentioned that in the first chargesheet, there was not an iota of evidence against him and that was why a supplementary chargesheet was filed. Read more.Sunil Jakhar among frontrunners to be the next Punjab CM after Captain's exitThe name of Sunil Jakhar was doing the rounds as Congress's top choice for the next chief minister of Punjab as Captain Amarinder Singh stepped down from the post on Saturday after facing internal strife for months. The Congress Legislature Party has requested Sonia Gandhi to decide the name for the next CM. Apart from Sunil Jakhar, the name of Pratap Bajwa is also being speculated. Captain Amarinder Singh's bete noire Navojot Sidhu is also eyeing the post. Read more.Ahead of festival season, states told to monitor Covid trajectory on daily basisAhead of the upcoming festival season in India, the Centre on Saturday instructed states and Union Territories (UTs) to ensure all necessary precautions and effective enforcement for the rule to avoid mass gatherings, especially in congested and closed spaces due to the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Read more.Dengue, typhoid, scrub typhus cases on rise; know symptoms and tips from expertAmid the rising cases of dengue, malaria, typhoid, and scrub typhus, doctors across the country are advising people to take adequate precautions and avoid self-medication in case of falling ill. While Covid-19 cases in the capital are under control, there is a surge in the cases of many water-borne and mosquito-borne diseases. Dr Manoj Sharma, Senior Consultant- Internal Medicine at Fortis Hospital Vasant Kunj says that the symptoms of most of these diseases from dengue, malaria, typhoid, to scrub typhus may overlap and it's important to get the diagnosis right. Read more.Virat Kohli: Matches played on reaction, belief in moments, not on data, analysisAfter four-and-a-half months, 2021 IPL will resume on Sunday with all the Indian players having completed six days of quarantine after returning from England. “After quarantine, when I stepped out for the first time, I did not feel that we went away at all,” Virat Kohli said in a virtual press meet to unveil Royal Challengers Bangalore’s new blue jersey in respect of Covid warriors. “I felt this is just an extension of where we left.” Read more.Apple iPhone 13 pre-orders: Vodafone offers 100% cashback on rental, freebies, here’s how to get itApple iPhone 13 pre-orders: Vodafone Idea has announced that its subscribers will be able to pre-order the smartphones in the iPhone 13 series in India starting September 18. Read more.Fan asks Amitabh Bachchan the reason behind endorsing pan masala, KBC 13 host says: 'I get money for it'Amitabh Bachchan has responded to a fan who asked him the reason behind endorsing a pan masala ad. The actor, on Facebook, interacted with a few fans through a post he shared on Friday. "FB 3062 - Ever since I bought a watch and worn it, time has been chasing me," he said, in Hindi. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-kerala-schools-to-reopen-from-november-1-onwards-101631977230450.html
18-09-2021||India||Videos shot with consent: Raj Kundra seeks bail, says no evidence against him||Businessman Raj Kundra has approached a Mumbai court seeking regular bail on the ground that the investigation against him is now complete as the Mumbai Police have filed a 1,467-page supplementary chargesheet in the case, and now he is entitled to file a regular bail application. In his application, he mentioned that in the first chargesheet, there was not an iota of evidence against him and that was why a supplementary chargesheet was filed.The bail plea also claimed that Raj Kundra was associated with the company, which owned the mobile app in question Hotshots, only for a brief period of 10 months. "During this period, Kundra had interacted with a few clients but had never taken an active part in contract building or any of the content creation," the plea said. All so-called 'victims' were adults and had voluntarily acted in the "so-called video shootings", the bail plea said.In the supplementary charge sheet, the police presented statements of 42 people they have interrogated, including that of Shilpa Shetty who said she was too busy with her work and was not aware of what Kundra was up to. “Kundra started Viaan Industries Limited in 2015 and I was one of the directors till 2020 when I resigned due to personal reasons. I am not aware of theHotshots or theBollyfame app. I was too busy with my own work," the Bollywood actor said.Raj Kundra was arrested in July on charges of running a porn racket through the mobile apps that his company owned and recently shut. On all previous occasions, his bail pleas were rejected as the investigation was going on. At present, he is in judicial custody and his latest bail application will be heard by the chief metropolitan magistrate at Esplanade on September 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-videos-shot-voluntarily-raj-kundra-seeks-bail-says-no-evidence-against-him-101631976701772.html
18-09-2021||India||Schools to reopen in Kerala on Nov 1 as state adds 19,325 new Covid-19 cases||After a one-and-a-half-year interval, schools in Kerala will reopen on November 1 even as the state reported 19,325 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday. The decision was taken at the core committee meeting on the pandemic chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in Thiruvananthapuram. All schools have been asked to make necessary arrangements. But hotels and bars will have to wait a little more for dining, said a spokesperson of the government. Now both are allowed to give only packed food and beverages. Similarly, a decision on theatres will be taken after gauging the pandemic situation. Earlier the government had decided to open higher educational institutions from October 4. For more than three months, the state remained the pandemic capital of the country reporting around 70 per cent of the total cases registered. The second wave of infections deteriorated after the Onam festival in August- end. Though the state reported a high number of cases for more than three months there was no health crisis or shortage of oxygen. More than 80 per cent of the eligible population have also been vaccinated, said state health minister Veena George. Kerala reported 19,325 cases with a test positivity rate of 15.96% after testing 1,21,070 samples. It also reported 143 deaths taking total fatalities to 23,439. The number of active cases stands at 1,80,842 and 26,266 people have recovered, according to state health ministry data. Ernakulam district reported the highest number of cases-- 2626 followed by Thrissur-- 2329 and Kozhikode-- 2188 cases. North Kerala districts Kasaragod and Wayanad reported the lowest number of cases with 363 and 452 cases respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-to-reopen-in-kerala-on-nov-1-as-state-adds-19-325-new-covid-19-cases-101631976454230.html
18-09-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: Sept 19, 2016 — 17 soldiers killed in Kashmir, PM Modi vows action||Srinagar/New Delhi- Heavily armed militants attacked an army base in north Kashmir early Sunday (September 18) and killed 17 soldiers, triggering calls for a swift retaliation that could squeeze the space for any détente between India and Pakistan. The dawn raid surprised soldiers in their sleep as attackers lobbed grenades and set fire to tents and shelters. The blaze killed 12 troopers and the rest died in the gunfight, sources added. TV images showed helicopters flying to evacuate the wounded and smoke billowing from the mountainous base at Uri, which houses about 12,000 troops. Soldiers killed four “fidayeen” — or commando-style gunmen willing to fight to death — after an hours-long gunbattle to end what was the worst single attack on the army in years. More than 20 soldiers were wounded, some of them seriously. The attack jeopardised hopes of peace returning quickly to Kashmir which has been rocked by two months of violent protests in which 86 people have been killed and thousands injured. Sources said the raid was part of a fresh wave of infiltration by militants from across the Line of Control, the heavily militarised de-facto border with Pakistan. CALL FOR RETALIATION A top army official said the attack pointed to the involvement of the Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammad, which was also blamed by India for the Pathankot airbase attack in January. Islamabad denied any involvement. Sunday’s attack led to calls for an aggressive response, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi vowing to punish those behind the “cowardly” and “despicable” attack. No one has so far claimed responsibility but home minister Rajnath Singh hit out at Pakistan, calling it a terrorist state that needed to be “identified and isolated”. MADE-IN-PAKISTAN Lt Gen Ranbir Singh, director general of military operations, said the militants could be from the JeM as some of the equipment recovered from them had Pakistan markings. He said four AK-47rifles, four under barrel grenade launchers and ammunition were found on the dead militants. Islamabad rejected the charge with the foreign office saying that New Delhi always blamed Pakistan for such incidents even before completing a probe. The attack is likely to further roil Kashmir that army sources say has seen scores of infiltration attempts since protests broke out against insurgent leader Burhan Wani’s killing in July. The Uri attack came within hours of the Uttarakhand police chief revealing that the Centre had sent out an alert for possible terrorist strike on defence installations in North India. Defence minister Manohar Parrikar visited Srinagar for a meeting with top army commanders and home minister Rajnath Singh cancelled scheduled trips to Russia and the United States. Army chief Dalbir Singh and northern command head DS Hooda also rushed to Uri. Home secretary Rajiv Mehrishi will visit Srinagar on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-sept-19-2016-17-soldiers-killed-in-kashmir-pm-modi-vows-action-101631974294411.html
18-09-2021||India||Who will succeed Amarinder Singh? Cong resolution at CLP meeting authorises Sonia Gandhi||Hours after Captain Amarinder Singh resigned as chief minister of Punjab, the Congress passed a resolution at the legislature party meeting authorising party chief Sonia Gandhi to choose as successor. The CLP meeting was called by the party high command and held at Punjab Congress Bhavan in Chandigarh.Watch: Amarinder quits as Punjab CM as Gandhis favour SidhuHarish Rawat, the in-charge of Congress affairs in Punjab, said that all the MLAs passed the one-line resolution requesting Gandhi to decide name for next chief minister. The resolution was moved by Brahm Mohindra and seconded by the party's Dalit MLA from Amritsar, Raj Kumar Verka.Rawat said that the resolution has been sent through email to Sonia Gandhi. He, along with fellow party leader Ajay Maken, reached Chandigarh from Delhi on Saturday morning for the CLP meeting convened at the insistence of a group of party leaders close to Navjot Singh Sidhu, who was recently appointed the chief of Congress' Punjab unit.Former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar and cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa are the frontrunners in race to replace Amarinder Singh.Meanwhile, Congress leader Ajay Maken said he hopes Amarinder Singh will continue to guide the Punjab Congress being the seniormost leader of the party. As observer, he moved a resolution praising the leadership of Amarinder Singh. Party MLA Tript Bajwa seconded it.Seventy eight of Congress' 80 MLAs attended the CLP meet. Four rebels of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), who had recently joined the Congress, were also present in the Congress Bhavan in Chandigarh but did not attend the CLP meeting.Amarinder Singh was the only MLA to skip the meeting. He met governor Banwarilal Purohit hours before the CLP meeting and submitted his resignation amid a political tussle with Sidhu. Later, addressing a press conference at the gate of Raj Bhavan, Singh said that he "felt humiliated" that his leadership was questioned and had informed Sonia Gandhi about his decision. The 79-year-old later told news agency ANI that Sonia Gandhi told him ‘I am sorry Amarinder’.Also Read| How Amarinder Singh's resignation as Punjab CM unfolded: A timelineOn being humiliated, Singh was referring to being summoned thrice by the central leadership in the past two months.Within minutes of Singh's resignation, his chief principal secretary Suresh Kumar and political secretary Captain Sandeep Sandhu also resigned from their respective posts. While Kumar, a retired IAS of 1983-batch, was considered final word of Amarinder on official matters, Sandhu used to look political affairs and was the bridge between the government and the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee.Also Read | What Amarinder Singh said on next Punjab CMAmarinder Singh is credited with putting the Congress party back in the saddle in Punjab after an intensely fought poll battle in 2017 that decimated the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and stymied AAP's hopes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-will-succeed-amarinder-singh-cong-resolution-at-clp-authorises-sonia-gandhi-101631972181582.html
18-09-2021||India||Sunil Jakhar among frontrunners to be the next Punjab CM after Amarinder Singh's exit||The name of Sunil Jakhar was doing the rounds as Congress's top choice for the next chief minister of Punjab as Captain Amarinder Singh stepped down from the post on Saturday after facing internal strife for months. The Congress Legislature Party has requested Sonia Gandhi to decide the name for the next CM. Apart from Sunil Jakhar, the name of Pratap Bajwa is also being speculated. Captain Amarinder Singh's bete noire Navojot Sidhu is also eyeing the post. The speculation over Sunil Jakhar started because of a specific tweet that he posted hours before Captain Amarinder Singh resigned. Praising Rahul Gandhi for adopting ‘Alexandrian solution’ to the 'Punjabi version of Gordian knot', Sunil Jakhar wrote, "Surprisingly, this bold leadership decision to resolve Punjab Congress imbroglio has not only enthralled Congress workers but has sent shudders down the spines of Akalis'. The reference in his tweet was that of Alexander the Great slicing a knot in half after struggling to find out how the knot can be opened. Kudos to Sh @RahulGandhi for adopting Alexandrian solution to this punjabi version of Gordian knot. Surprisingly, this bold leadership decision to resolve Punjab Congress imbroglio has not only enthralled congress workers but has sent shudders down the spines of Akalis.As Amarinder Singh met the governor and resigned, he told media persons that the decision was taken in the morning. Sunil Jakhar's tweet came around noon, indicating that the decision might have already been made.Sunil Jakhar was the president of the Punjab Congress before the post went to Navjot Singh Sidhu in July this year. When the tussle between Amarinder Singh and Sidhu reached its peak, Jakhar met the district presidents to find a solution to the unending crisis. Even after Sidhu was made the president of the state unit, the crisis did not end and, finally, Amarinder Singh resigned on Saturday. He said the reason behind his resignation was the humiliation he felt, though he will continue to remain in the Congress, as of now.67-year-old Sunil Jakhar is considered as Congress's first choice as reports claim that now the party wants a Sikh (Sidhu) and non-Sikh combination for Punjab. Jakhar was a Lok Sabha MP between 2017 and 2019 representing Gurdaspur, after Vinod Khanna's death. But at present, he is not an MLA.As the Sidhu-Captain crisis was going on Sunil Jakhar commended that this internal strife was hampering the "vital process" of taking the state government's "landmark achievements" to people. "Due to lack of coordination in the party, we are unable to take these achievements amongst the public,” Sunil Jakhar said at a gathering at his native village Panjkosi early this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sunil-jakhar-among-frontrunners-to-be-the-next-punjab-cm-after-amarinder-singh-s-exit-101631962725969.html
18-09-2021||India||Ahead of festival season, states told to monitor Covid trajectory on daily basis||Ahead of the upcoming festival season in India, the Centre on Saturday instructed states and Union Territories (UTs) to ensure all necessary precautions and effective enforcement for the rule to avoid mass gatherings, especially in congested and closed spaces due to the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.In a high-level meeting chaired by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba on Saturday, and attended by officials of states and UTs, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, NITI Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul and others, states and UTs were told that existing guidelines for malls, local markets and places of worship have to be strictly adhered to, according to a statement issued by the Union health ministry.“States were urged to undertake effective Information, Education and Communication for promotion of Covid Appropriate Behaviour and Covid safe festivities. They were advised to closely monitor the case trajectories in all districts on a daily basis to identify early warning signals and ensure the imposition of restrictions and adherence to CAB,” the statement added.Amid concerns about a possible third wave of the pandemic, health experts have voiced concerns about public celebrations and gatherings during festivals, saying they can become super-spreader events. The Centre, on many occasions, has appealed to citizens to abide by Covid-19 norms, celebrate festivals within their families and shop at markets carefully without overcrowding.Dr Balram Bhargav, the director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said on Thursday, “Festivals are on the anvil and sudden increase in population density creates a very conducive environment for viral spread.” Addressing the health ministry’s briefing on the Covid-19 situation, Dr Bhargav warned that if there is a sudden rise in population density anywhere, it becomes very easy for the virus to spread. “The call of the hour is vaccine acceptance, maintenance of Covid-appropriate behaviour, responsible travel and responsible festivity,” he added.Meanwhile, during Saturday’s high-level meeting with states and UTs, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba also referred to examples from other countries which saw multiple peaks and expressed concerns over certain pockets in India reporting high Covid-19 test positivity. He advised state health administrators to undertake a granular analysis of their virus trajectory, ramp up health infrastructure, undertake the stock of essential medicines and augment human resources at the earliest, to meet any potential spike in infections.For a third consecutive day, India’s daily Covid-19 tally remained above the 30,000-mark as 35,662 new cases were reported on Saturday, taking the caseload to 33,417,390. Saturday’s infection count is 3.5% more than that of Friday’s when 34,403 were detected Covid-19 positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-festival-season-states-told-to-monitor-covid-trajectory-on-daily-basis-101631965714032.html
18-09-2021||India||How Amarinder Singh resignation as Punjab CM unfolded: A timeline||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced his resignation after months of a political tussle with his bete noire Navjot Singh Sidhu. Congress returned to power in Punjab in 2017 with a brute majority but soon witnessed infighting in the state unit. In 2019, Sidhu, who was brought into the Congress fold by Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi, resigned from Captain's Cabinet after months of squabbling. Singh had objected to Sidhu's decision to attend the swearing-in ceremony of Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan. He publicly criticised Sidhu for his controversial hug with Pakistan army chief Qamar Javed Bajwa.But after the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashed the report submitted by a special investigation team (SIT) on the Kotkapura firing case, the rebellion came out in open.Also Read | Amarinder Singh on next Punjab CM: ''Whoever they have faith in' The High Court judgment was a huge setback for the Singh-led Congress government and then state party chief Sunil Jakhar and cabinet minister Sukhjinder Randhawa even offered their resignation over the issue. Sidhu, who was already vocal against Captain, got support from more MLAs within the party, prompting Congress president Sonia Gandhi to constitute a committee to look into the squabbling. The committee was headed by the Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge.The committee submitted a report on the issue and recommended keeping Singh in command but accommodate Sidhu by giving him a role in the state unit and reorganise the party structure. In July 2021, Congress appointed Sidhu as chief of the Punjab unit even as Captain resisted his elevation for the top post. Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goel and Kuljit Singh Nagra were appointed as the working presidents, paving the way for a significant revamp in the organisational structure.Also Read | ‘I felt humiliated’: Amarinder Singh resigns as Punjab chief ministerBut the overhaul failed to address the factionalism in Punjab Congress as Sidhu kept targeting the chief minister over various issues. The rift in the party kept getting wider as Singh, in his own words, felt humiliated by the way talks transpired over the months. He was unhappy with Congress summoning MLAs twice in the past two months and convening the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting in Chandigarh."I was humiliated three times by the Congress leadership in the past two months…they called the MLAs to Delhi twice and now convened CLP here in Chandigarh today,” said Captain Amarinder said at a press conference after submitting the resignation to the governor on Saturday.“I spoke with the Congress president this morning, told them that I will be resigning today,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-amarinder-singh-resignation-as-punjab-cm-unfolded-a-timeline-101631965854297.html
18-09-2021||India||‘Importance given to tourism-linked states in Covid vaccination drive’: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that the central government has given priority to states linked to the tourism sector in its ongoing nationwide vaccination campaign. “Centre is dedicated towards boosting tourism in the country,” he said while interacting with healthcare workers and beneficiaries in Goa.The coastal Indian state is among three states and as many Union territories (UTs) that have completed administering the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine to its entire adult population. During his interaction via video conferencing, PM Modi said the Centre did not mention the tourism sector matter initially because “politics would have started on this as well". “But it was very important that our tourism destinations reopen. Himachal Pradesh, Goa are some examples of the same. Everyone eligible has received their first dose already. We are now working on Uttarakhand to achieve the same,” he added.The Prime Minister further said that he hopes the “aggressive Covid-19 vaccination drive” in Goa will revive tourism in the state of “serene beaches". He added that the state strengthens the spirit of ‘Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat’ and that its achievement of inoculating 100 per cent of the first vaccination jab is a “moment of pride” for the country.
18-09-2021||India||Amarinder Singh on next Punjab CM: 'Whoever they have faith in'||With speculations doing the rounds former Punjab Congress president Sunil Kumar Jakhar is among the frontrunners to become the next chief minister of Punjab, a year ahead the state goes to the elections, outgoing chief minister Amarinder Singh said the high command can make whoever they have faith in the next chief minister of the state.Following months of dissidence in the party, fuelled by Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu who was promoted to the post of the party chief in the state in July, Captain Amarinder Singh stepped down from his post and expressed how humiliated he felt as he had been summoned thrice by the central leadership in the past two months."...I told Congress President that I will be resigning today...Did they have an element of doubt that I couldn't run the govt...I feel humiliated...Whoever they have faith in, can make them (CM)," Amarinder Singh said. How Amarinder Singh resignation as Punjab CM unfolded: A timeline #WATCH | Congress leader Amarinder Singh responds on being asked "Would you be accepting new chief minister made by Punjab Congress?" pic.twitter.com/cPvQTZo8bH"I have spent 52 years in politics and remained the chief minister for 9.5 years. I will consult my supporters and all those people who have been with me in my long journey and decide about that," Amarinder Singh said when he was asked whether he will be accepting the new chief minister.As Amarinder Singh came to submit his resignation, he was accompanied by his wife and MP Preneet Kaur and son Raninder Singh. "I am proud to accompany my father to Raj Bhawan when he submits his resignation as CM of Punjab and leads us as head of our family into a new beginning," Raninder Singh said in a tweet earlier.Amid the Captain-Sidhu tussle which was going on even after the High Command attempted to broker peace by promoting Sidhu to the post of the party chief in the state, over 50 Congress MLAs wrote to Sonia Gandhi seeking replacement of Amarinder Singh. The MLAs in their letter sought the convening of the Congress Legislature Party meeting, which is being held in Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whoever-they-have-faith-in-what-amarinder-singh-says-on-next-punjab-cm-101631965300334.html
18-09-2021||India||Goa's entire eligible population to be fully vaccinated by Oct end: CM Sawant||Goa would become the first state in the country to achieve the target of fully vaccinating its entire eligible population by October 31, chief minister Pramod Sawant expressed confidence on Saturday. He was speaking while welcoming Prime Minister Narendra Modi before his interaction with healthcare workers and vaccination beneficiaries in Goa via video link to mark the first dose vaccination to the entire eligible population in the state. "By October 31, Goa would be the first state in the country to completely vaccinate the eligible population with the second dose. We have completed 100 per cent vaccination of the first dose and also administered the second dose to 42 per cent eligible population so far," he said. Sawant said that the state's vaccine wastage is just six per cent, which is one of its achievements. The vaccination drive was accelerated through Tika Utsav initiatives, which were taken to all the villages across the state, he said, adding that on PM Modi's 71st birthday celebrated on Friday, Goa achieved "record break" vaccination. He said that in the ongoing eight-day Tika Utsav 3.2, local panchayat members, MLAs and ministers have been roped in. "We have also involved religious leaders and influential persons to urge people to participate in the vaccination programme," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goas-entire-eligible-population-to-be-fully-vaccinated-by-oct-end-cm-sawant-101631963764777.html
18-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Chirag tells Nitish to recommend father Ram Vilas Paswan for Bharat Ratna and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Chirag writes to CM Nitish to recommend Ram Vilas Paswan for Bharat RatnaAfter the first death anniversary of Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) founder and former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, Chirag Paswan wrote to Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar, demanding a recommendation for his late father for Bharat Ratna. Read moreUncertainty over Bengal BJP’s Durga Puja celebrations after party’s poll debacleLess than a month remains for the biggest festival in West Bengal, the Durga Puja celebrations, to take off, but uncertainty still looms over the fate of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s puja celebrations this year. Read moreBengaluru: 2-year-old baby spends 5 days in house with dead family membersA two-year-old was found unconscious in a house with the dead bodies of five of her family members in Bengaluru on Friday night. While four family members were dead in a room, a nine-month-old baby is suspected to have died of starvation, officials said. Read moreJalalabad blasts result of infighting between Taliban factions: ReportAt least two people were killed and 19 more injured in a series of explosions in the eastern Afghan city of Jalalabad on Saturday, according to local media reports. While two IED blasts took place at 10.30 am, the third one struck 50 minutes later, the reports said. Read moreNew WhatsApp video controls, group call shortcuts rolled out to usersWhatsApp video controls, group call shortcuts: Another day and another WhatsApp feature rolled out. WhatsApp is one of the most popular messaging apps in the world and it is trying to ensure it stays that by adding new features to its platform, especially as Telegram and Signal are hard on its heels. Read moreHow to make positive affirmations work; tips by psychologistPositive affirmation are positive things that we tell ourselves over and over again to achieve a certain goal or feel positive. 'I am strong and positive', I am worthy of it', I am ready to achieve my goals', ‘I am becoming the best version of myself', ‘I am thankful for what I have today' are some of the common affirmations that people are advised to say preferably in front of the mirror every day several times. Read more Bigg Boss OTT winner is Divya Agarwal, predict HT readers; Shamita Shetty will get 3rd spotBigg Boss OTT finale will be streamed on Saturday evening. Ahead of the finale, Hindustan Times ran a poll, seeking votes from our readers for their favourite contestant on the show, hosted by filmmaker Karan Johar. Read more'His contribution is important': Saba Karim explains what role would MS Dhoni play during T20 World CupEarlier this month, news broke out that former India captain MS Dhoni will remain at the India camp during the T20 World Cup as he has been roped in as mentor of the team. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-chirag-tells-bihar-cm-to-recommend-father-for-bharat-ratna-101631964097943.html
18-09-2021||India||Amarinder Singh resigns as Punjab chief minister, says ‘I felt humiliated’||Captain Amarinder Singh resigned as the Punjab chief minister on Saturday, amid the ongoing political tussle with Navjot Singh Sidhu who was recently appointed as the chief of the Congress' Punjab unit. The resignation comes less than five months before the Assembly elections in Punjab, and less than an hour before a legislature party (CLP) meeting called by the Congress party.The resignation was announced by the senior Congress leader's son Raninder Singh on Twitter.My father submitting his resignation to HE the Governor Sahib of Punjab. pic.twitter.com/RyINJSUeh5Addressing a press conference at the gate of the Raj Bhavan, the 79-year-old Amarinder Singh said he felt humiliated. “I called up Congress president (Sonia Gandhi) this morning and told her that I am going to resign. The thing is, this is happening for the third time that MLAs are being called for a meeting, my leadership is being questioned,” he said.Also Read| 'Whoever they have faith in': What Amarinder Singh says on next Punjab CMSingh said there is no plans for now to quit the Congress party, “but future politics is always an option”. He said that the future course of action will be decided after discussions with his loyalists. Political analysts say the move would hurt the Congress in the upcoming state polls.Meanwhile, the meeting of the Congress legislators in the faction-ridden state unit began in Chandigarh as scheduled at 5pm.“CM @capt_amarinder has met Punjab governor and submitted his and his council of ministers’ resignation,” the CM’s media adviser Raveen Thukral tweeted on Saturday evening. Singh was accompanied by his wife, Patiala MP Preneet Kaur and son Raninder Singh. Lok Sabha MPs Gurjit Singh Aujla and Ravneet Singh Bittu were also present.Singh, who had declared the 2017 battle in which he led the Congress to a near two-thirds to be his last one, was raring to have another go. Sidhu, meanwhile, never cloaked his ambition and pictured himself as the natural claimant to the mantle of the chief minister if the party retains power in the polls next year.The cricketer-turned-politician was appointed the state president on July 18, ignoring the CM's opposition to his elevation.Infighting in Punjab CongressThe feud, fuelled by the competing ambitions of both Singh and Sidhu, left the state unit, particularly ministers and legislators, divided, making the party cadre becoming apprehensive about its impact on electoral prospects.To make matters worse, both the leaders indulged in one-upmanship, rarely letting go of any opportunity to pull each other down.The legal setback the Punjab government received in the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case gave the Sidhu faction further ammo to target Singh.The role of Congress high commandThe Congress high command, particularly general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and former president Rahul Gandhi, backed Sidhu and named him the state chief, but not before a public spectacle played out live on TV by parading party leaders, including Singh, before a three-member central committee.Though the high command expected the situation to ameliorate, it did not get any better.Concerned, the Congress leadership hurriedly called a CLP meeting today on the insistence of Singh's detractors. The dissenting cabinet ministers and MLAs, who are close to Sidhu, had met Congress general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat last month to seek Singh's ouster and demanded a CLP meeting. Timeline of Singh-Sidhu bad bloodTussle for control of the party first broke out in 2019, when Sidhu resigned as a state minister after he was divested of the local bodies portfolio.He had switched sides from the BJP to the Congress before the 2017 state assembly elections.The bickering continued for months and eased somewhat after Sidhu was elevated as state unit chief overriding Singh's objections. But the fire was not completely doused and it resulted in today's resignation.Punjab goes to the polls early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-resigns-as-punjab-chief-minister-amid-tussle-with-navjot-sidhu-101631962905244.html
18-09-2021||India||2-year-old baby spends 5 days in house with dead family members||A two-year-old was found unconscious in a house with the dead bodies of five of her family members in Bengaluru on Friday night. While four family members were dead in a room, a nine-month-old baby is suspected to have died of starvation, officials said. Police suspect the family members died by suicide. Byadrahalli police investigating the case said that the post-mortem of bodies will be conducted on Saturday morning. Suicide will be confirmed in the post-mortem, they added.Police identified the deceased as Bharathi (51), her daughters Sinchana (34) and Sindhurani (34), her son Madhusagar (25), and the baby girl. The bodies were found in a decomposed state and forensic experts have told police that the deaths could have occurred five days ago. Bharathi, the elderly lady, was found dead in the hall, while Sinchana and Sindhoorani were found dead in a room on the first floor along with the nine-month-old baby boy. The girl who survived was found in the room where Madhusagar was found dead. Police are yet to identify the motive behind the suicide. Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Sanjeev Patil said that police were not able to recover any death note from the house. According to the officer, the incident came to light when H Shankar, Bharathi’s husband returned after five days. “He called the police and when they broke open the door, they found out that there were five bodies inside the house and the baby was found alive. The bodies had started decomposing by the time they were found,” said Patil. Soumendu Mukharjee, Additional Commissioner of Police (West) said that the reason for the five deaths is yet to be ascertained. “Shankar, the man of the house is in a state of shock. He will be inquired as soon as he is fit,” he said. Police said that a family dispute could have been the reason behind the suicide. In the brief statement given to the police, Shankar said that one of his daughters had left her in-laws place to stay with him, which he wasn’t happy about. While the mother took her daughter’s side and asked them not to return, Shankar was not happy with this decision. Neighbours told police that there were constant arguments between Shankar and the family members in the house and on Sunday, following an argument over the same issue, Shankar had stormed out of the house. Since leaving the house he didn’t attend any calls by the family members, he said. The baby girl is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. “We have shifted the child to a private hospital since she was found in an unconscious state. We are still awaiting a report from the hospital. When she recovers, we will provide her counselling,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2yearold-baby-spends-5-days-in-house-with-dead-family-members-101631962294785.html
18-09-2021||India||Former Union minister Babul Supriyo joins TMC in Kolkata||In a major blow to the Bharatiya Janata Party, former Union minister Babul Supriyo joined the Trinamool Congress on Saturday in Kolkata. “Today, in the presence of National General Secretary @abhishekaitc and RS MP @derekobrienmp, former Union Minister and sitting MP @SuPriyoBabul joined the Trinamool family. We take this opportunity to extend a very warm welcome to him!” the TMC tweeted. “It all happened in the last four days to be exact. I spoke to Derek O’Brien regarding a matter related to my daughter’s school. Then from Didi (Mamata) and Abhishek, I got a huge opportunity. Huge trust and faith were entrusted upon me. I will resign from the MP’s post from Asansol. I will play by the rule book. I will meet Didi (Mamata Banerjee) on Monday. I didn’t expect this development. It was an unexpected opportunity,” said Supriyo while speaking to the media. On July 31, Supriyo had said that he was quitting politics and would soon resign from the Lok Sabha. The announcement had come weeks after the 50-year-old was dropped from the Narendra Modi-led Cabinet. In the same post, he also ruled out joining any other political party — TMC, Congress or the CPI(M). He, however, later edited the post to remove this part. “I had given seven years moving away from music. But then I felt that everything had come to a full stop. I was disillusioned. I had said from my heart that I was quitting politics. My friends told me that my decision to quit politics was emotional and wrong. There is no politics of revenge. I am happy that I am changing my decision and coming back,” Supriyo said while adding that the TMC would soon reveal what responsibilities would be given to him. Earlier, he decided not to resign from his MP’s post on the request of top BJP leaders. Recently, the BJP had named him as one of their 20 star campaigners against Mamata Banerjee in the upcoming Bhawanipore bye-elections. “On Saturday, he went to the south-Kolkata office of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee and joined the party,” said a senior TMC leader. Supriyo, a two-time MP from Asansol who was the Union minister of state for environment was dropped from the Cabinet in a major reshuffle on July 7. Earlier he had contested the West Bengal assembly elections but was defeated by heavyweight TMC leader and state minister Arup Biswas from Tollygunge. “He joined the BJP with a ticket to contest the Lok Sabha elections and was given a ministerial berth after winning. Now that his ministerial berth is gone he is joining the TMC despite the fact he had said in his post that he is leaving politics and won’t join any party. I don’t think this is transparency and reveals a good side. This could be a blow to his credibility,” said Rahul Sinha, senior BJP leader. It was on May 4, 2014 ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha polls that Narendra Modi during an election campaign rally at Asansol in West Bengal’s West Burdwan district had said: “I want Babul in Parliament”. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, leader of the Congress party in the Lok Sabha said: “There are professional stars who joined BJP to gain something. He was made the minister. Later when he was dropped he joined the TMC. Mamata is always ready to accept such leaders.” This comes just three days after Trinamool Congress MP Arpita Ghosh resigned from the Rajya Sabha leaving the post vacant. “I don’t think it would be a big oranisational blow to the BJP as Supriyo was not given any such portfolio to strengthen the party. But this definitely would be a blow to the party as far as public perception is concerned. With one after another leader quitting the party, a message is going out that not only has the BJP lost the assembly polls, the party may not continue to remain a strong opposition,” said Biswanath Chakraborty, political commentator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-union-minister-babul-supriyo-joins-tmc-in-kolkata-101631960852880.html
18-09-2021||India||Babul Supriyo tweeted in support of Mamata's BJP opponent in Bhabanipur, joins TMC days later||Former Union minister Babul Supriyo’s one of last tweets was in support of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate Priyanka Tibrewal who has been fielded against Trinamool Congress supremo and Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee for the upcoming by-election in Kolkata’s Bhabanipur constituency.On Saturday, he was welcomed to the ruling camp in Bengal by Trinamool Congress general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and party spokesperson Derek O’Brien, weeks after saying he would quit the political space.On September 10, Supriyo wrote he was confident Tibrewal would make the BJP proud in the years to come and tagged Union home minister Amit Shah and the party’s national president JP Nadda. “Life is not always about winning or losing - it more about having the grit to fight a tough battle,” he wrote.He said he had always introduced and backed bright youngsters to the party and hence, had asked Tibrewal, who fought all his legal battles successfully, to join the BJP.“Many Congratulations Priyanka Tibrewal BJP, She is a spirited girl and fought all my legal battles (successfully) in politics since 2014 with a lot of grit. LOGIC & confidence. That was a reason why I asked her to join the Party. Extremely happy for her,” he further wrote. Also read | 'Alvida': Babul Supriyo announces retirement from politics on Facebook, says his absence 'won't matter' for BJPLast month, Supriyo had said he was giving up politics but was later persuaded against resigning as a Lok Sabha member even as the singer-turned-politician insisted that he would no longer be part of active politics.The Asansol MP had later said he would continue to discharge his constitutional responsibilities as a parliamentarian but would withdraw from politics and leave his official residence in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babul-supriyo-tweeted-for-mamata-s-bjp-opponent-in-bhabanipur-joins-tmc-days-later-101631959027207.html
18-09-2021||India||Odisha official says people not turning up for 2nd Covid jab ‘despite reminders’||A day after Odisha administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to more than 20 million beneficiaries, a top state official, who is associated with the inoculation drive, expressed concerns over beneficiaries not turning up to take their second dose, news agency PTI reported on Saturday.Dr Bijay Panigrahi, the nodal officer for Odisha's vaccination drive, said on Saturday that only 6.98 million beneficiaries have received both the doses, adding that 2.8 million more should have taken the second dose by now. "The second dose administration has been slow in parts of the state, especially in tribal areas,” Dr Panigrahi said.The health official also told the news agency that beneficiaries have failed to take the second jab on time and health officials have been instructed to encourage locals to complete their full vaccination course.In total, authorities in the state have administered 2,70,77,818 doses till now and 51.4% of the 3.9 million vaccine-eligible population has been given the first dose.Chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday expressed happiness over 2,01,22,580 beneficiaries with the first dose and called it “another significant milestone in the fight against Covid-19.” However, experts in Odisha have said the inoculation drive at the current speed, will not be able to inoculate the entire eligible population by the end of this year, a target which was announced by the Centre for all states and Union Territories (UTs).Odisha’s Covid-19 caseload currently stands at 1,019,621 with 8,128 deaths, 5,876 active cases and 1,005,564 recoveries. On Saturday, 695 people were detected Covid-19 positive while six patients succumbed and 719 recovered from the viral disease.Meanwhile, India on Friday established a record in single-day vaccinations on the occasion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 71 birthday, with 21.5 million beneficiaries vaccinated in 24 hours. With this, the cumulative vaccination count has climbed to 794,287,699.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-official-says-people-not-turning-up-for-2nd-covid-jab-despite-reminders-101631958814164.html
18-09-2021||India||Situation critical in Punjab, Amarinder Singh meets loyal MLAs before CLP show||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh is holding a meeting at his official residence with Congress MLAs loyal to him, according to news agency ANI. The meeting is crucial in view of the ongoing political tussle between Singh and state Congress chief Navjot Sidhu and comes hours before the Congress legislature party (CLP) called by the party leadership.The chief minister's media adviser Raveen Thukral said on Twitter that Singh will hold a press conference at 4.30pm. People aware of the developments in the politically volatile state say that he may announce his resignation at the press conference.Punjab Chief Minister @capt_amarinder will address a press conference at Pubjab Raj Bhawan Gate at 4:30 pm. pic.twitter.com/kktPX9HxGpThe crisis in Punjab Congress intensified after Singh reportedly expressed concerns to party president Sonia Gandhi as several MLAs close to Sidhu have been questioning his leadership.Sidhu was spotted at the Chandigarh airport on Saturday, where he received Congress observer Ajay Maken ahead of the CLP meeting. Maken and Sidhu are reported to have arrived at the party office in Chandigarh. Ministers in the Punjab government, including Tripat Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Charanjit S Channi, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Assembly Speaker Rana KP Singh had already arrived at the party office.Amid the rapidly unfolding high-voltage drama, former state Congress president Sunil Jakhar lauded Rahul Gandhi for his “bold leadership decision” in a Twitter post but didn't elaborate on the decision that is about to be taken at the scheduled CLP meet.“Kudos to Sh @RahulGandhi for adopting Alexandrian solution to this punjabi version of Gordian knot. Surprisingly, this bold leadership decision to resolve Punjab Congress imbroglio has not only enthralled congress workers but has sent shudders down the spines of Akalis,” he tweeted.Punjab Congress general secretary Pargat Singh, who was also at the Chandigarh airport to receive Maken, earlier refused to entertain a question about Singh's resignation and names of Ambika Soni and Sunil Jakhar among the probable for the chief ministerial post.“Meeting (CLP meet) has been called. Things will be discussed in the meeting,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-holds-meeting-with-congress-mlas-loyal-to-him-ahead-of-clp-meet-101631955937999.html
18-09-2021||India||First prototype train for Kanpur, Agra Metro projects revealed: Check details||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday inaugurated the first prototype train of the Kanpur and Agra Metro projects on Saturday via video conferencing.The train sets have been provided by French multinational rolling stock manufacturer Alstom."It is a matter of pride to be invited for the inauguration of the first-ever prototype train of Kanpur and Agra Metro. Congratulations to the Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) and Alstom Transport India Limited for this. This is a matter of pride for us," said Adityanath said in his address.Here's everything you need to know about the metro projects and new train coaches:• Adityanath said that India is advancing in fulfilling Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision of a self-reliant India. He was referring to the metro coaches, which have been indigenously manufactured in Savli, Gujarat under the Make in India and Atmanirbhar Bharat initiatives.• The unveiling of the coaches was done at Alstom's manufacturing facility in Gujarat. Uttar Pradesh metro rail corporation MD Kumar Keshav and Alstom India managing director Alain Spohr were also present at the ceremony.• Each train will accommodate approximately 960 passengers in the three-car configuration.• The trains will be equipped with FLEXX metro bogies and the MITRAC propulsion system. This will increase energy efficiency, reduce operating costs, and ensure the new trains meet the highest environmental standards.• Alstom is responsible for the delivery of Kanpur and Agra metro rolling stocks and signalling. The ₹2,051 crore project includes the design, build and delivery of 201 metro cars and advanced signalling solution.• In January, Alstom completed the acquisition of Bombardier Transportation (BT), which provided coaches for Delhi Metro. So, all the scope of work earlier awarded to BT has been taken over by Alstom.• The metro train projects in the two cities are expected benefit around 5 million citizens.• The construction of the Agra Metro project was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in December 2020. The Agra Metro will connect major tourist attractions like Taj Mahal, Agra Fort, Sikandra with the city's other transport nodes like railway station and bus stands.• The civil construction works of Kanpur Metro's priority corridor from IIT to Motijheel was awarded last year and is being executed at a brisk pace since the re-opening of the state after Covid-19 lockdown.• Adityanath, meanwhile, said that efforts are underway to bring metro trains to Gorakhpur, Prayagraj, Jhansi, Varanasi and Meerut too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-prototype-train-for-kanpur-agra-metro-projects-revealed-check-details-101631958018785.html
18-09-2021||India||Babul Supriyo joins Trinamool Congress days after he ‘quit politics'||In an unexpected development on Saturday, former Union minister Babul Supriyo joined the Trinamool Congress, days after he officially announced to have quit politics. Babul Supriyo was one of the staunch critics of Trinamool Supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and as he had announced his resignation from politics, he earlier maintained that he would not be joining any other political party. In the latest Cabinet reshuffle, Babul Supriyo was dropped from the Cabinet and within a few days, he announced his self-exile from politics. However, he did not officially resign as an MP from the BJP. Today, in the presence of National General Secretary @abhishekaitc and RS MP @derekobrienmp, former Union Minister and sitting MP @SuPriyoBabul joined the Trinamool family.We take this opportunity to extend a very warm welcome to him! pic.twitter.com/6OEeEz5OGjThere was no murmur about Babul Supriyo joining the Trinamool as reports said that the BJP kept the singer-turned-politician as a star campaigner for BJP's Bhabanipur by-poll candidate Priyanka Tibrewal. In fact, he tweeted in support of Tibrewal, who represented the former minister in several legal cases, Supriyo had tweeted.The Trinamool said this is just the beginning as many BJP leaders are in communication with TMC leadership. “They are not satisfied with BJP. One (Babul Supriyo) joined today, another wants to join tomorrow. This process will go on. Wait and watch,” Trinamool leader Kunal Ghosh said.The exit of a heavyweight former minister and popular singer just ahead of the Bhabanipur by-election in which Priyanka Tibrewal will be challenging Mamata Banerjee bolsters TMC's strength. The former banker and singer joined the BJP in 2014 and won from the Asansol Lok Sabha constituency. Between 2014 and 2021, he served as a minister of the state of several departments including urban development, housing, urban poverty alleviation, ministry of heavy industries, public enterprises, the ministry of environment, forest and climate change etc. His significance in the party in the state got whittled down because of Dilip Ghosh, while he lost his Cabinet post after he was defeated in the West Bengal assembly election.The former minister has remained thankful to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, but in many of his social media posts, he revealed how infighting among the BJP in West Bengal wad demoralising the grassroots workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babul-supriyo-joins-trinamool-congress-101631957186388.html
18-09-2021||India||‘Why did they get fever?’ PM’s jab on opposition’s reaction to 2.5 cr vaccination milestone||Prime Minister Narendra Modi took a dig at the opposition Congress, asking a doctor during an online interaction whether he could explain why a political party began to have an ‘adverse reaction’ after the country achieved historic 2.5 crore vaccinations in a single day on the occasion of his 71st birthday on Friday. Dr Nitin Dhupdale, a doctor at the Goa Medical College and Hospital, was the first person chosen to interact with the prime minister during his interaction with doctors, health workers and other frontline workers on completion of 100% vaccination (of the first dose) in Goa. “I am not a doctor or a medical expert, but we have heard of adverse side effects or a fever. If there is a high fever, one loses mental balance, doctors say this. Every hundred vaccinations that are given one or two persons report vaccine side effects. Yesterday, we were able to administer 2.5 crore doses, possibly the highest in the world for a single day. But yesterday after midnight after the figure was announced, a political party started showing some adverse reactions? Is there a logic to this,” the Prime Minister asked. Dr Dhupdale responded with a brief chuckle but went on to explain how in Goa, people were explained what vaccine they were being administered, the possible side effects and were also given a helpline number to contact in case they experienced a reaction. “We have explained to people what vaccine was being given. We also gave them a helpline to call if they experience side effects,” Dr Dhupdale said. Goa is the second state after Himachal Pradesh to have ‘officially’ completed 100% vaccination of the first dose even though there are an estimated several thousand people yet to take their first dose. Speaking at the beginning of the interaction, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said that Goa had exceeded its vaccination targets and has achieved 102% of its original intended target of first dose vaccination. Our target of vaccinating 11.66 lakh people with the first dose has been completed. We have administered 102% of the initial target with the first dose. We have also completed vaccinating around 5-lakh people which is around 42% of our target with both doses,” Sawant said. “When you asked the nation to do a Tika Utsav, we took it forward and took it to each village. We did three editions of tika utsav going to each village and municipality. For the second dose too we had three editions, the third of which was launched yesterday on your birthday and is currently ongoing. We have done walk-in vaccination and on the spot vaccination, which is why we were able to achieve our target,” Sawant said. “In far off places, hesitancy was there. Through awareness, we were able to dispel it. We also had Tauktae cyclone, floods but our field and health workers helped us a lot and this is why this could be possible,” the chief minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-did-they-get-fever-pm-s-jab-on-opposition-s-reaction-to-2-5-cr-vaccination-milestone-101631953593565.html
18-09-2021||India||Punjab Congress power tussle: CM Amarinder to hold talks with MLAs ahead of CLP meet||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has reportedly called a meeting of Congress legislators at 2pm ahead of a Congress legislature party (CLP) meeting  scheduled to be held later in the day.Several reports suggested Singh had expressed his concerns to Congress president Sonia Gandhi as several party leaders and MLAs close to newly appointed state chief Navjot Singh Sidhu continued to question his leadership openly. Singh is also said to have told his close aides that he might step down if sidelined in party in the face of the repeated humiliation, but the chief minister's office has denied all such claims. Also read | Punjab Congress row: Won’t spare anyone if not allowed to decide, warns SidhuMeanwhile, Sidhu has reached the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee office for the meeting. Several other Congress functionaries were on their way, while some have already reached the party office in Chandigarh. The meeting was convened by the All India Congress Committee (AICC) as requested by a “large number of MLAs” in Punjab, said the party’s state in-charge Harish Rawat.Besides Rawat, Congress leader Ajay Maken and Harish Chaudhary were also reaching Chandigarh for the meeting as rumblings within the state unit months ahead of the Assembly election refused to settle down.Former state Congress president Sunil Jakhar put out a cryptic tweet over the issue. “Kudos to Sh @RahulGandhi for adopting Alexandrian solution to this punjabi version of Gordian knot. Surprisingly, this bold leadership decision to resolve Punjab Congress imbroglio has not only enthralled congress workers but has sent shudders down the spines of Akalis.”Earlier, Punjab Congress general secretary Pargat Singh said several things would be discussed at the CLP meeting when asked about reports that the chief minister had been asked to step down.Meeting (CLP meet) has been called. Things will be discussed in the meeting: Punjab Congress gen secy Pargat Singh when asked about reports that Capt Amarinder Singh has been asked to step down as CM & names of Ambika Soni, Sunil Jakhar & others are coming up as probables for CM pic.twitter.com/mc4GE1GBsVHowever, Maken said everything was fine before leaving for Chandigarh. “I'm going to Punjab for the state CLP meeting. I don't know (who all will participate), but it is a meeting of the CLP. There is no turmoil, everything is fine,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-congress-crisis-cm-amarinder-to-hold-talks-with-mlas-ahead-of-clp-meet-101631950627728.html
18-09-2021||India||'All of you made it special': Modi's 'emotional' moment as India breaks vaccine record on his birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that India crossing the milestone of 25 million vaccine doses against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a record number, on his birthday was a “very emotional” moment for him. Interacting virtually with healthcare personnel and vaccine beneficiaries in the coastal state of Goa, the Prime Minister said that everyone involved in the vaccination process—from the medical officials to the beneficiaries—made his birthday special for him. “Yesterday was a very emotional day for me. With the efforts of all of you, it became a very special day for me,” said Prime Minister Modi during the virtual interaction.Also Read | India's single-day vaccination equals entire population of Australia. Here are other records broken#WATCH | "Y'day was a very emotional day for me...With the efforts of all of you, it became a very special day for me..," says PM Narendra Modi while addressing healthcare workers & vaccine beneficiaries of GoaIndia administered over 2.5 crore vaccinations y'day in a single day pic.twitter.com/F4OeHj5fO7Notably, India achieved the record landmark in its vaccination campaign against Covid-19 on the occasion of PM Modi's birthday on September 17. In an extraordinary feat, the country vaccinated as many as 25 million citizens, more than three times the average daily total of the past month. The record number of vaccines administered by India was a part of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)'s push to the ‘Seva and Samarpan’ vaccination campaign to honour the occasion of Prime Minister Modi's birthday.Congratulating the healthcare workers of Goa for completing 100 per cent of the first vaccination dose, the Prime Minister said on Friday that the state is playing important role in the success of the world's largest and fastest vaccination drive “Sabko vaccine, muft vaccine”.“I thank Team Goa, for their work during such a time,” he said. “Every eligible person in Goa has received a dose of vaccine. This is a big deal in the fight against corona. Congratulations to all the people of Goa for this.”Also Read | 466 doses per second: How India achieved record Covid vaccination on PM Modi's birthday“This kind of coordination that Goa has shown to address social and geographical challenges is commendable,” he added. “The Canacoona sub-division, which is situated far and wide in the state, is proof of the rapid vaccination as in the rest of the state.”Interacting with the vaccine beneficiaries in Goa, many of who received their jabs on Friday, the Prime Minister said that the strategy that the coastal state has implemented to prevent Covid-19 vaccine wastage can be a sought-after model for other parts of the country as well. “Goa's vaccine prevention model is commendable," he said. “It will help other parts of the country in reaching their vaccination goals.”The healthcare workers thanked the Prime Minister for his kind words and extended greetings to Modi for his 71st birthday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-of-you-made-it-special-modi-s-emotional-moment-as-india-breaks-vaccine-record-on-his-birthday-101631946372888.html
18-09-2021||India||‘PM Modi preparing for 2024 elections’: Sanjay Raut on Gujarat developments||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said on Friday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has started taking "bold steps" for 2024 general elections after losses in some states. The comment in party mouthpiece Saamana came in reference to political developments in Gujarat, where Bhupendra Patel was appointed chief minister, replacing Vijay Rupani.In fact, the entire Rupani cabinet was replaced with a fresh one in the major reshuffle handled by the BJP's central ledership."Modi is the real face of the BJP and everyone else is a torn mask. Without Modi, many of the present masks of the BJP will be defeated in the municipal elections. Being aware of this, he has started taking bold steps to prepare for 2024," Raut said in his article.He further said that since the time JP Nadda became BJP president, the party has been undergoing constant changes."It was through Nadda that the chief ministers of Uttarakhand and Karnataka were changed. The chief minister of Gujarat was also changed in a jiffy, in fact, the entire cabinet was reshuffled. The new chief minister of Gujarat Bhupendra Patel is a first-time MLA. Modi-Nadda have shown that nothing is impossible in politics. They have made all the ministers in Rupani's cabinet sit at home," Raut said in his editorial.The BJP has started 'repair work' through Nadda to overcome the defeat of the party in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Maharashtra, Raut claimed in the article.Last month, the Sena - once an ally of the BJP - said that the opposition parties will have to make ‘shrewd and clever’ moves if they want to defeat the BJP in 2024. In a Saamana editorial, it cited the poll results in West Bengal and Maharashtra as examples to stress to Modi-Shah combination can be defeated.The Sena also asked the opposition parties to win the trust of the people and project themselves as a viable alternative to the BJP.The suggestions were given after a virtual meeting of 19 opposition parties in which Congress president Sonia Gandhi called for systematic planning and rising above individual compulsions. This was meant to give a push to the opposition parties, which have never joined hands or started poll preparations so much in advance.The Shiv Sena pulled out of t BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) last year after issues over government formation in Maharashtra.The BJP won 282 seats in 2014 and 303 in 2019. Buoyed by the strong response of the electorate in the BJP's favour in 2019, party national secretary Sunil Deodhar claimed of winning 333 seats in the 2024 General Elections. However, after setbacks in Bengal and other states, the strategy will surely be revised to ensure the party stays on course to come to power for third consecutive time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-preparing-for-2024-elections-sanjay-raut-on-gujarat-developments-101631948774074.html
18-09-2021||India||I-T dept says Sonu Sood involved in ₹20 crore tax evasion; FCRA violation||After two days of raids on Bollywood actor and philanthropist Sonu Sood and premises linked to him, the Income Tax department said on Saturday that tax evasion worth ₹20 crore by Sood and his associates has been unearthed so far apart from Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) violations. The department had conducted a search and seizure operation at various premises of Sood in Mumbai as well as a Lucknow-based group real estate group. Total 28 premises in Mumbai, Lucknow, Kanpur, Jaipur, Delhi and Gurugram were searched over two days. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said in a statement that “during the course of search at the premises of the actor and his associates, incriminating evidence pertaining to tax evasion have been found.”It said the modus operandi followed by Sonu Sood was to route his unaccounted income in the form of bogus unsecured loans from many fake entities. “Investigations so far have revealed use of 20 such entries, the providers of which, on examination, have accepted on oath to have given bogus accommodation entries. They have accepted to have issued cheques in lieu of cash. There have been instances where professional receipts have been camouflaged as loans in the books of accounts for the purpose of evasion of tax. It has also been revealed that these bogus loans have been used for making investments and acquiring properties,” the CBDT said. It added that the total amount of tax evaded unearthed so far, amounts to more than ₹20 crore. Subsequently, the IT department has found foreign funds violations in actor’s Sood Charity Foundation, incorporated on July 21 last year when Covid-19 was at its peak and he was involved in a lot of relief work, particularly sending migrant workers to their homes. The CBDT said that the foundation has collected donations worth ₹18.94 crore from April 1, 2021, till date, out of which it has spent around ₹1.9 crore towards various relief work while the balance of ₹17 crore has been found lying unutilized in the bank account of the foundation. “It is seen that funds to the tune of ₹2.1 crore have also been raised by the charity foundation from overseas donors on a crowdfunding platform in violation of (Foreign Contribution Regulation Act) FCRA regulations,” the CBDT statement added.The I-T department had also conducted raids at various premises of the real estate firm, with whom Sood has entered into a joint venture real estate project and invested substantial funds. The raids, the CBDT statement said, have resulted in the unearthing of incriminating evidence pertaining to tax evasion and irregularities in the books of account. It said the company is involved in bogus billing of subcontracting expenses and siphoning off of funds. Evidence of such bogus contracts worth ₹65 crore has been found so far apart from unaccounted cash expenses, unaccounted sale of scrap and digital data evidencing unaccounted cash transactions. “Further, it has been unearthed that the said infrastructure group has entered into a dubious circular transaction to the tune of ₹175 crore with an infrastructure company based in Jaipur. Further investigations are being carried out to establish the full extent of tax evasion. Cash ₹1.8 crore has been seized during the search (at a company) and 11 lockers have been placed under prohibitory order,” it said. The raids are continuing, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-dept-says-sonu-sood-involved-in-rs-20-crore-tax-evasion-fcra-violation-101631948732831.html
18-09-2021||India||BJP nominates Sonowal, L Murugan for Rajya Sabha by-polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has nominated former chief minister of Assam, Sarbananda Sonowal and minister of state for information and broadcasting, L Murugan as its nominees for the Rajya Sabha by-election scheduled for October 4.While Sonowal, who is the incumbent Union minister for ports, shipping and waterways, will be the nominee for the seat that has fallen vacant from Assam, Murugan will be the party’s nominee for the vacancy that has arisen in Madhya Pradesh. The BJP with 94 members is currently the single largest party in the upper house.The vacancy in Madhya Pradesh arose on account of BJP’s Thawar Chand Gehlot being elevated as the Governor of Karnataka. Gehlot was also the Leader of the House and the minister for social justice and empowerment.In Assam, the bypoll was necessitated after BJP member Biswajit Daimary resigned from the Upper house. Daimary is now the Speaker of the assembly in Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-nominates-sonowal-l-murugan-for-rajya-sabha-bypolls-101631948132499.html
18-09-2021||India||Actor Sonu Sood, aides evaded tax worth over ₹20 cr, says I-T dept||The Income Tax department on Saturday said actor Sonu Sood and his associates had evaded tax worth over ₹20 crore.The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said during the course of search on the premises of the Bollywood actor and his aides, incriminating evidence related to tax evasion was found.During the course of search at the premises of the actor &his associates, incriminating evidence pertaining to tax evasion found. The main modus operandi followed by the actor had been to route his unaccounted income in form of bogus unsecured loans from many bogus entities: CBDT“The main modus operandi followed by the actor had been to route his unaccounted income in the form of bogus unsecured loans from many bogus entities,” a tax department official was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The I-T department conducted a search and seizure operation on several premises of the actor in Mumbai and also a Lucknow-based group of industries engaged in infrastructure development.Also read | Sonu Sood: Politics a great profession, no harm if someone wants to be in itAs many as 28 premises in Mumbai, Lucknow, Kanpur, Jaipur, Delhi, Gurugram were searched during the operation, the CBDT said.The department had initiated its action against the actor on Wednesday following which searches were extended to people linked to him.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Shiv Sena have hit out at the Centre for the action and alleged the Bollywood star, who had been involved in multiple welfare work ever since the coronavirus-induced lockdown was imposed, was being targeted.  His humanitarian activities, which started with arranging transport for migrant workers during the pandemic, got him national and international recognition.Sood recently become an ambassador of the AAP's mentorship programme meant for students. Tweeting in his support, AAP convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said Sood had the prayers of lakhs of families that he supported in difficult times. The Sena said once the BJP used to praise Sood, but now it thought he was a tax evader after the Delhi and Punjab governments tried to join hands with him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/actor-sonu-sood-aides-evaded-tax-worth-over-rs-20-cr-says-i-t-dept-101631946538487.html
18-09-2021||India||Now a Bihar farmer turns millionaire overnight, asks govt if he could keep some of the money||A farmer in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district has erroneously received ₹52 crore in his pension account and he has appealed to the government to allow him to keep some of the money. Ram Bahadur Shah, who lives in a village under the Katihar police station, got to know that crores of rupees has been credited to his account when he approached a nearby Customer Service Point (CSP) to seek an update on the status of his pension. “We were shocked to hear this and wondered where the amount had come from. We have spent our lives farming,” Shah said, according to India Today. “I only appeal to the government to give us some of this amount so that we can spend the rest of our lives smoothly.”According to reports, the police have already informed local authorities about the incident and are investigating the matter. Employees of the concerned bank will also be questioned, they added.Also read |  ₹962 crore credited to two Class 6 students’ bank accounts, probe orderedThis comes days after two boys received  ₹962 crore in their bank accounts, which were opened to receive school scholarships and other government benefits in the state’s Katihar district. The Uttar Bihar Gramin Bank (UBGB) accounts of Ashish Kumar and Guruchand Vishwas showed they had a balance of Rs 62 crore and ₹900 crore respectively. They got to know about their balance after the outgoing village head of Pastia took some of the students to the local customers’ service point to check whether their accounts were credited with money for books and school dress.Also read | Man refuses to return money credited to account due to bank error during lockdown, arrestedOn Thursday, the regional manager of UBGB, Ram Nath Mishra, dismissed the reports. “We have obtained the statement of these two accounts and found  ₹100 and  ₹128 in them,” Mishra said. The bank has also initiated an investigation into the matter.A few days ago, a man in Khagaria district was arrested after he refused to return  ₹5.50 lakh credited in his UBGB account in April last year. He claimed the money was sent to him by Prime Minister Narendra Modi as help during the Covid-19 lockdown. He was arrested after bank officials lodged a police complaint against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/now-bihar-farmer-turns-millionaire-asks-govt-if-he-could-keep-some-of-it-101631944700048.html
18-09-2021||India||Kerala adds over 50% Covid-19 cases to India’s single-day tally of 35,662||Kerala contributed more than 50 per cent of cases of Covid-19 to the country’s daily tally of 35,662 with 23,260 infections, data showed on Saturday. Of the 281 Covid-19 fatalities reported in the last 24 hours, nearly half or 131 deaths were reported from Kerala, according to data.The state has been reporting a record number of Covid-19 cases for weeks now. On Friday, the state added 22,182 Covid-19 cases to India’s tally of 34,403 and on Thursday (September 16) Kerala contributed 17,681 infections to the country’s tally of 30,570, according to the data released by the health ministry.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan told reporters on September 16 that almost 68 per cent of the country’s total cases are being reported from Kerala. "Kerala has over 1.99 lakh active cases, while five other states—Mizoram, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra—have more than 10,000 active cases,” Bhushan said during a press briefing.In the last 24 hours, the district of Thrissur reported the highest number of cases in the state-4,013, followed by Ernakulam with 3,143 and Kozhikode with 2,095 cases, health minister Veena George told reporters. The state currently has 1,88,926 active cases of whom only 12.8% are currently being treated in hospitals.Kerala’s Covid-19 trajectory showed signs of slowing down after 15,876 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported on Wednesday, September 15, and AIIMS Professor Dr Sanjay Rai said that the state is past its peak and infections will start declining uniformly in the next two to three weeks.Kerala started reporting a record number of Covid-19 cases, which experts attributed to the state government’s decision to allow Onam celebrations. Last year too, the state witnessed a similar sudden spike in the number of daily cases after the festival ended.India logged 35,662 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, reporting more than 30,000 infections for the third day in a row.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-adds-over-50-covid-19-cases-to-india-s-single-day-tally-of-35662-101631944318300.html
18-09-2021||India||Is AUKUS pact a signal to India to go for nuclear attack submarines?||With Australia signing a pact with US and UK to go in for eight nuclear powered conventional attack submarines or SSNs to deter China in Indo-Pacific, India also needs to have a relook at its 1999 conventional submarine plan and move swiftly towards nuclear powered sub-surface vessels.While India has floated a Request for Information (RFI) for six new diesel attack submarines with air independent propulsion for longer duration under water under Project 75I, the rapidly changing security scenario in the Indo-Pacific calls for Modi government to put the plan of three SSNs on the front-burner. India as of now has one ballistic missile firing nuclear submarine or SSBN, INS Arihant, with another one, INS Arighat, ready for commissioning next year. It does not have a nuclear-powered conventional attack submarine, but the situation will change in 2025.Although the French are understandably unhappy at Australia for unilaterally scuttling the USD 50 billion deal with Naval Group to build 12 AIP equipped diesel submarines in favour of SSNs under the newly unveiled AUKUS Anglo-Saxon pact, fact is that the rapidly building Chinese Navy needed a stronger response. The SSNs are only limited by food supplies and the mental framework of their crew and can-do sea access-sea denial patrols for more than 45 days. In short, Australia, which is at the receiving end of the belligerent Chinese like India and Japan, can deter the powerful PLA Navy, which has a series of SSNs and SSBNs and is acquiring longer sea legs by the day.In this context, Indian national security planners also need to reconsider Project 75 I and Project 76, a follow-up of the previous one, and jump to Project 77 or the SSN project. Since submarine building takes at least a decade from the drawing board, India needs to prepare for a time when Chinese aircraft carriers and SSNs will be patrolling the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) apart from other global players.It is not that the Modi government is sitting tight and watching the unfolding security situation in maritime dimension. With new aircraft carrier, INS Vikrant, INS Arighat SSBN, six new Kalvari class diesel attack submarines and Vishakhapatnam class of destroyers, the Indian Navy is going to be very potent force in the Indo-Pacific by 2025.With US willing to sell armed Predator drones, Aegis integrated combat system and Tomahawk cruise missile to India, Modi government has enough options to project power in Indo-Pacific. India’s key ally France is also willing to help in design and construction of SSNs as well as improve Indian military’s over the horizon capabilities.Just as US, India and Australia are focused on the Indo-Pacific, the new Japanese leadership is also shedding its pacifist approach faced with wolf-warriors of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). The emerging leaders of the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) after Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga are conservative and nationalist in approach. Rather than be pushed around by Beijing, Japan is all ready to join hands with Quad partners in securing Indo-Pacific.The AUKUS pact will not be without security ramifications for the Quad partners as there is a distinct possibility that China may build an SSN for its client Pakistan citing the transfer of nuclear reactor under AUKUS to Australia. This will create a bigger security headache for India and for other countries in the IOR. Time has come for India to revisit its deterrent capabilities and for Indian Navy to think beyond Karachi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-aukus-pact-a-signal-to-india-to-go-for-nuclear-attack-submarines-101631944254552.html
18-09-2021||India||Covid-19 India: At 35,662, new cases surpass daily recovery tally||India on Saturday recorded a fourth straight day rise in coronavirus (Covid-19) cases with 35,662 new samples testing positive for the virus. According to the latest updates in the website of the Union ministry of health and family welfare, active cases stood at 3,40,639 comprising 1.02 per cent of the total number of infections (3,34,17,390). Also, the number of recoveries was lesser than the number of new cases.Saturday’s figures were 3.5 per cent higher than the numbers registered on Friday at 34,403. The country registered over 30,000 cases for the third day in a row. As many as 30,570 infections were recorded on Thursday, while 27,176 people tested positive on Wednesday.Also read | India's weekly Covid tally shows upward trend, record jabs boost vaccine driveAs many as 33,798 people recovered in the last 24 hours, while 281 patients lost their lives to the virus. This took the total recoveries to 3,26,32,222 and related fatalities to 4,44,529 with their corresponding rates touching 97.65 per cent and 1.33 per cent, respectively.Of all the tallies, Kerala continued to bear the biggest brunt having registered 23,260 new cases and 131 deaths.Meanwhile, India administered the highest-ever single day vaccinations against the viral disease with 2.5 crore doses given in the last 24 hours. This took the total vaccinations to 79,42,87,699 ever since the inoculation drive was launched in January this year.Also read | India's single-day vaccine record equals the entire population of AustraliaThe record-breaking feat was achieved on the occasion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday as the government sought to boost the vaccination drive to fight the virus in the wake of an impending third wave of the pandemic.The government said more than 78.02 crore (78,02,17,775) vaccine doses had so far been provided to states and Union territories through the free of cost channel and through direct state procurement category. Further, more than 33 lakh doses (33,08,560) were in the pipeline.Also, more than 6.02 crore (6,02,70,245) balance and unutilised vaccines were available with the states and UTs at the moment, the government said.The Indian Council of Medical Research said 14,48,833 samples were tested for the virus in the last 24 hours taking the total number of such tests conducted to 55,07,80,273.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-india-at-35-662-new-cases-surpass-daily-recovery-tally-101631941921033.html
18-09-2021||India||Farmers’ body says September 27 Bharat Bandh will be peaceful, issues guidelines||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has issued guidelines for the September 27 Bharat Bandh against the Centre's three farm laws and said it would be peaceful and farmers will ensure that people do not face any inconvenience. "The SKM has asked constituent organisations to appeal to all sections of society to join hands with farmers and publicise the bandh beforehand so that inconvenience to the public may be reduced. The bandh will be peaceful as well as voluntary and would exempt emergency services,” it said in the statement, according to news agency PTI.Central and state government offices, markets, shops, factories, schools, colleges and other educational institutions will not be allowed to function during the Bharat Bandh by farmers, which will start at 6am and remain in force till 4pm, the SKM said in a statement on Friday. Public and private transport will not be allowed to ply on roads, the umbrella body of more than 40 farmer unions said. No public functions will be allowed and only emergency services, including ambulances and fire services, can function during the bandh, it added.The SKM said that a "state-level preparatory meeting" will be held in Mumbai on September 20 for further planning regarding the bandh. A ‘Kisan Mazdoor Mahapanchayat' will be organised in Uttar Pradesh's Sitapur on the same day and it will be followed by a 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' in Uttarakhand's Roorkee on September 22.Also read | SAD to resume poll events after farmers’ September 27 Bharat BandhThe protesting farmers will also host a five-day Kabaddi League from September 22 at Tikri and Singhu border protest sites. "Teams from different states are expected to participate and play for cash rewards," the SKM statement said.The SKM said that the farmers have continued their protest because the government has been "adamant" on not repealing the contentious farm laws. It said lakhs of farmers are protesting at Delhi borders not of their "own volition" and have been forced to stay there by police of different states and the Union home ministry.Also read | Scrap farm laws, talk to farmers for way forward: Punjab CM to CentreThe SKM said the protest of the farmers, who have faced "great hardship" living on the highways amid heavy rains, harsh summer and chilly winter months, is a matter of "protecting their livelihoods, basic productive resources and the future of the next generation".Farmers from different parts of the country have been protesting since November last year against the three farm laws, which the Centre has said are major agricultural reforms. However, the farmers fear that they will do away with the minimum support price or MSP system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. The government and farmer leaders held more than 10 rounds of talks but have failed to break the deadlock between the two sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-body-says-september-27-bharat-bandh-will-be-peaceful-issues-guidelines-101631941255678.html
18-09-2021||India||India's single-day vaccination equals entire population of Australia. Here are other records broken||On the occasion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday on September 17, India achieved a record landmark in its vaccination campaign against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In an extraordinary feat, the country vaccinated as many as 25 million citizens, more than three times the average daily total of the past month. It's a number that equals the entire population of Australia, is two-thirds the population of Canada, and five times the entire population of New Zealand, according to the central government.Also Read | 466 doses per second: How India achieved record Covid vaccination on PM Modi's birthday“What a remarkable feat!” the government portal MyGovIndia posted on Twitter, pointing out that India managed to vaccinate 25 million (2.5 crore) citizens in under 16 hours.What a remarkable feat!🇮🇳#IndiaFightsCorona #LargestVaccineDrive pic.twitter.com/q7phsRl74vIn another tweet, the government portal pointed out that India's single-day Covid-19 vaccination record, 25 million, equals the entire population of Australia (25.4 million) and is also more than the total doses administered by Australia so far (23.8 million).Also Read | 'We will not rest...': PM Modi ‘humbled beyond words’ after birthday wishes, record vaccinationsWhat's more, India's single-day vaccine numbers are equal to two-thirds of the population of Canada (37.7 million). It is both five times the population of New Zealand (48 lakh) and five times that of the total doses administered by New Zealand (46 lakh). The numbers are also double the total doses administered by Egypt (12.2 million), according to the central government.2.5 crore doses administered in a single day, new record created!Well done India! #LargestVaccineDrive #VaccineSeva pic.twitter.com/tA75vm5ykcThe record number of vaccines administered by India was a part of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)'s push to the ‘Seva and Samarpan’ vaccination campaign to honour the occasion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday.“Every Indian would be proud of today’s record vaccination numbers,” the Prime Minister said, acknowledging the hard work of doctors, innovators, administrators, nurses, healthcare, and all front-line workers who made the vaccination drive a success.“Countless individuals and organisations have immersed themselves in some or the other noble deed of community service today. I salute them for their noteworthy efforts. There is nothing better than giving back to society and helping others,” PM Modi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-single-day-vaccination-equals-entire-population-of-australia-here-are-other-records-broken-101631937201472.html
18-09-2021||India||Rawat & team in Chandigarh today for meet as Punjab Congress continues to boil||Harish Rawat, the All India Congress Committee (AICC) in charge of Punjab’s affairs, will reach Chandigarh on Saturday along with party colleagues Ajay Maken and Harish Chaudhary to hold a meeting of the Congress legislature party (CLP) as requested by a “large number of MLAs”.Maken and Chaudhary have been appointed by Congress president Sonia Gandhi as observers of the party’s affairs in Punjab where factionalism and power tussle between chief minister Amarinder Singh and the party’s newly made state chief Navjot Singh Sidhu refuse to die down.In charge of Punjab Congress, Harish Rawat will reach Chandigarh later today along with Ajay Maken and Harish Chaudhary who have been appointed as an observer by the party's interim chief Sonia Gandhi.(File photos) pic.twitter.com/3HFLr8h5AtLate on Friday night, Rawat wrote on Twitter, “The AICC has received a representation from a large number of party MLAs, requesting to immediately convene a meeting of the legislature party of Punjab.”The CLP meeting is scheduled to be held at the Punjab Congress office in the state capital at 5pm and all legislators have been asked to attend the same.In another post, the former Uttarakhand chief minister tagged Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, besides Singh and Sidhu and wrote, “AICC directs the PPCC to facilitate this meeting.”Also read | Battle for 2022 Punjab polls: Sidhu-Amarinder bad blood roils CongressThe development came as several legislators and ministers close to Sidhu have been seeking a meeting of the legislature party.Last month, four ministers and around two dozen party MLAs had raised a banner of revolt against the CM stating they had no faith in Singh's ability to honour unfulfilled promises.Also read | The rumblings within the Congress continue -- from Punjab to KeralaPunjab is among the last remaining three Congress-ruled states, the other two being Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh. The grand old party is struggling with factionalism and power-sharing issues in all the three states. Election is due next year in Punjab and the party high command is making all efforts to bring the rift within control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rawat-team-in-chandigarh-today-for-meet-as-punjab-congress-continues-to-boil-101631938864338.html
18-09-2021||India||Mahakaleshwar Temple in Ujjain starts Covid-19 vaccination drive||The Mahakaleshwar Temple in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain has started a Covid-19 vaccination drive for devotees within the temple premises. Devotees who wish to visit the temple but have not been vaccinated so far can get their jabs at the temple. The vaccination facility was inaugurated on September 15, and devotees can get their first as well as second dose from here.The Mahakaleshwar Temple was opened for devotees from September 11 after a gap of 17 months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. As many as 686 devotees participated in the 'Bhasma Aarti' at the temple on September 11, in compliance with established Covid-19 protocols. The temple administration told news agency PTI that up to 1,000 devotees will be allowed to visit the temple regularly.Ujjain’s Mahakaleshwar temple is one of the 12 'jyotirlingas' of Lord Shiva and a popular shrine for Hindus.Also Read: 100 dead as fever grips 5 states, MP worst-affectedThe temple administration has decided to hold this vaccination drive near the temple gate to prevent the spread of Covid-19, News18 reported on Saturday. Devotees are being asked to wait for 30 minutes following their vaccination and then allowed to enter the temple. Mobile vaccine units have also been started to help inoculate the elderly population against Covid-19, as they cannot always visit the designated vaccination centres.Madhya Pradesh vaccinated more than 23.7 lakh beneficiaries against Covid-19 on Friday, to mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday, as the daily vaccination numbers across the country crossed the one-crore mark for the fourth time in less than a month. To date, the state has vaccinated 55,658,845 beneficiaries. In the last 24 hours, Madhya Pradesh reported six new cases of Covid-19 after testing 68,737 samples, and zero deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahakaleshwar-temple-in-ujjain-starts-covid-19-vaccination-drive-101631938870377.html
18-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: UK relaxes travel rules in minor benefit for long-haul India flights and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.UK relaxes rules for vaccinated travellers; minor benefit for long haul flights from IndiaBritain is simplifying its system for international travel for vaccinated travellers coming in and out of the UK and scrapping its current three-tiered red-amber-green country list with a single red one, transport minister Grant Shapps said on Twitter on Friday, adding that these measures will be applicable from October 4. The latter move is set to benefit long-haul flights between India and the UK. Read MoreIndia's weekly Covid tally shows upward trend, record jabs boost vaccine driveIndia’s Covid-19 tally has shown an upward trend over the past one week as fresh cases crossed the 30,000-mark on more than one day as fears of an impending third wave of the pandemic refuse to subside. The week also marked a record vaccination drive against the virus with over 2.5 crore doses being administered on Friday on the occasion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday. Read MoreTaliban to track, secure 2000-year-old Bactrian gold treasure: ReportThe Taliban ministry of information and culture has said they have begun efforts to track and locate the Bactrian treasure, also known as Bactrian Gold, discovered four decades ago in the Tela Tapa area of Sherberghan district, the centre of northern Jawzjan province, according to a report. Read MoreSpaceX crew member plays ukulele in zero gravity, makes spaceflight historyA 42-year-old data engineer on the first all-civilian astronaut crew to reach orbit made some spaceflight history on Friday, with a zero-gravity ukulele performance in a SpaceX capsule hundreds of miles above Earth's surface. Chris Sembroski, a Lockheed Martin employee and US Air Force veteran, strummed a few chords for home-bound viewers during a 10-minute show-and-tell session by the four-member Inspiration4 team as they flew at about 17,500 miles per hour (28,000 km per hour) over Europe. Read More‘Achieved all I wanted’: Ravi Shastri hints at stepping down as India head coach after T20 World CupRavi Shastri more or less confirmed that he is likely to step down as India head coach after the T20 World Cup in UAE and Oman in October-November this year. Shastri's hint comes a couple of days after Virat Kohli announced that would no longer continue as India's T20I captain after the ICC event. Read MoreWhen Shabana Azmi said Javed Akhtar doesn't 'have a single romantic bone', revealed secret of their marriageShabana Azmi turns 71 on Saturday, September 18. The veteran actor is not only known for her performances but she has also made a difference as a social activist. She was also a nominated member of Rajya Sabha. Amid these achievements, Shabana often made headlines for her marriage with Javed Akhtar. Read MoreKriti Sanon inspires fans to blow off steam in healthy, safe way with kickboxingSaturday is here and as the build-up of weekday stress weighs heavy on our shoulders, Kriti Sanon inspired us to blow off some steam in a healthy and safe way with cardio kickboxing. All those wanting to relieve stress while building strength should take fitness motivation from Kriti's latest cardio kickboxing workout with an energetic instructor, Karan Sawhney. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-uk-relaxes-travel-rules-in-minor-benefit-for-long-haul-india-flights-and-all-the-latest-news-101631935308747.html
18-09-2021||India||The future is here? India may soon get its first 'electric highway'; what it means||The central government is mulling over the concept of an ‘electric highway’, to be built between the national capital of Delhi and Jaipur in Rajasthan. Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari said on Friday said the government is already in talks with a foreign company to build the electric highway – his “dream” project – between these two cities and that the construction work might start very soon if the discussions come through. Hindustan Times' sister publication HT Auto reports that in addition to the Delhi-Jaipur stretch, another electric highway may also be constructed between Delhi and Mumbai, and talks are on with a Swedish firm regarding that.What is an ‘electric highway’?With the world moving on from conventional fuels to alternative sources of energy for powering transport, electricity is currently the most popular choice for powering motors of propulsion in vehicles. If the proposed electric highway comes through, it will see vehicles powered by electricity ply on the stretch – the first of these will be between Delhi to Jaipur; and later, if everything goes well, the Delhi-Mumbai stretch may see another of these electric highways.Also Read | The electrification of Indian carsAccording to Union minister Nitin Gadkari, electric vehicles are not just limited to small road vehicles. Buses, trucks, and railway engines may also eventually be powered by electricity. The minister said that it was his dream to build an electric highway, but the project is still in the proposal stage.“It is my dream to build an electric highway from Delhi to Jaipur,” the PTI news agency quoted Gadkari as saying. “It is still a proposed project. We are in discussion with a foreign company.”He said that as the transport minister, he has taken the resolution to eventually bring an end to the use of petrol and diesel in the country.Electric vehicles, the future of transportationAn electric vehicle (EV) uses one or more electric motors for propulsion and can be powered either by an electric current collector system (for example, the overhead lines or electric third rails powering trams or electric locomotives), a battery (can be charged by solar panels or by converting fuel to electricity using fuel cells or a generator), and any other extravehicular sources of power.Also Read | Electric Vehicles: Push for courses and research in IndiaBecause of the diverse range of options available, EVs are not limited to road vehicles; electricity can theoretically power the railway, aircraft, spacecraft, and even underwater vessels. It has also been described as one of the 100 best contemporary solutions to address climate change and is expected to reduce conventional transportation's drastic impact on global warming and the environment.In its latest outlook, the International Energy Agency (IAE) said this year that world governments should do more to meet climate goals with policies that favour electric vehicles, and India's proposed electric highway project is expected to be a substantial step in that direction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-future-is-here-india-may-soon-get-its-first-electric-highway-what-it-means-101631931795297.html
18-09-2021||India||India's weekly Covid tally shows upward trend, record jabs boost vaccine drive||India’s Covid-19 tally has shown an upward trend over the past one week as fresh cases crossed the 30,000-mark on more than one day as fears of an impending third wave of the pandemic refuse to subside.The week also marked a record vaccination drive against the virus with over 2.5 crore doses being administered on Friday on the occasion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday.According to data updated by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the country registered a significantly less number of cases on Monday at 27,254 and it went down to 25,404 a day later. However, as many as 27,176 people tested positive on Wednesday. This figure went up to 30,570 on Thursday, while on Friday, as many as 34,403 samples tested positive across the country.Also read | Add suicide cases to Covid-19 death tally, SC tells CentreOf the new cases, Kerala, one of the worst-hit, continued to contribute with more than half the infections throughout the week and beyond.The nationwide recovery rate has also touched a high of 97.65 per cent with 37,950 people being discharged or tested negative after treatment on Friday. This took the number of recoveries to 3,25,98,424.At present, the active cases stood at 3,39,056, comprising 1.02 per cent of the total cases, while the total tally has touched 3,33,81,728. With Friday’s 320 deaths, the toll has reached 4,44,248.Also read | Covaxin's wait continues, WHO ‘delays’ emergency use nod till October 5With the ongoing festive season and many more coming, experts and senior government officials have been urging caution failing which they warn of a massive rise in cases. On Thursday, the Centre said the country's Covid vulnerability may increase in October and November and asked local administrations to start preparing for increase in capacity to handle any increase in the future.The second wave of the virus had wreaked havoc earlier this year in most parts of the country, including the national capital struggling to breathe and cremate the lost lives. Officials have appealed to citizens to continue to wear masks, follow social distancing norms and complete their vaccination course to combat the viral disease.  Also read | 466 doses per second: How India achieved record Covid vaccination on PM Modi's birthdayMeanwhile, the country achieved a major milestone on Friday with a record number of doses being administered during the day. Till 11pm, the figures stood at 23,141,139 which made it the world’s fastest inoculation drive against the virus. Among the states, Karnataka topped the list, followed by Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.India has also inoculated the highest number of beneficiaries with their first dose of the vaccine in the world with about 60.7 per cent of the adult population in the country having received at least one jab.Earlier in the week, the health ministry applauded six states and Union territories, including Himachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Goa, Lakshadweep, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, and Ladakh for vaccinating all its eligible citizens with at least the first dose against the virus.  On Wednesday, the ministry said India also has the highest number of beneficiaries who have been fully vaccinated with both doses in the country.Also, the GST council, headed by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, on Friday decided to extend the concessions on Covid-19 medicines such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab till December 31. More such treatment drugs like Favipiravir will be charged a reduced rate of 5 per cent till December 31, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-weekly-covid-tally-shows-upward-trend-record-jabs-boost-vaccine-drive-101631933469036.html
18-09-2021||India||Covaxin's wait continues, WHO ‘delays’ emergency use nod till October 5||Even as the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech waits for the much sought-after emergency use authorisation (EUA) from the World Health Organization (WHO) for its indigenous Covid-19 vaccine ‘Covaxin’, it seems that the wait is to continue for at least a bit longer. The international public health body is likely to have once again delayed its approval for the Covaxin shot, this time till October 5. According to a report by the ANI news agency, the Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization (SAGE) will be meeting on October 5 to decide on granting the EUA to Covaxin.Also Read | SII to supply 200 million doses, Bharat Biotech 35 million shots in SeptemberThe SAGE session of the specialised agency of the United Nations will recommend EUA based on the clinical on Covaxin from Phase 1, 2, and 3 trials, according to the report. The session will also consider the post-marketing studies on safety, immunogenicity, efficacy, and effectiveness; and review updates on global, regional, and country-level plans for vaccine safety monitoring.Based on the assessments of the SAGE working group, WHO will then consider the available pieces of evidence to determine EUA. Meanwhile, Bharat Biotech said on Friday that it has submitted all the data to WHO for emergency use listing (EUL) of Covaxin and is now awaiting feedback. However, the company said that it did not find it “appropriate” to comment on the approval process and its timeline.Also Read | Awaiting WHO approval for Covaxin, Bharat Biotech says 'inappropriate' to comment on processThe Phase-3 clinical trials of Covaxin demonstrated an efficacy rate of 77.8 per cent. All the relevant trial data has been submitted to WHO for EUL, and all clarifications sought by the UN health agency have been responded to, Bharat Biotech said. “We have responded to any clarifications sought by WHO and are awaiting further feedback. As a responsible manufacturer with several prequalified vaccines, we do not find it appropriate to speculate or comment on the approval process and its timelines,” the Hyderabad-based company said in a statement.So far, the WHO has approved Covid-19 vaccines manufactured by Pfizer-BioNTech, AstraZeneca, Johnson and Johnson, Moderna, and Sinopharm. UN agency’s approval makes international travel easy for people who receive those vaccines and the company also gets a boost to market its product in the global market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxins-wait-continues-who-delays-emergency-use-nod-till-october-5-101631927954542.html
18-09-2021||NA||Highlights: 3 drowned today in J&K while extracting sand, says police||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:France accuses Australia, US of 'lying' in 'serious crisis'France accuses Australia, US of 'lying' in 'serious crisis'.At least 3 drowned in J&K today while extracting sand: PoliceThe additional SP of Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur, Anwaar Ul Haq on Saturday told news agency ANI that at least three people drowned earlier in the day while extracting sand. “Rescue operation [is] underway by [the] SDRF,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.Saudi Arabia's foreign minister Al Saud arrives in DelhiSaudi Arabia's Foreign Minister Prince Faisal bin Farhan Al Saud arrives in Delhi. The Saudi Foreign Minister will meet the Minister of External Affairs S Jaishankar on September 19. He will call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on September 20: MEA pic.twitter.com/mYvNAjRAT3Al Saud is in India for a three-day visit to have talks on the ongoing crisis in Afghanistan, which recently fell into the hands of Islamist militant group Taliban.‘Babul Supriyo should’ve told BJP before leaving': Suvendu AdhikariBabul Supriyo should have told BJP before leaving the party. His exit is not a loss for BJP. He is not a mass leader & not a good political organizer. However, personally, he is my good friend: West Bengal LoP Suvendu Adhikari on former BJP leader Babul Supriyo joining TMC pic.twitter.com/OSyZs7Oj8sSupriyo said that he is going to meet TMC chief and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday. Read more here.Kerala schools to reopen from Nov 1; some classes to commence from Nov 15Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday decided to reopen schools on November 1, even as the state continues to report a high number of daily Covid-19 cases. The decision was taken at the core committee meeting on the pandemic chaired by the CM. Read more here.Odisha colleges to resume offline classes for UG 1st yr students from Sept 20 onwardsColleges in Odisha will resume physical classes for 2020-21 undergraduate first year students from September 20 onwards.‘No talks with anyone’: Ex-Punjab CM on whether he's joining BJPNo talks with anyone, just submitted my resignation to Governor today...: Congress leader and former Punjab CM Amarinder Singh on his future plans or whether he is in talks with BJP pic.twitter.com/OfiidPoO5sSingh also said that Congress chief Sonia Gandhi said ‘I am sorry Amarinder’ after he spoke with her over his decision to resign from the top post.‘Incompetent, disaster’: Capt Amarinder Singh on Sidhu as the next Punjab CM face...Navjot Singh Sidhu is an incompetent man, he is going to be a disaster. I will oppose his name for the next CM face. He has a connection with Pakistan. It will be a threat to national security...: Former Punjab CM Amarinder Singh in an exclusive interview to ANI pic.twitter.com/ZaVZxiwG63In an exclusive interview with ANI, former Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh said that Navjot Singh Sidhu, the party's state president, is an “incompetent man, [and] he is going to be a disaster.” “I will oppose his name for the next CM face. He has a connection with Pakistan. It will be a threat to national security,” he was quoted as saying by the news agency.‘New LPG connections being given to 5 lakh women today': Amit ShahUnion home minister Amit Shah launched the 'Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana 2.0' Madhya Pradesh's Jabalpur on Saturday. He said that as many as five lakh women are being given new LPG connections today, news agency ANI reported.‘States, UTs should strengthen health infra’: Cabinet secy Rajiv GaubaUnion cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba on Saturday said that all states, and UTs should undertake in-depth analysis of their Covid-19 situation and strengthen health infrastructure, stock essential medicines and augment human resources, according to news agency PTI.Saudi foreign minister to meet Jaishankar tomorrow; will call on PM Modi on Sept 20: MEASaudi Arabia's Foreign Minister Prince Faisal bin Farhan Al Saud will visit India on September 18 - 20. He will meet the Minister of External Affairs S Jaishankar on September 19. He will call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on September 20: MEASaudi Arabia's foreign minister Al Saud visit is expected to have discussions on the situation in Afghanistan, which recently fell back into the hands of Islamist militant group Taliban.‘Whoever party has faith in can become next CM’: Capt after resignationWhoever they (party high command) have faith in, can make them (Punjab CM)...: Amarinder Singh after resigning as Punjab CM pic.twitter.com/uoaoSu5ds6Captain Amarinder Singh also said that he will remain in Congress, and will consult his “supporters” before deciding the “next course of action.”‘Felt humiliated’: Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh after resignationPunjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday said that he “felt humiliated” as he was unable to run the state government “smoothly.”Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh met Guv and submitted his and council of ministers' resignation: Raveen Thukral, Capt's media advisorCM Captain Amarinder Singh has met Punjab Governor and submitted his and his council of ministers’ resignation. He will address the media at the Raj Bhavan gate in a few minutes from now: Raveen Thukral, Media Advisor to Punjab CM pic.twitter.com/VwxpGruX74Singh is set to address a press briefing at Raj Bhavan shortly. Read more here.India administered over 80 crore Covid vaccine shots: MandaviyaStanding tall against #COVID19 India administers 80 crore vaccine doses.Congratulations to the nation on this momentous feat 👏#WorldsLargestVaccinationDrive pic.twitter.com/QSkb9yKoqhUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Saturday took to Twitter to mention that India has administered 80 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses so far.‘Process will go on’: TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh on ex-BJP MP Babul Supriyo joining partyTMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh on Saturday said that many BJP leaders are in communication with the TMC leadership as they are not satisfied with the former party. “One (Babul Supriyo) joined today, another wants to join tomorrow. This process will go on. Wait and watch,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Former BJP MP Babul Supriyo joins Trinamool CongressFormer Union Minister and ex-BJP MP Babul Supriyo formally joins Trinamool Congress (TMC). Supriyo had quit BJP following the recent Union Cabinet reshuffle. pic.twitter.com/Uc5uOU2IzxFormer BJP MP Babul Supriyo, who had quit the party after the recent cabinet rejig, has joined Trinamool Congress (TMC).Seven girls drown in a Jharkhand pondAs many as seven girls drowned in a pond in Jharkhand during 'Karma Puja' immersion, news agency PTI reported.Congress' Sidhu and Pargat Singh received Harish Rawat, Ajay Maken and Harish Choudhary at Chandigarh airportPunjab Congress' president Navjot Sidhu and party's state general secretary Pargat Singh has received party leaders Harish Rawat, Ajay Maken and Harish Choudhary at the Chandigarh airport. A CLP meeting for Punjab is scheduled today.Security heightened at all major railway stations in MumbaiSecurity was heightened at all major railway stations in Mumbai following an operation by the Delhi Police Special Cell, which led to the arrest of 6 terror suspects. Around 7,000 security cameras have been installed at the railway stations and certain entry and exit points have also been closed, reported news agency ANI on Saturday.Punjab ministers arrive at party office as Congress aims to solve leadership crisisChandigarh: Punjab ministers Tripat Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Charanjit S Channi, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Assembly Speaker Rana KP Singh arrive at the party office. A CLP meeting of the party has been called today. pic.twitter.com/o82CqJWqT7Chandigarh: Punjab ministers Tripat Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Charanjit S Channi, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, and Assembly Speaker Rana KP Singh arrive at the party office.A CLP meeting of the party has been called today.  Delhi CM, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri inaugurate the Dhansa Bus Stand-Najafgarh section of Delhi MetroDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri inaugurate the Dhansa Bus Stand-Najafgarh section on the Grey Line of Delhi Metro."People won't have to cross Firni road now to reach Delhi. It will benefit people from about 50 villages," says Kejriwal pic.twitter.com/cvevav6bHhRN Ravi takes oath as governor of Tamil NaduRN Ravi, former governor of Nagaland, took oath as the governor of Tamil Nadu in Chennai on Saturday, reported ANI. "I am looking forward to being at the service of the people of Tamil Nadu, to the best of my ability and the space that the Constitution gives me," Ravi told reporters at the oath taking ceremony. 2 injured in IED explosion at Kabul's police district 13Eyewitnesses said an IED explosion occurred in Kabul’s PD13 this morning and two people have been injured: Afghanistan's TOLOnews Actor Sonu Sood, associates evaded ₹20 crore in tax, says income tax deptIncome tax department said on Saturday that Bollywood actor Sonu Sood and his associates evaded tax worth ₹20 crore. IT department searched multiple premises in Mumbai, Nagpur and Jaipur linked to the actor while investigating allegations of tax evasion against Sood.BJP names Sarbananda Sonowal, L Murugan for RS seatsThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) nominated Union shipping minister Sarbananda Sonowal from Assam and minister of state L Murugan from Madhya Pradesh for Rajya Sabha seats. India's Covid-19 cases climb for 4th day in a row; 35,662 new infections reported India reported 35,662 new Covid-19 infections on Saturday, marking a 3.5% rise from yesterday's Covid-19 tally of 34,403. A total of 33,798 recoveries have also been recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry. Over 78.02 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to States/UTs so far: Govt Government of India announced on Saturday that over 78.02 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to States/UTs so far through free of cost channel and direct state procurement, and more than 33 lakh doses are in the pipeline.  No deduction of tax on payments made by a Scheduled bank to a member of a Scheduled TribeThe Ministry of finance announced on Saturday that no deduction of tax on payment in the nature of interest, other than interest on securities, made to a member of any Scheduled Tribe residing in a specified area as referred to in s.10(26) of IT Act, by a Scheduled bank located in a specific area. Schools, residential hostels in Leh to remain closed for next 15 daysAll schools, residential hostels in Leh to remain closed for next 15 days, starting from September 18 to October 2, subject to Covid-19 review, the Ladakh administration said on Saturday. Online classes will continue with Covid-appropriate SOPs.Dehradun district Magistrate warns officials of action if their phones are switched offDehradun district Magistrate released an order on Saturday warning all district-level officials of action under the Disaster Management Act if their phones are switched off, unless in cases of personal emergency. This was done in the wake of landslides and the coronavirus pandemic, reported ANI.WHO approval for Covaxin likely to be delayed till Oct 5World Health Organisation's (WHO) approval for the emergency use authorisation (EUA) for India-manufactured Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin is likely to be delayed till October 5, reported ANI on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-september-18-2021-101631924592274.html
18-09-2021||India||PM Modi to hold review meeting with ministry secretaries today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a review meeting on Saturday with the secretaries of various ministries and departments, according to officials familiar with the matter cited by the PTI news agency. The meeting in the evening comes in the backdrop of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic that has taken a toll on lives and the economy.Prime Minister Modi earlier this month chaired a meeting – which was termed as ‘Chintan Shivir’ – with his council of ministers. Although any relevant details regarding the agenda of Saturday's meeting are yet to be revealed, those familiar with the matter have said that four more such ‘Chintan Shivir' meetings have been planned for discussing ways to further improve governance.Also Read | 'We will not rest...': PM Modi ‘humbled beyond words’ after birthday wishes, record vaccinationsThe Prime Minister also chaired a high-level review meeting on September 10 regarding the Covid-19 situation and vaccination status in the country.In July, Prime Minister Modi effected a reshuffle of his cabinet ahead of seven states going for assembly polls next year. Out of them, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is in power in six states, including Uttar Pradesh. In the September 14 meeting, Modi told his cabinet colleagues that “simplicity is the way of life”, and asked the ministers to learn from the best practices of their colleagues.Stating that sharing is caring, PM Modi also spoke about meetings during his Gujarat days where everyone used to bring their own tiffins and shared the food as well as ideas.Also Read | At SCO meet, Modi says Afghanistan proof that radicalisation key challenge to peaceSeptember 17 marked the 71st birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a day which also saw a record rate of Covid-19 vaccination. Till 9pm on Friday, India administered 2.25 crore Covid-19 vaccination doses with the Co-Win website refreshing every second throughout the day, as a mega vaccination drive was planned on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's birthday."Every Indian would be proud of today's record vaccination numbers. I acknowledge our doctors, innovators, administrators, nurses, healthcare, and all front-line workers who have toiled to make the vaccination drive a success. Let us keep boosting vaccination to defeat Covid-19," the Prime Minister tweeted, hailing the achievement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-hold-review-meeting-with-ministry-secretaries-today-101631925131500.html
18-09-2021||India||India's first indigenous luxury cruise liner to be launched by IRCTC today. Details here||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) will launch the country’s first indigenous cruise liner from Saturday, in partnership with Cordelia Cruises – a private company. The bookings can be done from the IRCTC web portal soon as the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) normalises and international cruises can resume their normal operations, reports the PTI news agency. The luxury travel offering in the form of the indigenous cruise will take guests on-boards to some of the most popular Indian and international tourist destinations – such as Goa, Diu, Kochi, the Lakshadweep islands, and Sri Lanka.#IRCTCTourism brings to you the ultimate cruisecation on #India's first premium cruise liner, #Cordelia Cruise. With breathtaking views & world-class services, this city on the sea is everything you've dreamt of & more. #Booking & #details on https://t.co/FWe8nzhxMJCordelia Cruises is one of India's premium cruise liners and aspires to promote and drive the cruise culture in India through experiences that are “stylish, luxurious, and most importantly, inherently Indian.” In a statement issued earlier this month, the IRCTC said that it has joined hands and signed the agreement with Cordelia Cruises being operated by Waterways Leisure Tourism for marketing and promotion of the first indigenous luxury cruise in India.“This is another incredible luxury travel offering under IRCTC's umbrella of tourism services to the public,” it noted.Tour destinationsSome of the most popular tour itineraries of Cordelia Cruises are:- Mumbai - Goa - Mumbai (2N)- Mumbai - Diu - Mumbai (2N)- Mumbai - at sea - Mumbai (2N)- Kochi - Lakshadweep - at sea - Mumbai (3N)- Mumbai - at sea - Lakshadweep - at sea - Mumbai (4N)- Goa - Mumbai - at sea - Lakshadweep - at sea - Goa (5N)- Chennai - at sea - Colombo (2N)- Chennai - Jaffna - Chennai (2N)- Chennai - at sea - Colombo - Galle - Trincomalee - Chennai (5N).Facilities aboard the luxury cruiseCordelia Cruises offers opportunities for lots of recreational and leisure activities – such as restaurants, swimming pool, bar, open cinema, theatre, kids' area, gymnasium, etc.According to reviews, the kind of luxury opportunities provided aboard Cordelia Cruises matches the standard of international cruise liners.ScheduleThe IRCTC cruise liner, which is travelling to tourist spots like Goa, Diu, Lakshadweep, Kochi, and Sri Lanka, will allow its guests to sail to the Indian destinations in the first phase, with its base in Mumbai.In the second phase, starting from May 2022, the cruise will be shifted to Chennai and it will be sailing to the Sri Lankan destinations like Colombo, Galle, Trincomalee, and Jaffna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-first-indigenous-luxury-cruise-liner-to-be-launched-by-irctc-today-details-here-101631921718539.html
18-09-2021||India||Appointment of CJs to 8 HCs gets collegium’s nod||The Supreme Court collegium has cleared the appointment of regular chief justices in eight high courts across the country in an important move aimed at making administration of constitutional courts more efficient. At present, eight out of 25 high courts were working without regular chief justices.
18-09-2021||India||Orissa HC rejects plea on raising height of Durga idol to 4 feet, says move will not affect sanctity||The Orissa High Court on Friday rejected the petition filed by a puja committee of Cuttack town seeking relaxation in capping of the height of Durga idol at 4 feet observing that the height despite being an essential aspect of a tradition would not lower the sanctity as well as the devotion and fervour associated with the popular festival.Balubazar Puja committee, one of the 150-odd organisers of the Durga Puja festivities had approached the Orissa High Court last week seeking that the state government order on capping the height of all idols of Durga as well as other subsequent festivals at 4 feet be lifted. The committee contested the order of the state government issued last month which said the height of all idols of Gods and Goddesses such as Ganesh, Durga, Kali and Laxmi should be capped at 4 feet.The HC bench of Chief Justice S Muralidhar and Justice BP Routray said Durga Puja festival itself was a combination of several elements of celebration, and the idol is but one important component. “In respect of these many elements there has had to be some amount of restriction on the scale and size. It is in that context that the restriction on the height of the idol has to be viewed. It cannot be singled out as an ‘essential’ aspect of a tradition or practice without which, the festival itself may not have significance,” the HC said.The court said the puja committee could not justify if the height of the idol is restricted to 4 feet, then somehow the sanctity of the occasion, the devotion and fervour associated with the festival, and the religious sentiments of the people would be interfered with in a manner contrary to tradition.The HC bench however made an exception for Balubazar puja committee and 8 other committees in Cuttack town that have already started construction of the idols and exceeded the 4 feet limit. It said the rest of the puja committees that have not started construction would have to keep the idol at 4 feet.Since last month, politics has escalated over the height of the Durga idols with opposition BJP calling for a Cuttack bandh on September 13 against the government order. BJD MP Bhartruhari Mahtab had also opposed the state government decision on capping of idol height.The deities of Maa Durga have been worshiped in Cuttack since 1509. It is believed that Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, who was born in Cuttack, started Durga Puja in the city to organize youngsters against the British like Balagangadhar Tilak had started Ganesh Utsav in Maharashtra. The first recorded Sarvajanin (public) Durga Puja in the state started in Kazi Bazaar area of Cuttack in 1832.While capping the idol heights, last month, the special relief commissioner of Odisha had said congregations for celebration of Ganesh Puja, Durga Puja, Laxmi Puja, Kali Puja and other festivals would not be allowed in public throughout the state.The state government said puja pandals would need to be covered on three sides while the 4th side would be covered in a way so as not to allow any public view of the idols. It also barred the use of the public address systems at puja pandals and said the immersion processions would not be allowed.Apart from Odisha, states like Maharashtra, Karnataka and Gujarat have capped the height of idols at 4 feet, but the neighbouring state of Bengal has not put in place any such restrictions. Assam too has also not put any such restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/orissa-hc-rejects-plea-on-raising-height-of-durga-idol-to-4-feet-says-move-will-not-affect-sanctity-101631911527629.html
18-09-2021||India||Supreme Court to reconsider its ruling in favour of Adani Power||The Supreme Court has decided to reconsider its 2019 judgment, which affirmed Adani Power (Mundra’s) call to terminate the power purchase agreement (PPA) signed with Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam (GUVNL).A five-judge bench, headed by chief justice of India NV Ramana, issued notices on a curative petition filed by GUVNL after noting that the plea raises significant questions of law. Apart from Adani Power (Mundra), notices have also gone to Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission (GERC) and an NGO, Consumer Education and Research Society.“We have gone through the curative petition and the relevant documents. In our prima facie opinion, there are substantial questions of law raised in this curative petition, which require consideration. Issue notice,” stated the court’s order on September 16.The bench, which also included justices Uday U Lalit, AM Khanwilkar, BR Gavai and Surya Kant, has listed the matter for a hearing in the open court on September 30.Curative petition is the final legal remedy available to a litigant after dismissal of the main petition and the review petition.In its July 2019 judgment, a three-judge bench comprising justices Arun Mishra, BR Gavai and Surya Kant underlined that Adani Power was justified in terminating the PPA since it could not get coal supply on time from the Naini block of Gujarat Mineral Development Corporation (GMDC).The apex court, in its 2019 order, also allowed Adani to seek a compensatory rate for the electricity it had alternatively supplied to Gujarat from its Korba power project in Chhattisgarh. It had asked the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) to decide the compensatory rate for Adani Power within three months from the date the company approaches it. GUVNL will then have to make the payment to Adani within three months from the date the CERC decides.The dispute dates back to 2010, when Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission (GERC) said Adani Power illegally terminated the PPA the latter had signed with GUVNL. This decision of GERC was later upheld by the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity, prompting Adani to approach the top court.According to Adani’s contention in the top court, it signed the PPA in 2007 with GUVNL for supply of 1,000 MW at ₹2.35/unit from its power project at Korba, Chhattisgarh, based on coal supply from Naini. GMDC agreed to supply 4 million tonne of coal a year to Adani by developing the Naini coal block.Later, in 2007, Adani told GUVNL it would supply power from its Mundra power project in Kutch, Gujarat, instead of from Chhattisgarh since GMDC was lagging in coal production. However, despite repeated reminders to the Gujarat government, GUVNL, and GMDC, the coal supply did not start. Adani claimed it was forced to terminate the PPA in December 2009, arguing the agreement for supply of power was based on the assurance given by GMDC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-reconsider-its-ruling-in-favour-of-adani-power-101631908423579.html
18-09-2021||India||Karnataka tops in vaccination drive on PM’s birthday||Karnataka topped the Covid vaccination drive in the country on Friday by administering 2.69 million doses till 9 pm, minister for health & family welfare and medical education K Sudhakar said.The state stood first in the country ahead of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, which achieved over 2.66 million and 2.48 million doses, his office said in a release.“It is really apt that this effort coincides with the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has led the war on Covid from the front,” Sudhakar said.According to data released by the state health department at 8:30 pm, Karnataka had achieved 85% coverage by administering 2,692,955 doses against the target of 3,175,000.“I would like to thank all the health workers and other staff who have been involved in this historic vaccination drive,” Sudhakar said.It is a phenomenal effort by Karnataka to administer more doses than Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, which have several times more population, he said. Meanwhile, the state on Friday also crossed the “milestone” of administering over 50 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine till date.Data from Cowin shows the Karnataka government appears to have continued its practice to hoard Covid-19 vaccines so as to show a higher number of inoculations on Friday. The state government denied hoarding of vaccines. The state government had set a target to administer 3 million doses on Friday to celebrate the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Data from Cowin shows that Karnataka has held back vaccinations to a minimum to administer jabs on a specific day to show higher numbers and demonstrate its prowess in the fight against Covid-19. The state government has shown high numbers on days it observes mass vaccination drives across Karnataka and seeing sharp downward fluctuations on other days. Denying hoarding of vaccines, Dr KV Trilok Chandra, commissioner for health and family welfare, said, “Compared to other states we have been consistently administering an average of 3-4 lakh doses every day irrespective of any mela.” He said the average per day vaccination was higher than most other states. Chandra said the two days in September where inoculations were lower than 100,000 was due to the festivals. The emphasis on optics in the fight against Covid-19 comes at a time when the threat of a third wave of infections looms over the state, which has so far lost at least 37,573 lives due to the virus and millions more impacted due to it. Until Friday, the state had administered a high of 1.25 million doses in a single day on September 1, the day it launched the “lasika utsav”, and every Wednesday since. Though the Basavaraj Bommai-led BJP government has assured to adminsiter 500,000 vaccinations per day, data shows that it has breached that number just on four occasions in September. Most BJP-ruled states held vaccination drives to observe the birthday of the Prime Minister. The developments come even as people are sent back home without their shots, especially in rural areas where distance and transport have added to existing problems like growing hesitancy in districts, such Yadgir, Raichur and Chamarajanagar, among other. To overcome hesitancy, the district administration of Chamarajanagar had also tried to implement a ‘no-vaccine, no-pension/ration’ order that came under heavy criticism and eventually pulled back. The state health department said that as of Friday, the state had 3.5 million doses of vaccines with the state and the supply was also at a healthy rate.According to the government release on Friday, the districts that topped in Karnataka during the drive are Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike- BBMP area (398,000 doses), Belagavi (239,000 doses), Dakshina Kannada (133,000 doses), Ballari (133,000 doses), Tumkuru (124.000 doses) and Mandya (115,000 lakh doses).Bengaluru Urban, Shivamogga, Dharwad, Ramanagara, Hassana, Davanagere, Chikamagaluru and Haveri districts achieved more than 100 per cent of the day’s target.The vaccination drive, also called “Mega Vaccination Mela” was conducted in over 12,000 Covid vaccination centres across the state.Karnataka administered a total of 50.12 million doses till 9 PM on September 17.“We are very confident of crossing the target of 1.5 crore (15 million) that we have set ourselves for September,” the minister said, also expressing confidence about vaccinating the entire adult population in the State by the end of November.India on Friday administered a 20.25 million doses till 9 pm. The total doses administered in India till September 17 has crossed 790 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-tops-in-vaccination-drive-on-pm-s-birthday-101631907447395.html
18-09-2021||India||3 days after incident, Congress MLA booked for assaulting health officer||Congress MLA and former minister Jitu Patwari was booked on Friday for allegedly assaulting the chief municipal health officer during a programme which was organized on Wednesday, to create awareness among people to contain the spread of Dengue and malaria in Indore, police said. The case was registered after sanitation workers staged a protest at Rajendra Nagar police station demanding action against the Congress MLA on Friday morning. Following which, Indore police registered a case against the Congress MLA from Rau under Section 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 294 (using obscene language) of IPC. Rajendra Nagar police station in-charge Amrita Solanki said, “Some sanitation workers had come to the police station with health officer Uttam Singh Yadav. Yadav filed a complaint that the municipal corporation was organizing an awareness programme against Dengue and was also fumigating to kill larva of mosquitoes. Patwari attended the programme and misbehaved with Yadav and forced him to carry out fumigation in his constituency in Indore. He manhandled him and also abused him.” The chief municipal health officer came to file a complaint after informing his seniors about it. The accused is an MLA so the arrest will be made only after the investigation, said Solanki. “It is a political conspiracy against me. The case was registered three days after the incident. In Indore, Rau is the worst-affected area due to dengue and malaria but the municipal corporation is carrying out a step-motherly behaviour with my constituency. The residents are seeing everything,” Patwari said. Attacking the Congress MLA, BJP leader from Indore Madhu Verma said, “Congress MLA Jitu Patwari bullied a municipal corporation officer and manhandled him. Everyone saw him doing so. The officer filed a complaint against him. Now, what is the conspiracy in it? He should behave himself before blaming others.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-days-after-incident-congress-mla-booked-for-assaulting-health-officer-101631906727111.html
18-09-2021||India||Karnataka: Journalist attacked while recording speech during protest in Mysuru||A Mysuru-based journalist of an Urdu newspaper, who was covering a protest organised by Hindu Jagarana Vedike, was allegedly attacked for recording a speech made during the protest on Thursday. The right-wing outfit was protesting against demolition of temples by the district administration recently. Mohammed Safdar Kaiser, a reporter with ‘The Daily Kausar’, who was covering the event on Thursday, was allegedly assaulted by protesters, who asked him to delete the speech video.Mysuru police, who rescued the reporter from the mob, have taken a complaint, but an FIR is yet to be registered. In his complaint, Kaiser said while he was covering the agitation, some of the protesters approached him, asked for his identity card, and told him to stop shooting the video. When the reporter asked them why he was singled out, the protesters attacked him, Kaiser told police in his complaint.He said the protestors raised objections when he was recording the speech of Vedike general secretary Jagadish Karanth.Meanwhile, the police personnel present at the spot rushed to rescue the journalist and took him inside a room near the Kote Anjaneya Swamy temple in front of the Mysuru palace premises. Local media reports said that after police took him inside the temple, the protesters, who were armed with sticks, stood outside demanding he should let out.Following the incident, president of Mysore District Journalist Association S Ravikumar has written to the Mysuru police commissioner, seeking action against the assailants and protection for journalists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-journalist-attacked-while-recording-speech-during-protest-in-mysuru-101631905646959.html
18-09-2021||India||HT Lenovo Smarter Ed Conclave: NEP facilitates integration of tech with education, says Karnataka minister Ashwath Narayan||Karnataka is the first state in India to implement the National Education Policy (NEP). State’s higher education minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan spoke to Sharan Poovanna about what the state has done to implement the policy at a session in Hindustan Times’s Lenovo Smarter Ed Conclave on Friday. Edited excerpts: How do you think NEP can change the frame of the education system in the country? In the backdrop of emerging technologies and bridging digital divide, NEP was much awaited for the country and system, particularly to have a better future in the 21st century. There is a lot of lacuna in learning as it is working in silos and we are not trying to integrate with the industry. There’s a total disconnect between academic, industry and a complete mismatch particularly with regard to research and innovation. Probably, the one way it can happen is through education, innovation and technology. NEP permits the flexibility or the integration of the technology and facilitates effective integration of technology. We do have a lot of challenges, but we are very well placed particularly after the Covid-19. Our government has been working in this direction, establishing platforms for comprehensive learning management systems as part of the digital learning which has been developed in Karnataka. Even edu-tech companies do not have the kind of content development we have done with over 350,000 pieces of material, designed and evenly crafted along with the classrooms. We now have internet-enabled smart classrooms, providing more than 300,000 devices (tabs) to children studying in government institutions. The unified college management system has been established to connect in real-time with all private colleges, aided and government colleges which will come under this rule. Data capturing can happen based on this and a lot of interventions can be done. For the teachers as well there is a digital divide since their average age is around 40-45 years. How do you overcome these challenges? We are trying to ensure there will not be any digital divide in the state by providing all required facilities like upskilling of teachers. We are trying to train more than 10,000 teachers in this year on how they can cope with the changes. This is a way forward to address all challenges for enhancing the economy, bringing in social equity, inclusiveness and empowering youngsters to have a better future. And to get placement, cope up with emerging technologies as it becomes a huge area and connect with the industry. With the NEP, the syllabus has been completely rewired and revamped to connect with the industry and cater to their demand. We are building the system in such a way that even the most digitally illiterate can make use of the system. I do not think we will face a lot of challenges as in higher education we have a lot of younger professors and the process will be a smooth transition. What kind of regulatory mechanism will be in place to fix issues like fees in private educational institutes, higher education? With regard to higher education, we do have a higher education council in which all universities are members and I am the chairman. There is a lot of change which is facilitated through coordination and they (universities) have a lot of autonomy. With the NEP, there should be a lot of structural and administrative changes and legislations need to be brought in. We started working in this direction at the ongoing session to bring the Karnataka Shikshana Ayoga that will become the umbrella for primary, secondary education for entire education system that becomes a common body which will be headed by the chief minister. We are working on strengthening of the Higher Education Council and many other verticals will also come up. Some regulatory bodies will take some more time. Since the time is 15 years for stage-wise implementation which will happen initially and we have brought a lot of academic reforms for 2021. How does Karnataka plan to achieve higher GER on par with developed economies? The GER has increased for now after our government took over and is now at 32% from 28%. We have increased absorption capacity to get 200,000 additional children admitted. Enrollment of students should increase in primary, secondary and higher education. I am very pretty sure that we are going to achieve 50% GER target by 2040 because if a big state like Karnataka achieves it in 10 years, it may be impetus to several other poorer states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, where a large number of school dropout is there when compared to Karnataka. There has been an adverse impact psychologically also on students due to Covid and the time lost. How has the government and education sector suffered or employability suffered because of Covid? From school to college children, everybody has been badly affected. We did our best and provided online education but even then there have been a lot of setbacks. We will ensure that we overcome all shortcomings in days to come and effectively address these by integrating technology. We have vaccinated all college students, teaching and non-teaching staff to bring them back to campus. Since NEP follows 360 degrees of learning, nothing will be in isolation as all activities will be possible through collaboration that allows children to go beyond campus and learn. How will you accommodate those opposing the NEP who accuse the policy of muting scientific temper? The NEP only has positives where the student gets what they want. We are just worried that the transition is happening very fast. It was planned for implementation from 2021 and will be given 15 years time for complete implementation. The administration and all the structural facilitation is happening excellently. Connecting with the industry and academia is fantastic. I don’t think there is even a single negative point and some are opposing it for the sake of it. There are fears on the NEP and how it may prioritise Hindi over Kannada, other languages? At school level, students have been allowed to take three languages which include two Indian and one foreign. In higher education we do have two languages and it will be a choice of the student. In Karnataka, Kannada is mandatory in school and college. The nationalist policy is going to strengthen local languages and it is not an imposition of Hindi. And it is meant to promote and ensure that our identities will remain with us and it will continue to flourish and sustain any challenges.How will the policy bring in synergy between industry and academia? Since we are allowing institutions to collaborate with industry, the best facilities will be available for students. Earlier it was a namesake internship for just 2-3 months which we have made to 9 months in engineering as well as other courses. We are insisting industry to pay stipend otherwise, it has no value. If you belong to any particular place or locality, you can ensure the institution of your locality grows to international standards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htlenovo-smarter-ed-conclave-nep-facilitates-integration-of-tech-with-education-says-karnataka-minister-ashwath-narayan-101631905407314.html
18-09-2021||India||25-year-old man dies of burn injuries in MP’s Sagar district, 4 arrested: Police||A 25-year-old man died of burn injuries in Madhya Pradesh’s Sagar district on Friday, prompting the police to arrest four members of a higher-caste family for the alleged crime and the government to promise exemplary action in the case.Police said Rahul Yadav died after he was set on fire and pushed off a roof, allegedly by the family of a higher-caste woman he had gone to meet.But the woman, 23-year-old Chanchal Sharma who also sustained 60% burns, told the police that Yadav had come to her house, and tried to kill her by immolating her.Police arrested four members of the woman’s family -- her father Raghavendra, uncle Vishnu and brothers Shubham and Deepak -- and charged them with murder.Sagar superintendent of police, Atul Singh, said Yadav and Sharma were in a relationship for a few years and that her family didn’t approve of it.When asked about the woman’s allegation, the SP said that phone call details showed that the woman had called Yadav to meet. “We are investigating the matter,” he added.Urban development and housing minister Bhupendra Singh said the government will not spare the accused. “We will punish them so that people will never think of committing such crime,” he added after meeting Yadav’s family.Police said Sharma is Brahmin and her family was influential in Semra Lahariya village. Her uncle, Vishnu, was earlier the village chief and the family owns large parcels of land. Yadav belonged to an other backward class (OBC) communtiy who eked out a living as a daily wager in Sagar’s fruit market, Singh added.Last year, Sharma’s family married her off to a man from their community 150km away in Jabalpur. She returned home a few days ago, and called Yadav to her house on Thursday evening, when her family saw them, said police.Singh said Raghvendra, Vishnu,Shubham and Deepak tied Yadav’s hands and mercilessly thrashed him. “Later, they poured kerosene oil on him and set him afire and then pushed him off the roof. He landed in their cowshed,” the district police chief added, citing the young man’s statement recorded hours before his death.A villager informed the police about the incident.Yadav and Sharma were taken to the local community health centre. Early on Friday morning, they were taken to the Bundelkhand Medical College 30km away. Yadav died soon after, police said.Sharma’s family blamed Yadav and said he had come to kill the woman. But Yadav’s family refuted the allegations.Yadav’s uncle, Umashankar Yadav, said the family knew about his relationship with Sharma, but that he kept himself busy with work as a daily wager since her wedding.“On Thursday evening, Rahul told me that Chanchal asked him for one last meeting. She had been calling him for the past three days. Rahul went there to meet her last time but we didn’t know that they would kill him,” Umashankar said.Yadav’s family sought police protection even as protests rocked the region .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25yearold-man-dies-of-burn-injuries-in-madhya-pradesh-s-sagar-district-four-arrested-police-101631905293510.html
18-09-2021||India||Bill banning online gambling tabled in Karnataka Assembly||The Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government on Friday tabled a bill to ban online gambling and betting in Karnataka with provisions of heavy penalties for offenders.The Karnataka Police (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was tabled in the lower house of the state legislature in the ongoing monsoon session.By tabling the bill, the government proposed to amend the Karnataka Police Act, 1963 that defined games which included online that had any forms of wagering or betting.According to the bill, “Games means and includes online games, involving all forms of wagering or betting, including in the form of tokens valued in terms of the money paid before or after the issue of it, or electronic means and virtual currency, electronic transfer of funds in connection with any game of chance.”The government also made a provision to punish offenders with a maximum imprisonment of three years or a fine of up to ₹1 lakh.The bill, however, does not include betting in turf clubs or other races.The bill, which makes certain offences related to wagering and gambling a cognizable offence, includes use of cyberspace, computer resources or any communication device as defined in the Information Technology Act, 2000 in the process of gaming.The tabling of the bill comes at a time when there has been a sharp spike in online betting games being floated into the virtual space which, by disclaimers made by the promoter companies themselves, can be addictive.The bill stated that offences will attract prison sentences ranging between six months to three years and fines from ₹10,000- ₹20,000 depending on frequency of the violation. Those aiding and abetting online gaming would also be brought to book, the amendment states.On Friday, the lower house passed three bills, including the Identification of Prisoners (Karnataka Amendment) Bill that seeks to include collection of blood, DNA, voice and iris scan samples as “measurements” of offenders for effective surveillance and prevention of breach of peace and crime.There are apprehensions on the provisions of this bill as it makes anyone, who has been sentenced in a crime for one month and upwards, to be forced to give their samples which will become part of the database.Experts have voiced their concerns over such a bill over privacy issues as well as questioned if the necessary infrastructure was in place to collect, store and analyze such complicated procedures.Priyank Kharge, a Congress MLA and former minister, also raised her concerns over right to privacy and availability of necessary infrastructure to collect, store and analyze the collected samples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-banning-online-gambling-tabled-in-karnataka-assembly-101631905048109.html
18-09-2021||India||Islamic State trying to spread tentacles through online propaganda: NIA||Concerned that the Islamic State is trying to spread its tentacles in India, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday appealed to the public to bring into its notice any such propaganda or radicalization on social media platforms.The investigating agency also opened a hotline number -- 011-24368800 -- for all to inform about any such activities.“Investigation by the NIA has revealed that IS (Islamic State) is trying to spread its tentacles in India through continuous propaganda online. Gullible youth are targeted on open social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Once a person shows interest, he or she is then enticed to communicate with online handlers based abroad using encrypted social media platforms,” the statement said. “Depending on the gullibility of the person, the handlers then use the person for uploading online content, translation of IS texts to local language, conspiracy, preparation of a module, collection of arms and ammunition, preparation of IEDs, terror funding and even attacks,” it added. With the Taliban taking control of Afghanistan last month and subsequently releasing several prisoners linked to the Islamic State in Kabul, Kandahar and Mazar-i-Sharif, there appears to be an attempt to lure Indian youth through platforms such as Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, people familiar with the development said. According to the agency, most of the 150 Indians who joined the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria between 2014 and 2017 were radicalised by various recruiters on the internet. The agency also said that it has so far arrested 168 people in 37 cases of terror attacks, conspiracy and funding which have been inspired by the IS ideology in the country. It said that charge sheets have been filed in 31 of the cases, the most recent of which was registered in June, and that 27 accused have been convicted after trial.At least eight from Kerala, who had joined the IS in Afghanistan’s Nangarhar province in 2016, were among those recently freed from Afghanistan prisons, an NIA official said on condition of anonymity. While their present location is not yet known, it is suspected that they might try to enter India, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/islamic-state-trying-to-spread-tentacles-through-online-propaganda-nia-101631904989331.html
18-09-2021||India||Karnataka coastal districts on alert after intelligence agencies intercept satellite calls||Police have issued an alert along Karnataka’s coastal regions after central intelligence agencies recently intercepted satellite calls originating from three coastal districts, officials said. Senior police officers said police are taking all precautions and the alert should not be a concern for the public. A senior officer in charge of the intelligence in the state confirmed that the state police had received inputs from central agencies regarding such calls. “We can’t share more details about these calls, but this is not the first time such calls are reported in the state. Our teams are on the ground verifying these inputs. However, there is no imminent cause for concern,” said the officer. Officers in the know of the developments said that inputs from the central agencies have been taken seriously since the “contents of these calls were of interest”. On September 1, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai had said that police had received inputs about possible terrorist activity on the coasts of Kerala and Karnataka. He said the state administration is keeping a watch for any suspicious activity in the coastal and adjoining forest areas. “I can’t discuss some issues openly, but I want to tell you that Karnataka police along with NIA is keeping a strict vigil on any anti-national activity in coastal and adjoining forest areas. NIA had also picked up a person who was involved in such activities. We have also issued a high alert in coastal areas,” said the chief minister. It was then claimed by the police that a central Intelligence report had warned that terrorists could infiltrate from the coastal districts of the state. The fresh alert comes days after the chief minister’s statement. So far, 15 Islamic State sympathisers have been arrested from Karnataka. The latest arrests were reported on August 11, when the National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested Zufri Jawhar Damudi from Karnataka’s Bhatkal town in connection with terror activities of a group propagating the violent ideology of the Islamic State (IS). A day before that NIA had arrested Ammar Abdul Rahman of Mangalore and Shankar Venkatesh Perumal of Bengaluru in connection with the case after conducting simultaneous searches in Jammu and Kashmir and Karnataka. In October 2019, NIA had announced that the central agency had arrested 127 IS sympathisers from across India between 2014 and 2019. According to the NIA list at the time, a maximum of 33 people have been arrested from Tamil Nadu, followed by Uttar Pradesh (19), Kerala (17), Telangana (14), Maharashtra (12), and Karnataka (8). Since 2019, as per the information listed on NIA’s website, three IS-related cases have been reported. The first case was reported on September 19, 2020, in which four men from Karnataka were arrested. The second case was reported on March 5, 2021, in which seven people from Kerala were arrested and the third case of arrests was reported after raids in September. With these arrests, Kerala moved to the second spot in the list with 24 arrests while Karnataka jumped to the fourth with 15 arrests, followed by Telangana (14), as per the NIA information. While answering a question regarding ‘reports of the presence of Islamic terrorists in southern states of India’, during the monsoon session in September 2020, the Union ministry of home affairs told parliament: “Some instances of individuals from different states, including the southern states, having joined Islamic State (IS) have come to the notice of Central and state security agencies.” “Investigations by the NIA have revealed that IS is most active in Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Jammu & Kashmir,” read the MHA statement in Rajya Sabha. B Dayananda, additional director general of police (Intelligence), Karnataka, said the numbers mentioned by the MHA are only pertaining to the cases registered by NIA. “As per the state government’s records, 30 people have been arrested for links with the Islamic State. So far the arrests have been made in connection with radicalisation and evidence of contact with members of the Islamic State,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-coastal-district-on-alert-after-intelligence-agencies-intercept-satellite-calls-101631904928317.html
18-09-2021||India||CPI(M) cautions against luring of women going to colleges towards terror, sparks new row||Thiruvananthapuram: Amid raging controversy triggered by Pala Bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt’s statement on ‘narcotic jihad’, the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) has cautioned its party cadres against a deliberate move to lure educated women studying in colleges to terrorism. The controversial remark appeared in a note prepared by the party to its cadres ahead of the upcoming party conferences. Under the title ‘Minority Communalism’ the note said some of the recent debates and deliberations supporting Taliban in the state should be viewed seriously. It asked its cadres to be vigilant about such issues. “Deliberate attempts are being made to lure youth into extremist ideologies. Efforts are also made to make educated women to think that way. Our student and youth outfits should pay special attention towards such issues,” the note said. It also criticised the Jamate-e-Islami for propagating fundamentalist ideals. Though Christians in the state generally do not buy such communal ideologies, a radical influence is growing among a section of the community which forces it to buy the victim theory quite often, it said. The note also said such tendencies in minority communities will only help majority communalism in the state. The note has stoked another round of debate in the state. The opposition Congress asked the party to produce evidence to prove such “grave charges” while the BJP said finally the ruling party admitted to the presence of terror network in the state. “The ruling party is making a grave charge. The party and government have responsibility to reveal what forced it to make such a note. If they have any data or evidence to prove it should release them,” said opposition leader VD Satheesan. The BJP said the party has finally admitted to the presence of terror network in the state. “Its double standard is exposed. While it is fiercely opposing the Bishop’s statement it tells it cadres about the presence of jihadi elements,” said BJP state president K Surendran. When asked, CPI(M) acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan said the party will oppose both, majority and minority communalism but refused to comment on the in-house note. Bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt while addressing a religious congregation in Kottayam on Sept 9 said Catholic girls and youth were becoming victims of “narcotic jihad” and decried authorities for turning a blind eye towards it. Though many religious leaders and a section of the intelligentsia asked the Bishop to clear the air saying he was only referring to the social evil (growing use of narcotics among youth) he is yet to dilute his statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cpim-cautions-against-luring-of-women-going-to-colleges-towards-terror-sparks-new-row-101631904870267.html
18-09-2021||India||Chandrababu Naidu demands scrapping of new Tirumala Board||Amaravati, Sep 17 (PTI): Telugu Desam Party president N Chandrababu Naidu on Friday demanded that the newly-constituted Board of Trustees of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams be abolished forthwith as “vested interests” were brazenly apparent in its appointment.The YSR Congress government turned the holy place into a commercial entity, he alleged and warned that those trying to damage the sanctity of Venkateswara Swamy would pay a price.Rather than honouring the devotees’ sentiments, the government hurt them by appointing a 81-member Board, including 52 special invitees, Chandrababu said in a letter to Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy.“A Board that should have been constituted with devout and service-oriented people has been filled with industrialists, criminals, the corrupt and malicious persons. It is reprehensible that a jumbo Board with 81 members has been constituted, which is unprecedented. The TDP strongly condemns it,” Chandrababu said.The Leader of the Opposition charged that the new Board was established in a manner that not only hurt the sentiments of crores of devotees, but also established that only political and business interests were involved.“The TTD Board has been turned into a rehabilitation centre for the politically-unemployed,” he lashed out.BJP MP G V L Narasimha Rao too came down heavily on the Jagan government on the TTD Board issue and questioned the motive behind nominating 52 special invitees.“The Jagan government is treating TTD as a platform for its politics and distribution of posts. The government should desist from such things,” the MP said.He said a Trust Board within the ambit of law would suffice and there was no need for a jumbo body with more than 50 special invitees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chandrababu-naidu-demands-scrapping-of-new-tirumala-board-101631904866824.html
18-09-2021||India||SC allows Kerala to hold Class 11 exams physically||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Friday allowed the Kerala government to conduct physical examinations of Class 11 in the state, trusting the authorities to follow all Covid-19 precautions to avert any harm to students and observing that the third wave of the pandemic was not in the offing immediately. A bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar said, “We are convinced by the explanation offered by the state government. We hope and trust that the authorities will take all precautions to ensure no untoward incident is faced by students who are of tender age and are appearing for the examination.” On September 3, the court restrained Kerala from proceeding with its Class 11 examinations beginning September 6 on account of the “alarming” situation posed by a surge in Covid-19 cases that posed a serious risk to the health of students. More than 300,000 students in the state are supposed to appear for the Class 11 examinations. With the direction on Friday, the apex court disposed a petition filed by advocate A Rasoolshan, who argued the decision of the state to conduct offline examinations for Class 11 was creating tremendous mental stress among students and posed a serious risk to children as cases in the state were rising at an alarming rate. Explaining why it had swiftly intervened in the matter on September 3 ordering stay of the examinations, the bench said, “Earlier we had intervened thinking that by September, the possibility of the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic is there. Now the third wave does not seem to be in the offing immediately.” Also, the court noted that the state had successfully conducted the Joint Engineering Examination (JEE) – Main 2021 from August 26 to September 2, National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET) for medical/dental admissions on September 11 and 12 and other engineering entrance examinations in the state that were all held physically involving hundreds of thousands of students. “The authorities are conscious of their responsibilities. Last time when the grievance of holding physical examination was made before us, we did not have a convincing answer. Now the explanation has been given in the counter affidavit of the state. More than 7 lakh (700,000) students appeared in JEE and NEET. Even for APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University, the state conducted engineering entrance examination. So long as Covid-19 protocols are followed we have no objection,” the bench observed. “Examination in offline mode can be conducted by strictly adhering to all precautionary measures issued by state and Central governments in preventing further spread of Covid-19 pandemic,” the Kerala government told the Supreme Court through its affidavit filed last week. It further convinced the court that for students and those showing symptoms of Covid-19, separate rooms will be arranged along with PPE kits for students and invigilators. Further, the state told the court that holding online examination will prejudice large number of students who have no access to laptops, desktops or even mobile phones and in many areas, the internet connection or mobile data was not available. “These students will never be able to write online examinations,” the state government said. The decision to hold offline Class 11 examinations from September 6 to 27 was notified by the Kerala government on May 28. The state was in favour of holding offline Class 11 examinations as their marks count towards admission into higher educational courses, unlike CBSE or ICSE boards. Disputing the assurance offered by the state government, the petitioner’s counsel Prashant Padmanbhan submitted to the court that number of students who appeared for NEET, JEE from Kerala were roughly around 80,000 and all of them being above 18 years had the opportunity to get vaccinated. The same was not true about Class 11 students, who are of tender age. He relied on news reports claiming that the spread of Covid-19 infection cannot be checked by wiping tables and chairs as there is potential of catching infection from the air. The bench told the petitioner not to be rhetorical and adopt a different approach. “We are not willing to take this matter forward. The last examination they conducted was on September 2. They are taking all responsibilities with all seriousness,” the bench observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-allows-kerala-to-hold-class-11-exams-physically-101631904806790.html
18-09-2021||India||Bengaluru boy found dead with gunshot wound, police suspect suicide||A 17-year-old student was found dead near a bus stop in Bengaluru with a gunshot wound in the early hours of Friday. Police said the boy allegedly shot himself with a pistol.A Class 12 student in a private college in the city, the boy was found dead at an empty bus station in Sanjay Nagar with a bullet wound to his right temple. Police recovered a pistol and the bullet that killed him. The motive behind the extreme step is still unknown. According to police, the victim was the younger son of a former army personnel from Uttarakhand. His father had retired from the parachute regiment in 2017 and was working in a security division of a private firm in the city. The family was living in a rented house in the city since his father’s retirement.In their preliminary investigation, police have not found any foul play. Deputy commissioner of police (central) MN Anuchet said the evidence collected from the scene indicated suicide. Senior police officers said the suicide could have taken place between 3.30 am and 6.30 am. “He has left the house around 3.30 am. He has walked around 1 km and sat at a bus station, next to the training command of the Indian Air Force. A passerby informed the police around 6.30 am after spotting the body. We found a bullet entry on the right temple, which exited from the other end,” said DCP Anuchet. The Indian Ordnance Factory-manufactured pistol recovered from the crime scene was registered in his father’s name. The DCP said before leaving the house the boy had taken the pistol with him. His parents told the investigators that his father had trained him to use the pistol and he had practiced with it as well. “His father had purchased the weapon with a license on his retirement. The weapon was kept in an almirah in the house, which was accessible to all family members,” the officer added. As part of the investigation, police have collected CCTV footage from the road leading to the bus station. The footage shows that the student was texting on his mobile phone constantly, as he was walking towards the bus stop. “We still don’t know the motive behind the suicide. There was no death note. Even though he was messaging on the phone, all the texts were found deleted. We are looking for call details as part of the probe,” said DCP Anuchet. According to the parents’ statement, the boy was a bright student and didn’t tell them if he was facing any problems. They also told police said that the boy used to read till late at night and had a habit of going for a morning walk. So, the family didn’t suspect anything when they didn’t find him at home in the morning. The parents and an elder sister of the student came to the bus stop after police informed them about the incident. The father told the police that he didn’t get any hint that his son would take such a drastic step.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-boy-found-dead-with-gunshot-wound-police-suspect-suicide-101631904749556.html
18-09-2021||India||India shares challenges that led to AUKUS formation: Aus envoy Barry O’Farrell||India shares the “challenging strategic environment” that prompted Australia’s move to forge a security alliance with the US and the UK, including territorial tensions across the Indo-Pacific and China’s massive military modernisation programme, Australian high commissioner Barry O’Farrell said on Friday.The new military partnership called AUKUS will help improve Australia’s capabilities in line with the country’s 2020 Defence Strategic Update and will not affect the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, or Quad, which is more of a diplomatic forum, O’Farrell said during a virtual media briefing.AUKUS was unveiled by Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, and US President Joe Biden against the backdrop of China’s assertive actions across the Indo-Pacific, and its first initiative is aimed at equipping Australia with nuclear-powered submarines.India has chosen to maintain a studied silence on the new security alliance, apparently due to sensitivities related to the strategic situation in the region and ties with key partners. France, a key strategic ally for India, was angered by Australia’s decision to scrap a $90 billion programme to build 12 French-designed conventional submarines and instead opt for nuclear-powered vessels.Explaining the rationale behind AUKUS, O’Farrell said: “The decision reflects a much more challenging strategic environment, an environment we share with India, where great power competition is intensifying, where territorial tensions in the South China Sea, Taiwan and elsewhere are becoming more challenging.”He said: “Indo-Pacific investment in military capability is proceeding at an unprecedented rate and of course that latter point is being driven by China, which has the largest military modernisation programme underway in the world.”AUKUS is also about “ensuring we have capabilities that contribute, along with India and other countries, to deterring the types of behaviour that threatens the peace and security in the Indo-Pacific today and in the future”, he added.Amid reports that the new alliance was aimed at balancing China across the region, especially in light of Beijing’s aggressive and assertive actions in recent years, O’Farrell noted that AUKUS was not directed against any particular country or meant “to provoke any particular regional power”. It was, he said, based on a “sober assessment of the capability required to meet a more challenging strategic environment”.O’Farrell dismissed Beijing’s criticism of AUKUS, saying China itself is engaged in “one of the largest militarisation updates in history”, and “it did strike me as slightly odd that they would criticise another country for investing in increased capability”.He added, “As a three-ocean nation, nuclear-powered submarines will provide Australia with a capability it now believes it needs for its defence because they can travel faster, they can travel for a longer range and they have greater power and endurance.”Strengthening Australia’s defence capabilities through nuclear-powered submarines will be part of the country’s “contribution to a secure and prosperous Indo-Pacific”, and this capability will increase Canberra’s “strategic weight and allow us to more effectively shape our region’s future trajectory”, O’Farrell said.“Australia is striving to retain an inclusive regional order where the rights of all states are respected, whether they are big states or small states,” he said.Australia wants to “contribute to strategic reassurance measures that ensure no one country believes they can advance their strategic ambitions through conflict and it’s not about seeking to provoke any particular regional power”, he added.Asked specifically about France’s anger over the cancellation of Australia’s conventional submarine deal, O’Farrell said his country wants to continue working with India, France and Indonesia to ensure the Indo-Pacific remains free and inclusive.Australia’s decision to move towards nuclear-powered submarines “hasn’t been welcomed by France” but the move will help in ensuring that trade across the Indian and Pacific Oceans will be safe and secure, he said.The Malabar naval exercise is an example of the four members of the Quad conducting manoeuvres together to keep pace with threats in the region, O’Farrell said. Australia participated in Malabar two years in a row and would like to “keep that streak going”, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-shares-challenges-that-led-to-aukus-formation-australian-high-commissioner-barry-ofarrell-101631904748352.html
18-09-2021||India||TN govt withdraws 5,570 cases against protestors||The Tamil Nadu government has decided to withdraw over 5,570 cases registered against people who protested against the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the three farm laws that were passed in Parliament in September 2020, a government order said. The cases that have been withdrawn also include those filed against the media, those who protested against the Kudankulam nuclear plant and the eight-lane road projects in Tamil Nadu, officials said. Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin made the announcement in this regard in the state assembly recently. The DMK in its election manifesto had also promised to withdraw the cases lodged against protesters during AIADMK rule. Stalin-led DMK government, that took over in May, issued an order withdrawing 5,570 cases in the past 10 years of AIADMK government on September 4. The order was made public on Friday. The order signed by SK Prabakar, additional chief secretary, showed that the cases withdrawn include 26 cases registered against journalists (that were filed between 2011 and 2021), 2,831 cases for agitations against the farm laws, 2,282 cases over protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), 405 cases over the eight-lane Salem expressway project and 26 cases filed against people who protested the Kudankulam nuclear power plant project. The cases that have been withdrawn are those in which the investigation is still pending or a charge-sheet has not been filed, the order said. The order added that it was recommended to the government that any further action in such cases may be dropped by the police. In cases that are pending trial, the Assistant Public Prosecutor in charge has been directed to move an application for withdrawal of case from the court. For cases filed against MPs and MLAs, as per Supreme Court directions, no case shall be withdrawn without the permission of the High Court. The order said the government will furnish details of the same before the Madras High Court soon. “The Director General of Police (DGP) is directed to furnish the details of cases involved against sitting or former MPs/MLAs to the government, for taking up the matter with the High Court of Madras,” the order said. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-govt-withdraws-5-570-cases-against-protestors-101631904687010.html
18-09-2021||India||Time to liberate people of Telangana from TRS, says Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would emerge victorious in the next Telangana assembly elections, besides winning all the 17 Lok Sabha seats in the state in the 2024 general polls. Addressing a huge rally of the BJP workers on the outskirts of Nirmal district headquarters to commemorate the 73rd anniversary of Telangana Liberation Day (merger of erstwhile Hyderabad state with the Indian Union), Shah said it was time to liberate people of Telangana from the clutches of Telangana Rashtra Samithi to bring them the real freedom. Telangana was under the autocratic regime of the Nizams. Thanks to the courageous decision of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel, that Hyderabad was liberated from the Nizam’s rule, 13 months after Indian Independence and merged with the rest of India on this day in 1948, Shah said. “Now, Telangana has once again come under a single-family rule. We need to display the same valour and get the state liberated from this family (of TRS chief K Chandrasekhar Rao). Only then, the people of the state can breathe easy,” Shah asserted. The Union home minister lashed out at the TRS government for not celebrating the Telangana Liberation Day on September 17 every year, fearing backlash from Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen, which was formed by the Razakars, the private army during the Nizam rule. “When the neighbouring states of Karnataka and Maharashtra are celebrating the liberation day in the regions which were once part of the Hyderabad State during the Nizam regime, what prevented the Telangana government from not celebrating?” he asked. Shah asserted that after the BJP forms the government in Telangana, it would officially celebrate the Telangana Liberation Day. “Unlike the TRS, we are not afraid of Majlis party. We shall commemorate the sacrifices made by the people of Telangana, including Dalits and girijans, for the liberation of Hyderabad state,” he said. Stating that the entire country was celebrating the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, the home minister said on this occasion, a special Covid-19 vaccination drive was launched and over two crore people were being vaccinated across the country. Shah was all praise for state BJP president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay for taking up padayatra (foot march) to understand the people’s problems by directly interacting with them. Speaking at the meeting, Sanjay demanded that the Telangana chief minister should tender apology to the people for not celebrating the Telangana liberation day officially. “He should remember that it was because of Sardar Patel, the Nizam rule came to an end and Telangana was merged with India. Had Patel not been there, Telangana would not have been a reality and KCR would not have become the chief minister,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-to-liberate-people-of-telangana-from-trs-says-amitshah-101631904628176.html
18-09-2021||India||Kerala HC dismisses petition against new Lakshadweep rules||The Kerala high court on Friday rejected a petition questioning the Lakshadweep administration’s decision to close dairy farms and remove meat from midday meals in schools, saying it can’t interfere in policy matters.In June, the court had stayed the operation of the two controversial orders passed by Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel.During the hearing of the plea filed by Ajmal Ahamad, a resident of the island, the administration contended that the court can’t interfere in such policy decisions. Counsel for the administration S Manu also pointed out that dairy farms were running in loss and the island was losing ₹1 crore every year. He also argued that nutrition needs of the children can be met with an altered menu.The counsel listed the nutritional value of the new menu, saying that it was well above the stipulated value. He argued that the petitioner, also an advocate, filed a public interest litigation “for raising unfounded and unverified allegations and for publicity.” He pointed out that the petitioner is a member of the Save Lakshadweep Forum which is leading the ongoing protests against the administrative reforms in the island.Petitioner’s counsel Peeyus Kottam contended that the decisions of the administration norms would infringe upon the ethnic culture, heritage, food habits and the rights of the residents under Article 19 of the Constitution. He said earlier food items like chicken, fish and eggs should be continued, seeking re-opening of dairy farms.After hearing the replies, a division a bench of Chief Justice S Mani Kumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly dismissed the public interest litigation.The Save Lakshadweep Forum protested against three draft regulations brought in by administrator Patel, saying they will affect the unique culture and tradition of the island.They opposed the move to make the island a tourist destination, ban on cattle slaughter, two-child norm for local body members, liquor licence, goonda law and other new rules.But BJP leaders from the island said some vested interests were provoking local people to stall developmental projects in the island. On May 31 the Kerala assembly had passed a resolution demanding recall of administrator Patel. The administration also maintained that some leaders from Kerala were instigating residents against development projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-dismisses-petition-against-new-lakshadweep-rules-101631904566949.html
18-09-2021||India||Top woman Maoist surrenders in Telangana||A top CPI (Maoist) leader operating from Chhattisgarh surrendered to the Telangana police on Friday on health grounds, the state police chief said.Jajjeri Sammakka alias Sharada (45), who surrendered, is the widow of Haribhushan alias Yapa Narayana, former central committee member of the Maoist party. Haribhushan, who was also former secretary of the Telangana state committee, died of Covid-19 on June 21. Though Sammakka was also believed to have died of Covid-19, the Maoist party issued a statement denying the same.Sammakka, who was Khammam district committee member operating from bordering Chhattisgarh forests, was carrying a reward of ₹5 lakh on her head. Director general of police M Mahendar Reddy, before whom she surrendered, handed over the cheque to her.The DGP later told the media that several Maoist leaders were suffering from Covid-19 but not getting proper treatment in the forests. “We have specific information that many senior Maoist leaders, including central committee members like Azad and Raji Reddy, are willing to surrender and join the mainstream. But the top leadership has not been giving them permission,” he said.Reddy said Sammakka was upset with the party for not providing proper treatment to her husband Haribhushan which led to his death. “The Maoists have lost the people’s support. If they surrender, we shall provide all protection to them,” he said.Sammakka, who hails from Gangaram village of Mahabubabad district, was attracted towards the Maoist party (then called CPI-ML People’s War) in 1994 and she married Haribhushan in 1995. She worked as a squad member between 1997-98 and later became North Telangana Special Zonal Committee member in 1999.Though Sammakka surrendered before the Warangal police in 2008, she returned to the Maoist party in 2011 and became a member of Sabari-Charla area committee in 2016, before being elevated to the Khammam district committee member. She escaped from exchange of fire with the police six times, according to police data.“After her husband’s death due to Covid-19 in June this year, Sammakka lost interest in the party and had been trying to surrender to the police,” the DGP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-woman-maoist-surrenders-in-telangana-101631904508729.html
18-09-2021||India||Char Dham Yatra restarts with strict Covid norms; Uttarakhand govt issues SOPs||Dehradun: The Char Dham pilgrimage will restart for devotees from Saturday after the Uttarakhand high court lifted its stay on the pilgrimage but mandated the enforcement of Covid-19 measures and a cap on the number of people allowed daily.Ravinath Raman, chief executive officer of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board, said: “The pilgrims from anywhere who want to visit Char Dham will have to register themselves on the website... Also, they have to bring a negative Covid-19 report or a certificate for having received both doses of vaccine.” On Thursday, the high court vacated its June 28 stay on Char Dham yatra. The number of pilgrims to be allowed daily will be 800 for Kedarnath, 1,000 for Badrinath, 600 for Gangotri and 400 for Yamunotri. Chief secretary SS Sandhu has directed officials to ensure all SOPs are followed, and pilgrims are tested for Covid-19.On Friday evening, the Uttarakhand government released standard operating procedure (SOP) for the yatra. They include pilgrims should be in possession of the negative Covid-19 report, not taken more than 72 hours before, or certificate for both the Covid-19 doses (at least 15 days before), registration on the state government portal for those coming from outside of the state.Pilgrims from Kerala, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh, even if fully vaccinated, are required to carry negative Covid-19 test report with them for seeking e-passes from the website of the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board.The Char Dham shrines and their surrounding areas will be sanitised thrice a day. At the shrines, CCTV cameras will be used for checking whether pilgrims are following social distancing and wearing face masks, apart from continuous checking by law enforcement agencies, the state government said in the SOP. Pilgrims will not be allowed to touch the idols or bells at the temples, as per the SOP..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/char-dham-yatra-restarts-today-with-strict-covid-norms-uttarakhand-government-issues-sops-101631904507635.html
18-09-2021||India||Congress holds stir on fuel price hike, farm laws||The Congress wished Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his 71st birthday on Friday and observed the day as “unemployment day”, “anti-farmer day” and “high prices day” – the three issues raging in the country -- to mark his alleged “failures”.Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi lead the greetings and tweeted, “Happy Birthday, Modi ji.”The party’s frontal organisations, Indian Youth Congress (IYC) and National Students Union of India (NSUI), observed the day as the “national unemployment day”.Justifying the party’s stand, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate cited the examples of Children’s Day, National Integration Day, Sadbhavna Day and Good Governance Day, which are celebrated to mark the birth anniversaries of former prime ministers. “Modi’s birthday is being observed as unemployment day,” she said.“It is the prime minister’s birthday and from this platform, we wish him a happy birthday. We pray for his well being, but we do believe that this day is being celebrated in many parts of the country as unemployment day, anti-farmer day, high prices day, crippled economy day, as winning over your crony capitalists friends day, as ED, IT, CBI raid day, and the corona mismanagement day,” Shrinate told mediapersons.The Congress leader said that the country is paying “a heavy price” for the alleged failures of the Prime Minister over the last seven years.“We do believe that in the last seven years, you have failed on several fronts and we hope and pray that God gives you the wisdom to realise that this is what you led the country to. This is where, you have failed and today as a result, India is paying a heavy price for it,” she said. The Congress, in a XXX, has said that India has the highest rate of unemployment despite Modi’s promises. Jobs are being lost and farmers have been protesting against the contentious farm laws for nine months without a resolution in sight, the party said.The high prices of gas, diesel, petrol, edible oil, pulses, daily essentials are making the lives of people difficult, Shrinate said.“Still, you have put India on sale for a few friends of yours and which is why, it is important that we are calling it the ‘punjipati poojan divas’ (crony capitalist friends day),” she said.The Congress, along with at least 14 other parties, has planned to hold protests across the country for 10 days to demonstrate against the PM’s Bharatiya Janata Party. (BJP response)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-holds-stir-on-fuel-price-hike-farm-laws-101631904327137.html
18-09-2021||India||I get ₹4 lakh per month from YouTube, says Nitin Gadkari||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday said he gets ₹4 lakh every month as royalty from YouTube, as viewership of his lecture videos posted on the platform has increased during the pandemic period.While reviewing the progress of the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway (DME) in Bharuch, Gadkari further said his ministry has started rating road construction contractors and consultants.During Covid-19 times, the road transport and highways minister said, he did two things.“I became a chef and started cooking at home and giving lectures through video conference. I delivered more than 950 lectures online, including lectures to foreign universities students, which were uploaded on YouTube.“Viewership of my YouTube channel increased and YouTube now pays me ₹4 lakh per month as royalty,” he said.Gadkari, who is known for his frank views, said that in India, those who do good work, don’t get appreciation.The minister also emphasised on the importance of network of modern- and high-quality roads for economic development and creating employment opportunities.He said that in Gujarat, 423 km of road is being constructed at a cost of ₹35,100 crore.Gadkari added that under this expressway, 60 major bridges, 17 interchanges, 17 flyovers and eight road over bridges (ROBs) will be built in the state.The minister said 33 wayside amenities are also proposed to be build on this expressway to provide world-class transport facilities as well as generate employment opportunities in the state||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iget-4-lakh-per-month-from-youtube-says-nitingadkari-101631904089284.html
18-09-2021||India||PM Modi’s b’day marked by events||From essay competitions and special prayers to 71kg cakes, sweets and 71-feet-tall cutouts, states ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and political workers pulled out all the stops on Friday to celebrate Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 71st birthday.In Gujarat, primary education officers issued a circular, dated September 14, to all government and aided schools to organise an essay competition on “My Favourite PM is Narendra Modi.” Special prayers were offered Friday morning in the name of the prime minister at Badrinath, Kedarnath and Gangotri temples. in Delhi, 71 girls cut 71 cakes in Delhi to mark the day.“I am humbled and overwhelmed beyond words. To each and every person who has wished me today - I would like to express gratitude from the bottom of my heart,” Modi tweeted in the evening.20 DAY CELEBRATIONSMultiple states kicked off 20-day celebrations, commemorating the period between September 17, the PM’s birthday, and October 7, the day when he first took over as chief minister of Gujarat in 2001 -- marking 20 years of his political life. In Uttar Pradesh, chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced that the 20 days would be called “Vikas Utsav.”Uttar Pradesh state unit chief Swatantra Dev Singh started the celebrations by lighting 71 earthen lamps at Lucknow’s Hanuman Setu temple on Friday. In Varanasi, Modi’s Lok Sabha constituency, the BJP lit 71,000 diyas at Bharat Mata temple. Party cadre also distributed 71-kilogram laddoos across all assembly constituencies that make up the Varanasi Lok Sabha seat. Party workers also felicitated 71 farmers, 71 soldiers and 71 women frontline workers.In Haryana, the BJP launched a 20-day-long ‘sewa aur samarpan’ (service and offering) campaign . During this period, the BJP plans to hold 71 blood donation camps, plant 71,000 saplings and hold seminars on 71 big-ticket policies and programmes of the Centre.In Assam, the BJP said its nearly 4.2 million cadres will take part in a ‘sewa aur samarpan’ campaign across the state. “During the next fortnight, all our party leaders, cadres, ministers and MLAs will take part in various social welfare initiatives. We pray for Modiji’s long and healthy life so that he can fulfil his dream of making India a world-leading nation,” said chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma.In Karnataka, the Basavaraj Bonmai government kicked off 20 days of celebrations with 1000 tablets and 350 laptops handed over to government schools in Bengaluru. Other activities included distribution of books, launching of smart boards, and inauguration of the Prerana educational app.Prayers at templesPrayers for the health of the PM were offered, including by senior cabinet ministers and chief ministers in BJP-ruled states. Varanasi’s Bharat Mata temple was illuminated with 71,000 earthen lamps. A 71-meter long chunari(A stole, it’s custom to put a chunari in the Ganga) to the Ganga at Dashashwamedh Ghat was offered and aartis were performed at 71 prominent temples of Varanasi.Haryana BJP chief OP Dhankar and assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta, along with BJP workers, organised a ‘havan’ at Mansa Devi shrine in Panchkula while in Guwahati, BJP members lit diyas at Kamakhya temple, and Sarma offered prayers at Bangshi Gopal Naamghar.Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami virtually participated in the prayers offered at Kedarnath and Gangotri shrines and prayed for the long life of PM. Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb offered prayers at Tripurasundari temple in Gomati district, considered to be one of the Shaktipeethas (51 places of spiritual worship devoted to the Goddess Shakti).71 themed eventsSeventy-one kg laddus each were distributed in all eight assembly constituencies of Varanasi. In Madhya Pradesh, BJP workers distributed 71 books, 71 kilograms of sweets and planted 71 saplings.A 71-feet cutout of Modi was unveiled in Mehsana in Gujarat while a 71-foot rangoli themed on the PM was seen at Centre Square in Vadodara.Inaugurations and Plantation and Distribution DrivesIn Bihar, chief minister Nitish Kumar inaugurated 70 oxygen plants and wrote a birthday message for the PM on a whiteboard. 38 of these plants were built using the PM Cares Fund and the remaining 32 were funded by the state government.In Goa, chief minister Pramod Sawant distributed free wheelchairs. BJP’s Prahlad Joshi, Union Minister participated in a sanitation drive in Dehradun, while in Chandigarh, the BJP unit organised a sanitation drive, tree plantation, a vaccination drive, ‘hawan’, and a blood donation camp.West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and his wife Sudesh Dhankhar also took part in a tree plantation at Raj Bhavan in Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmmodis-b-day-marked-by-events-101631903846879.html
18-09-2021||India||TMC’s Abhishek Banerjee, wife move Delhi HC against ED||Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Abhishek Banerjee and his wife Rujira on Friday moved the Delhi high court, seeking quashing of summons by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with its investigation into an alleged coal scam.In their petition, Banerjee and Rujira have sought direction to the agency to not summon them to New Delhi and carry out investigation in Kolkata, stating they are permanent residents of the city and that the case pertains to West Bengal.Claiming that the ED probe is based on a case registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) with respect to offences allegedly having taken place in West Bengal, the TMC’s national general secretary and his wife moved the high court.According to the petition, ED on September 10, issued fresh summons to Banerjee under section 50 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 requiring his personal appearance along with a voluminous set of documents on September 21 in New Delhi.The petition, which is likely to be heard on September 21, said a greater degree of protection is granted to a woman under Section 160 of the CrPC, which mandates that she shall not be required to attend any place other than where she resides.Banerjee, the nephew of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and a Lok Sabha MP, appeared before ED on September 6 in New Delhi on a summons by the agency.He was summoned by the ED again on September 21 in New Delhi after he did not visit the agency’s office at the national capital on a summons for September 8, saying that he was unable to travel at a short notice. Rujira Banerjee, who had also been summoned by the agency in the first week of September, did not go as well, writing to the ED that being a mother, she cannot travel at such short notice and requested the agency to interview her at her residence in Kolkata.ED lodged a case under the provisions of the PMLA on the basis of a November 2020 FIR registered by CBI that claimed a multi-crore coal pilferage scam related to Eastern Coalfields Ltd mines in the state’s Kunustoria and Kajora areas in and around Asansol.Local coal operative Anup Majhi alias Lala is alleged to be the prime suspect in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmcs-abhishek-banerjee-wife-move-delhi-hc-against-ed-101631903786140.html
18-09-2021||India||SC seeks ₹30 lakh as deposit from firms after challenge to award of tender||To curb misuse by frivolous litigants who challenge award of tender processes before High Courts, the Supreme Court on Friday set an example by directing deposit of over ₹30 lakh towards litigation costs and other expenses incurred by the successful bidder and the Tamil Nadu government in defending multiple rounds of litigation over a state government tender issued in October last year for supply of hologram excise labels on liquor bottles sold by state.The top court also set aside the Madras high court order of April 29, 2021 directing the state to float fresh tenders with generic specifications and noted the present reality where every tender is challenged before Court either by parties who did not take part in bidding or in public interest litigations.The Court cautioned High Courts from falling into an error by sitting as an “appellate authority” on technology and commercial expediency in tender matters and said that the Courts should only consider whether the choice of decision to award the tender was “lawful” and not whether it was “sound”.Justifying award of costs, the bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy said, “There seems to be often hesitancy in our judicial system to impose costs, presuming as if it is a reflection on the counsel. This is not the correct approach. In a tussle for enforcement of rights against a State different principle apply but in commercial matters costs must follow the cause.”Based on counsel fees and other actual expenses incurred by the successful bidders – Uflex Limited and Montage Enterprises – as well as Tamil Nadu Government, the bench ordered the corporate entities who challenged the tender before the High Court - Kumbhat Holographics and Alpha Lasertek India LLP – to equally share the burden of costs of over ₹23.25 lakh to the successful bidders and ₹7.58 lakh to the state government within four weeks.The bench said, “The tender jurisdiction was created for scrutiny of commercial matters and, thus, where continuously parties seek to challenge award of tenders, we are of the view that the succeeding party must get costs and the party which loses must pay costs.” The Court noted that the salutary principles governing award of costs are that it should ordinarily follow the event, ought to be realistic keeping in view the ever increasing litigation expenses, and must serve the purpose of curbing frivolous and vexatious litigation.The genesis of the litigation in the present case was a notice inviting tender for production and supply of polyester based hologram excise labels to be pasted across the liquor bottle caps sold by the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation. The notice issued on October 1, 2020 set out the technical specifications and eligibility criteria.Two companies - Kumbhat Holographics and Alpha Lasertek challenged the tender conditions before the High Court claiming that the tender eligibility criteria were tailor-made to favour Uflex and Montage Enterprises. The single judge of Madras High Court dismissed their petition in February 2021 but a Division Bench reversed this finding ordering fresh award of tenders. This decision was challenged in the top court by Uflex and Montage.Uflex argued in Supreme Court that the two companies before the High Court had not bid for the tender as one did not meet the benchmark of having eight-year experience in supplying holograms while the other was a partnership concern. The petitioners told the Supreme Court that the High Court committed an error by examining the funding pattern of the successful bidders.Faulting the HC, the top court said, “The present case is not one of an inter-corporate battle or of minority shareholders claiming the rights or any debts due, where the principle of lifting the corporate veil should be applied….It is thus our view that the Division Bench has fallen into an error in almost sitting as an appellate authority on technology and commercial expediency which is not the role which a Court ought to play.”Merely because a company is more efficient and obtains better technology, makes more competitive bids and, thus, succeeds more cannot be a factor to deprive that company of commercial success, the bench observed. The Court found that this exactly was the position in the present case where the two original petitioners endeavoured “to continuously create impediments in the way of the succeeding party merely because they themselves had not so succeeded.”The ground reality today, the top court said, is that almost no tender remains unchallenged with unsuccessful parties or parties not even participating in the tender approaching High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution.“A tenderer or contractor with a grievance can always seek damages in a civil court and thus, attempts by unsuccessful tenderers with imaginary grievances, wounded pride and business rivalry, to make mountains out of molehills of some technical/procedural violation or some prejudice to self, and persuade courts to interfere by exercising power of judicial review, should be resisted,” the bench held.The supreme court on Friday directed a deposit of over ₹30 lakh towards litigation costs and other expenses incurred by a successful bidder, and the Tamil Nadu government in defending multiple rounds of litigation over a state government tender issued in October last year for the supply of hologram excise labels on liquor bottles sold by state. The successful bidder is Uflex Limited and Montage Enterprises.The top court also set aside the Madras High Court order of April 29, 2021, directing the state to float fresh tenders with generic specifications and noted the present reality where every tender is challenged before the court either by parties who did not take part in bidding or public interest litigations.The court cautioned high courts from falling into an error by sitting as an “appellate authority” on technology and commercial expediency in tender matters and said that the Courts should only consider whether the choice of decision to award the tender was “lawful” and not whether it was “sound”.Justifying the award of costs, the bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy said, “There seems to be often hesitancy in our judicial system to impose costs, presuming as if it is a reflection on the counsel. This is not the correct approach. In a tussle for enforcement of rights against a State different principle apply but in commercial matters costs must follow the cause.”Based on counsel fees and other actual expenses incurred by the successful bidders – Uflex Limited and Montage Enterprises – as well as Tamil Nadu Government, the bench ordered the corporate entities who challenged the tender before the High Court - Kumbhat Holographics and Alpha Lasertek India LLP – to equally share the burden of costs of over ₹23.25 lakh to the successful bidders and ₹7.58 lakh to the state government within four weeks.The bench said, “The tender jurisdiction was created for scrutiny of commercial matters and, thus, where continuously parties seek to challenge the award of tenders, we are of the view that the succeeding party must get costs and the party which loses must pay costs.” The Court noted that the salutary principles governing the award of costs are that it should ordinarily follow the event, ought to be realistic keeping in view the ever-increasing litigation expenses, and must serve the purpose of curbing frivolous and vexatious litigation.The genesis of the litigation in the present case was a notice inviting tender for production and supply of polyester-based hologram excise labels to be pasted across the liquor bottle caps sold by the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation. The notice issued on October 1, 2020, set out the technical specifications and eligibility criteria.Two companies - Kumbhat Holographics and Alpha Lasertek challenged the tender conditions before the High Court claiming that the tender eligibility criteria were tailor-made to favour Uflex and Montage Enterprises. The single judge of Madras High Court dismissed their petition in February 2021 but a Division Bench reversed this finding ordering a fresh award of tenders. This decision was challenged in the top court by Uflex and Montage.Uflex argued in Supreme Court that the two companies before the High Court had not bid for the tender as one did not meet the benchmark of having eight-year experience in supplying holograms while the other was a partnership concern. The petitioners told the Supreme Court that the High Court committed an error by examining the funding pattern of the successful bidders.Faulting the HC, the top court said, “The present case is not one of an inter-corporate battle or minority shareholders claiming the rights or any debts due, where the principle of lifting the corporate veil should be applied….It is thus our view that the Division Bench has fallen into an error in almost sitting as an appellate authority on technology and commercial expediency, which is not the role which a Court ought to play.”Merely because a company is more efficient and obtains better technology, makes more competitive bids and, thus, succeeds more cannot be a factor to deprive that company of commercial success, the bench observed. The court found that this exactly was the position in the present case where the two original petitioners endeavoured “to continuously create impediments in the way of the succeeding party merely because they had not so succeeded.”The ground reality today, the top court said, is that almost no tender remains unchallenged with unsuccessful parties or parties not even participating in the tender approaching High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution.“A tenderer or contractor with a grievance can always seek damages in a civil court and thus, attempts by unsuccessful tenderers with imaginary grievances, wounded pride and business rivalry, to make mountains out of molehills of some technical/procedural violation or some prejudice to self, and persuade courts to interfere by exercising the power of judicial review, should be resisted,” the bench held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-rs-30-lakh-as-deposit-from-firms-after-challenge-to-award-of-tender-101631903490303.html
18-09-2021||India||Sidhu, Chadha exchange barbs over farm laws, Congress infighting in Punjab||Chandigarh: Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha took personal swipes at each other on Twitter on Friday over the three agriculture laws, with the latter calling the cricketer-turned-politician “the Rakhi Sawant” of state politics.The war of words between the two leaders broke out on the microblogging site after Sidhu hit out at Delhi chief minister and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal, accusing the party of staging a drama over the issue. “Exploitation of farmers and decreasing prices even on crops where MSP is announced – @ArvindKejriwal Ji you notified the Private Mandi’s central black law! Has it been de-notified or the masquerading is still going on?” the Punjab Congress chief tweeted.Sidhu also posted a video message in which he accused the AAP of tearing copies of the central laws in the Delhi assembly to “stage a drama”. Chadha, who is also national spokesperson of the AAP, got back at the Congress leader by raking up his rift with chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. “The Rakhi Sawant of Punjab politics – Navjot Singh Sidhu – has received a scolding from Congress high command for nonstop rant against Capt. Therefore today, for a change, he went after Arvind Kejriwal. Wait till tomorrow for he shall resume his diatribe against Capt with vehemence,” he tweeted.Responding to the AAP leader’s personal dig in equal measure, Sidhu tweeted, “They say man descended from the apes and the monkeys. Looking at your mind @raghav_chadha I believe you are still descending! You still haven’t answered my question about notifying the Farm Laws by your Government (sic)”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navjot-singh-sidhu-raghav-chadha-exchange-barbs-over-farm-laws-congress-infighting-in-punjab-101631903489118.html
18-09-2021||India||Wants to be part of solution to climate crisis: Yadav at Biden-led meet||Combating climate crisis is a shared global challenge and our response must be based on the fundamental principles of equity and common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities, Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav said on Friday as he represented India at the Major Economies Forum on Energy and Climate (MEF) convened virtually by US President Joe Biden.The minister also said that promises of climate finance and low-cost technology transfer from developed to developing nations must be fulfilled without delay. “Developing countries have consistently risen to the challenge through enhancement of ambition and acceleration of actions. Climate justice requires that the promises of climate finance and low-cost technology transfer from developed countries to developing countries must be fulfilled without any further delays,” Yadav said.Besides this, the Union minister also pointed out that though India’s share of the world population is 17 per cent but the country’s share in cumulative historical emissions is just 4 per cent. The current annual emissions are only 5.2 per cent of the global emissions and the per capita emissions are about a third of the global average, he said.“It is clear that we are not a part of the problem, but we want to be a part of the solution to the climate crisis,” he said.“The world needs rapid, sustained, and deep emission cuts in this decade to meet the Paris Agreement goal of keeping global warming to well below 2, preferably to 1.5 degrees Celsius, compared to pre-industrial levels,” Yadav added.Two international reports released on Friday suggested the world is far behind from meeting the Paris Agreement goals. The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC)’s NDC (Nationally Determined Contributions) Synthesis report said the world is on track for 2.7 degree warming over pre-industrial levels based on current pledges by countries on mitigating the climate crisis.Another report from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) flagged that developed countries had not delivered on their promise of mobilising 100 billion dollars a year even in 2019.Following his submission at the forum, Yadav tweeted: “Represented India at the Major Economies Forum convened by @POTUS today. Mentioned that India believes the world needs rapid, sustained and deep emission cuts in this decade rather than setting distant targets.”“Reiterated the centrality of Climate Justice as highlighted by PM @NarendraModi Ji at various forums, which requires that the promises of climate finance and low-cost technology transfer from developed countries to developing countries, must be fulfilled without delay,” he added.In his speech, Yadav also said that India’s NDCs are ambitious and are a significant contribution towards achieving the temperature goals of the Paris Agreement. “Further, we will ensure that our successive nationally determined contributions reflect an ambitious progression over the existing ones, as required under the Paris Agreement,” he said.India has an ambitious target of 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030, he said. “This is a high bar by any measure. In fact, it is amongst the most ambitious targets in the world. Our solar installed capacity has increased 15 times in the last six years alone. We have set up the International Solar Alliance to harness the energy of the sun and foster international cooperation in the sector,” he said, adding that India’s non-fossil fuel installed power capacity at 153.88 GW is already 39.64% of the total installed capacity, which indicates the country is likely to exceed one of the elements of its NDCs soon.India’s NDC consists of three main elements --an economy-wide emissions intensity target of 33%–35% below 2005 levels, electric power capacity target of 40% installed capacity from non-fossil-based energy resources by 2030 (conditional to international support), and creating a carbon sink expansion target of creating an additional (cumulative) carbon sink of 2.5–3 GtCO2e through additional forest and tree cover by 2030.“The recent Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report reaffirms that cumulative emissions up to net zero will determine the eventual global temperature that is reached by the end of the century. Global carbon budget is a finite resource, and India has used up far less than its fair share,” he said, reiterating that India’s per capita emissions are about a third of the global average.The MEF comes six weeks before the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 26) in Glasgow, which will set the course for global climate efforts over the coming decade.Ahead of the UNFCCC releasing its NDC synthesis report which captures the pledges of countries against the Paris Agreement goals, UN secretary general Antonio Guterres issued a strong warning to G20 countries.“Today’s report from the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change on the Nationally Determined Contributions of all Parties to the Paris Agreement shows that the world is on a catastrophic pathway to 2.7-degrees of heating. This is breaking the promise made six years ago to pursue the 1.5-degree Celsius goal of the Paris Agreement. Failure to meet this goal will be measured in the massive loss of lives and livelihoods,” he said in a statement.“G20 nations account for 80% of global emissions. Their leadership is needed more than ever. The decisions they take now will determine whether the promise made at Paris is kept or broken. Before COP 26 all nations should submit a more ambitious NDC that help to place the world on a 1.5-degree pathway. We also need developed nations to finally deliver on the US 100 billion commitment promised over a decade ago in support to developing countries,” Guterres added urging a 45% cut in emissions by 2030 to reach carbon neutrality by mid-century. The NDC synthesis report suggests there has been an increase of 16% in emissions in 2030 compared to 2010 levels.The OECD on Friday published ‘Climate Finance Provided and Mobilised by Developed Countries’ report with updated data from 2019.At the 15th Conference of Parties (COP15) in Copenhagen in 2009, developed countries had committed to a collective goal of mobilising USD 100 billion per year by 2020 for climate action in developing countries.Since 2015, the OECD has produced analyses of progress towards this goal in their reports. This year’s report shows that in 2019, total climate finance provided and mobilised by developed countries for developing countries was USD 79.6 billion in 2019, an increase of only 2% from 2018. A more than USD 20 billion annual jump would, therefore, be required to meet the USD 100 billion goal for 2020.“Climate finance is key to unlocking emissions reductions and action to adapt to #ClimateChange - today’s @OECD report shows there is much further to goDeveloped countries must urgently step up their climate finance pledges to deliver on the $100bn goal,” tweeted Alok Sharma, COP 26 President responding to the OECD report.In its report last month, the IPCC said the world may have lost the opportunity to keep global warming under 1.5 degree C over pre-industrial levels. The 1.5 degree C global warming threshold is likely to be breached in the next 10 to 20 years by 2040 even if carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions decline rapidly to net zero around 2050, it noted.“While India’s emphasis on climate justice and climate finance is irrefutable, its domestic transition to renewables, electrification and hydrogen can lead to emission reduction and job creation. Rich countries need to step up concessional climate finance which had stagnated even before the pandemic,” said Ulka Kelkar, director, Climate, World Resources Institute, India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-wants-to-be-part-of-solution-to-climate-crisis-union-minister-at-biden-led-meet-101631903306803.html
18-09-2021||India||Constable shot dead by terrorists in Kashmir, second attack on cops in 5 days||A Jammu and Kashmir Police constable was shot dead by a terrorist in Kulgam district on Friday evening, people familiar with the matter said. Bantu Sharma of Railway Protection Force was shot dead by the terrorist near Wanpoh at around 6 pm. He was rushed to Government Medical College, Anantnag, where he succumbed to injuries, the people cited above said. Soon after the incident, the army launched a joint search operation to nab the accused, they added. “Preliminary investigation revealed the terrorists had fired indiscriminately upon the cop near Shamford School, Wanpoh. In the incident, he sustained bullet injuries and was shifted to the hospital where he succumbed injuries,” a police spokesperson said, adding that a case has been registered and a probe is underway. Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti and National Conference (NC) leader Omar Abdullah were among those who condemned the attack on the constable.“Very sorry to hear about the terrorist attack in Kulgam today that claimed yet another innocent life. Deepest condolences & prayers with Bantoo Sharma ji’s family. May his soul rest in peace,” Mufti posted on Twitter. Abdullah tweeted: “I unequivocally condemn the militant attack in Kulgam district of South Kashmir. My heartfelt condolences to the family & colleagues of Constable Bantoo Sharma of Railway Protection Force who was killed in the line of duty earlier this evening. May his soul rest in peace.” In a statement, Peoples Conference chairman Sajjad Lone said: “Strongly condemn the killing of a policeman in Kulgam. May Allah give patience to the family of Bantu Sharma to bear this loss. And May the killers rot in hell.” This is the second killing of a policeman in Kashmir in the past five days. On Sunday, probationary sub inspector Arshad Ahmad was killed after terrorists shot at him twice from behind in Khanyar area. Friday’s incident also comes amid an increasing attack on police personnel in the Valley, especially in Srinagar city. On August 3, a cop and a civilian were injured when suspected terrorists opened fire at a police rakshak vehicle at Sheraz Chowk.Four days later, another cop was killed in a terrorist attack in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district.In June, inspector Pervaiz Ahmad, who worked with the Criminal Investigation Department (CID), was killed after terrorists opened fire at him at Nowgam, near his residence in the outskirts of Srinagar. An off-duty policeman was shot dead near his house in the Old City’s Saidapora area in the same month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/constable-shot-dead-by-terrorists-in-kashmir-second-attack-on-cops-in-5-days-101631903007247.html
18-09-2021||India||TRS pulls out of probe panel on Parliament ruckus||New Delhi: Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has pulled out of a proposed Rajya Sabha panel to look into allegations of misconduct against Opposition MPs during the last day of the monsoon session, becoming the fourth opposition party to withdraw from the official probe. The Congress, Rashtriya Janata Dal and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam earlier declined to join the panel, blaming the government and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the ruckus that rocked the Upper House on August 11. TRS initially had agreed to join the panel. But earlier this week, TRS floor leader K Kesava Rao sent a letter to Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu, expressing his reluctance to be a part of the probe into the action of Opposition MPs during the furious protests on the last day of the monsoon session, according to officials and TRS functionaries. “We initially agreed. But now we are no more. Even as we condemn any violence or disruption in Parliament, we can’t be a member of this probe,” said a senior TRS leader on condition of anonymity.“TRS doesn’t approve what happened in the Rajya Sabha. But we don’t know what will be the quantum of punishment. We wrote to Naidu that we might not agree with the BJP and other parties. Our position is any action against MPs must be done keeping in mind the dignity of the House,” the senior leader quoted above said. TRS is the fourth party to officially communicate its inability to participate in any probe. A functionary pointed out that apart from TRS’ efforts to maintain a distance with the BJP, TRS chief and Telangana chief minister K ChandrasHekar Rao enjoys close ties with West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee. The second-largest Opposition party, Trinamool Congress, isn’t likely to be invited in the panel because several party lawmakers allegedly were involved in the ruckus. On August 11, in the dying hours of the disruption-hit monsoon session, some opposition MPs clashed with the marshals when the general insurance amendment bill was cleared amid furious protests. At least two marshals submitted a written account of their injuries to the chairperson. Two women MPs of the Congress, Phulo Devi and Chayya Varma, alleged they were manhandled that broke out on the floor of the House. An internal Rajya Sabha secretariat report later said opposition MPs tore papers, obstructed ministers from taking their seats, choked and suffocated one marshal, dragged and pushed another, took videos and even climbed on a LED TV stand.The Opposition denied these charges and blamed the government for the unruly scenes in the House. They said outsiders were brought into the House who used force and physically manhandled members. Naidu later proposed a committee to examine the complaints and the ruckus that took place and said he was “deeply pained” by the incident. The government blamed the Opposition for disrupting Parliament, deviating from Parliamentary procedure and damaging house property. The BJP and its ally, the Janata Dal (United), and some other parties are expected to join the probe. A Biju Janata Dal (BJD) leader told HT that if invited, it will also be a part of the panel. “We have not been invited so far. But BJD would be ready to join any such probe. For, we face such troubles in Odisha assembly too even as the disruptors there are the Congress and the BJP,” said a senior BJD leader from the Rajya Sabha. Last week, Congress MP and Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge, rejected the proposal of joining the probe panel and wrote to Naidu alleging the investigation committee seemed like a “design to intimidate MPs into silence”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trs-pulls-out-of-probe-panel-on-parliament-ruckus-101631902466728.html
18-09-2021||India||No GST on petrol for now, says FM||The apex federal body on indirect tax matters, the Goods and Service Tax (GST) Council, on Friday considered bringing petrol, diesel, natural gas and aviation turbine fuel (ATF) within the ambit of GST, but decided against it on revenue considerations.Briefing the media about the Council’s decisions, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said: “It was brought on to the table for discussion. Members spoke very clearly that they wouldn’t want it to be included in the GST.”She said Council took up the matter as per the directive of the Kerala High Court, and the court will be informed of its decision.The council, however, reduced tax rates on key Covid-19-related medicines — Itolizumab, Posaconazole, Infliximab, Favipiravir, Casirivimab, Imdevimab, Deoxy-D-Glucose, Bamlanivimab, Etesevimab, and extended duty exemption on other Covid-related drugs: Amphotericin B, Remdesivir, Tocilizumab, and anti-coagulants such as Heparin. The reductions and the extensions of the past reduction will last till December 31.The Council also readjusted duty on several items, including tax exemption on goods supplied at Indo-Bangladesh border ‘haats’ (market). HT reported the plans to do so on Thursday.The Council also decided that online food delivery platforms such as Swiggy and Zomato will collect tax on food items from the consumers for ease of tax administration as GST is a levy on consumption. The move will, however, not impact the end consumer, revenue secretary Tarun Bajaj said.Sitharaman said the Council decided to exempt GST on import of muscular atrophy drugs like Zolgensma and Viltepso for personal use from 12% to zero as these medicines cost crores of rupees.While tax concessions on Covid-related drugs have been extended by three months, the exemptions given previously on related medical equipment will end on September 30.As a result of the tax rejig, consumers will get relief on retro fitment kits for vehicles used by the differently-abled. Fortified rice kernels supplied in welfare schemes will also become cheaper.GST on medicine keytruda, used in treatment of cancer, has been reduced from 12% to 5%, and tax on biodiesel supplied to oil marketing companies for blending with diesel has been reduced from 12% to 5%.Import of leased aircraft has also been exempted from payment of integrated GST (IGST). IGST is levied on inter-state transfer of goods and services and it is shared between the Centre and the state. All imports are treated as inter-state supplies and accordingly IGST is levied on them in addition to the applicable custom duties.Tax rationalisation, mainly undertaken to correct duty anomalies so that manufacturers get full input tax credit, made few items costlier. They are -- ores and concentrates of metals such as iron, copper, aluminium and zinc as they have been moved from 5% slab to 18%.Specified renewable energy devices and parts will now attract 12% GST instead of 5%.Items such as cartons, boxes, bags, packing containers of paper currently attracting 12-18% will now be put in 18% tax bracket.GST on waste and scrap of polyurethanes and other plastics, all kinds of pens, railway parts, locomotives and miscellaneous goods of paper like cards, catalogue, printed material are now shifted from 12% to 18% slab, according to an official statement.Sitharaman said the Council also decided to correct long-pending issue of inverted duty structure suffered by footwear and textiles sectors. “GST rate changes in order to correct inverted duty structure, in footwear and textiles sector, as was discussed in earlier GST council meeting and was deferred for an appropriate time, will be implemented with effect from January 1, 2022,” she said.Briefing the Council’s decision Sitharaman said while the statutory five-year period for compensating states for their revenue losses would end on June 30, 2022, the government would continue compensation cess till April 2026 to service principal and interests on money already borrowed to compensate states.At the time of introducing the new indirect tax regime, the GST law assured state governments a 14% increase in their annual tax revenue for five years and the Centre committed to meeting any shortfall in revenue through the cess levied on luxury goods and sin products such as liquor, cigarettes, aerated water, automobiles, coal and other tobacco commodities. The government raised money from market in 2020-21 and 2021-22 to compensate states for shortfall in the protected revenue as compensation cess was inadequate due to devastation impact of Covid-19 pandemic on businesses.The decision on including fuel in GST has been most widely watched since these products hit record highs in the past year with the centre and states raising their levies on it, as a measure to make up for the revenue lost due to the pandemic.As a result, central and state levies on petrol and diesel are over 50% of their retail prices.Santosh Dalvi, partner and deputy head of indirect tax at KPMG India said, “Amidst revenue concerns expressed by states, the decision to defer inclusion of petroleum products within the ambit of GST will affect petroleum industry and consumers with continual cascading of taxes.”“The big decision to extend the period of GST Compensation Cess till March 2026 in order to service borrowed principal and interest will affect sectors suffering from such cess which expected relief after five years,” he said.MS Mani, senior director at consulting firm Deloitte India said, “The multiple rate changes announced indicates that the GST Council is willing to alter rates in cases where the rates are leading to an inverted duty structure or where there are other valid reasons for changing the rates.”“While food delivery services would constitute e-commerce services, sufficient safeguards need to be taken in subjecting them to GST to ensure that smaller food outlets are protected and consumers do not end up paying more,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-gst-on-petrol-for-now-says-fm-101631902165979.html
18-09-2021||India||Data protection bill may see social media firms lose safe harbour status||The data protection bill, which is currently being reviewed by a joint parliamentary committee (JPC), may lead to social media companies losing their status as an intermediary, or protection from action for third party content, for “selecting, modifying, editing, blocking, muting, amplifying content or removing users from its platform”, if one of the changes proposed to its draft is accepted, people familiar with the matter said.This will effectively make social media companies liable to be penalised for taking action against any content, whether pursuant with law, following government orders or in accordance with its terms of service, say experts. The proposed move is to treat the companies as publishers instead of intermediaries. The data protection act, the proposals suggest, will supersede will the information technology act, section 79 of which provides intermediaries the protection from penal action for what users post, or third party content. These are part of changes being considered by the JPC which is studying the personal data protection bill, sent to it for further deliberation after parliamentarians objected to the version introduced in parliament in 2019, the officials said.The final report of the JPC is yet to be tabled and the committee has now sought until the winter session to submit its report. The joint parliamentary committee did a clause-by-clause reading in December last year but with a new chairperson, BJP MP PP Chaudhary, taking over; there are concerns that the panel may have to start discussions from scratch.To be sure, the central government will decide the final shape of the bill that will be presented to parliament for legislation.According to the discussions at present, one of the officials aware of it said, the future law could make it contingent upon social media companies to not “initiate transmission”, in keeping with the IT Act, if they want to retain their intermediary status.The companies will also have to ensure that they do not indulge or associate in any act which is against the public or state policy, the other proposals suggest. The bill will also define a threshold of users or impact to determine which social media companies constitute significant data fiduciaries or a class of intermediaries who will fall under this provision, according to the proposals. The proposal for significant impact covers social media firms that could influence the sovereignty and integrity of India, electoral democracy, security of the state or public order, the person cited above said, adding that the proposals proceed to venture a definition of a social media platform. Under the information technology act, 2000, an intermediary is not liable for any third-party information, data, or communication link made available or hosted by them -- a legal principle that is known as giving such companies safe harbour. This stems from Section 79 of the IT Act, which makes it conditional: an intermediary must not initiate the transmission, select the receiver of the transmission, and select or modify the information contained in the transmission. The changes in the much-awaited data protection law also come at a time when the government is at loggerheads with social media firms over content moderation and compliance with the new social media and intermediary guidelines. In May, Twitter tagged posts by Bharatiya Janata Party leaders “manipulated media” for carrying purported screenshots of a document that sought to implicate the opposition Congress in a plan to criticise Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The government cited “percepts of natural justice” to order Twitter to remove the tags, which the company has left up. The additional clauses that, which set to take away the safe harbour status, are being considered under section 28 of the personal data protection bill, which will now be known as the data protection bill as it will also address non-personal data, the person cited above said. According to Supreme Court lawyer and founder of Cyber Saathi NS Nappinai, the larger issue is how much the proposed legislation may be in excess of or possibly even negate existing laws. “Assuming these amendments are being proposed, substantial portions such as ‘initiate, select or modify’ already form part of section 79 IT Act,” Nappinai said. “Other additions proposed may not be specifically adverted to under IT Act but may be read into them with checks and balances. It would, therefore, behoove the committee to evaluate the necessity for this addition and in doing so ensure both harmony between the provisions under both enactments and provide for checks and balances to ensure that protections under existing laws are not negated or free speech stifled due to ambiguity.” She added that without the above, the proposed amendments would amount to government authorities shooting themselves in the foot. “The additions proposed will effectively negate all the benefits that accrue to victims and also government’s rights which form part of the IT Act and Rules framed therein,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/data-protection-bill-may-see-social-media-firms-lose-safe-harbour-status-101631902107565.html
18-09-2021||India||Afghanistan power change not inclusive: Modi to SCO||The world community must decide collectively on recognising the new regime in Kabul in view of questions about its legitimacy because the change of power in Afghanistan was “not inclusive” and done “without negotiation”, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday.In his virtual address to a joint meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and Russia-led Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO) that was convened in Dushanbe to discuss the situation in Afghanistan, Modi said the international community must ensure Afghan soil is not used to spread terrorism.He called on SCO members to develop “strict and common norms” based on the principle of zero tolerance towards terror to counter any terrorism emanating from Afghanistan’s territory. The norms should include a code of conduct to prevent cross-border terror and terror financing and a system for their enforcement, he added.Earlier in the day, Modi said in another virtual address, this one to the SCO Summit, that the developments in Afghanistan highlighted challenges faced by the region, including the impact of growing radicalisation on peace and security.India has watched warily since the Taliban took over Afghanistan on August 15 following the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government. The establishment of a hardline setup by the Taliban that includes several key members of the Haqqani Network and the presence in Afghanistan of thousands of fighters from Pakistan-based groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) are among India’s key security concerns.Along with its partners, India has called for the creation of an inclusive government in Afghanistan that protects the rights of women and minorities. India has also insisted Afghan soil must not be used to plan or carry out terror attacks against other countries. Modi reiterated these concerns in his address to the SCO-CSTO meeting.Modi listed four issues that he said should be the focus of regional cooperation on Afghanistan – the new regime put in place in Kabul, the spread of terrorist and extremist ideologies if instability continues in Afghanistan, the possibility of the uncontrolled flow of drugs, illegal weapons and human trafficking, and the serious humanitarian crisis in the war-torn country.He said that the “change of power in Afghanistan was not inclusive and has taken place without negotiation”, and that this raises “questions about the acceptability of the new regime”. The representation of all sections of Afghan society, including women and minorities, is important, he said.“Therefore, it is essential that the world community decides on the recognition of the new regime in a thoughtful and collective manner. India supports the central role of the UN on this issue,” Modi said, speaking in Hindi.Modi warned that continued “instability and fundamentalism” in Afghanistan would lead to the spread of terrorist and extremist ideologies around the world, and that “other extremist groups may be encouraged to seek power through violence”.All countries must work together to ensure that Afghan soil isn’t used to spread terrorism in any country, and SCO members should develop “strict and common norms” on this issue based on zero tolerance for terrorism, he said. These norms, which should include a code of conduct to prevent cross-border terror and terror financing, could become a template for global anti-terror cooperation.SCO’s Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure (RATS) mechanism can help monitor any flow of drugs, illegal weapons and human trafficking from Afghanistan. “A large amount of advanced weapons remain in Afghanistan. Due to these, there will be a risk of instability in the entire region,” Modi said.“From this month, India is presiding over the council of [RATS]. We have developed proposals for practical cooperation on this topic,” he said.All countries must work together to ensure humanitarian aid reaches Afghanistan, which is facing a serious humanitarian crisis, Modi said. People have been hit by the interruption of financial and trade flows and the Covid-19 pandemic, and India stands ready to deliver food and medicines to “our Afghan friends”, he added.In his address to the SCO Summit, Modi also said the grouping should develop a joint approach to fight radicalisation and extremism, and called for developing a network between moderate, tolerant and inclusive Islamic institutions in the member states.“The 20th anniversary of SCO is a suitable occasion to think about the future of the SCO. I believe the biggest challenges in this region are related to peace, security and trust deficit and the root cause of these problems is increasing radicalisation,” Modi said, speaking in Hindi.“Recent developments in Afghanistan have made this challenge more apparent. The SCO should take an initiative on this issue,” he said, recalling Central Asia’s historic role as a “bastion of moderate and progressive cultures and values”.Modi also welcomed Iran as a new member state of SCO, and Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Qatar as new dialogue partners, saying the expansion reflects the grouping’s growing influence.The current members of SCO are China, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, India and Pakistan. Afghanistan, Belarus and Mongolia have observer status with SCO, while dialogue partners include Armenia, Azerbaijan, Cambodia, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Turkey.Modi addressed both the meetings in Dushanbe virtually while external affairs minister S Jaishankar participated in person and held meetings with Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi, Iran’s foreign minister Hossein Amir Abdollahian and Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov. Jaishankar also held talks with Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi and Tajik President Emomali Rahmon and with his counterparts from Armenia, Belarus, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistan-power-change-not-inclusive-modi-to-sco-101631902105989.html
18-09-2021||India||Vaccination boost marks PM Modi’s birthday||With over 23.1 million shots of the Covid-19 vaccine administered on Friday, according to data available at 11pm on the Co-WIN dashboard, India’s inoculation drive nearly doubled its previous single-day record for doses delivered, in a major push to the drive by several states to mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday.Till 11pm on Friday, 23,141,139 jabs were administered, according to the government data. The previous record for single-day dose administration was set on August 31, with 12.87 million doses administered across the country.Friday was the fourth day that India has crossed the 10 million mark of daily doses in the past month. The over 23 million shots was a historic figure – one that has so far been exceeded only by numbers from China, where the government has a strict control over data opacity and directions to its citizens.“Every Indian would be proud of today’s record vaccination numbers. I acknowledge our doctors, innovators, administrators, nurses, health care and all front-line workers who have toiled to make the vaccination drive a success. Let us keep boosting vaccination to defeat Covid-19,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted.“A gift to the Prime Minister on behalf of health workers and people of the country. On the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi today, India has crossed the historic figure of administering 2 crore vaccine doses in a day, setting a new record. Well done India!” Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya tweeted in Hindi. A day earlier, Mandaviya called for a major push to the vaccination drive to mark Modi’s 71st birthday, saying it would be the perfect gift.The total number of doses administered in the country has now crossed 792 million, with 197 million people being fully vaccinated and 398 having received a single dose of the vaccine, according to government data. When seen alongside the country’s projected adult population of 940 million (according to the Census of India’s National Commission on Population), this means that 63.3% of people above the age of 18 years have received vaccine shots – 42.3% have been partially vaccinated and 21% having received both doses.Buoyed by Friday’s massive push, India’s pace of vaccination, which has been extremely patchy in the past, has now entered its best phase. The seven-day average of daily dose administration, which denotes the average daily pace of the vaccine drive, has now soared to9.3 million doses a day – the highest ever recorded since India’s mass vaccination drive commenced on January 16.States across the country – led largely by the ones ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) – were preparing for a record vaccination day as part of three-week celebrations to mark the Prime Minister’s 71st birthday. The Bihar government had announced it will administer 3 million shots on Friday; Gujarat targeted 3.5 million for the day; Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka said they were preparing for a massive vaccination drive, and Uttar Pradesh launched a 20-day ‘Seva Aur Samarpan Abhiyaan’.According to Co-WIN data analysed by HT, at least eight states – Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Telangana and Uttarakhand – had set new records of daily dose administration on Friday.This push, however, came at a time when the daily dose administration was slowly declining.In the week leading to Friday, the seven-day average of daily doses had dropped to 6.9 million from a peak of 8.5 million (in the week ended September 1). Numbers had dropped particularly over Wednesday and Thursday when 6.7 million and 6.8 million doses were administered across the country. This appeared to be caused by a drop in daily dose administration in states such as Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Assam and Karnataka, which had seen daily numbers fall between 40%-70% on Wednesday and Thursday from the preceding week’s average.While the pace of the drive has improved, particularly from the low rates seen in previous months, there is still room for progress if India wants to achieve its stated target of vaccinating its entire adult population of 940 million by the end of 2021, a commitment the government has made in a submission to the Supreme Court.For this, the country needs to administer 10.4 million doses every day till the end of the year, data shows. While India has matched (and exceeded) this required rate on a few days (including Friday, where it more than doubled this required rate) the main challenge will be to do so on a daily basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-boost-marks-pm-modi-s-birthday-101631902047275.html
18-09-2021||India||SII to supply 200 million doses, Bharat Biotech 35 million shots in September||Serum Institute of India (SII) is expected to supply 200 million doses of Covishield and Bharat Biotech 35 million doses of Covaxin this month, government officials said on Friday, while adding that supplies have now reached a level where they have surpassed the demand.The September supplies number quoted by the official represent a significant boost. Last month, India administered 185 million doses. “In terms of Covid-19 vaccine supplies, we have reached the stage where government is able to provide states the volume of doses they demand based on their vaccine administration capacity. No state can now be seen complaining that they were in a position to administer more vaccine doses than what they were administering in a single day but were not doing that because of the short vaccine supply from the Centre,” said the senior government functionary, asking not to be named. On Friday, more than 20 million doses were administered, making it a record. It was only the fourth time the country crossed the number of 10 million vaccinations a day. The number of doses available will further get a boost of close to 10 million doses when shipments of the recently approved Zydus Cadila ZyCov-D vaccine arrive. These are scheduled to be available either by September-end or by early October, according to a government official privy to the development. The number of available and unutilised vaccine doses has also seen a jump lately, with 50 million doses available on an average almost each day for states in the month of September. “Close to 77 million doses were pending with states on Friday for use in the programme (vaccinations on Friday). The availability, on average, has been around 50 million doses for a while now, and that speaks volumes about how there is no vaccine shortage anymore in the country,” the official quoted above said. “We are fortunate enough to be able to produce the vaccines locally, and the central government has provided enough support to companies in research and development, and also monetary support,” the official added. The Centre has also asked states to prioritise recipients due for their second doses, and to even conduct special campaigns, if required, earmarking certain days and centres for the exercise so that no one misses their second dose. Vaccine manufacturers typically inform the government about availability of doses 4-5 days before the start of a new month, helping plan the distribution across the country. Nearly 62% of country’s all adult population has received at least first Covid-19 vaccine doses, and 20% of the population is fully vaccinated, according to the government data. India targets vaccinating all adults by the end of December 2021. “Vaccine hesitancy is more or less down now, and we have been administering on average about 6-7 million doses per day for a while,” said the official, adding that the government will look at exporting doses once the country’s population is taken care of. Experts say while the vaccination rate seems to have improved, still it was too early to announce that vaccine hesitancy was over among people. “To an extent it does look like that many of those who are coming to take the shot now are those who were initially hesitant to get vaccinated. However, to say that vaccine hesitancy is over would be too early to say because we have to look at how north and central Indian states do as these are the regions that are known to be vaccine hesitant even for childhood vaccinations. The hesitancy is actually seen in states such as UP, MP, etc, and once these states cover 60-70% population with first dose then it will be a big deal. Mid to late October will be crucial,” said Chandrakant Lahariya, senior public health and vaccine expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-to-supply-200-million-doses-bharat-biotech-35-million-shots-in-september-101631901987547.html
18-09-2021||India||India, China agree to work towards speedy resolution of LAC row||India and China have agreed their military and diplomatic officials should meet again for discussions on speedily resolving remaining issues related to the stand-off on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the external affairs ministry said on Friday after a meeting of foreign ministers of the two countries.A readout issued by China’s foreign ministry after the meeting between foreign minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi on the margins of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Summit in Dushanbe was silent on further meetings and only spoke of consolidating the “disengagement results of the frontline troops”.Jaishankar said in a set of tweets that he discussed disengagement in the border areas with Wang, and “underlined that progress in this regard is essential for restoration of peace and tranquillity, which is the basis for development of bilateral ties”.This was the first meeting between the two ministers since July 14, when they held talks on the sidelines of a meeting of SCO foreign ministers in Dushanbe. India and China have been locked in a border row for 16 months, a phase that witnessed a deadly skirmish in the Galwan Valley and saw tensions spiral between the rival armies on the north and south banks of Pangong Tso last year.After several rounds of military and diplomatic talks, India and China withdrew frontline troops and armoured units from the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February. In August, the two sides ended forward deployment at Gogra and dismantled all temporary structures in this area.India has linked the overall normalisation of bilateral relations to disengagement at other friction points on the LAC, including Hot Springs and Depsang. China, however, has said the LAC standoff should be delinked from other aspects of relations between the two sides.The external affairs ministry’s statement on Friday quoted Jaishankar as saying, it “was necessary to ensure progress in resolution of remaining issues so as to restore peace and tranquillity along the LAC”. It added, “In this regard, the ministers agreed that military and diplomatic officials of the two sides should meet again and continue their discussions to resolve the remaining issues at the earliest.”Jaishankar also recalled that Wang said at their July 14 meeting that India-China relations “were at low ebb”, and that both sides agreed a “prolongation of the existing situation was not in the interest of the either side as it was impacting the relationship in a negative manner”.The Chinese foreign ministry’s readout quoted Wang as saying that China has “always been positive” to seek a solution to the standoff and that the “overall situation in the border area was gradually de-escalated” because of recent communication between diplomatic and military officials.Wang hoped that “India will meet China halfway to move the situation towards stability and shift it from urgent dispute settlement to regular management and control”. The readout added that both sides “need to consolidate the disengagement results of the frontline troops, and strictly abide by the protocols and agreements and the consensus reached between the two countries” to safeguard peace and tranquillity and prevent “recurrence of border-related issues”.Wang also said China and India must continue to be “opportunities of development to each other rather than threats” and push cooperation onto a “healthy and stable track”.The external affairs ministry said the two ministers also exchanged views on recent global developments, and Jaishankar said India “had never subscribed to any clash of civilisations theory”. He said India and China “had to deal with each other on merits and establish a relationship based on mutual respect”.The statement added, “For this, it was necessary that China avoid viewing our bilateral relations from the perspective of its relations with third countries. Asian solidarity would depend on the example set by India-China relations.”Though the statement didn’t give details, Jaishankar’s remarks were an apparent reference to the situation in Afghanistan, where China has been working closely with its traditional ally Pakistan since the Taliban takeover in Kabul. China has provided aid worth millions of dollars to the Taliban setup and is among the handful of countries that have kept open their embassies in Kabul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-agree-to-work-towards-speedy-resolution-of-lac-row-101631901927179.html
18-09-2021||India||Why World Bank junked its ease of doing business rankings||The World Bank Group has junked, due to irregularities, its “Doing Business Reports”, after an external investigation showed senior former bank leaders including then World Bank chief executive Kristalina Georgieva had been working with economists to upgrade China’s 2018 ranking.According to the Doing Business 2018 report, China had a score of 65.3 with a global ranking of 78, the same notch as the previous year’s. If adjusted for parameters such as Starting a Business and (ease in) Getting Credit, China’s ease of doing business score would have fallen that year to 64.5, translating to a global ranking of 85, a later World Bank review showed. “Taking as given the published data for all other countries, China’s global ranking in Doing Business 2018 would have been 85, a decline of 7 places relative to the previous year,” the Bank’s review states.The rankings have acquired the status of a prestige tag for emerging economies and become a key influencer of wide-ranging policies. They purport to show which countries are most welcoming of private investment and business. The action came after an external investigation’s findings that the rankings could be manipulated. The investigation implicated Georgieva, who is now managing director of the International Monetary Fund, the global lender of last resort, and former World Bank president Jim Yong Kim. Georgieva has denied wrongdoing, saying in statement on Friday: “I disagree fundamentally with the findings and interpretations... ” The rankings have set in motion far-reaching economic policies that focus on winding down red tape and easing regulations to facilitate quicker investments, setting off global competition to reach the top. “After data irregularities on Doing Business 2018 and 2020 were reported internally in June 2020, World Bank management paused the next Doing Business report and initiated a series of reviews and audits of the report and its methodology,” the World Bank Group said in a statement on Thursday.The trust countries repose in the Doing Business Report and its rankings is critical for policymaking in many developing nations to bring down poverty levels and push income-generating investment, acting on the bank’s advice. The World Bank Group further said: “Going forward, we will be working on a new approach to assessing the business and investment climate. We are deeply grateful to the efforts of the many staff members who have worked diligently to advance the business climate agenda, and we look forward to harnessing their energies and abilities in new ways.” The World Bank’s board said its current executive directors authorised the release of “Investigation of Data Irregularities in Doing Business 2018 and Doing Business 2020 – Investigation Findings and Report to the Board of Executive Directors”. This is an independent external review of the “facts and circumstances around previously reported data irregularities in the 2018 and 2020 Doing Business Reports,” the bank said. This investigation’s findings released by the bank showed senior officials may have manipulated rankings. Among 190 countries, India ranked 63rd in Doing Business in 2020. A 63rd rank meant India has improved its ranking by 79 positions in the five years between 2014 and 2019. “This (World) Bank publishes these data, but how seriously it is to be taken depends on countries. Nobody enforces them. This government has given it utmost importance than most previous governments as have many other comparable countries,” noted economist Abhijit Sen said. The then World Bank president Jim Yong Kim too has been implicated by the investigation. “For instance, President Kim discussed the report and China’s performance with senior Chinese government officials on September 12; the then executive director for China met with members of the Bank’s East Asia and Pacific regional office on September 14 to inform them that if China’s rankings improved within ‘everyone would be relieved’,” the investigation stated.“It was against that backdrop that the data irregularities pertaining to China occurred,” the probe said. According to the investigation’s findings, during the 2020 Doing Business Report, at the direction of a senior World Bank Group official, Saudi Arabia’s ranking was upgraded, displacing Jordan. “In August 2019, the Doing Business team generated a draft of its Top Improvers list for Doing Business 2020 that had Jordan as the top reformer with Saudi Arabia placing second,” the investigation states. The places of the two countries changed in the final report. “The following month, September 2019, Mr Djankov -- by then serving as the DEC director -- instructed the Doing Business team to find a way to alter the data such that Jordan fell from its first-place position in the Top Improvers List”. Simeon Djankov was one of the founders of the Doing Business Report, who at the time was serving as the adviser to Georgieva.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-world-bank-junked-its-ease-of-doing-business-rankings-101631901865980.html
18-09-2021||NA||US panel votes yes to Pfizer Covid boosters for over-65s and high-risk people||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:US panel votes yes to Pfizer Covid boosters for over-65s and high-risk people, reports AFP#BREAKING US panel votes yes to Pfizer Covid boosters for over-65s and high-risk people pic.twitter.com/ZUdeul4D57Federal advisory panel approves booster shots for older Americans and other high-risk groups.WHO group on Immunization to take up COVAXIN approval on Oct 5The World Health Organization's Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization will take up Covaxin approval on October 5. Misinformation by Oppn led to vaccine hesitancy in India: Union minister PuriUnion petroleum minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Friday continued to attack opposition parties over spreading misinformation which led to hesitancy in taking the vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India. Read moreNCB arrests Dawood Ibrahim's associate in extortion caseThe Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday arrested an associated of Dawood Ibrahim, Mohammad Azim Abu Saleem. Saleem was involved in extortion and smuggling of drugs. "Cases of extortion and robbery have been registered against him at several police stations," the NCB said. Maha guv courts controversy as he pulls down woman cyclist's mask at functionBhagat Singh Koshyari, Maharashtra governor, courted a controversy after he took off the face mask of a woman whom he felicitated at an event in the city on Friday. Read moreBeating retreat ceremony resumes at Attari-Wagah border in Punjab#WATCH | The beating retreat ceremony resumes at the Attari-Wagah border in Punjab with a limited number of attendees. BSF soldiers resumed the ceremony that was stopped last year in March in view of the #COVID19 pandemic. pic.twitter.com/CKrZeQm1IcThe beating retreat ceremony at the Attari-Wagah border in Punjab has resumed with limited number of attendees, news agency ANI reported on Friday. Petrol, diesel GST was on agenda because of Kerala HC order, says FM SitharamanFinance minister Sitharaman said on Friday that bringing petrol and diesel were brought under GST on the basis of Kerala high court's order. Read moreTraining programmes wholly funded by Centre or state governments exempted from GST: FM Sitharaman"To give prominence to skill development, training programmes wholly funded by Central/State governments are already exempt from #GST": FM @nsitharaman pic.twitter.com/KytNX4smRASitharaman also said that in order to ensure that skill development is given prominence, training programmes which are wholly funded by the Centre or state governments will be exempted from GST. Transport of export goods by vessel, air exempted from GST: SitharamanFinance minister Sitharaman said that transport of export goods by vessel and air has been exempted from GST. “This exemption was given because of the difficulties faced by exporters in getting refund of ITC, due to technical issues on the GST portal," she said, adding the exemption has been extended by one more year.Finance minister Sitharaman says drugs for muscular atrophy exempted from GSTDrugs that are suggested by the Ministry of Health for treating muscular atrophy, on the recommendation of Health Ministry and Dept of Pharmaceuticals, are also exempted for IGST on import for personal use: FM Nirmala Sitharaman after 45th GST Council meeting, in Lucknow pic.twitter.com/A0wXeJyNqZUnion finance minister said during Friday's briefing that drugs used for muscular atrophy including Zolgensma have been exempted from the Goods and Services Tax (GST). Finance minister addresses media on outcome of GST council meetUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharman is addressing a press conference on the outcome of the 45th GST council meeting. Sitharaman said that people-friendly decisions were taken during the meeting. Dutch defence minister resigns from top post over Afghan crisisDutch defence minister Ank Bijleveld has resigned from the top post after the parliament condemned her handling of evacuation of refugees from Afghanistan in August. Terrorists fire at cop in J&K's in Kulgam districtOn Friday, terrorists fired at a policeman in at Wanpoh area in Jammu and Kashmir's Kulgam district, news agency ANI reported. The policeman has been shifted to a hospital. More details are awaited. BJP to form govt in Telangana in 2024, says Amit ShahUnion home minister Amit Shah said on Friday that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will form the government in Telangana in 2024. “BJP does not do politics of appeasement. We are not scared of the Majlis,” Shah added. More than 20 million vaccine doses administered in India todayThe Centre said on Friday that over 20 million doses of the vaccine against Covid-19 were administered during the day. Read moreTelangana High Court orders probe into death of Hyderabad rape-murder suspectThe Telangana high court on Friday ordered a judicial inquiry into the death of the 30-year-old man suspected in the alleged rape and murder of a six-year-old tribal girl in Hyderabad last week. Read morePM Modi to interact with healthcare workers, beneficiaries of vaccination programme in Goa tomorrowOn Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with healthcare workers and beneficiaries of the vaccination programme against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Goa, according to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). Delhi reports 33 new Covid-19 cases, 56 recoveries, 1 more deathDelhi reports 33 new cases, 56 recoveries and one death in the last 24 hours; active cases 407 pic.twitter.com/kG5OewN2r7The national capital's caseload of the coronavirus disease climbed to 1,438,428 on Friday after 33 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours. One more patient died while 56 recovered from the viral disease, taking the cumulative count of deaths and recoveries to 25,085 and 1,412,936 respectively. The active cases in Delhi stand at 407, the bulletin added. HCs of several states including K'taka, MP to get new chief justicesBesides Allahabad, HCs of Calcutta, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Telengana, Meghalaya, Gujarat & MP will get new CJs, sources saidHigh courts of Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana among others will get new chief justices, news agency PTI reported on Friday. Fire at CBI building in Delhi brought under control, say DFSThe Delhi Fire Services informed on Friday that the fire which broke out at the CBI building at the CGO complex in Lodhi Road has been brought under control. Delhi govt lists 14 points for construction sites to prevent dust pollutionDelhi fights Dust Pollution:14 point directive for Construction Sites-▪️Walls must be covered▪️Anti-Smog Gun must▪️Tarpaulin must▪️Vehicles should be covered+cleaned▪️Materials shouldn't fall on road▪️Residue to be compiled in marked spots(1/2)-Shri @AapKaGopalRai pic.twitter.com/8ZKDcCfHwyThe Delhi government on Friday listed 14 points for construction sites to follow to prevent dust pollution in the national capital, environment minister Gopal Rai said on Friday. Fire breaks out in basement of CBI building in Delhi, 8 tenders rushed to spotA fire broke out in the basement of the CBI building at the CGO complex in Lodhi Road in the national capital on Friday, news agency ANI reported. Eight fire tenders have been rushed to the spot. All officers and staff in the building have been evacuated. Further details awaited. I-T dept conducts raids against ex-Maha home minister DeshmukhThe Income Tax department on Friday conducted searches at multiple premises linked to senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in connection with a tax evasion probe, sources told news agency PTI. The sources added that the raids are being carried out at Mumbai, Nagpur and also in Rajasthan's Jaipur. India administers 10 million covid vaccine doses till 1:34pmIndia has already administered 10 million covid vaccine doses till 1.34pm as part of centre’s vaccine sewa call on Modi’s birthday, the data on Co-Win portal showed. This is the fourth time that 10 million doses have been administered in a single day.CRPF nabs wanted Naxal Madkam Raja in ChhattisgarhIn a joint operation, security forces apprehended wanted Naxal Madkam Raja in Sukma, Chhattisgarh: Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF)India shares challenges that prompted us to join AUKUS: Australian envoyIndia shares the “challenging strategic environment” that prompted Australia’s move to forge a security alliance with the US and the UK, including territorial tensions across the Indo-Pacific and China’s massive military modernisation programme, Australian high commissioner Barry O’Farrell said on Friday. Read MoreBJP launches 'Seva Aur Samarpan Abhiyan'BJP National President JP Nadda launches 'Seva Aur Samarpan Abhiyan' at BJP headquarter, on the occasion of PM Narendra Modi's 71st birthday.At SCO summit, PM Modi says radicalisation biggest challenge in peacePrime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday spoke about increasing radicalisation that has become the biggest challenge in areas regarding peace, security and trust deficit in his address to the plenary session of 21st meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) in Dushanbe. Read MoreIndia has administered at least 770 million Covid vaccine doses till nowIndia had administered at least 770 million Covid vaccine doses by Thursday, September 16. Kerala, the state that is currently contributing the most to the country’s Covid tally, inoculated more than 500,000 people in the past 24 hours, state health minister Veena George said in a press release on Thursday. Read More‘India’s first solar mission likely to launch next year’: ISROIndia’s first solar mission, which was pushed from early 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic, is likely to be launched in the third quarter of 2022, when the country’s second space observatory Xposat, aimed at helping astronomers study cosmic sources such as pulsars and supernova, will also be launched, senior officials from the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) said. Read MorePeace, security and trust deficit are ‘biggest challenges’: PM Modi20th anniversary of SCO is right time to think about future of SCO. The biggest challenges in this area are related to-peace, security and trust deficit, and root cause of these problems is increasing radicalisation. Recent developments in Afghanistan have made this challenge clear: PM ModiThis year we are celebrating the 20th anniversary of SCO: PM ModiThis year we are celebrating the 20th anniversary of SCO. I welcome Iran as a new member country of the SCO. I also welcome the three new dialogue partners - Saudi Arabia, Egypt and Qatar, says PM Modi at SCO Summit.PM Modi addresses plenary session of SCO Summit in DushanbeCentral Vista will be ready to host Republic Day parade 2022: Hardeep PuriThe Central Vista will be ready to host the next Republic Day parade in 2022, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Thursday.Navalny app removed from Google, Apple stores on Russia election day: AlliesAlphabet's Google and Apple have removed jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny's tactical voting app from their stores, his team said on Friday, after Russia accused the US tech firms of meddling in its internal affairs.China's Shenzheu-12 lands safely in Gobi desert, 3 astronauts return after 90-day space missionA trio of Chinese astronauts returned to earth Friday after a 90-day stay aboard their nation's first space station in China's longest mission yet.Nie Haisheng, Liu Boming and Tang Hongbo landed in the Shenzhou-12 spacecraft Friday at just after 1:30 pm (0530 GMT) after having undocked from the space station Thursday morning.Sukhbir Singh Badal arrives in Delhi for protest against CentreSukhbir Singh Badal, President of Shiromani Akali Dal arrived in Delhi for the protest against Central Government over three farm laws at Rakabganj Gurudwara.India's Covid-19 tally rises by 34,403 casesIndia on Friday reported 34,403 new Covid-19 cases and 37,950 recoveries in the last 24 hours, as per Union Health Ministry.Sensex rallies 356 points to lifetime high of 59,498 in opening sessionSensex rallies 356.95 points to lifetime high of 59,498.11 in opening session; Nifty surges 103.20 points to record 17,732.70.‘Making Taliban great again’: Biden portrayed as terrorist on US billboardsWeeks after the US completed its withdrawal of troops from war-torn Afghanistan, ending nearly 20 years of combat, a bunch of billboards have now popped up across Pennsylvania – portraying US president Joe Biden as a Taliban terrorist and displaying the slogan “Making the Taliban great again”. Read MoreDelhi traffic update: Jharoda Kalan border closed due to farmers' protest, cops say"Jharoda Kalan border has been closed using barricades, in view of farmers' protest," tweets Delhi Traffic PoliceIndia to join SCO summit in Dushanbe today, Afghanistan affairs high on agendaIndia will on Friday engage in the 21st meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), which is being held in a hybrid format at the Tajikistan capital of Dushanbe. Read MorePortion of an under-construction flyover collapses in MumbaiA portion of an under-construction flyover collapsed in Bandra Kurla Complex in the Mumbai city, Maharashtra, news agency ANI reported on Friday. The mishap that occurred in the early hours has led to several injuries among labourers who were working at the site.IAF to bolster fighter fleet with 24 second-hand MiragesThe Indian Air Force (IAF) is set to acquire 24 second-hand Mirage 2000 fighters, made by Dassault Aviation, in an attempt to strengthen its ageing fleet of the fourth-generation fighters and also secure parts for its two existing squadrons of the aircraft, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-september-17-2021-101631839065448.html
