19-09-2021||India||India can achieve net zero carbon emissions target by 2065-70: Study||New DelhiIndia can achieve ‘net zero’ carbon emissions by 2065-70 as its greenhouse emissions will peak by 2035 and if it caps coal usage in the next 10 years, said a new study co-authored by the former vice-chairman of the erstwhile Planning Commission, Montek Singh Ahluwalia. But he said this will also depend on rich countries doubling climate finance to US $200 billion per year in the next few years. The paper titled ‘Getting Net Zero Approach for India at CoP 26’ strongly advocates that India should declare its ‘net zero’ target year at the 2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference or CoP 26 starting from October 31 in Glasgow, United Kingdom. It said that India’s traditional argument that it has to emit for its own development no more holds “diplomatic ground” as there are viable non-emitting energy alternatives available.Net zero is the state in which a country’s greenhouse emissions are removed from the atmosphere by carbon absorption or sequestration. This is the most hotly debated proposal for CoP 26 as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) had said achieving net zero by 2050 was a must to keep global temperature rise to 1.5 degrees Celsius, to pre-industrial level by the end of 2100.India is now the fourth-largest emitter after China, United States and the European Union, and as per IPCC’s Sixth Assessment Report released on August 9, it will be among the most severely affected countries. India has committed to reducing the emission intensity of its gross domestic product by 33-35% by 2030 and having 175 gigawatt renewable energy capacity by 2030 under the Paris Agreement of 2016. There is renewed pressure on India to enhance its renewable commitment under the Paris deal to 450 GW by 2030 and phase out coal.India’s environment minister Bhupendra Yadav, before going for the special UN meeting on climate change on Friday had said that net zero is not enough to keep the global temperature rise below 1.5 degrees Celsius. He said developed countries need to reduce emissions to provide carbon space to developing countries to exercise their right to grow and eradicate poverty.“While public announcements of 2050 as a net zero target date helps to focus public attention on the need to reduce emissions, it is important to recognise that having a common net zero emissions date for all countries is not the best way of tackling global warming,” the paper said. It said net zero target years can be given to countries based on the remaining available carbon budget with the least allocation to G20 (richest) countries, which account for close to three-quarters of global emissions. “A trajectory that gets to net zero by the time committed but exceeds the country’s carbon budget is much worse than following a trajectory which keeps within the budget but reaches net zero later,” the paper written for Centre for Social and Economic Progress said.Based on the above argument, the paper said that China and Indonesia have already announced that they will reach net zero by 2060. “The studies reviewed in this paper suggest that India could reach a peak around 2035 and get to net zero sometime between 2065 and 2070. We could offer something along these lines at CoP 26,” Ahluwalia said in the paper co-authored with Utkarsh Patel, who is an associate fellow at Centre for Social and Economic Progress, an independent public policy think tank. To achieve the net zero target, the paper said, India needs short-term decarbonisation targets along with trajectories for the next three decades. The best short term target, the study said, would be a planned phasing out of coal-based power generation as India has already adopted expanding renewable energy capacity to 450 GW by 2030. However, the Indian government has opposed phasing out coal saying it is needed for the country’s developmental imperatives.The paper outlined several implications for phasing out coal, including huge revenue loss for poorer Indian states such as Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. For states such as Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand, close to 15% of the state revenue comes from the mining sector. Further, these states would lose out on employment, the paper said, as new employment in the renewable sector would be created in western and southern India which has better solar and wind resources.India has about 210 GW of coal-based capacity, 39 GW is under construction and another 25 GW is under different stages of approval. If the coal-based power plants have a life of 40 years, India will have the capacity to generate 200 GW thermal power by 2050 and achieving net zero status by 2070 will not be possible. “Reducing life of plants to 25 years can helping in achieving net zero,” Ahluwalia said.The close aide of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, in the paper, strongly argued that India should not commit to a net zero target without enhanced international financial support, saying the IPCC’s assessment of $600 billion per year as the amount of additional energy sector investment needed in developing countries should be the starting point.He added that the finance could be divided into internet finance, private flow responding to market conditions, and additional bilateral and multi-lateral inflows. “The additional funding of around $100 billion per year through multi-lateral components should be a good starting point,” Ahluwalia said in the paper. The paper said that another US $ 100 billion can come from the private sector and market-based incentives such as carbon trading.Former special climate envoy Shyam Saran did not agree with Ahluwalia and said he was “pessimistic” that the funds could come from the developed countries to ease energy transition for developing countries.Saran, who has repeatedly advocated the traditional position that India should insist on emission reduction targets for the developing world, said any energy transition for the developing world would be costlier than the developed world as patents of almost all technologies are with the West. “The rich world has absolved itself from its climate responsibilities and passed on the buck to the developing world. Net zero is an example of that,” he said. Sunita Narain, director general of Centre for Science and Environment, said India should reject net zero targets put out by the West since they are flawed and inequitable for developing countries. “The target of 2050 is too far away. We need to keep our focus on 2030, with sharp and real targets. India should seek enhanced emission reduction from the developed world and finance for energy transition,” she said. “We need disruptive action, not disruptive technology.”Navroz Dubash of Centre for Policy Research said various studies have shown why net zero was important for India and it can achieve the target by 2065, which Ahluwalia said was equitable. “The emergence of new economic opportunities and technologies could dramatically change the landscape, and there may be space for an aspirational statement towards net zero. But given the information we have today, it would be gambling with the developmental future of India to lock ourselves into a hard net-zero deadline,” he had said in an article published in HT in March. Ahluwalia admitted that the approach could face resistance and economic gains should be considered. “There will be understandable resistance to making such a major break. However, the issue needs to be examined in the context of the enhanced warnings about the impact of global warming and the technological changes that have taken place which allow for making a shift to renewables, both feasible and economic,” he said.How much financing has come earlier?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-can-achieve-net-zero-carbon-emissions-target-by-2065-70-study-101632076022693.html
19-09-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath marks 4.5 years of his government, says BJP will win 350+ seats in UP elections||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday exuded confidence that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will return to power in the state with an overwhelming majority in assembly elections slated to be held next year.“In the 2022 Assembly elections, the BJP will cross 350 seats (out of 403 seats), and there should be no doubt on this,” the chief minister told reporters here as his government completed four-and-a-half-years in the state. Asserting that his government had fulfilled every promise mentioned in the Lok Kalyan Sankalp Patra in 2017, the chief minister said Uttar Pradesh witnessed a complete transformation from the past with welfare schemes now reaching the deserving and the state emerging as number two in the ease of doing business.“The scenario in the state has changed with the new model of governance and security. Uttar Pradesh attracted a large amount of investment after creating a secure environment. In 2018, the first investors’ summit was organised here. Today, businessmen and industrialists from across the world are eager to invest in UP. The state has made a big jump in the ease of doing business from the 14th to 2nd position. It has attracted investment worth ₹3 lakh crore,” he said. The chief minister also claimed that the state has remained free from any riots under his leadership, “unlike in the past when there used to be communal clashes every 3-4 days.” Gangsters, irrespective of their caste, community or religion, are severely dealt with, he added.Adityanath said his government was working for all classes and communities without any discrimination. The chief minister also hit out at the opposition, saying they were busy building their houses when they were in power and indulged in corruption for transfer and postings while the state was seen as a laggard in development and its image linked with riots.“Unlike them (previous governments), we did not make luxurious houses for ourselves. Our government focused on building houses for the poor,” he said, taking a veiled dig at his predecessor and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav.Alleging that farmers were denied benefits of minimum support price (MSP) under the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and SP governments, Adityanath said the previous regime procured paddy and wheat through middlemen whereas the BJP government procured agriculture products directly from the farmers and credited the money into their accounts.The previous governments that were in power from 2007-17 paid ₹95,000 crore to sugarcane farmers whereas the BJP government disbursed ₹1.43 crore from 2017 to September 2021, the chief minister claimed. The chief minister also pointed out that the state’s Covid-19 management model was lauded across the country as well as worldwide, and UP’s positivity rate, fatality rate and active Covid cases were lowest in the country. UP tops the country in conducting sample tests and administering Covid vaccine doses, he said. Responding to Adityanath’s claims, SP’s Akhilesh Yadav tweeted: “The 16-page booklet published by the BJP government is 16 aane (hundred per cent) lies. It seems that the BJP government in UP has published the textbook of ‘international training centre for lies’. But the BJP’s ‘jhoot ke doot’ (messenger of lies) will only be able to run them in online classes as they are unable to go to the masses.” “Six months are left for this government, which has committed atrocities on farmers, poor, women and the youth through unemployment, inflation, hatred and slump in business. Do not want a government whose truth is ‘thug ka saath, thug ka vikas, thug ka vishwas, thug ka prayaas’ (support of cheats, progress of cheats, trust of cheats and efforts of cheats),” he added. BSP chief Mayawati tweeted: “The advertisement of transformation of four-and-half years is all gas and far from reality....there has been increase in poverty, unemployment and inflation, and the bad condition of the public is known to everyone.” UP Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu tweeted: “Enough of tall claims...But the BJP government was least bothered about people dying of illnesses, be it encephalitis, Covid, or mysterious fevers...This government hovers helicopter (all over the state), gets photo-ops and hides accountability by lying.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-adityanath-marks-4-5-years-of-his-government-says-bjp-will-win-350-seats-in-up-elections-101632075961851.html
19-09-2021||India||Uttarakhand polls: Kejriwal vows unemployment aid, job quota for local residents||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convenor Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday promised jobs for all in Uttarakhand and a new ministry that will specifically look after this if his party forms the next government in the state. He also promised a monthly income support of ₹5,000 for the unemployed youth till they land jobs. Kejriwal, who was on a day-long visit to Haldwani in Nainital, said his party will launch a scheme called Har Ghar Rozgar and provide 100,000 government jobs within six months of being elected to office. Of these, he said, 80% will be reserved for those domiciled in Uttarakhand. “An online job portal will be launched on the lines of Delhi. It will contain data on both the jobs provided and those who get jobs. When such a portal was started in Delhi, more than 1 million people got employment”, Kejriwal said.The Delhi CM also promised the creation of a ministry of employment and migration affairs in the state. “This separate department will make effective policies only for employment generation and checking of migration from the hill state,” he said. Taking a dig at the frequent change of chief ministers in the Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled state in the last few months, the AAP national convenor said if people vote for the BJP, they will get a new CM every month. “If they vote for AAP, they will get a CM who will give employment for five years,” he said. On the question of the feasibility of providing free power when the economic condition of Uttarakhand was weak, he said, “Government should have the will power. And we showed it by giving free electricity in New Delhi.” Kejriwal also said that there were good people in many parties, including the BJP and the Congress, who were feeling suffocated there. “Such good people were welcome in AAP, ‘’ he said. Later, Kejriwal took out a roadshow and also held a public meeting at Ramlila Maidan in Haldwani. This is Kejriwal’s third visit to the hill state this year. With less than a year left for the next state assembly elections, AAP is aggressively stepping up its poll preparations. Over the last eight to nine months, it has been attacking the ruling BJP on various issues like alleged corruption, unemployment, and health infrastructure. On his previous visit on August 17, Kejriwal announced Colonel Ajay Kothiyal’s (Retd) name as AAP’s chief ministerial candidate for the 2022 assembly polls and promised to make Uttarakhand the spiritual capital for the Hindus across the world if elected to power. Before that, when he visited on July 11, Kejriwal promised 300 units of free electricity to every household if AAP was elected to power here. Talking about replicating AAP’s Delhi model of governance in Uttarakhand, he had said that the party will bring a major change in the schools and health infrastructure. In July, the AAP state unit also launched ‘Kejriwal Muft Bijli Guarantee Card’ under which the party’s 10,000 workers will visit households in all the 70 assembly constituencies and urge residents to register for free electricity and give them the Kejriwal card as a token of guarantee for free power. Commenting on AAP’s Tiranga Yatra across Uttarakhand, Union minister of state (MoS) for defence Ajay Bhatt told news agency ANI: “Parties are coming to Uttarakhand and speaking their minds but let me tell this that the people there have made up their minds. They will give an opportunity to the Bharatiya Janata Party to serve the people again in the 2022 elections and the party will win with a huge majority.” Referring to the AAP’s promises of providing free water and electricity, Bhatt said the BJP is providing ration, Covid-19 vaccines, medicines and ventilators free of cost to the people of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-polls-kejriwal-vows-unemployment-aid-job-quota-for-local-residents-101632075722621.html
19-09-2021||India||The Week Ahead: A challenge for Congress; campaigning for Bengal assembly seats begins||A week is a long time in politics. Scratch that; two days are a long time in politics. Ask the Punjab political establishment. Captain Amarinder Singh, chief minister and, until a few months ago, someone who was seemingly strong despite the frequent and fervent attacks by fellow Congressman Navjot Singh Sidhu, had to quit his post. This week will see the installation of Charanjit Singh Channi as the state’s first Dalit-Sikh chief minister. The 58-year-old three-time MLA from Chamkaur Sahib was a surprise choice, and given the complexities of Punjab politics, a relative unknown on the national stage. It will be interesting to see who he appoints to his cabinet. Will the Captain’s ministers return? Or, as it happened in Gujarat with BJP’s new chief minister, will the old guard be completely sidelined?The Congress will definitely be tested this week, and developments in other Congress-governed states, too, will be closely watched by political observers.Others states too have an action-packed week ahead. The Monsoon session of the Karnataka legislature will see a crucial bill to ban online gambling and wagering. It is most likely to be passed during this session itself. A bill for delimitation and reservations to be transferred from the state election commission to the government will be put forward in the Karnataka High Court on Monday.Veteran BJP leader BS Yediyurappa is slated to hold discussions with the party’s state unit over the 78-year-olds state-wide travel plans ahead of the 2023 assembly election. Panchamasali, the biggest sub sect within the Lingayats, had given a deadline to the government over change of reservation. The group has threatened to revive its agitation from October 1.In West Bengal, the campaign for the much-anticipated Jangipur and Samserganj assembly seats starts on Monday, and the polls are to be held on September 30.Assam said it will resume physical classes for Standard 10 from Monday after a gap of four months. The state government had earlier allowed resumption of classes for final year students of graduation, post-graduation and higher-secondary from the first week of this month. Union minister and former Assam CM Sarbananda Sonowal will file nomination papers as BJP candidate for Rajya Sabha seat from Assam on September 21. One RS seat is vacant following the resignation of Biswajit Daimary, who is now a BJP MLA and the Speaker of state assembly. Sonowal, who represents Majuli assembly seat, is expected to win easily as Congress has decided not to field any candidate due to shortage of numbers. In Rajasthan, too, regular school classes of VI to VIII standard students will resume from September 20 and that of Class I to V from September 27 in government and private schools, as per the fresh guidelines issued by the Rajasthan government on Friday. The classes can be conducted with 50% capacity In Tamil Nadu, candidates will be filing their nominations — the last date being September 22 – for the local body elections schedule for October 6 and 9. The local polls will be conducted in newly carved nine district in Tamil Nadu. Meanwhile the new Governor for the state, RN Ravi was sworn in on Saturday.In Chhattisgarh, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is likely to visit Bastar and northern Chhattisgarh this week amid speculation over change of chief minister Bupesh Baghel. The speculation intensified after Punjab CM Amarinder Singh was asked to resign.In Kerala, the state’s sero prevalence study is expected by next week. Since schools are opening, the government asked concerned bodies to submit its report. The government plans to call an all-party meeting on September 24 in the wake of wars of words triggered after the Pala Bishop’s narcotics jihad statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-week-ahead-a-challenge-for-congress-campaigning-for-bengal-assembly-seats-begins-101632075007566.html
19-09-2021||India||‘Need to put in efforts to win state elections’: Yediyurappa||Former Karnataka chief minister and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader BS Yediyurappa on Sunday tried to clarify his earlier remarks that the Modi wave alone will not help win elections in the state.“Let us not be under some notion. In the name of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, it is very easy to win the Lok Sabha elections. But we should put in efforts and by helping development works reach the people we should win the elections,” Yediyurappa said on Sunday in Davangere, about 260 kilometres from Bengaluru.The statements come at a time when Karnataka is preparing for several elections like zilla and taluk panchayats, MLC polls and other bypolls in the coming year under chief minister Basavaraj Bommai.The Bharatiya Janata Party in Karnataka has seen significant changes in leadership with Yediyurappa forced to step down and Bommai taking his place as chief minister, much to the discontent of several seniors in the party who were overlooked for the top job.The BJP has intensified its outreach to muster support from the grassroot-level workers in a bid to strengthen its base ahead of the 2023 assembly elections. Several leaders of the saffron outfit spoke in the BJP working committee meeting in Davangere.He added that the party should be strengthened by bringing in more leaders from the Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and other backward classes into the BJP fold that would help strengthen the party and the organisation.Yediyurappa asked BJP legislators and leaders not to take the opposition parties lightly.He said that the opposition parties have their own calculations and strength.It is no secret that Yediyurappa and the BJP’s national leadership under Modi and Amit Shah was strained and the latter being forced out two years before his term could end.Speaking to reporters later, Yediyurappa said that the meaning of what he said was that the party should win 140 plus seats (in 2023) based on the blessings of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and our own special efforts.He also said that state Congress president DK Shivakumar was trying to contact BJP legislators and that there was no chance of anyone from the saffron fold leaving.He said that the chances of Congress leaders coming to the BJP was higher.Yediyurappa is also planning to undertake a state-wide tour to build the party which has added to apprehensions of the BJP’s top leadership which has so far been unable to replace the stature of the 78-year-old.Yediyurappa has built his career on caste-based politics as against the BJP which is trying to infuse Hindutva, adding to the contrasting approaches to help the saffron outfit return to power.People aware of the developments said that the BJP is anxious about Yediyurappa’s upcoming tour.However, Arun Singh, the national general secretary of the BJP, incharge of Karnataka on Sunday said that Yediyurappa does not need any green signal from the party for his tour. “There is no need for a green signal. BS Yediyurappa is the tallest leader amongst all parties in the state. If he tours (the state), it will be beneficial for the party and inspire workers,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-put-in-efforts-to-win-state-elections-yediyurappa-101632073804971.html
19-09-2021||India||IRCTC’s new lounge in New Delhi railway station with recliners, wi-fi: See pictures||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) had opened a new lounge in the New Delhi railway station, Union railway minister Ashwini Vaishnaw shared pictures of the lounge. The lounge has been set up on the first floor of platform number one of the New Delhi railway station for an exclusive experience of train journey.#NayeBharatKaNayaStation Lounge at New Delhi Railway Station for all passengers. pic.twitter.com/1NWCc8tjS6The IRCTC said the facility will offer an enhanced experience to railway passengers. “The new state of art executive lounge aims to provide all services and facilities required for comfortable wait for the passengers during pre-departures and post arrivals. The lounge has been designed on the looks of airport lounges with much more space and a serene environment with full security,” IRCTC PRO Anand Kumar Jha said.A wide range of complementary and paid services such as channel music, wi-fi, television (TV), train information display, various types of beverages and multi-cuisine buffets would be offered to visitors. Also, recliners, spacious luggage racks, restrooms with wash and change facilities, shoe shiners, newspapers and magazines on display and a fully operational business centre with a computer, printer, photostat and fax facility would also be offered to visitors, Jha had earlier said.Passengers would be allowed to access the lounge after paying an entree fee of ₹150, which would include services such as complimentary beverages, comfortable seating and wi-fi connection. After an hour, ₹99 would be charged for every additional hour, the PRO also said. The lounge would be operational on a 24-hour basis.While a similar lounge is already operational since 2016 at the railway station on the ground floor at platform 16, the recently opened lounge would be the second of its kind. Further, similar lounges have also been planned to be opened at Agra, Jaipur, Sealdah, Ahmedabad and Madurai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irctcs-new-lounge-in-new-delhi-railway-station-with-recliners-wi-fi-see-pictures-101632072456847.html
19-09-2021||India||Why will Charanjit Singh Channi have two deputies? Harish Rawat explains||Amarinder Singh had no deputy when he led the Congress government in Punjab, but new chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi will have two deputy chief ministers, the Congress has decided as the party is readying a team for the upcoming assembly election. Even before the name of Charanjit Singh was announced on Sunday, it was decided that the new Cabinet will have two deputy chief ministers. An ANI report claimed that one will be Hindu and the other will be a Sikh.Congress leader said the decision to appoint two deputy chief ministers in Punjab was taken as it was felt necessary. "Our mutual feeling is that there should be two deputy CMs. Soon we will take a call on it along with names for the Council of Ministers...Some names have been discussed but it's the CM's prerogative who discusses it with party high command and takes a call," Harish Rawat told ANI.The CM pick of the Congress has been done after much calculation and keeping nothing but the election in mind, experts have said. Charanjit Singh Channi's appointment will allow the party to play the Dalit card in the state where at least 30 per cent of the population is Dalit, counting both Sikhs and Hindus. "The opposition BJP had earlier announced that if voted to power in Punjab, it will make a Dalit the chief minister, while the Shiromani Akali Dal -- which is fighting the polls in alliance with the BSP -- had said that its deputy CM would be from that community," A PTI report said.Amid speculations that Charanjit Singh Channi may not be the chief minister face in the upcoming election, Harish Rawat said, “The party's face for theupcoming election will be decided by Congress president. Given the circumstances, elections will be fought with CM's cabinet under Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, whose chief is Navjot Singh Sidhu. He is very popular.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-will-charanjit-singh-channi-have-two-deputies-harish-rawat-explains-101632071811425.html
19-09-2021||India||'Well done, Rahul': BJP's 'Me Too' swipe over Charanjit Singh Channi||The BJP on Sunday took a swipe at the Congress over its Punjab chief ministerial pick Charanjit Singh Channi, citing reported allegations that he had sent an inappropriate text to an IAS officer in 2018.BJP leader Amit Malviya, who is its IT department head, tweeted, "Congress's CM pick Charanjit Channi faces action in a 3-year-old MeToo case. He had allegedly sent an inappropriate text to a woman IAS officer in 2018. It was covered up but the case resurfaced when Punjab Women's Commission sent notice. Well done, Rahul."The issue had resurfaced in May this year when Punjab women panel chief threatened to go on a hunger strike if the state government failed to apprise her within a week of its stand on the “inappropriate text” message allegedly sent by Channi, who was then a minister in the Amarinder Singh government.Punjab Women Commission chairperson Manisha Gulati had said she had written to the chief secretary seeking the government’s action taken report.Malviya also posted a story reported in May this year that said that outgoing chief minister Amarinder Singh's rivals within the party had accused him of "hounding" them with old cases.In another tweet, the BJP leader said, "In the last few days, Congress in Rajasthan passed a bill to register child marriages, giving it legitimacy and robbing young girls of their growing up years, and now has elevated a MeToo accused as CM of Punjab. Let’s wait for Rahul Gandhi to pontificate on women empowerment."Following the 2018 allegation against Channi, the Punjab Women Commission had taken suo motu cognisance of the matter and had sought the government’s stand even then.At that time, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had asked Channi to tender an apology to the woman officer and had said he believed the matter has been “resolved” to her satisfaction.Channi was elected the leader of the Congress Legislature Party in Punjab on Sunday and will be the next chief minister, succeeding Amarinder Singh who resigned a day ago following a bitter power tussle in the state unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/well-done-rahul-bjp-s-me-too-swipe-over-charanjit-singh-channi-101632070163536.html
19-09-2021||India||Why only 2-3 airbags? Nitin Gadkari has a concern for middle-class car owners||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Sunday said small cars should have adequate safety measures as a large number of lower middle-class people buy these cars. He also expressed his concern about automakers providing eight airbags in large cars which are brought by people who fall under the higher-income category.The Union minister of road transport and highways while speaking to news agency PTI also appealed to automakers to include more airbags in small cars and said his appeal was to ensure safety and prevent deaths due to car accidents.The Union minister said that the poor and middle-class in the country also deserve ‘adequate protection’.Gadkari’s remarks come after the automobile industry raised issues that high taxes and stricter safety and emission norms for vehicles have made cars more expensive. “Mostly, lower middle-class people buy small economy cars and if their car won't have airbags and when accidents happen, then it may result in deaths. So, I appeal to all car manufacturers to provide a minimum of six airbags across all variants and segments of the vehicle,” the Union minister said.“For rich people, you (referring to automakers) offer eight airbags and for economy model cars which are used by lower middle-class people, you will offer only two-three airbags. How come?,” Gadkari asked. He however acknowledged that adding airbags will increase car costs by at least ₹3,000 - ₹4,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-only-2-3-airbags-nitin-gadkari-has-a-concern-for-middle-class-car-owners-101632070115247.html
19-09-2021||India||Assembly elections 2022: As Punjab gets a new CM, here's all you need to know||The elevation of Charanjit Singh Channi as the next chief minister of Punjab will likely bring to an end the power tussle in the state unit of the ruling Congress, as it prepares itself for assembly elections, which are likely to take place here early next year. In 2017, the party registered a convincing victory in this border state, as it displaced the ruling Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) combine. However, Punjab is not the only state which will vote for its next government in 2022. Here’s all you need to know:(1.) A total of five states, including Punjab, will vote in February/March 2022. The other four are Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur. However, the number of phases across which the polling will take place will vary according to the number of assembly constituencies and voter population in the respective states.Also Read | 4.5 years of BJP government in UP ‘landmark of good governance’, says CM Yogi(2.) Then, late next year, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat will go to polls. While the former is likely to witness polling in November, the latter will vote in December.(3.) The BJP is in power in all the poll-bound states, except Punjab. Among these, Uttar Pradesh has 403 assembly constituencies (more than any other state/Union territory), Gujarat has 182 seats, while Punjab, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Manipur and Goa have 117, 70, 68, 60 and 40 constituencies respectively.(4.) The respective tenure of members of legislative assemblies in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Manipur and Punjab will end on various dates in March 2022, while that of their counterparts in Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat will conclude in November and December next year, respectively.(5.) The Election Commission of India is likely to announce the poll schedule in January.(6.) Uttarakhand, Gujarat and Punjab have all seen chief ministerial changes this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assembly-elections-2022-as-punjab-gets-a-new-cm-here-s-all-you-need-to-know-101632068780532.html
19-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Amarinder Singh extends best wishes to Charanjit Singh Channi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Amarinder Singh extends best wishes to Charanjit Singh Channi, says he is sad for another reasonCongress leader Amarinder Singh extended his best wishes to Charanjit Singh Channi, the chief minister-designate of Punjab after the Congress announced his name on Sunday, a day after Amarinder stepped down from the post. Read moreKerala govt says stringent lockdown measures needed in areas with critical Covid-19 spreadThe Kerala government on Sunday said that it would implement intensified and stringent lockdown in areas in the state where the spread of Covid-19 is at critical levels. Read more'Not possible without engaging….': Nobel laureate Satyarthi on education for children in AfghanistanNobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi on Sunday stressed upon the need to engage with the ruling groups in Afghanistan for education and healthcare of children in that country. Read more'Body language does not look good': Sunil Gavaskar calls Rohit Sharma's absence 'big blow' for Mumbai IndiansMumbai Indians' captain Rohit Sharma is not playing the opening game of the second phase of IPL 2021 against the Chennai Super Kings on Sunday due to inadequate match fitness. Read moreKartik Aaryan loses way in Panchgani, cop chooses to take selfie instead. WatchA video of Kartik Aaryan has surfaced on social media which shows him in his car, clueless about where to go. The actor was driving in Panchgani when he took a wrong turn and lost his way. Read moreDiagnosed with dengue? Here are Ayurvedic tips for quick recoveryAmid a worrying rise in cases of dengue across the country, it is important to take care of your immunity while following adequate precautions like wearing full-sleeve clothes, maintaining hygiene, reducing mosquito breeding, and eating a healthy diet. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-amarinder-singh-extends-best-wishes-to-charanjit-singh-channi-and-all-the-latest-news-101632065441266.html
19-09-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: Sept 20, 2010 — India in big boys’ league||Bombay – There are times when pluck and grit collude to transport a player to a different plane. In sport there exists an exalted realm where only the fortunate few dwell on a regular basis, Years of sweat and pain, however, do force the Gods of sport to, once in a rare while open a gateway for the journeymen too, On Sunday, Rehan Bopanna walked through the door of Davis Cup greatness to display a brand of tennis that only the gifted can conjure. India barged through to the World Group on the wings of a man possessed, The 3-2 victory was sculpted by Somdev Devvarman first grinding down the resolve of Thomaz Bellucei 7-6 (3), 4-0 (conceded), Then came Bopanna, who hammered out a masterpiece in power tennis by blitzing past Ricardo Mello 6-3, 7-6 (2), 6-3 in two Hours. The sun shone bright in Chennai today, the layout of the stadium here does not allow any breeze to waft close to the court. Out there in the middle, it was a cauldron of dizzying heat sapping humidity. The Brazilians wilted. For the first time ever in its 89-year Davis Cup history (first tie played in 1921), India came back from a 0-2 deficit. The feat has been managed only 45 times in the 110-year history of the event. The Indian think tank’s strategic call to host the tic in this city finally came good. But lest this incredible achievement be construed an outcome of the elements conspiring, it needs to be asserted that it was actually all about one man coming to terms with his demons. Tennis is a sport of the mind. Strong will alone allows for the nerves to be steadied enough to unleash skill in the face of pressure. Very, very few players can actually regroup after the kind of debilitating five-set loss that Bopanna suffered on Friday. To bury that negativity and come back to shoulder the expectations of a nation in such dazzling fashion speaks of rare mettle. Bopanna was never broken. He broke Mello twice – both times at 2-1 in the first and third sets. Too many times in the past has he been on the cusp of delivering only to let his own serve slip away. Not today. In both his matches Bopanna was a tough riddle for the Brazilians. Devavarman’s effort was aided by a severely dehydrated Bellucci losing his resolve in the heat. But by the time he conceded the match, the Indian had already asserted his dominance by taking charge of the first set tiebreak and then breaking Bellucci twice in the second. India will now face one of the fifteen other nations in the elite group next March. If these guys play the way they did today, there is enough reason to paint India’s chances with a bright flourish of hope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-in-big-boys-league-101632065460090.html
19-09-2021||India||Amarinder Singh extends best wishes to Charanjit Singh Channi, says he is sad for another reason||Congress leader Amarinder Singh extended his best wishes to Charanjit Singh Channi, the chief minister-designate of Punjab after the Congress announced his name on Sunday, a day after Amarinder stepped down from the post. Amarinder said that he was sad because he won't be able to personally hand over the job letters to the kin of 150 farmers who lost their lives during farmers' protests. "Hope CM-designate Charanjit S Channi will do needful at the earliest. I continue to stand with farmers in fight for justice," the outgoing chief minister said. Channi will take oath on Monday at 11am."My best wishes to Charanjit Singh Channi. I hope he's able to keep the border state of Punjab safe and protect our people from the growing security threat from across the border," the Congress leader said.As Amarinder Singh resigned on Saturday expressing how humiliated he felt by whatever happened within Punjab Congress in the last few months, he emphasised that he will oppose if the Congress chooses Navjot Sidhu as the chief minister. By picking Charanjit Singh Channi, the Congress has, however, averted another immediate crisis.While the Captain is unsure about his future political plans, Union minister Ramdas Athawale has extended an invitation to him and the BJP is all praises for a ‘nationalist leader’ like Singh. "I would like to ask Captain Amarinder Singh what is the use of staying in a party which has humiliated you. I request him to leave the Congress party and join the NDA-led by Narendra Modi," Athawale said."His dedication for the country is respectable. What is said is true; for us all, the nation comes first and party second. Whatever Captain said is right, I appreciate his feelings for the country," BJP Punjab in charge, Dushyant Gautam said during a telephonic interview with ANI.Amarinder Singh's resignation was precipitated by the ongoing internal conflict in the Punjab Congress, which could not be tackled even after Navjot Sidhu was made the president of the state party unit. While the Captain lost the support of 60 MLAs, he claimed that people were happy with his government and he did not understand why the Congress felt the need to bring in the change in the leadership with a few months left before the election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-extends-best-wishes-to-charanjit-singh-channi-says-he-is-sad-for-another-reason-101632063280597.html
19-09-2021||India||'Not possible without engaging….': Nobel laureate Satyarthi on education for children in Afghanistan||Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi on Sunday stressed upon the need to engage with the ruling groups in Afghanistan for education and healthcare of children in that country. Satyarthi, who was recently appointed as the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Advocate, also warned that if no concrete action is taken now, then Afghan children will suffer the most.“We have to consider that Afghan kids are our children. Collective, prompt and sustainable efforts should be made to ensure education, healthcare and protection of those children. That is not possible without engaging the ruling groups,” Satyarthi said, adding that though kids have never caused wars, insurgencies, violence or poverty, they are the worst sufferers of all the problems these create.“Afghanistan is one such example. Their children are going to suffer the most if we don’t take any concrete action now,” he further said.
19-09-2021||India||‘Plan to reopen schools in progress, would be submitted to CM before Oct 15’: Kerala education minister Sivankutty||Kerala education Minister V Sivankutty on Sunday said that the government is preparing a plan consulting various stakeholders concerned for the re-opening of educational institutions. The minister’s remarks came a day after the state government on Saturday announced that the schools in the state would be reopened from November 1 following a Covid-19 review meeting.“A discussion with [the] health minister was held regarding the matter and school authorities have been requested for the preparedness. The plan will be prepared and submitted to the Chief Minister before October 15,” news agency ANI quoted Sivankutty as saying.Also read | Covid-19: Kerala remains worst-hit, Maharashtra distant secondExplaining the government’s plan to reopen schools, the minister said that institutions with more than 7,000 students would have classes in shifts. “The meetings will be held at the state and district levels and a shift system would be implemented in schools with more than 7000 students,” he said. Further, health experts will discuss the issues with district collectors and arrangements would be made to address the concerns of both students and parents, the minister said. “The plan will include the provision of masks, sanitisers and social distance adjustments when children arrive at school, as well as things to be observed in vehicles used for transporting children,” he added.Earlier on Saturday, following a review meeting of the core committee on Covid-19 pandemic chaired by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the state government had decided to reopen schools in the state from November 1 for classes one to seven and also for classes 10 and 12. The chief minister had directed to reopen all classes by November 15, his office had informed. “The department of education and the department of health should hold a joint meeting to make the necessary preparations for the reopening of the schools,” the CMO said. Also, children with weakened immunity systems do not have to attend physical classes.Notably, the Kerala government had decided a few weeks ago that the higher educational institutions in the state would be reopened from October 4. It had also mandated at least one dose of the vaccine for students before entering the premises and urged teachers, staff and students to be fully vaccinated before returning to campuses.On Sunday, the state saw 19,653 new Covid-19 infections and 152 deaths, taking the state’s death toll to 23,591, news agency ANI reported. The state currently has 173,631 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plan-to-reopen-schools-in-progress-would-be-submitted-to-cm-before-oct-15-kerala-education-minister-sivankutty-101632059132219.html
19-09-2021||India||Mufti says BJP using Taliban, Afghanistan issues to garner votes||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of using the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan for political reasons and in order to gain votes. The People’s Democratic Party president said that the BJP rakes up issues related to Afghanistan and Pakistan but does not mention the Galwan valley clashes with neighbouring China.“They will not talk about China which has intruded into Ladakh because they do not get votes by talking about that country. If you want to frighten people, talk about Taliban, Afghanistan and Pakistan and do something here and there and seek votes,” Mufti said while addressing a rally organised by the youth wing of her party in Srinagar. She added that the BJP will start cashing on the ‘God-given’ opportunity presented by the Taliban in Afghanistan to win votes as elections in several states draw nearer.She also criticised the Uttar Pradesh government led by chief minister Yogi Adityanath and said that it failed to provide employment to youth and infrastructure to its citizens. She also claimed that people of the state were forced to dump bodies of their loved ones in the ‘sacred’ Ganga as they lacked resources to cremate them.She also claimed that the BJP will use the Jammu and Kashmir issue to win elections. “They do not have anything to sell to the people and therefore they will use Pakistan and J-K to garner votes. They have destroyed J-K and are using sticks to oppress the people who are not allowed to speak openly for their rights,” Mufti said. She also alleged that the BJP will listen closely as to what she said in the rally and use it against her.Mufti said that the BJP has put the nation and democracy in danger. “Jammu and Kashmir is in trouble and so is the entire country. They say Hindus are in danger but they are not in danger and in fact it is India and the democracy which are in danger because of them,” Mufti added. Mufti reached Jammu on Saturday after finishing a five-day tour of Poonch and Rajouri districts. She faced a small protest by a group of Rashtriya Bajrang Dal activists. They attempted to stop her cavalcade near Dogra chowk, which police forces foiled.Mehbooba also batted for self-rule of Jammu and Kashmir and said that the Union Territory is placed at a position which can be beneficial for trade. She claimed that if the Union Territory achieves self-rule then neighbouring countries can open ‘bank branches’ in Jammu and Kashmir.“Jammu and Kashmir holds a strategic position and can be a gateway to central Asia if all the cross-border traditional routes are opened and all the neighbouring countries allowed to open bank branches which will generate employment,” Mufti said. She also said that the party is raising fuel prices to fill their ‘coffers’ and ‘intimidate and buy’ opposition MLAs.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mufti-says-bjp-using-taliban-afghanistan-issues-to-garner-votes-101632058167395.html
19-09-2021||India||Dalit-Sikh face, Sidhu's ‘yes’: What might have worked in favour of Charanjit Singh Channi||The race for the next chief minister of Punjab picked up on Sunday after Ambika Soni rejected the offer and the Congress was considering Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa as a safe bet, after ruling former Punjab Congress president Sunil Kumar Jakhar out. Punjab Congress president Navjot Sidhu's name also came up, but insiders indicate that he will be the CM face for the Congress in the Punjab assembly election, while the new CM might have to be in the post only for the time being.Charanjit Singh Channi is the first Dalit chief minister of Punjab. He belongs to the Ramdasia Sikh community. Insiders said the combination of both these factors that Charanjit Singh Channi is a Dalit and a Sikh worked in favour of him in the last leg of the race. And that's why the party's last-minute calculation surprised all speculation when Harish Rawat announced Channi's name as the new chief minister.Who is Punjab CM-elect Charanjit Singh Channi?A Sikh face is important for the Punjab chief minister post. In fact, Punjab has never had a non-Sikh chief minister. This is the reason that Ambika Soni cited for rejecting the proposal from Rahul Gandhi. Another unofficial but important requirement to handle the top job in Punjab at present is to be in tandem with Navjot Singh Sidhu in which too Charanjit Singh Channi finally emerged as a safe bet, insiders said. Some reports indicated that Sidhu was not too happy with the proposal of Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa as the CM.In addition, Charanjit Singh Channi has an impressive academic and political career. He is a law graduate and an MBA and has taken care of the technical education ministry. He is also a three-time MLA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dalitsikh-face-sidhu-s-yes-what-worked-in-favour-of-charanjit-singh-channi-101632057287513.html
19-09-2021||India||Who is Punjab CM-elect Charanjit Singh Channi?||Charanjit Singh Channi was on Sunday elected as the leader of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) in Punjab, which means that he will be the next chief minister of the poll-bound state, succeeding Captain Amarinder Singh, who resigned on Saturday. The news was shared by party’s Punjab in-charge, Harish Rawat, on Twitter. “It gives me immense pleasure to announce that Shri Charanjit Singh Channi has been unanimously elected as the Leader of the Congress Legislature Party,” Rawat tweeted. It gives me immense pleasure to announce that Sh. #CharanjitSinghChanni has been unanimously elected as the Leader of the Congress Legislature Party of Punjab.@INCIndia @RahulGandhi @INCPunjab pic.twitter.com/iboTOvavPdHere’s what we know about the incoming Punjab chief minister:(1.) Channi, who is fifty-eight years old, will be the first member from the state's Dalit community to hold the top post. Also Read | Charanjit Singh Channi to be Punjab chief minister, first Dalit CM of the state(2.) He is a legislator from the assembly constituency of Chamkaur Sahib in the northern state. He first won the seat in 2007, repeating the feat in the next two assembly elections, in 2012 and 2017 as well.(3.) In the outgoing cabinet, Channi held the portfolio of technical education and industrial training. Previously, he was the Leader of Opposition in the state assembly for 11 months, from December 2015 to November 2016.(4.) However, he is no stranger to controversy. In October 2018, at the peak of the MeToo movement, the now Punjab CM-elect was accused by a woman IAS officer of sending “inappropriate” messages to her. In May this year, Manisha Gulati, who heads the Punjab State Commission for Women, threatened to go on hunger strike if the state government did not take action in the case.Also Read | Harassment allegations against Channi: Women commission chief threatens to go hunger strike if govt doesn’t act(5.) Channi is also a strong supporter of the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the three central farm laws. In July, he wrote to the police seeking cancellation of FIRs against 50 farmers for protesting against Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-is-punjab-cm-elect-charanjit-singh-channi-101632056157076.html
19-09-2021||India||Charanjit Singh Channi to be Punjab chief minister, first Dalit CM of the state||A Dalit face of Congress, Charanjit Singh Channi will be the next chief minister of Punjab, Congress leader Harish Rawat announced on Twitter ending the day-long speculation over the crucial post. “It gives me immense pleasure to announce that Shri Charanjit Singh Channi has been unanimously elected as the Leader of the Congress Legislature Party of Punjab,” Harish Rawat tweeted. The new chief minister will take oath on Monday at 11am. “Congratulations to Shri Charanjit Singh Channi Ji for the new responsibility. We must continue to fulfil the promises made to the people of Punjab. Their trust is of paramount importance,” Rahul Gandhi tweeted congratulating Charanjit Singh Channi.Who is Punjab CM-elect Charanjit Singh Channi?Charanjit Singh Channi is a three-time MLA and the first Dalit chief minister of the state. With a clean political record, Channi has also been the former leader of opposition in the Punjab assembly. Channi was the technical education minister of the outgoing Amarinder Singh cabinet. In the assembly, he represents the Chamkaur Sahib constituency. Congratulations to Shri Charanjit Singh Channi Ji for the new responsibility. We must continue to fulfill the promises made to the people of Punjab. Their trust is of paramount importance.A resident of Mohali, the 58-year-old has no criminal cases against him. And he has a stellar academic credential with a law and an MBA degree.Dalit-Sikh face, Sidhu's ‘yes’: What might have worked in favour of Charanjit Singh ChanniThe announcement follows a dramatic day of hectic parleys and ends with a surprise as Congress MLAs have earlier told that they proposed the name of Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa as the chief minister. Reports claimed that he also sought the appointment of the governor.  “It's high command's decision..., I welcome it. Channi is like my younger brother...I am not at all disappointed,” Congress leader Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said after the announcement. 
19-09-2021||India||‘Good opportunity for public welfare’: Babul Supriyo after joining Trinamool||Former Union minister Babul Supriyo on Sunday thanked Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee for giving him a chance in the “playing 11", a day after he left the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for West Bengal's ruling party."I thank Mamata didi, Abhishek Banerjee and TMC for giving me a chance in the 'playing 11'," the singer-turned-politician said, a day after he was inducted into the Trinamool Congress by party general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and Rajya Sabha MP Derek O'Brien.The former Union minister of state for environment, who was stripped off his portfolio during the recent Cabinet reshuffle at the Centre, had announced to “quit” politics in July. However, he later decided not to reliquish his membership of the Parliament.The sitting MP from West Bengal's Asansol constituency was miffed at the BJP for dropping him as the Cabinet minister, months after his humiliating defeat in the assembly elections against Trinamool's Aroop Biswas for the Tollygunge seat. At that time, the MP had taken to Facebook to unleash a rant on the people of the state for their voting choice – even saying that the citizens made a “historic mistake” by not giving the BJP a chance and bringing back “the cruel lady (Mamata Banerjee) to power.” He, however, deleted the post later.Talking about his decision to join the Trinamool Congress, of which he had been a vocal critic of, Babul Supriyo said he has been in politics for seven years now and felt it was a good opportunity for public welfare.ALSO READ | ‘Wait and watch’: TMC says more leaders to join after Babul Supriyo’s entryHours after Babul Supriyo joined the Trinamool Congress, the ministry of home affairs downgraded his paramilitary security cover from Z to Y category.Babul Supriyo engaged in a verbal spat with his former party colleagues Swapan Dasgupta and Tathagata Roy after joining the Trinamool Congress. Rajys Sabha MP Swapan Dasgupta earlier in the day tweeted, criticising the minister for “tearing hurry” while remarking that “he may end up damaging his own image.”Did I create history by shifting sides?Well, then all the ‘Rivals’ who joined BJP, were embraced&made to sit on top posts ignoring all those ‘real’ BJP grass-root fighters shud be dumped cuz they may have all spoiled their images(like u said I did)tarnishing BJP’s image•Right?🙏Responding to the tweet, the Asansol MP reorted that the same must then be true of the 'outsiders' who joined the BJP and were given top posts earlier this year. He rued that the BJP sidelined its grassroots workers to make room for ‘rivals’ who defected to the party.The turncoat MP also took a dig at former Bengal governor and BJP leader Tathagata Roy on Twitter for calling him a 'traitor'. I think you have the right to disagree with me on many counts & u can criticise me as much as you want but why is lingo ‘Dadu’? Is it to stay in news? U earn the right to hate my decision only when u understand that you will have to respect it too•That’s the thumb ruleOn Saturday, Roy posted on Twitter that “traitors have put the BJP at a precarious position in Bengal” but “Babul Supriyo is neither the first traitor nor the last one.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/good-opportunity-for-public-welfare-babul-supriyo-after-joining-trinamool-101632050943615.html
19-09-2021||India||Jaishankar meets Saudi counterpart, says ‘very useful exchange of views on Afghanistan’||The developments in Afghanistan and other regional issues figured in discussions on Sunday between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his visiting Saudi Arabian counterpart Prince Faisal bin Farhan al Saud.Prince Faisal is the first Saudi minister to visit India since the Covid-19 pandemic began last year. Strategic and security cooperation between the two countries has grown in recent years and they held their first naval exercise in August.“Very useful exchange of views on Afghanistan, the Gulf and the Indo-Pacific,” Jaishankar said in a tweet after the meeting. He added that he and Prince Faisal had discussed “cooperation in the political, security and socio-cultural pillars of our strategic partnership”.India has urged the world community not to rush into recognising the Taliban set up in Kabul, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi pointing out last week that the new regime in Afghanistan is not inclusive and was formed without negotiations.The discussions between the two ministers on Sunday will help shape the way forward in Afghanistan, including the issue of recognising the setup created by the Taliban after they took over the country on August 15.Prince Faisal had recently said Saudi Arabia hopes the Taliban’s interim cabinet will help Afghanistan to achieve stability and overcome violence and extremism. He also said that Saudi Arabia will support “the choices the Afghan people make regarding the future of their country, away from external interference”.The external affairs ministry said in a statement the two ministers also discussed all issues related to bilateral relations and regional and international issues of mutual interest. They reviewed the implementation of the Strategic Partnership Council Agreement signed by the two sides during PM Modi’s visit to Saudi Arabia in October 2019. “They expressed satisfaction at the meetings held under the Agreement and progress achieved. Both sides discussed further steps to strengthen their partnership in trade, investment, energy, defence, security, culture, consular issues, health care and human resources,” the statement said.The ministers also discussed bilateral cooperation at multilateral forums such as the UN, G20 and Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC).Jaishankar tweeted that he had urged Prince Faisal for the “early resumption of direct flights to Saudi Arabia”, and that the two sides had agreed to “work closely on all Covid-related challenges, including to travel”.The external affairs ministry said Jaishankar had appreciated Saudi Arabia’s support for the Indian community during the pandemic and urged Saudi Arabia to further relax restrictions on travel from India.In addition to being one of India’s largest energy suppliers, Saudi Arabia is home to 2.6 million Indians, the largest expatriate community in the kingdom and one of the biggest concentrations of expatriates in West Asia.Last month, Saudi Arabia relaxed travel restrictions for Indians who have received both doses of a Covid-19 vaccine in the kingdom. Under new guidelines, Indians who travel to India after receiving both doses in Saudi Arabia will be able to directly return to the kingdom without having to quarantine in a third country. The move benefited Indians who work in Saudi Arabia and were stuck in the country because of strict travel restrictions.Prince Faisal is scheduled to meet the prime minister on Monday before he departs for New York to participate in the UN General Assembly session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-meets-saudi-counterpart-says-very-useful-exchange-of-views-on-afghanistan-101632051960824.html
19-09-2021||India||9 yrs after arrest over CM Banerjee’s cartoon, Kolkata professor fears new case||Nine years after he was arrested for allegedly forwarding a cartoon on chief minister Mamata Banerjee, then junior Union railway minister Mukul Roy and his predecessor in office Dinesh Trivedi to members of the email group at his housing society in the southern outskirts of Kolkata, Jadavpur University professor Ambikesh Mahapatra found on September 14 that his legal battle with the state was far from over. Though charges under a defunct section of the Information Technology Act was dropped, the trial court said it will continue to hear the case because the de facto complainant, a Kolkata citizen, intends to press charges of defamation and insult to the modesty of a woman, who, in his case is the chief minister who has so far taken no legal step. Following their arrest in April 2012 by the East Jadavpur police station, Mahapatra, a chemistry professor, and Subrata Sengupta, then a septuagenarian retired engineer, were accused in the 2013 charge-sheet under Section 66A (b) and (c) of the of the Information Technology Act, 2000. Sengupta, who was secretary of the housing society in New Garia, was additionally charged under Section 109 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) which pertains to aiding and abetting in a criminal act. Though both were released on bail hours after the arrest, the police action triggered a stir since it was the first of its kind in West Bengal. Opposition parties, intellectuals, rights groups and citizens raised their voice, pointing out that the cartoon’s theme was based on a line from the script of Sonar Kella, the first movie Satyajit Ray made in the 1970s on Pradosh Mitter, the iconic detective he created for children. The child protagonist in Ray’s story was also named Mukul. Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders countered the arguments, saying the cartoon was circulated with mala fide intention. While Section 66A of the IT Act was struck down by the Supreme Court in 2015 in the Shreya Singhal vs. Union of India case, as unconstitutional, the ground reality, however, did not change for the two accused in the cartoon case. Sengupta, who was ailing and had to undergo a kidney surgery, died in 2019 at the age of 80, two years after moving the Calcutta high court to seek quashing of the charges. The court passed an interim order in his favour while hearings continued in the trial court. Current case statusOn September 14, while hearing Mahapatra’s petition for discharge, Subrata Mukherjee, the chief judicial magistrate (CJM) of Kolkata’s Alipore court, where the case is being heard, dropped the charge under Section 66A of the IT Act. “…. I am of the humble view that the striking down of the provisions of Section 66 A of the IT Act in Shreya Singhal’s case has a retrospective effect and therefore applies to all pending proceedings as well and the accused Ambikesh Mahapatra deserves to be discharged from the charge…..” the magistrate said in the order. He also cited a Union home ministry instruction that asked the states in July this year to drop all cases filed under Section 66A. HT has seen a copy of the Alipore court order. “The court did not let me go although the sole charge against me was dropped,” said Mahapatra. After hearing the lawyers of Amit Sardar, the de facto complainant, the CJM ordered that the case will be heard again in November to consider “whether any case under Section 500/509 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) or any other law can be made out against the accused” or, whether Mahapatra deserves to be discharged from the case. While Section 500 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) pertains to defamation, Section 509 recommends imprisonment of up to three years as well as fine for insulting the modesty of a woman. “Although Sections 500 and 509 were mentioned in the initial police complaint filed in April 2012, these were dropped from the charge-sheet submitted in court a year later. Sardar now wants to press these charges. They can neither be argued nor proved unless Mamata Banerjee’s statement is recorded,” said Sanjib Ganguly, Mahapatra’s lawyer at the Alipore court. In his order, the CJM said the de facto complainant had earlier filed a protest petition challenging the charge-sheet but it was dismissed by another judge in July 2015 after which no hearing took place. “…from the order dated July 16, 2015, it becomes clear that the learned magistrate held that the opportunity of hearing must be given to the prosecution/de facto complainant to show or to argue that a case under section 509 IPC can be made out against the accused,” the CJM’s order said. A lawyer representing Sardar said on condition of anonymity that the CJM’s order can be challenged in higher court. “We do not agree that the Supreme Court’s order on Section 66A of the IT Act has a retrospective effect,” he told HT. Sardar, who resides in the Nayabad area located along the Eastern Metropolitan Bypass could not be contacted despite several efforts. TMC legislator Tapas Roy, who is also a lawyer, said, “One cannot pass any comment on the decisions of a magistrate.” Moving human rights commission and Calcutta high court “I do not know how many years I have to visit the courts. Sengupta and I moved the West Bengal Human Rights Commission (WBHRC) in 2012 alleging unlawful arrest and violation of liberty. In August that year, the WBHRC granted us a compensation of ₹50,000 each and recommended departmental proceedings against two officers of East Jadavpur police station. We moved the Calcutta high court in 2013 after the state government rejected the WBHRC’s recommendations,” said Mahapatra. “After hearing us and the government for one year, justice Dipankar Dutta of the Calcutta high court passed an order in March 2015. He upheld the WBHRC’s order and asked the state to pay us an additional cumulative sum of ₹50,000 to cover legal expenses. The government moved a division bench challenging the order but no hearing has taken place till now,” Mahapatra added. HT saw a copy of justice Dipankar Dutta’s 60-page order. “I am also convinced that it was not WBHRC but the police administration that was squarely responsible for blowing the incident out of proportion. Officers of the police administration ought to realise that the time is not far away when they may have to pay a heavy price for unwarranted, uncalled for and unjustified invasion of human rights of the people at large,” justice Dutta said in his concluding remarks. What expert sayEminent advocate and CPI(M) Rajya Sabha member Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya, who represented the accused at the Calcutta high court, said, “It is unfortunate that the idiocy of the issue has gone to this level. Application of Sections 500 and 509 of IPC means the allegedly affected individual has to file a complaint but neither Mamata Banerjee nor anybody representing her in court has done that.” A constitutional expert and former principal of Kolkata’s Presidency College, Dr Amal Mukherjee said, “I know Ambikesh. I am sure his purpose was not to insult anyone. He shared a cartoon just for fun. Right to this freedom is protected under Article 19 of the Constitution. The fact that he was arrested shows that we are not living in a democracy in West Bengal.” “When I was the principal of Presidency College during the Left Front regime I used to write a column for a newspaper. I made fun of chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharya, Left Front chairman Biman Bose and other leaders. I also made funny remarks about Indian gods and goddesses. Nobody ever said a word,” said Mukherjee. Noted human rights activist Sujato Bhadra, a former secretary of the Association for Protection of Democratic Rights, said he sees the action against Mahapatra as an act of revenge. “Mahapatra was harassed. Those who shout about human rights violations in other states are encouraging Fascist practices on home ground. The government should apologise to Mahapatra. Even Nehru used to say that if cartoons on him stopped appearing it would mean he was losing popularity. Cartoons are an integral part of politics,” Bhadra added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-yrs-after-arrest-over-cm-banerjee-s-cartoon-kolkata-professor-fears-new-case-101632051599350.html
19-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: S Jaishankar meets Saudi Arabian counterpart and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Jaishankar exchanges notes on Afghanistan, strategic ties with Saudi counterpartUnion external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Sunday met with his Saudi Arabian counterpart Prince Faisal bin Farhan Al Saud in New Delhi during the latter's maiden visit to India. Read more12 die of viral disease in Kanpur village, death probe underwayAs many as 12 people have lost their lives to a viral disease at a village in Kanpur district of Uttar Pradesh. All the villagers of Kursauli had tested negative for dengue. Read more'They are about to shock the world': Mentor Hussey explains why KKR's opening duo of Shubman and Nitish holds promiseAhead of the resumption of IPL 2021, KKR mentor David Hussey pinned his hopes on the duo of Shubman Gill and Nitish Rana, calling them the 'next generation of Indian players'. Read moreRemo D’Souza shares pics of wife Lizelle's weight loss journey, says 'You are stronger than me'. Varun Dhawan is in aweFilmmaker-choreographer Remo D’Souza has shared pictures of his wife Lizelle Remo D’Souza’s transformation and said that he is proud of her “impossible” achievement. Read moreHero MotoCorp working to launch retro-style Harley-Davidson modelHero MotoCorp is working to launch a Harley-Davidson model with retro styling as the company is gearing up to enter the segment of premium motorcycles, said a senior company official. Read more How to practice mindfulness in daily life and reduce your stressPracticing mindfulness can improve your concentration, bring mental clarity, and reduce stress. Renowned psychologist Dr Kamna Chibber explains how we can benefit from it. Read moreAfter US military kills children, families demand apology, aidDays after the United States of America admitted to having erroneously killed civilians instead of ISIS terrorists in Afghanistan, relatives of the victims demanded justice. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-s-jaishankar-meets-saudi-arabian-counterpart-and-all-the-latest-news-101632047504593.html
19-09-2021||India||Who is Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa who has the support of all Punjab Congress MLAs||Punjab Congress MLAs have proposed the name of Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to be the next chief minister of Punjab on Sunday. While the final announcement is yet to be made, Congress MLAs have said that Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa will become the next chief minister.Who is Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa?> Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa is a traditional Congressman whose association with Congress is not of one generation. His father Santokh Singh was in Congress and has served as the state unit chief twice.> Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa was the minister in charge of jails and cooperative in Amarinder Singh's government.> Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa was a close confidante of Amarinder Singh, but his allegiance then tilted to Navjot Sidhu and Sukhjinder became part of the anti-Captain campaign in the state. > A three-time MLA, the 62-year-old Congressman represents Dera Baba Nanak assembly constituency.> Sukhjinder Singh has been the vice president of the Punjab Congress unit in past.> Randhawa is known as an Akali baiter. In 2002, he became an MLA for the first time defeating Akali Dal's Nirmal Singh Kahlon.How Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa overtook all other frontrunnersEven before Amarinder Singh resigned, a change of guard in Punjab was being speculated as the Congress Legislature Party meeting was called before Amarinder Singh's resignation. Hours before the meeting, Amarinder Singh resigned and expressed anguish over the recent developments. Apart from Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, the names of former Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar, Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa came up for consideration. While Sunil Jakhar is not an MLA and Congress MPs were not in favour of Jakhar, Bajwa's relationship with Sidhu is not cordial. Sidhu's name was also doing the rounds but an offer was made to Ambika Soni by Rahul Gandhi. Ambika Soni rejected the offer as she thinks Punjab CM should be a Sikh leader. Amarinder Singh has already made it clear that he would oppose if Sidhu is considered for the post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-is-sukhjinder-singh-randhawa-who-has-the-support-of-all-punjab-congress-mlas-101632047829467.html
19-09-2021||India||Jaishankar exchanges notes on Afghanistan, strategic ties with Saudi counterpart||Union external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Sunday met with his Saudi Arabian counterpart Prince Faisal bin Farhan Al Saud in New Delhi during the latter's maiden visit to India.Al Saud arrived earlier in the day on a three-day visit to India, during which he is expected to call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The two leaders exchanges notes on the evolving situation in Afghanistan after the Taliban takeover, the Gulf and the Indo-Pacific region and collaboration in the two nation's fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.S Jaishankar also urged Al Saud to resume direct flights between India and Saudi Arabia, which remains suspended owing to the pandemic.Taking to Twitter, Jaishankar posted snippets from the meeting, calling it “cordial and productive.”A cordial and productive meeting with Saudi FM HH @Faisalbinfarhan. Discussed our cooperation in the political, security and socio-cultural pillars of our strategic partnership. Very useful exchange of views on Afghanistan, the Gulf and the Indo-Pacific. pic.twitter.com/0cYq6I5VUUThe two ministers also reviewed the implementation of the Strategic Partnership Council Agreement, signed between India and saudi Arabia during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to the Gulf nation in October 2019. Officials of the Union ministry of external affairs familiar with the minutes of the meeting said that both the leaders discussed issues related to their bilateral relationship and regional and international affairs of mutual interest. "The two ministers reviewed the implementation of the 'Strategic Partnership Council Agreement' signed between the two sides during the visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Saudi Arabia in October 2019," the MEA said.They elaborated that the delegates led by the two leaders held discussions on steps to strengthen their partnership in trade, investment, energy, defence, security, culture, consular issues, healthcare and human resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/s-jaishankar-faisal-bin-farhan-al-saud-india-saudi-arabia-ties-afghanistan-covid-101632046569804.html
19-09-2021||India||12 die of viral disease in Kanpur village, death probe underway||As many as 12 people have lost their lives to a viral disease at a village in Kanpur district of Uttar Pradesh. All the villagers of Kursauli had tested negative for dengue, said a senior medical officer, adding an audit committee was probing into the reasons behind the deaths.This came amid two more deaths due to viral fever and dengue being reported from Firozabad, taking the district's fatality count to 62.Additional chief medical officer of Kanpur Nagar district Dr Subodh Prakash said surveys were being conducted in the village to look for mosquito larvae in houses, inputs by news agency ANI said.Also read | 100 dead as fever grips 5 states, MP worst-affected“Our medical team is working round-the-clock to tackle the situation,” the senior doctor further said.We are also conducting survey (in Kursauli village) to detect if there is any mosquito larvae in houses. Our medical team is working round the clock to tackle the situation: Dr Subodh Prakash, Addl Chief Medical Officer, Kanpur Nagar district pic.twitter.com/aWF6vuqdi1Earlier, it was reported by the agency that more than 250 people, including several children, were hospitalised in the last one month in Kanpur due to a viral fever outbreak. Authorities at Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital said some patients were diagnosed with dengue and malaria, but no death had been reported so far.An official of a child hospital said about 200 children were undergoing treatment at the facility for diseases like fever, tuberculosis and so on. “We have 15-20 children suffering from a viral fever and all of them are recovering well. One child has been diagnosed with dengue,” Dr Manish Yadav of child hospital was quoted as saying by ANI.Meanwhile, in Firozabad where the death count has surged due to mystery disease, a senior official said several teams were working to control the outbreak. A medical team led by communicable disease specialist Dr GS Bajpai had gone to Tundla on Thursday and visited affected areas in Firozabad city and Shikohabad on Friday, he said.On the instructions of the Union government, director of Swachh Bharat Mission SB Singh had also reached Firozabad and assessing the situation.A special cleaning drive and anti-larva spraying are being carried out, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-die-of-viral-disease-in-kanpur-village-death-probe-underway-101632047386374.html
19-09-2021||India||Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa's name proposed as next Punjab chief minister: Report||The Congress has proposed the name of Punjab Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Randhawa as the next chief minister, news agency ANI reported citing sources. However, no decision has been taken yet as a discussion is going on at the resident of Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi with Ambika Soni present at the meeting, the report said. This follows the meeting of the Punjab MLAs on Sunday, a day after Amarinder Singh resigned following months of turmoil in the state party unit. Congress MLA Pritam Kotbhai told ANI all MLAs have named Sukhjinder Randhawa's name for CM before the Congress high command and he will become the chief minister. Sukhjinder Randhawa is a Punjab state cabinet minister in charge of jails and cooperatives. Interacting with media persons in between meetings on Sunday, Sukhjinder Randhawa said he never hankered after any post. Taking a dig at Amarinder Singh, the former chief minister, Sukhjinder said, "A chief minister remains (in his post) only till the time when his party, people of the state stand by him."The 62-year-old Congress leader is a three-time MLA and presently represents Dera Baba Nanak assembly constituency. His father Santokh Singh served as Punjab Congress chief twice. Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has also remained in the post.The Congress Legislature Party on Saturday met and requested Sonia Gandhi to choose the next chief minister. An offer went to Congress leader Ambika Soni from Rahul Gandhi at a late-night development on Saturday, which Ambika Soni rejected stating that the party needs a Sikh face as Punjab CM.Former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar was among the frontrunners but reports said that Punjab MPs were not in favour of making Jakhar the chief minister. Plus, Sunil Jakhar is not a party MLA. Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa's name was also reportedly ruled out because his equation with Navjot Sidhu is not good and a Captain-Sidhu situation would arise if he is made the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sukhjinder-randhawa-s-name-proposed-as-next-punjab-chief-minister-report-101632044344197.html
19-09-2021||India||‘Captain’s target is Gandhi family…': Sidhu aide on Amarinder Singh||A day after Captain Amarinder Singh targeted Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, hours after resigning as the chief minister of the poll-bound state, the latter’s key aide, former IPS officer Mohammad Mustafa, alleged on Sunday that Singh was actually targeting the Gandhis, and not the cricketer-turned-politician. Also Read | Navjot Singh Sidhu a total disaster, says Amarinder Singh after ouster“Navjot Singh Sidhu is not a traitor. If after now, Captain Amarinder Singh calls him a traitor, then I will open the whole book. Captain’s target is not Sidhu but the Gandhi family. I will not allow the Captain to target the Gandhi family,” Mustafa, who is Sidhu’s “principal strategic adviser,” told news agency ANI, as suspense continued over who will succeed the veteran Congressman as the chief minister of Punjab, where assembly elections are likely to take place early next year.Also Read | Despite 'personal anguish': Amarinder Singh's words to Sonia Gandhi before resignationHe added that the senior Congress leader had been “humiliating” Punjab for the last five years. “The people in the party have been tolerating him for the last four-and-a-half years. If I was the leader, then I would have removed Singh from the party in 30 days,” Mustafa said. Capt. Amarinder Singh has been humiliating Punjab for the last 5 yrs. The people in this party have been tolerating him for the last 4.5 years. If I was the leader of the party, then I would have removed Captain from the party in 30 days: Md Mustafa, advisor to Navjot Singh SidhuOn Saturday, after bringing down the curtains on his chief ministership, Singh had gone after Sidhu, calling him a “total disaster.” Targeting the state Congress president for hugging Pakistan prime minister Imran Khan and the neighbouring country’s army chief, General Qamar Javed Bajwa, the former Indian Army officer also called Sidhu “incompetent,” and a “threat to national security.”Also Read | 'I believe Punjab CM should …': Ambika Soni after refusing to hold top postThe two leaders had feuded for months, before Sidhu was ultimately made the president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC). However, their frosty ties continued even after the former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader’s elevation in the Grand Old Party.Also Read | BJP counters Congress' claims of Amarinder Singh's waning popularityAfter submitting his resignation, a “humiliated” Singh had categorically said he will not accept Sindhu being appointed as his successor, should that happen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/captains-real-target-is-gandhi-family-sidhu-aide-on-amarinder-singh-101632043166817.html
19-09-2021||India||Russian envoy, wife cast vote for State Duma elections from India||Russian ambassador to India Nikolay Kudashev and his wife on Sunday cast vote for the State Duma (lower house of the Russian Parliament) elections from New Delhi.After casting the vote for the Lower House of the Russian Parliament, Kudashev expressed his gratitude to the people and the government of India. "Today elections are taking place for the Russian Parliament. Russian State Duma or Russian Lok Sabha, if I say so. We are very grateful to the government and people of India for facilitating this event," Kudashev was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.He added, “Without any prejudice to the final outcome of the elections, we assure that the choice of the Russian people will be right. I once again thank you for the kind support.”Oman Babushkin, Russian deputy chief of mission said State Duma polls are a critically important event in Russian political life. "A total of 14 political parties are contesting. For this purpose, officers of the election commission are established in India and other countries in the world to ensure that the Russian citizens could exercise their voting rights," he said. As many as 348 polling stations in 144 countries have been prepared for Russian citizens who are permanently or temporarily based abroad.Babushkin also informed that voting arrangements were made, keeping the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocols in mind. Russia has set up election centres in India to enable its citizens to cast their votes for the Duma election.Precinct election commissions have been formed, including in New Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata, and are ready to receive Russian voters, a Russian embassy official said. The Russian foreign missions and consular offices are holding the election to State Duma of the Russian Federal Assembly, which is being conducted from September 17 to 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russian-envoy-wife-cast-vote-for-state-duma-elections-from-india-101632039153678.html
19-09-2021||India||Despite 'personal anguish': Amarinder Singh's words to Sonia Gandhi before resignation||Amarinder Singh wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi hours before he resigned as Punjab chief minister in which he said that despite his personal anguish that propelled the decision, he hoped the best for the Congress and Punjab. "Notwithstanding my personal anguish, I hope this will not cause any damage to the hard-earned peace and development in the State, and that the efforts I have been focusing during the last few years, would continue unabated, ensuring justice to one and all," Captain wrote as he informed the party president of his decision. In the letter, he also listed the achievements his government made in the last few years.After facing dissidence in the party for months, fomented by Congress leader Navjot Sidhu who was promoted to the position of the state unit chief, Amarinder Singh stepped down from his post with only a few months left for the state assembly election. Without mincing any word, Captian said that he felt humiliated by the recent developments in the state party unit and sensed a lack of trust in him on part of the party high command. Also Read: Losing support of 60 MLAs sealed Amarinder’s exitCaptain's sudden exit was a reaction to the recent developments in the state Congress which, Amarinder warned Sonia, were "clearly not based on full understanding of the national imperatives of Punjab and its key concerns.”The veteran Congress leader was considered to be very close to the Gandhi family as he was a close friend of Rajiv Gandhi. While his exit does not come across as amicable and he has not put a fig leaf on his hurt emotions, speculation over his future political moves are rife. The Captain said that he will not be retiring from politics and not quitting the Congress for the time being. He has also made it clear that while the High Command can choose whoever they trust as the next chief minister, he will oppose if Sidhu is made the chief minister.Calling Sidhu "anti-national, dangerous, unstable, incompetent" hours after his resignation on Saturday, Captain said, "We have all seen Sidhu hugging (Pakistan prime minister) Imran Khan and (Pak Army chief) General Bajwa (three years ago during a trip to that country), and singing praises for the Pakistan PM at the opening of the Kartarpur corridor while our soldiers were being killed at the borders every day."In interviews and media statements that Amarinder Singh issued on Saturday after his resignation, said he could not understand the logic behind the party High Command's decision to effect a change of guard in the poll-bound state, while people of Punjab were happy with Amarinder Singh's government. "Punjab has been doing so well in every sphere. I do not understand why the party felt the need to make a change," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-personal-anguish-amarinder-singh-s-words-to-sonia-gandhi-before-resignation-101632041693792.html
19-09-2021||India||'I believe Punjab CM should …': Ambika Soni after refusing to hold top post||Senior Congress leader Ambika Soni said on Sunday she was asked by the central leadership to take over as the next chief minister of Punjab, where Amarinder Singh stepped down a day before saying that he feels “humiliated”. As the Congress party deliberated over the issue of the next Punjab chief minister, Ambika Soni’s name was doing the rounds as one of the frontrunners for the top job in the poll-bound state. The senior leader, however, said she doesn’t want to become the Punjab CM.“I have turned down the offer (to become the next chief minister of Punjab). In Chandigarh, the party's meeting is going and the general secretary and observers are taking the opinion of all the MLAs in writing,” Ambika Soni told reporters. When asked whether the Congress president Sonia Gandhi has accepted her decision not to become the Punjab chief minister, she said, “When I explained my point of view to the party leader, they took my views.”“It has been my belief, not from today but since the past 50 years, that the main face or the chief minister of Punjab should be a Sikh. It is the only state in the country where Sikhs can be made a chief minister,” she added, refusing to name the person who could become the next CM of the state.Ambika Soni also said that the party will decide who will be the next Punjab chief minister by Sunday.Also read | Move to convene CLP confirmed Cong leadership’s loss of trust in CaptainThe Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting to elect the next chief minister of Punjab after Amarinder Singh resigned from the top post was deferred earlier in the day. All India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and two central observers Ajay Maken and Harish Chaudhary will be present at the CLP meeting is to be held in Chandigarh.Apart from newly-appointed Punjab Congress unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, former Punjab Congress unit chiefs Sunil Jakhar and Pratap Bajwa are said to be the frontrunners for the top job in the state. State ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa are also said to be the contenders for the post of Punjab chief minister. Among other contenders are senior party leaders Brahm Mohindra and Vijay Inder Singla, Punjab Congress working president Kuljit Singh Nagra and the member of Parliament Partap Singh Bajwa.Also read | ‘Humiliated’, says Captain as he resigns as Punjab CMThe CLP, on Saturday, unanimously passed a resolution to give Congress chief Sonia Gandhi power to nominate the new chief minister of Punjab after Captain Amarinder Singh stepped down. On Saturday, the party also asked MLAs for their views verbally and discussed several issues as well, but now they have been asked to give written submissions on the same. Their views will be conveyed to the Congress central leadership and the final decision will be taken at the earliest, party leaders have said.Captain Amarinder Singh stepped down as the chief minister on Saturday ahead of the meeting of party legislators in the faction-ridden state, where assembly polls are to be held early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-believe-punjab-cm-should-ambika-soni-after-refusing-to-hold-top-post-101632038295856.html
19-09-2021||India||PM Narendra Modi urges people to take part in e-auction of gifts received by him||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged people to take part in the auction of several gifts and mementoes that he has received over the years and said the proceeds would go to the ‘Namami Gange’ initiative.“Over time, I have received several gifts and mementos which are being auctioned. This includes the special mementos given by our Olympics heroes. Do take part in the auction. The proceeds would go to the Namami Gange initiative,” the Prime Minister tweeted. The e-auction, being organised by the ministry of culture, started on Friday, on the occasion of the Prime Minister’s birthday, and will continue till October 7. This is the third edition of such an auction, in which individuals or organisations can participate via the website: https://pmmementos.gov.in. “The memorabilia includes sports gear and equipment of the medal-winning Olympians and Paralympians, a replica of the Ayodhya Ram Mandir, Char Dham, Rudraksh Convention Centre, models, sculptures, paintings, ‘angavastram’ among others,” the ministry had said in a statement.Olympic bronze medalist Lovlina Borgohain’s boxing gloves received the highest bid at the e-auction. Borgohain’s gloves with a base price of ₹80 lakh, received a bid of ₹1.92 crore. Olympic gold medalist Neeraj Chopra’s javelin got a bid of ₹1.5 crore. Chopra’s javelin had a base price of ₹1 crore at the auction organised by the culture ministry.Other items at the auction included Paralympian Avani Lekhara and Bhavani Patel’s t-shirts. The racquet that PV Sindhu used in her bronze medal-winning Olympic match was also a part of the auction.Apart from sports gear, the e-auction also includes a replica of the Kedarnath Temple and the Statue of Unity, along with the portraits and photographs of the Prime Minister. The base price of Modi’s photograph and portraits are ₹2 lakh. In 2019, the government had auctioned more than 4,000 gifts received by the prime minister. Proceeds of the previous auction also went to the Namami Gange Programme.Namami Gange is an integrated conservation and rejuvenation programme initiated by the Central government in June 2014. It aims to ensure containment of pollution and conservation of the river Ganga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-urges-people-to-take-part-in-e-auction-of-gifts-received-by-him-101632038517923.html
19-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Iranian boat, packed with heroin, seized off Gujarat coast and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Iranian boat with heroin worth ₹150 to ₹250 crore, 7 crew members apprehended off Gujarat coastAn Iranian boat with seven crew members and a huge consignment of heroin was apprehended off the Gujarat coast in an operation carried out by the state Anti-Terrorist Squad and the Indian Coast Guard, an official said on Sunday. Read MoreAmbika Soni out of Punjab CM race, CLP meeting deferred as Congress mulls namesThe Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting to elect the next chief minister of Punjab after Amarinder Singh resigned from the top post in the poll-bound state has been deferred, party leaders said on Sunday. As several names are being talked about as the next Punjab chief minister, senior Congress leader Ambika Soni has declined the offer for the top job, according to reports. Read MoreHope Captain won't hurt Congress interests, says Ashok GehlotA day after Amarinder Singh resigned as the chief minister of Punjab stating that he was humiliated multiple times over the past few weeks, his Rajasthan counterpart and party colleague Ashok Gehlot said he hoped the former would not take any step that may harm the grand old party. He also expressed his hope that every Congress men, even if disappointed, would keep in mind the country's condition given the Fascist rule in place. Read MoreImran Khan does a U-turn, after praising Taliban, he defends Joe BidenPakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan defended US President Joe Biden’s decision for the botched pullout of American troops from Afghanistan, insisting that it was a “sensible” move and Biden is being “unfairly criticised” for it. "There was so much unfair criticism of President Biden, and what he did was the most sensible thing to do," Khan told a Russian news channel on September 17. Read MoreWATCH: 'Is PM a stuntman?': Congress MP talks about Modi's 'left and right hand'In the latest edition of The Interview, Congress MP Shaktisinh Gohil speaks to Hindustan Times and talks about Prime Minister Narendra Modi's left and right hand. Speaking on the resignation of Vijay Rupani as the Gujarat chief minister, Gohil says that the former was made a political scapegoat by his party. He adds that the BJP leader was not able to work as a chief minister with free hands. The Rajya Sabha MP also responds to whether the Congress party is in deep slumber in the state of Gujarat. Watch the full interview for more.MG Astor SUV, first impression: Loaded with tech, laced with styleMG Astor is all set to hit Indian roads in the weeks to come and stands as an ambitious offering from MG Motor India in a segment that is ferociously competitive and has a number of key players vying for every inch available. And while there is enormous scope because of the still rising preference for compact SUVs in India, each player needs to have its strengths clearly spelled out. Read More'They can actually finish in the top two': Gautam Gambhir names team with 'advantage' in IPL 2021The time has come. The IPL 2021 returns and how – by pitting the two most gigantic teams against each other in the curtain-raiser of the UAE leg. Mumbai Indians take on Chennai Super Kings in what promises to be a riveting clash between the two IPL heavyweights. However, the second half is not just about MI or CSK. It's equally of high significance for the remaining six franchises as well. Read MoreArtist recreates sounds of The Flintstones, viral video stuns peopleThere are many who grew up watching the famous cartoon show The Flintstones. A video of an artist again reminded people of the show and that too in a sweet way. There is a chance that the video that shows the artist recreating the sounds from an episode of the show will leave you stunned. Read MoreShilpa Shetty amps the hotness quotient in purple tie-dye saree with front slitAgeing like fine wine and oozing oomph with every OOTD, Bollywood star Shilpa Shetty Kundra dressed to kill again and set our social media feeds on fire with her sultry look in a purple tie and dye saree with front slit. Raising the hotness quotient, Shilpa gives a sexy twist to ethnic wear in the pre-stitched purple tie and dye saree with a front slit as she dolled up to shoot an episode of television reality show, Super Dancer Chapter 4, and the fashion police can't stop swooning. Read MoreSamantha Akkineni says ‘don’t you have any sense’ as reporter asks her about Naga Chaitanya separation rumours, watchSamantha Akkineni snapped at a reporter for asking her to comment on rumours of her separation from Naga Chaitanya as she was leaving the Tirumala temple. “Gudiki vachanu, buddhi unda (I have come to a temple, don’t you have any sense)?” she said, pointing to her head. Videos of the exchange are going viral online. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-iranian-boat-packed-with-heroin-seized-off-gujarat-coast-and-all-the-latest-news-101632036287630.html
19-09-2021||India||Arunachal advocate general Nilay Dutta dies of heart attack at 68||Arunachal Pradesh Advocate General Nilay Dutta died of a massive heart attack in Karnataka's Coorg on Sunday.He was 68, and is survived by his wife, son and daughter."The renowned advocate had gone to Coorg on Wednesday to celebrate his 46th marriage anniversary. He suffered a massive heart attack around 2.30 AM on Sunday in the resort where his family was staying and he died before reaching the hospital," a close friend of Dutta said.His family said that he will be cremated in Bengaluru during the day as his body cannot be brought back to Assam, from where he hailed, for the next three days due to Covid-19 protocols in Karnataka.On Friday and Saturday, Dutta had himself uploaded on Twitter several pictures of his anniversary celebrations with his family and close friends. He was among the most prominent and distinguished legal brains of Assam and the Northeast, and had argued several cases in the Supreme Court.Dutta had studied in the St. Stephen's College in Delhi and was later involved in the Naxalite movement, for which he was arrested and imprisoned. After his release, he became a bank employee and then an advocate. He held the post of the Advocate General of Arunachal Pradesh since 2016.An avid sports lover, Dutta was the president of the Assam Cricket Association and did umpiring in several international cricket matches. He was also a member of the High-Level Committee (HLC) of the Union Home Ministry on the Clause-6 of the Assam Accord that submitted its report in February last year.His untimely death triggered reactions from across the political spectrum."In his passing away, we have lost a legendary legal luminary of the North East. My sincere condolences to his family and prayers for his soul to attain highest abode," Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu tweeted.Khandu's Assam counterpart Himanta Biswa Sarma said that his state has lost one of the brightest lawyers, who had also contributed to many other fields including sports administration. "His demise has created a huge void difficult to be filled up. Offer my deepest condolences to his family and well-wishers," Sarma tweeted.Union minister of shipping, ports and waterways Sarbananda Sonowal said in a Twitter post, "A scholar with brilliant legal acumen, his death is a huge loss to the fraternity. My deepest condolences to his family and friends."Union Law and Justice minister Kiren Rijiju expressed deep sorrow over Dutta's death. "A renowned legal luminary of North-East who had been a guide to many young lawyers & professionals. My heartfelt condolences to his family," Rijiju said.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also offered his condolences to the family of the deceased senior advocate. "He was a great lawyer and a passionate cricket administrator. He will be fondly remembered," Gandhi said on Facebook.The party's Lok Sabha MP Gaurav Gogoi said he will miss Dutta for his wit, legal acumen, interest in politics and commitment to Assam. "While his death has left an irreplaceable void, he will live forever through his many contributions to the society," the son of former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi said.Assam Congress chief Bhupen Kumar Borah expressed shock and sorrow over Dutta's death. "...one of the renowned cricket umpires, a social worker and thinker. I pray to God for eternal peace of Dutta's departed soul and my heartfelt condolences to his family in this time of grief," he said.Trinamool Congress leader Sushmita Dev offered her condolences and said Dutta was "one of the sharpest legal minds, much revered by all".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arunachal-advocate-general-nilay-dutta-dies-of-heart-attack-at-68-101632036338980.html
19-09-2021||India||Gehlot says he hopes Capt Amarinder Singh will work in party’s interest||A day after Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s resignation triggered speculation over his political future with the Congress in the poll-bound state, Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot said on Sunday that the party high command sometimes has to take decisions in the interest of the party on the basis of the feedback received from the legislators and the general public, and Congress leaders should look within themselves instead of getting upset at losing power. He also added that he hoped that Amarinder Singh won’t do anything to hurt the party.“I hope that Captain Amarinder Singh will not take any such step which will harm the Congress party. Captain Sahib himself said that the party had kept him as the chief minister for nine and a half years. He has served the people of Punjab by working to the best of his ability,” Gehlot said in one of his many tweets reflecting on the Punjab crisis. Gehlot also defended the party high command and added that those in the party who get upset at losing power should listen to their conscience.“I personally believe that the Congress president chooses the CM at the risk of inviting displeasure of several leaders who are in the race for Chief Ministership. However, when the same chief minister is changed, he/she is displeased and holds the decision wrong. One should listen to one’s inner voice in such moments,” he tweeted. Captain Amarinder Singh was pushed to resign as Punjab CM after the Congress central leadership summoned a meeting of the party MLAs, who had expressed their lack of confidence in Amarinder Singh’s leadership. Reading the writing on the wall, Singh resigned half an hour before the Congress Legislative Party was to meet in Chandigarh. Singh said he felt “humiliated”“This is the third time they (Congress high command) have called the MLAs. Apparently, they do not have confidence in me and didn’t think I could handle my job. But I felt humiliated at the manner in which they handled the whole affair,” Amarinder Singh said after submitting his resignation on Saturday evening.He didn’t say that he was considering leaving the Congress party but made it amply clear that he would not accept Punjab Congress chief and his bête noire Navjot Singh Sidhu as the face of the party in the state, clearly drawing battlelines.Following the developments, speculations were rife if the change of guard in Punjab and Amarinder Singh’s unceremonious ouster will impact Congress prospects in upcoming assembly elections there.Gehlot said that all Congressmen needed to rise above themselves and act responsibly in the interest of the country and the party when “fascist forces” were a matter of concern for all the countrymen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gehlot-says-he-hopes-that-capt-amarinder-singh-will-work-in-party-s-interest-101632036717897.html
19-09-2021||India||Hyderabad’s Balapur Ganesh laddu auction to be held today||The Balapur Ganesh Utsav Samithi in Hyderabad is set to auction off its 21-kilogram laddu on Sunday, which is offered to lord Ganesh during the Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations. The open auction of the sweet is held every year at the pandal premises before the commencement of the Ganesh Nimajjan Yatra.Popularly known as the Balapur Ganesh laddu among its devotees, the divine offering is made from pure ghee and dry fruits and kept in a silver bowl at the hands of lord Ganesha. The Balapur laddu is prepared and donated by Honeywell Foods every year. The proceeds from the auction are used to fund developmental works in and around the area. The first ever laddu auction was organised in the year 1994.The laddu auction fetched a whooping ₹17.6 lakh in 2019 after Hyderabad-based realtor Kolan Rami Reddy made the winning bid for the sweet.The Kolan family has been associated with the Balapur laddu auction for generations and 2019 was the fourth time they put the winning bid. Rami Reddy’s father, Kolan Mohan Reddy, a local farmer, had won the first-ever laddu auction when he bought the laddu for ₹450. Since then, he has participated and won the auction five times more, while his family has placed the winning bid thrice.Laddu auctions are organised by many puja committees in Hyderabad and adjoining areas. Devotees believe the auction brings prosperity to the winner and is considered to be highly auspicious. The Ganesh Nimajjan Yatra, or the immersion procession, that follows the auction is a popular affair but with coronavirus restrictions in place celebrations this year are expected to be muted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabads-balapur-ganesh-laddu-auction-to-be-held-today-101632034223185.html
19-09-2021||India||Iranian boat with heroin worth ₹150 to ₹250 crore, 7 crew members apprehended off Gujarat coast||An Iranian boat with seven crew members and a huge consignment of heroin was apprehended off the Gujarat coast in an operation carried out by the state Anti-Terrorist Squad and the Indian Coast Guard, an official said on Sunday. "On an intelligence based joint act, @IndianCoastGuard with ATS #Gujarat apprehended #Iranian boat in #Indian waters with 07 crew carrying #drugs. The boat is brought to the nearest port for further rummaging and investigations," a defence spokesperson in Gujarat said on their Twitter handle.
19-09-2021||India||4.5 years of BJP government in UP ‘landmark of good governance’, says CM Yogi||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday claimed that the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government in Uttar Pradesh has achieved a ‘landmark’ in good governance.Adityanath was speaking on the occasion of the completion of four-and-a-half years of the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh. He said that the state machinery as well as the organisation (BJP) is making a coordinated effort under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to make achievements in all spheres during these years. लक्ष्य अंत्योदय, प्रण अंत्योदय, पथ अंत्योदय...सुशासन, विकास व जनसेवा के साढ़े चार वर्ष पूर्ण होने पर मीडिया से संवाद... https://t.co/SwoVUSw5X9The chief minister also said the state has also made it to the second position on national ‘Ease of Doing Business’ ranking during the period.“Uttar Pradesh is attracting investment at a steady pace today. Earlier the state was on 14th position in the national ‘Ease of Doing Business’ ranking, but now we have made it to the second position,” Adityanath said, adding, “The state has attracted investment worth ₹3 lakh crore in the past 54 months and has emerged as hub of export.”“Our government has created an environment of security for women, businessmen and the common people,” the chief minister said.Adityanath said the state administration attached properties of criminals worth over ₹1,800 crore demolished illegal encroachments. “We've dealt with criminals and mafias with strictness and under the framework of law, irrespective of their caste and religion,” Adityanath claimed.Adityanath further claimed that Uttar Pradesh remained free of riots and communal violence during his tenure.“The perception of Uttar Pradesh has changed in the country. This is the same state where riots had become a trend earlier, but in the past 4.5 years the state remained free of communal violence,” the chief minister stressed.The BJP leader said that as many as 42 lakh people from economically-weaker section of the society were given houses since his government came to power in the state in 2017. “We have provided more than ₹5 lakh crore to people under the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) scheme while around 4.5 lakh youth of the state got employment in the past 56 months. There is transparency in the recruitment adn welfare schemes of the state,” Adityanath said, adding that the victims of natural calamities have received compensation within 24 hours.Training his guns at the opposition parties, ahead of the assembly elections early next year, Adityanath said under the rule of the previous governments Uttar Pardesh was see as a state blocking the development of the country. “Today Uttar Pradesh is far ahead of other states in implementing 42 Central government-run schemes and contributing towards the development of the country,” Adityanath said. The chief minister alleged that the previous governments were embroiled in scams while claiming that the BJP is working with honesty. “During earlier governments there was food scam, and because of that the people died of hunger. But after forming the government, we gave ration cards to the poor people checked fake ration cards,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/45-years-of-bjp-government-in-up-landmark-of-good-governance-says-cm-yogi-101632031403870.html
19-09-2021||India||Hope Captain won't hurt Congress interests, says Ashok Gehlot||A day after Amarinder Singh resigned as the chief minister of Punjab stating that he was humiliated multiple times over the past few weeks, his Rajasthan counterpart and party colleague Ashok Gehlot said he hoped the former would not take any step that may harm the grand old party. He also expressed his hope that every Congressmen, even if disappointed, would keep in mind the country's condition given the Fascist rule inplace.कैप्टन साहब पार्टी के सम्मानित नेता हैं एवं मुझे उम्मीद है कि वो आगे भी पार्टी का हित आगे रखकर ही कार्य करते रहेंगे। pic.twitter.com/4bPmB4T3bPSharing a post in Hindi on Twitter, Gehlot wrote Singh, a former Army captain, was a respected leader of the party and he hoped the latter would continue to work keeping the interests of the Congress in mind.He wrote, “Captain sahab (as the former ) has himself said the party has given him the top responsibility for nine and a half years and he had fulfilled his duty of serving the people of Punjab with utmost sincerity."Also read | Gehlot aide quits hours after sharing not-so-cryptic post on Twitter“On a lot of occasions, the party high command has to take decisions based on feedback from legislators as it deems right in the interest of the party.  I also personally believe that the Congress president chooses the chief minister only after facing the displeasure of many leaders who are in the race to become the CM. But while changing the same chief minister, they get upset with the decision of the high command. During such moments, one has to listen to their inner calling,” said Gehlot, who has been under pressure himself to accommodate his former deputy Sachin Pilot's loyalists in the cabinet.Also read | Ambika Soni out of Punjab CM race, CLP meeting deferred as Congress mulls namesIn the wake of Singh claiming that his options were open following his exit move, Gehlot said the way the country was headed to due to the Fascist powers, it was a concern for every citizen. “Our responsibility as Congressmen doubles under such circumstances. We should rise above our personal interests and think about the party and our country in such times,” he further said.On a signing not, Gehlot reiterated that Singh was a respected leader and he hoped the former would continue to work in the interests of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hope-captain-won-t-hurt-congress-interests-says-ashok-gehlot-101632031757101.html
19-09-2021||India||Meghalaya youth leader arrested for plotting new rebel outfit||Social activist Joannes TL Lamare and three others were arrested for allegedly seeking help from Nagaland’s separatist group, National Socialist Council of Nagaland-Isak Muivah (NSCN-IM) faction for establishing a new rebel group in Meghalaya, police said.Both East Khasi Hills police chief and city superintendent of police (SP) confirmed the arrest but refused to comment further except that the arrested were undergoing quarantine following which they will be interrogated.Police officers aware of the developments said that Lamare was intercepted at the Umiam viewpoint on Thursday afternoon while returning from the dreaded rebel outfit’s Hebron Camp, located in Nagaland’s Dimapur district.Police claimed that preliminary investigation revealed that Lamare and the three others had gone to Dimapur to seek guidance from top leaders of the NSCN (IM) at Camp Heron.The other three include Vicky Mawnai (30) of Saitsohpen Sohra, Everpesrl Mawsor (34) of Rengmaw, Shallang (West Khasi Hills) and Aloysius Syiemlieh of Wahkalier Sohra.The entire operation was carried out by a crack team of East Khasi Hills police, the police official quoted above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-youth-leader-arrested-for-plotting-new-rebel-outfit-101632029997103.html
19-09-2021||India||India's Covid numbers fall after days with 30,772 cases, active count at 0.99%||India registered a significant drop in its Covid-19 numbers with 30,772 new people testing positive for the viral disease in the last 24 hours. This is 13.7 per cent less than Saturday’s figures when 35,662 fresh cases were reported. The country has been seeing a rise in cases over the past one week.According to the latest updates from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, as many as 38,945 people were cured from the disease, while 309 patients lost their lives, taking the total recoveries to 3,26,71,167 at a rate of 97.68 per cent and fatalities to 4,44,838.Also read | Covid-19: Kerala remains worst-hit, Maharashtra distant secondThe active caseload now stood at 3,32,158 which was 0.99 per cent of the total infections at 3,34,48,163. This was a reduction of 8,481 in active caseload in a span of 24 hours.The weekly positivity rate, which has remained below three per cent for the last 86 days, was recorded at 2.04 per cent, the health ministry said.It further said the cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide vaccination drive has exceeded 80.43 crore (80,43,72,331) with over 85,42,732 lakh people inoculated in the last 24 hours.Also read | Which Covid-19 vaccines are approved? Here’s the global progressOn Saturday, the ministry, in a statement, said the last 10 crore doses were administered in just 11 days.Meanwhile, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said 15,59,895 samples were tested for the virus during the day which pushed the total number of tests conducted so far to 55,23,40,168.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-numbers-fall-after-days-with-30-772-cases-active-count-at-099-101632027728055.html
19-09-2021||India||Saudi foreign minister in India on 3-day visit, to discuss Afghanistan affairs||Saudi Arabia's foreign minister Prince Faisal bin Farhan Al Saud arrived in New Delhi on Saturday evening on a three-day tour, days after Hindustan Times first reported on his upcoming visit to India. The Saudi minister will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and minister of external affairs S Jaishankar to hold bilateral talks on a range of issues, including the rapidly evolving situation in Afghanistan in the wake of the Taliban takeover. “H.H. Prince Faisal Bin Farhan Al Saud, minister of foreign affairs of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, arrived in New Delhi today evening,” tweeted Arindam Bagchi, the spokesperson for the Union ministry of external affairs, on Friday.H.H. Prince Faisal Bin Farhan Al Saud, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, arrived in New Delhi today evening. pic.twitter.com/zcN88SELsVThe Saudi foreign minister's visit to India comes days after he batted for the Taliban regime in Afghanistan, ‘hoping’ that the caretaker government will help the war-torn nation achieve stability and overcome violence and extremism. Prince Faisal bin Farhan Al Saud, without elaborating much on the Taliban's approach to governance, said that Saudi Arabia will support “the choices the Afghan people make regarding the future of their country, away from external interference.”However, there are underlying security concerns regarding the emergence of a medieval theocratic Afghanistan state and its ties to a global jihadist network enabled by the Taliban regime. It is likely that these discussions will feature in the Saudi minister's talks with the Indian leaders during the three-day visit.Also Read | At SCO meet, Modi says Afghanistan proof that radicalisation key challenge to peaceIt was reported that India's close allies in the Middle East, Saudi Arabia, and the UAE, are perturbed by the active role being played by Qatar, Turkey, and Pakistan in engaging with Kabul’s Sunni Islamist regime.Qatar may have taken the lead in diplomatically engaging the Taliban regime in Kabul, but the wider global community is in no rush to legitimise the former insurgents as the new rulers of Afghanistan. In his address to the plenary session of the 21st meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in Dushanbe earlier this week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke about increasing radicalisation, which he said has become the biggest challenge to peace, security, and trust deficit in the region. In his six-minute virtual address, Modi said recent developments in Afghanistan had made this challenge more clear.The Prime Minister had also talked to the UAE crown prince, Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, at the beginning of this month and discussed the Afghanistan situation, while Jaishankar hosted the diplomatic advisor to the UAE president on August 30 and mulled over the Kabul crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saudi-foreign-minister-in-india-on-3-day-visit-to-discuss-afghanistan-affairs-101632022083851.html
19-09-2021||India||Nagaland’s new all party govt to be called United Democratic Alliance||As the political parties represented in the Nagaland Legislative Assembly (NLA) finalised the formation of an all party government on Saturday in Kohima, the house resolved that the new government will be called the United Democratic Alliance.“The nomenclature of United Democratic Alliance (UDA) for the Opposition-less government in Nagaland has been unanimously resolved by the legislators and party leaders of NDPP, BJP, NPF and Independent MLAs,” chief minister Neiphiu Rio tweeted after the decision.Government spokesperson, Neiba Kronu told journalists that the legislators will be writing to the assembly speaker in the next few days for formation of the UDA. Earlier it was announced that the new government will be called Nagaland United Government but Kronu said it was decided during Saturday’s meeting that UDA would be more appropriate.On July 19, the Opposition party, Naga People’s Front (NPF) passed a resolution for constituting an all-party government without preconditions, requesting the chief minister’s consideration with the aim to jointly push for an early political solution to the Naga issue. Initially, while the ruling Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) lauded the move, Central Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders were reported to be not so enthused over the development. The BJP is a major ally of the NDPP in the government and CM Rio is said to have convinced the Central BJP leadership in Delhi.This is not the first time Nagaland will be having an all party government. The state has had a government with no Opposition in assembly in 2015 during the third tenure of the NPF-led Democratic Alliance of Nagaland (DAN), when the Congress MLAs joined the government and subsequently merged with the ruling NPF. But this time, a coalition has been formed without merging.The government spokesperson also informed that no decision was taken on Saturday’s meeting on sharing of portfolios with the NPF.In the house of 60, NPF has 25 MLAs, NDPP has 20, the BJP has 12, and there are two independents, while one assembly seat is vacant after Shamatore-Chessore MLA Toshi Wungtung of NDPP died on July 1.Although, Nagaland’s lawmakers are not directly involved in the Naga peace talks, elected members over the years have, cutting across party lines, held that they would play a facilitating role for settlement of the long-standing problem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagalands-new-all-party-govt-to-be-called-united-democratic-alliance-101632023996564.html
19-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Kerala worst hit by Covid-19, followed by Maharashtra and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19: Kerala remains worst-hit, Maharashtra distant secondSeveral states have managed to bring down the tally of fresh coronavirus cases even as Kerala, followed by Maharashtra (a distant second though) continued to contribute significantly to the nationwide figures. Read MoreCentre assigns mediators to Nagaland, signalling resumption of peace talksFormer additional director of Intelligence Bureau (IB) AK Mishra arrived in Nagaland on Saturday as its new governor and is widely expected to hold a series of informal talks. Read MoreRussian parliamentary elections to conclude today; Putin projected to winThe three-day parliamentary elections in Russia, which began on September 17, will conclude on Sunday with President Vladimir Putin’s ruling United Party expected to win the polls. Read MoreCSK vs MI: It's Dhoni vs Rohit as IPL 2021 returns with rivals Mumbai Indians, Chennai Super Kings kicking off UAE legLittle over four months after the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic in India brought the IPL 2021 to an indefinite halt, the tournament is back, albeit this time, in the UAE to finish the remaining 31 matches of the season. Read MoreRanveer Singh sends a kiss to Deepika Padukone as she crashes his chat with fans: ‘Khana garam kar lo baby’Ranveer Singh, on Saturday night, conducted an Ask Me Anything session for his fans. Read MoreAAP, BJP, new party? Amarinder's options; what happened last time he quit CongCaptain Amarinder Singh's resignation as Punjab Chief Minister is not the first time that he has clashed with the Congress' Party's leadership. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-kerala-worst-hit-by-covid-19-followed-by-maharashtra-and-all-the-latest-news-101632020468125.html
19-09-2021||India||Centre assigns mediators to Nagaland, signalling resumption of peace talks||Former additional director of Intelligence Bureau (IB) AK Mishra arrived in Nagaland on Saturday and is widely expected to hold a series of informal talks with the Isak-Muivah faction of National Socialist Council of Nagalim (NSCN-IM) in the next few days to revive the Naga peace process that was stuck since October 2019 over the rebel group’s insistence on a separate Naga flag and constitution.HT has learnt that Mishra, currently an advisor in the Union home ministry, is a choice candidate to replace former Nagaland governor RN Ravi as interlocutor to resume the peace talks but an official order to this effect is yet to be issued. Ravi was recently made Tamil Nadu governor.After the derailment of the talks since the contested 31st October 2019 deadline, when Ravi and the NSCN (IM) fell out over above mentioned issues pertaining to the Framework Agreement, signed with the Centre in 2015, the NSCN (IM) leadership had been meeting a team from government of India led by IB officials including Mishra.People aware of the developments said Ravi is yet to be officially relieved from his role as interlocutor and Mishra will be working as an emissary, but the latter is already being referred to as the “new interlocutor” in various sections of the media. Even the state government spokesperson Neiba Kronu on Saturday told journalists in Kohima that “new interlocutor AK Mishra has been appointed” and he knew the Naga issue well.It was also learnt that on the directive of the Centre, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma will be coming to Nagaland on September 21 and Kronu said the state’s Parliamentary Core Committee will try to meet Sarma along with the “negotiating parties”. Sarma and Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio were earlier tasked by Union home minister Amit Shah to act as go-betweens when the relationship between Ravi and NSCN (IM) soured.Meanwhile, NSCN (IM) general secretary Thuingaleng Muivah, along with the group’s team assigned to resume talks, is also said to have reached Dimapur on Saturday from the NSCN designated camp Hebron. People aware of the developments said a series of informal talks is scheduled to begin between the NSCN (IM) and Mishra from Sunday. Till the time of filing of this report, other Naga nationalist political groups were yet to receive any invitation to sit with Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-assigns-mediators-to-nagaland-signalling-resumption-of-peace-talks-101632020936142.html
19-09-2021||India||Covid-19: Kerala remains worst-hit, Maharashtra distant second||Several states have managed to bring down the tally of fresh coronavirus cases even as Kerala, followed by Maharashtra (a distant second though) continued to contribute significantly to the nationwide figures. Among the other top states to have made major additions to the virus list are Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka.  The country has seen weekly tally has seen an upward trend with fresh cases crossing the 30,000-mark on more than one day as fears of an impending third wave of the pandemic refuse to subside.Kerala that remained one of the worst-hit states has been adding almost half of the total cases being registered across the state. According to the latest figures shared by the health department, the southern state, however, registered a fall in fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday with 19,352 infections and 143 deaths being reported during the day. However, it was still more than half of the nationwide tally of 30,773 cases.The latest figures took the total affected in Kerala to 44,88,840 and the toll to 23,439. On Friday, the state had reported 23,260 cases, while the nationwide tally was 35,662. The state’s active caseload stood at 1,80,842. Also, the number of recoveries outnumbered fresh cases with 27,266 being cured of the viral disease taking the total number to 42,83,963. The state has decided to reopen schools from November 1. It will also withdraw the total lockdown being imposed on Sundays and night curfew between 10 pm and 6 am.Maharashtra recorded 3,391 new Covid-19 cases and 80 deaths in the last 24 hours taking the active case count to 47,919. The health department said 2,83,445 people were in home quarantine, 1,812 people in institutional quarantine and 3,841 patients were discharged during the day.The third in the list is Tamil Nadu which registered 1,653 new cases, including a returnee from Maharashtra, pushing the overall tally to 26,43,683. The fatality count from the disease rose to 35,310 with the death of 22 more people. Also, recoveries were less than fresh infections with 1,581 people getting discharged in the last 24 hours, aggregating to 25,91,480 and leaving 16,893 active cases in the state. Four districts recorded the bulk of the infections -- Chennai with 204, Coimbatore 201, Erode 139 and Chengalpet 101, while the remaining were scattered across other districts.Tamil Nadu is followed by neighbouring Andhra Pradesh in the list of top contributing states.The state added 1,174 fresh cases to its Covid-19 tally, which now increased to 20,37,353. The latest bulletin said 1,309 recoveries in 24 hours took the total recoveries up to 20,08,639. Nine more deaths pushed the gross up to 14,061, the bulletin added. Active cases stood at 14,653.Meanwhile, Karnataka, another badly hit state, recorded 889 new cases and 14 deaths, taking the infection count to 29,67,083 and death toll to 37,587, the health department said. The day also saw 1,080 discharges, pushing the total number of recoveries to 29,13,713. Of the fresh cases, 263 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 222 discharges and six deaths. Active cases in the state stood at 15,755.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-kerala-remains-worst-hit-maharashtra-distant-second-101632019394324.html
19-09-2021||India||Goa to launch ‘doorstep government’ initiative today, aims grievance redressal||The Pramod Sawant-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Goa will start its ‘Sarkar Tumchya Dari’ (government at your doorstep) initiative from Sunday with the intention to take services and facilities to the doorsteps of citizens, significantly easing the procedures often involved with bureaucracy. An announcement was made on Friday in this regard by Sawant, who announced that his government will launch the initiative on September 19 from the Thivim assembly segment in North Goa.The doorstep government initiative will be aimed at grievance redressal and to ensure that every resident of Goa can take the full benefits of the various official schemes and initiatives launched by the government. The officials will help the local residents with prompt solutions to their problems, and hear out the difficulties faced while filing the applications for government schemes, thus initiating steps to redress these issues.According to Sawant, the initiative will be carried out at different assembly constituencies across the state. He has said some of the issues that will be tackled with the help of the initiative during the day-long activity include pending applications and dues on ration cards, Aadhaar cards, Dayanand Social Security Scheme, voter ID cards, Kisan cards, and the like. It will also tackle social welfare issues such as electricity connection, water supply, irrigation schemes, tribal welfare schemes, and such.The PTI news agency, citing officials familiar with the matter, said government representatives from all the concerned departments will be present at the site when the initiative is launched. The officials will address the issues raised by locals regarding the pending appeals and even clear files on the spot. Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant is also expected to be present for half a day at the doorstep government initiative launch, according to the news agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-to-launch-doorstep-government-initiative-today-aims-grievance-redressal-101632013082893.html
19-09-2021||India||Cong social media dept passes resolution to make Rahul Gandhi party president||The Congress social media department Saturday passed a resolution to make Rahul Gandhi party president at the earliest, saying his leadership will bring new energy into the party cadre.The resolution was passed unanimously at the social media department's national executive meeting "Drishti 2021".This comes after similar resolutions were passed at the national executive meetings of the Indian Youth Congress, the NSUI and the Congress SC/ST department.Rahul Gandhi attended the social media department meeting and urged party workers to continue their fight against the ruling dispensation with humility, truth and love.Social media department head Rohan Gupta said Gandhi inspired party workers and spoke to them candidly about their lives and answered each of their questions with empathy and patience.He also commended the social media workers for their hard work and dedication to the party and commitment to fight and defeat the ruling dispensation, he said."We believe that only the rights-based approach, the policies of justice or NYAY of Shri Rahul Gandhi can save the country today. He is the only leader in the country who has shown the courage and conviction to hold the fort of truth and welfare of the citizens."We believe leadership of Shri Rahul Gandhi will bring a new energy into the party cadre across India. We therefore, unanimously pass the resolution that Shri Rahul Gandhi should take over as President of the Indian National Congress at the earliest," said the resolution passed Saturday at the conclusion of the two-day meeting.In another resolution adopted at the meeting, the party said social media is being used as a weapon to spread hate and create division among various sections of the society by the "fascist forces" ruling the country."We resolve to fight for the Idea of India as conceived by the Gandhian and Nehruvian philosophy to save the country from the policies of division by the ruling dispensation."We resolve to use social media as a tool to unite people from across all sections of the society. The ruling regiment has been on a rampage spreading fake news and misinformation using social media to run their agenda," the resolution said.It further stated that the party will expose "fake news being propagated by them" and ensure that truth and reality take the centre stage."The RSS-BJP government is hiding their incompetence and mis-governance using PR and headline management and using event management to distract people from their failures. We resolve to bring forth their reality without any fear and with absolute conviction," it said.Gupta said everyone is disturbed over the goings on in the country as every single person is suffering -- from the student community, to farmers to women and the oppressed sections of the society."Not a single Indian is at peace. To please a few friends, the economy of the country has been destroyed. The social fabric of this country, which was our pride and strength, is being damaged time and again," the resolution also said.Those who are raising their voices against those in power are being harassed and being made victims of vendetta politics, it alleged."Hate crime is on the rise and the criminals are enjoying state impunity. Women are not safe in this ‘new India'. Crime against women is at an all-time high," the resolution also said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-social-media-dept-passes-resolution-to-make-rahul-gandhi-party-president-101632007123439.html
19-09-2021||India||PM Modi pep talks top mandarins, stresses on policy implementation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday met all the secretaries to the government of India over three hours and urged them to work together and implement policy decisions, according to people familiar with the matter.Flanked by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba and Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister Dr PK Mishra, PM Modi heard out some senior secretaries to the government even as he gave them a pep talk about the need for faster delivery and implementation. But it was not without his usual repartee.After the meeting continued for over two and a half hours, the PM jocularly told the top IAS officers present that he was used to long meetings and hoped that they did not mind the extended meeting. The PM spoke for half an hour before opening the meeting for senior officials to speak their mind.Before the coronavirus hit the country in January 2019, the PM has held meetings with all secretaries in the past too to get feedback from policy implementers. It is understood that several secretaries gave ideas, some fresh ones, while newly appointed secretaries met the PM face to face. However, it was quite evident that hurdles to implementation of government policies remained as also to the speed of execution.At one point, the PM jokingly told the top bureaucrats that since they knew the problems and the solutions and had the vision for the future, the problem lay with him regarding the implementation of policies.The basic purpose of the exercise was to energise the bureaucracy so that it becomes result driven and not process driven.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pep-talks-top-mandarins-stresses-on-policy-implementation-101631993752218.html
19-09-2021||India||Move to convene CLP confirmed Cong leadership’s loss of trust in Captain||This might be an instance of the fifth chief minister losing his job (across four states), but the Congress central leadership hasn’t covered itself with glory in securing the scalp of a chief minister of Amarinder Singh’s stature and seniority in Punjab. The party might have retained its legislative strength in the assembly. But in popular perception, it has slid notches down the totem pole.Nobody can aspire to be chief minister for life and the Captain, now 79, had a nine-and-a-half year stint over two terms. It has been clear for some time that he no longer enjoys the confidence and support of the Gandhis but the straw that broke the camel’s back was the manner in which the All India Congress Committee (AICC) blindsided him while summoning the meeting of the legislature party in Chandigarh.The signal inherent to the move was loud and clear. He was kept out of the loop to deny him time to marshal support among MLAs. It was the unkindest of the many cuts he thought the party inflicted on him in his slugfest with Navjot Sidhu, who was anointed the Congress’s state unit chief against his advice.The midnight move to convene the CLP was a sort of coup that confirmed the leadership’s loss of trust in the CM. By all available indications, he became a persona non grata in the leadership’s scheme of things. It was for that reason that he drove down to the Raj Bhawan to submit his resignation rather than showing up and getting shamed at the CLP of which he was the leader.To avoid any rival show of strength, the AICC’s instructions to the MLAs were to reach the party office for the CLP meet with no pit stops along the way. The message clearly was to not turn up at the meeting the CM had reportedly convened at his farmhouse.Yet, over two dozen legislators besides ministers and party MPs met Singh before his call on the Governor to put in his papers. While bidding adieu, he asked them to attend the CLP meeting, which they did. That accounted perhaps for the attendance of 78 of the 80 MLAs at the gathering that authorised Congress president Sonia Gandhi to choose his successor.Deferential as always to Gandhi, the Captain did mention that he felt “humiliated” by the inquisitions he faced in Delhi in recent weeks. That he was kept in the dark about today’s CLP meet added insult to injury.Amid the internal party turmoil that often spilled in the open, Singh had been telling his friends and advisors that he was reconciled to “hanging his gloves” if the leadership so desired. Pointing to portraits adorning his study in his farmhouse, he’d say: “Having had a wholesome five decades in public life, I’ve no regrets and a lot to look back with satisfaction.”Upset though he was at the treatment meted out to him, the Captain never badmouthed the Gandhi family, having fond memories of his friendship with the late Rajiv Gandhi. “I’d never turn against Sonia or her children who call me uncle,” he once told this writer, indulgently showing the messages he exchanged with Priyanka on the exquisite varieties of plants and flowers at his sprawling farmhouse. “She’s very prompt with her replies....”That leaves one wondering about the communication breakdown that led to the sad denouement. Even if his popularity had slipped among a section of legislators and people on account of his work style or lack of progress on certain issues, the problem was resolvable. The impression that he has been sacrificed to mollycoddle Sidhu, his principal detractor, could queer the pitch for the party. The leadership will do well not to name him the CM, at least in the interregnum before the assembly polls.To cool tempers down, the new CM should be unattached to either factions.vinodsharma@hindustantimes.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/move-to-convene-clp-confirmed-cong-leadership-s-loss-of-trust-in-captain-101631992080741.html
19-09-2021||India||Losing support of 60 MLAs sealed Amarinder’s exit||The final chapter in the Congress’s plan to remove Captain Amarinder Singh as Punjab chief minister began on Friday afternoon when party general secretary Ajay Maken went to meet former party president Rahul Gandhi on Friday afternoon with a document signed by at least 60 Congress MLAs from the state.The signatures, taken on Friday morning, showed that Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh did not enjoy the support of his own legislative party, according to people familiar with the matter. To be sure, Singh himself has admitted that most MLAs typically do what the party high command wants them to; and analysts point out that this is especially true in the run-up to an election because it is the party that decides who contests and who doesn’t.Things moved quickly from this point, they said. Gandhi asked Maken to consult the party’s legal expert Abhishek Singhvi fearing that Singh could recommend the dissolution of the Punjab assembly to governor Banwarilal Purohit, one person aware of the matter said.Simultaneously, this person, who spoke on condition of anonymity, added, Gandhi asked Harish Rawat, the party general secretary in charge of the state, to call a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party to elect a new CM.When Rawat called Singh to communicate there would be a CLP meeting, a surprised Singh asked him what was the purpose of calling the meeting was, a second senior Congress leader said. “Singh anticipated that he would be removed. He dialled Congress president Sonia Gandhi this morning to air his grievances and claimed that he has been repeatedly humiliated,” this leader added.“Two rapid action teams were set up in New Delhi and Punjab if any legal intervention was required. The Congress has a rightful claim to continue governing Punjab ahead of the elections,” said a third leader.The leaders underlined that a signal was given to Amarinder when Navjyot Singh Sidhu was appointed as the PCC chief on July 18 this year, ignoring the CM’s stiff objections.But the first sign of Captain’s depleting control over Punjab came, they added, when poll strategist Prashant Kishor quit as his advisor and gave feedback that the Congress was likely behind the Aam Aadmi Party in Punjab, another functionary said. “The party’s internal surveys, too, found the Congress organisation lagging and that it would not get half of its current seats,” the functionary said, asking not to be named.The Congress has 80 MLAs in the 117-member state assembly.The functionary claimed that the CM didn’t have many efficient officers in his inner circle (one of the reasons for anti-incumbency).“Even otherwise, people of the state are not happy with him, especially the farmers,” the second leader said.Last month, Amarinder publicly contradicted Rahul Gandhi over the Jallianwala Bagh makeover. While Gandhi said that the revamp of the national memorial was an “insult to martyrs”, Singh said: “To me, it looks very nice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/losing-support-of-60-mlas-sealed-amarinder-s-exit-101631991858617.html
19-09-2021||India||22-month-old child in Odisha undergoes lung washing procedure at AIIMS||A 22-month-old girl from Odisha has become the youngest patient in the country to successfully undergo a lung washing procedure after she was diagnosed with a rare disease in which milk-like material get deposited in the lungs making respiration difficult.The girl from Dhenkanal district had contracted Covid-19 along with other family members in June this year and recovered. In July, she developed fever with breathing difficulty, following which she was admitted to various hospitals of Cuttack and Bhubaneswar. However, as the child’s condition did not improve, she was finally referred to the Paediatrics department of AIIMS Bhubaneswar and later admitted to the Paediatric Intensive Care Unit of the hospital.Director of AIIMS, Dr Gitanjali Batmanbane said after investigations, she was suspected to be suffering from pulmonary alveolar proteinosis, a rare disease in which milk-like materials get deposited in both the lungs, which the child cannot cough out.“The only available treatment option for this disease is washing both lungs with saline, which is technically challenging in such a sick child. So, an expert team of doctors was formed and the child was put on ECMO. The team of doctors aided by senior residents and nursing officers did the entire procedure on August 30 and a second procedure on September 12, which improved her condition further. On Saturday, she was discharged with a small minimal oxygen requirement,” said Dr Batmanbane.The expert team included paediatricians Dr Krishna Mohan Gulla, Dr Rashmi Ranjan Das, Dr Amit Kumar Satapathy, paediatric surgeon Dr. Manoj Mohanty and his team, Anaesthesia specialists Dr Satyajit Mishra, Dr Bikram Kishore Behera and cardio-thoracic surgeon Dr Sidharth Kumar Sathia and Dr Satyapriya Mohanty,” said the director.Paediatrician Dr Gulla said when the baby was admitted to the hospital about one and a half months ago, she was breathing heavily and needed 15 to 20 litres of oxygen. Her oxygen saturation level was 70 to 80 per cent.“As the baby was found suffering from Pulmonary Alveolar Proteinosis, surfactant protein was getting deposited in her lungs. We had to wash both her lungs with saltwater and put her on ECMO support for 26 hours. The second lung washing was carried out about 5 to 6 days ago without ECMO support. After that her condition improved. On Saturday, she was discharged with 1-2 litres of oxygen support as he oxygen saturation level was 97 to 98 per cent,” said Dr Gull, adding that the child’s condition is likely to be a genetic one. “The child’s lungs needs to undergo regular washing. We hope the child may not need ECMO in future as the condition of her lungs is better,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22monthold-child-in-odisha-undergoes-lung-washing-procedure-at-aiims-101631991997066.html
19-09-2021||India||Kerala schools to reopen from November 1: Officials||The core committee on Covid-19 pandemic chaired by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan decided that the schools in Kerala will open on November 1 even as the state reported 19,325 new virus cases on Saturday. All schools have been asked to make necessary arrangements. The government has not decided yet up to which classes schools will reopen, officials said.Schools across the state were shut in March 2020 after the Covid-19 outbreak and have remained shut since then.Meanwhile, hotels and bars will remain shut for dine-in, said a state government spokesperson. Currently, both are allowed to give only packed food and beverages as takeaway option. Similarly, a decision on cinema theatres will be taken after gauging the pandemic situation, said the spokesperson.Earlier, the state government decided two weeks back to open higher educational institutions from October 4. For more than three months, the state has been reporting around 70 per cent of the total Covid-19 cases in the country. The second wave of infection deteriorated after the Onam festival in August-end as the state saw a spike in number of cases The state reported more than 30,000 Covid cases after Onam .Even as the state reported a surge in cases, there was no crises or shortage of oxygen, health department officials said. More than 80 per cent of the eligible population have also been vaccinated so far, said state health minister Veena George. The state reported 19,325 cases with a test positivity rate of 15.96% after testing 1,21,070 samples. It also reported 143 deaths taking total fatalities to 23,439. Active cases are 1,80,842 and 26,266 people also recovered, according to the state health ministry data. Ernakulam district reported highest cases 2626 followed by Thrissur 2329 and Kozhikode 2188 cases. North Kerala districts Kasaragod and Wayanad reported lowest with 363 and 452 cases respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-schools-to-reopen-from-november-1officials-101631991937236.html
19-09-2021||India||From communal harmony to terror infamy: How Bhatkal became a constant on intel agencies’ radar||Central intelligence agencies issued an alert to the Karnataka police on Thursday after intercepting ‘conversations of interest’ on satellite phones recently. While the districts in the state’s coastal belt have been notified, one town is of particular interest again. Even though Bhatkal in the Uttara Kannada district has a population of fewer than 150,000 people, every intelligence agency, state or central, has its units deployed in the town. The reason is the name itself. Outside of Karnataka, more than the town, the word Bhatkal triggers memories of Yasin and Riyaz Bhatkal, two masterminds behind multiple terror attacks in the country. Decades before these men emerged and the town came under the radar of the intelligence agencies, Bhatkal was an inconspicuous fishermen’s town, which remained peaceful following the demolition of Babri Masjid in 1992. GU Bhat, a senior journalist from Uttara Kannada district remembers the events of April 10, 1996, which he believes was a turning point in the town’s history. On that day, Dr DU Chittaranjan, a popular doctor in the town and an RSS activist was assassinated by unknown men inside his house. “He reached home around 8 pm that night. Before having dinner, he watched the news. Just as he got up from his seat after his wife called him for dinner, someone shot him from behind through the window. He died on the spot. It was this murder that divided the Muslim and Hindu communities in the town,” said Bhat, who had covered the story. Chittaranjan was sent to Bhatkal to build an RSS base in the town. He was popular in the town for charging his patients just ₹5 or less. His popularity laid the foundation of the party in Bhatkal, which had elected only Muslim candidates from the constituency until the late 1990s. Under Chittaranjan, leaders like Anant Kumar Hegde, a former minister in the state government and Uttara Kannada MP, started their political careers. Despite his popularity, Chittaranjan lost two elections. But the situation changed in 1993 when stones were pelted at the chariot procession of the famous Hanuman temple in the heart of Bhatkal. As a result, in 1993, the town saw communal violence for over nine months. Around 19 people were killed in riots – ten Muslims and nine Hindus. Many residential areas were attacked during these riots, and religious were formed on lines of religion as a result. A Muslim community leader and doctor practising in Bhatkal said even during this time, Chittaranjan stood for harmony between both communities together. “I remember he came to us and said there was a need to end the violence. Even the community trusted him, and he played a huge part in bringing the situation under control,” said the leader, who didn’t want to be named. However, with his murder in 1996, communal disharmony in Bhatkal rose to new heights. Hegde emerged as the new face of the RSS-BJP in the town, and two months later, elected Member of Parliament from Uttara Kannada. Unlike his guru, Hegde believed in political polarization, said the community leader.As the Hindutva wave got momentum across the Uttara Kannada district, resistance grew within the Muslim community. “Since the mid-1980s, there were many Muslim men from the Bhatkal who moved to Gulf countries, and over the years, the community became rich,” said a senior state intelligence officer. While the Hindutva movement gained traction and power in Bhatkal, youth employed in Gulf countries became the backbone of resistance against the movement. The Hindu-Muslim conflict in Bhatkal soon witnessed an influence of international players, who tried to support the resistance against the rise of Hindutva. From this resistance emerged Riyaz Ismail Shahbandri and Mohammed Ahmed Siddibappa, popularly known as Riyaz Bhatkal and Yasin Bhatkal. “When their name started getting associated with terrorism, Bhatkal town itself became a place of interest for the intelligence agencies,” said the officer. As the terror suspicion associated with the name Bhatkal became a liability for its residents, an old tradition in the town made their lives even harder. Decades before the partition, Muslim families of the Nawayath community had business links with Karachi and other parts of Pakistan. Over the years, marriage alliances between Karachi and Bhatkal became common. Even after the partition, this practice continued, and many women who married men from Bhatkal got Indian citizenship. Soon as the town’s name started getting associated with terror, the approval for citizenship of many Pakistani brides became difficult. A decade ago, the government even began deporting some of the ‘Karachi wives in Bhatkal’, said an official of the Karnataka police.Pakistani wife of a suspected terror operative Syed Ismail Afaq, jailed for supplying explosive material that Indian Mujahideen (IM) used in bomb strikes across India, was deported on October 7, 2019. There are around 70 citizenship applications from Bhatkal alone, says Karnataka police, and for the families the wait for citizenship is difficult. Javeed (name changed), whose wife is a Pakistani, says that due to the visa restrictions travelling within the country is difficult. “We have to take permission from police if we have to travel. We have been going to multiple offices, and multiple police verifications have been done, but her request for citizenship hasn’t been processed yet,” he said. Even though south India hasn’t witnessed a major terror strike since 2014, the intelligence agencies continue to keep a close watch on this small town. Many believe Chittaranjan’s murder was a ploy to change the political narrative of a town that was once known for communal harmony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-communal-harmony-to-terror-infamy-how-bhatkal-became-a-constant-on-intel-agencies-radar-101631991815771.html
19-09-2021||India||Airlines can operate 85% of pre-Covid-19 domestic flights: Aviation ministry||New Delhi Airlines can now operate a maximum of 85 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights instead of the 72.5 per cent allowed till date, the Ministry of Civil Aviation stated on Saturday. The carriers have been operating 72.5 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights since August 12, according to the ministry’s order. Between July 5 and August 12, the cap stood at 65 per cent. Between June 1 and July 5, the cap was at 50 per cent.The ministry issued a fresh order on Saturday, in which it modified the August 12 order stating that “72.5 per cent capacity may be read as 85 per cent capacity”. Saturday’s order also noted that the 72.5 per cent cap will remain in place “until further order”.When the government had resumed the scheduled domestic flights on May 25 last year after a two-month break, the ministry had allowed the carriers to operate not more than 33 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic services.The cap was gradually increased to 80 per cent by December.The 80 per cent cap remained in place till June 1. The May 28 decision to bring down the cap from 80 to 50 per cent from June 1 onwards was taken “in view of the sudden surge in the number of active COVID-19 cases across the country, decrease in passenger traffic and the passenger load (occupancy rate) factor”, the ministry had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/airlines-can-operate-85-of-pre-covid-19-domestic-flights-aviation-ministry-101631991459610.html
19-09-2021||India||Need to Indianise our legal system, says CJI Ramana||Chief Justice of India NV Ramana on Saturday asserted the need for the “Indianisation of our legal system”, pointing out that the colonial system being followed currently may not be best suited to the complexities of India.“Our system, practices, rules being colonial in origin may not be best suited to the needs of the Indian population. The need of the hour is the Indianisation of our legal system. When I say Indianisation, I mean the need to adapt to the practical realities of our society and localise our justice delivery systems,” the CJI said, while addressing an event organised in Bengaluru to pay tributes to late Supreme Court judge justice Mohan Mohan Shantanagoudar.Ruing that the system in vogue poses multiple barriers for the common people, and those belonging to rural parts of the country are usually made to feel out of place in the court, justice Ramana said it’s imperative to simplify the justice delivery system and make it more accessible and effective. “Courts need to be litigant centric, as they are the ultimate beneficiaries. The simplification of justice delivery should be our pressing concern,” the CJI underscored, pointing out that procedural barriers often undermine access to justice. The common man should not be apprehensive about approaching the courts and authorities, he said.Justice Ramana also called for the need to localise the justice delivery systems and explained this by illustrating how a litigant from a rural place would not understand the arguments or pleadings, which are mostly in English, and then they would be forced to spend more money to understand the implications of a judgment. “It is the duty of lawyers and judges to create an environment which is comforting for the litigants and other stakeholders. We must not forget that the focal point of any justice delivery system is the ‘litigant- the justice seeker’... It is crucial to make justice delivery more transparent, accessible and effective,” he said.During the event, justice Ramana fondly remembered justice Shantanagoudar, who died at the age of 62 due to a lung infection on April 24, as an “extraordinary judge”. His four-year-long tenure in the Supreme Court was marked by his concerns for social equality, the opportunity to all, and rights and liberties of the people, justice Ramana said.“Sitting on a bench with him for about a year-and-a-half, I was witness to his legal acumen, immense preparation as well as his kindness and generosity of spirit... He was built from a different fibre. Till his last days, he continued to sit on the bench, hear cases and write judgments. His commitment to his judicial duty was inspiring,” he added.Justice Ramana also recalled some of the important judgments by justice Shantanagoudar. In March 2020, justice Shantagoudar came to the rescue of small farmers and held that a farmer is entitled to file a consumer complaint against a seed company for deficiency of service. Through a ruling in February, justice Shantagoudar obligated the banks to ensure safe custody of valuables in their lockers, holding that banks cannot wash off their hands and claim that they bear no liability towards their customers for the operation of the locker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-indianise-our-legal-system-says-cji-ramana-101631990803623.html
19-09-2021||India||Car falls into Uttarakhand’s Tehri lake, 2 dead and one missing||Two people died and one is missing after their car fell into Tehri Lake in Pujeli, Uttarakashi district, 105 km away from Dehradun, said the state disaster response force (SDRF) on Saturday.According to the SDRF, the incident happened on Friday night but the two bodies were recovered from the lake on Saturday.SDRF media in-charge Lalita Negi said, “On Friday night, the SDRF post in Pujeli received information from its district control room in Uttarkashi that a car carrying three people had fallen into the lake. Based on the input, an SDRF team rushed to the spot.”“After reaching the spot, they went down with the help of ropes and started a search and rescue operation to find the three missing people but failed. As the water level in the lake was high added with the darkness, the operation had to be stopped by the SDRF which was also accompanied by the NDRF and local police,” said Negi.She informed that the three men were identified as Sheeshpal, Sonu and Sher Singh.“The search operation was resumed on Saturday morning after a diving team of SDRF came from Rishikesh. After a few hours of the resumption of the search operation, a SDRF team recovered the body of Sher Singh and Sonu while one person is still missing,” said Negi adding that the locals who were present at the time of the incident informed the police that the car had broken the parapet wall before falling into the lake.She said that the search operation is “still on to find the remaining person”.On Friday night, the SDRF also rescued a man who had walked into a 100m gorge in Askote, Pithoragarh about 425 km away from Dehradun.“The man who was on an evening stroll, had slipped and fallen into the deep gorge adjacent to the road. The passersby tried to help him but couldn’t as the gorge was about 100m deep. They informed the SDRF which after reaching the spot went down and rescued him before rushing him to a nearby hospital for treatment,” said Negi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/car-falls-into-uttarakhand-s-tehri-lake-2-dead-and-one-missing-101631990737144.html
19-09-2021||India||Mahatma was also not spared to protect Hindus, says Hindu Mahasabha leader on temple demolition in Karnataka||Addressing a press conference in Mangaluru regarding the recent demolition of illegal religious structures in the city, a Hindu Mahasabha leader stoked a controversy on Saturday saying ‘they didn’t even spare Mahatma Gandhi to protect Hindus’. Leader of the outfit, Dharmendra, came down heavily on chief minister Basavaraj Bommai and said, “When we didn’t spare Mahatma Gandhi and killed him to protect Hindus, do you think we will spare you?” “Temples were demolished by the government in Chitradurga, Dakshina Kannada, and Mysuru. Who is running the government? If this had happened during the Congress regime, do you think the situation would have been the same? As long as the Hindu Mahasabha is there, we are not going to allow you to demolish Hindu temples,” he added. The statements come days after a video showing the Mysuru district administration demolishing a temple went viral. The Karnataka high court had pulled up authorities for failing to take action against illegal structures built on government land, prompting the Mysuru district administration to act. On August 12, the HC said the Supreme Court has stated that all illegal religious structures that were built after September 29, 2009, shall not be tolerated. The leader further posed the question as to why mosques and churches were not demolished as part of this drive. “If our Constitution guarantees us the right to equality, why are only Hindus being targeted?” he asked. Responding to the controversy, The Karnataka government on Wednesday said that it was not informed by the Mysuru district administration of its temple demolition plans and termed the action as ‘wrong’, assuring to discontinue the drive. KS Eshwarappa, minister for rural development and panchayat raj, said all deputy commissioners will be asked not to take any hasty action. “The government will sit, decide, and then direct what needs to be done,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahatma-was-also-not-spared-to-protect-hindus-says-hindu-mahasabha-leader-on-temple-demolition-in-karnataka-101631990735891.html
19-09-2021||India||Opposition joins forces to hit out at Congress over infighting in Punjab||Captain Amarinder Singh’s resignation as Punjab chief minister is an admission by the Congress that it failed to perform and has nothing to show for its tenure of over four-and-a-half years, said Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday, as opposition parties mounted an attack on the ruling Congress.Declaring that he felt humiliated, Singh on Saturday resigned as chief minister of Punjab, capping a months-long power tussle between him and Navjot Singh Sidhu, who was recently made state party president much against the senior leader’s wishes. Over 50 Congress MLAs had written to party president Sonia Gandhi, seeking that Singh is replaced as chief minister.In a statement, Akali chief Badal said: “The Congress party cannot hope to save its incompetent government and befool Punjabis with a mere change of face.”The Congress high command’s ploy to avert a backlash against the party by putting the blame on one person will not succeed, he added. “Punjabis know that the entire Congress party in Punjab is known for open loot and lawlessness. Its ministers and MLAs patronized gangsters. Its ministers looted the State exchequer of thousands of crores. It failed to undertake any development or infrastructure projects in the State”.Joining the chorus, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) called on the people of Punjab to choose it in the elections early next year, saying that it alone can give the state a stable and progressive government. “The Congress in Punjab is licking the dust to revive itself,” said  BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh.Terming Singh’s resignation a “panic reaction” of the Congress high command to salvage the party’s situation, Chugh said that the Congress would be decimated in the forthcoming assembly elections and no fire-fighting of any kind can help it. “The mafia raj of the Congress in Punjab would prove to be the last nail in its coffin in Punjab,” he added. Union minister and BJP MP from Punjab Som Prakash said the resignation of Singh clearly shows that Congress is desperate as it is losing its position with every passing day. “Congress is in decline, Akalis have lost the trust of people, so we are hopeful that people of Punjab will give the opportunity to BJP which can give a stable and progressive government in the state,” Prakash said.The BJP which had been contesting elections in Punjab in alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has only two MLAs in the 117-member assembly and two MPs from the state. The SAD snapped its alliance with the BJP last year over the Centre’s three contentious farm laws.Reacting to the news of Singh’s resignation, Omar Abdullah of the Jammu and Kashmir National Conference wondered about the nationwide impact of the Congress’s moves in Punjab.  “I guess it’s too much to expect the Congress to take the fight to the BJP when its state leaders are too busy fighting amongst themselves,” he said In a series of tweets.“Ordinarily I wouldn’t give a toss about the fratricide in the Congress party - their party, their business. However what the Congress does has a direct fallout for every political party outside the NDA orbit because almost 200 Lok Sabha seats see a direct BJP-Cong fight,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-joins-forces-to-hit-out-at-congress-over-infighting-in-punjab-101631990378137.html
19-09-2021||India||Study warns against mining nod to 14 coal blocks in Hasdeo Arand||Fourteen of the 23 coal blocks in the Hasdeo Arand Coalfield should not be given mining clearance to protect the dense forest tracts in the region that are home to a large herd of elephants, a study has recommended.According to a research by the Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education’s to assess the floral and faunal biodiversity of the coalfield, mining work was likely to raise environmental concerns in the region.“Mining related land-use changes will harm forest cover/density, forest type, and forest fragmentation. In addition, forest fragmentation will contribute to decreased patch/corridor connectivity, increased edge effect, change in micro-climate and promote invasive species if not taken adequate mitigation measures,” the study said.These fourteen coal blocks fall within Chornai and Ton-Teti watershed areas in the Handeo Arand area, which is a total of 1879.6 square kilometer.“The report has been submitted to us but the recommendations will be examined by the government and will be placed before the cabinet first .. Till now , the government’s decision over the report is not finalised” said forest minster Mohammad Akbar.The study further recommended that allotted four contiguous coal blocks falling within the Gej-Jhink watershed – Tara, Parsa, Parsa East Kanta Basan (PEKB)and Kente Extension – which are either already open or in advance stage of getting the statutory clearances – can be considered for mining with strict environmental safeguards, including appropriate conservation measures for the management of surface water and biodiversity.“The biodiversity study report was submitted to the state government around 15 days back and is under consideration.Necessary action over the report is to be discussed within the government and subsequently, it would be forwarded to Union government with state government recommendations,” said Rakesh Chaturvedi, Chhattisgarh’s principal chief conservator of forest.The study was conducted in eighteen months from 2019 to February 2021. The study area was the entire Hasdeo-Arand Coalfield (HAC), comprising of 23 coal blocks, which fall partly in Udaipur tehsil of Surguja district, Premnagar tehsil of Surajpur district, Poundi Uproda and Korba tehsils of Korba district in Chhattisgarh.The study was directed by National Green Tribunal (NGT) in 2014 after an activist Sudeip Shrivastva challenged the stage-2 clearance by the ministry of environment & forests of Parsa East & Kanta Basan (PEKB) allotted to Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Limited (RVUNL). NGT in its judgment quashed the said forest clearance, and an appeal was filed by RVUNL.In 2019, during the hearing of the said appeal, the Supreme Court asked about the compliance of NGT direction and five years after the order, the study started.The study further observed that infrastructure development and mining will harm the quality of habitat due to fragmentation and mitigation, which will be a huge challenge. The effect of mining on elephant habitat may not reflect in the same habitat but could be a silent trigger for Human-Elephant Conflict (HEC) in some other areas within landscape.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/study-warns-against-mining-nod-to-14-coal-blocks-in-hasdeo-arand-101631989863530.html
19-09-2021||India||Navjot Singh Sidhu a total disaster, says Amarinder Singh after ouster||Hours after stepping down as the chief minister of Punjab, Captain Amarinder Singh said he will not accept Congress’s state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu as the next CM and described him as “a total disaster”. Singh, however, remained tight-lipped on whether he would leave the Congress to start a new party.  Two-time chief minister Amarinder Singh put in his papers after speaking to Congress president Sonia Gandhi early on Saturday, barely five months before the state assembly elections are due early next year. “The thing is that this is the third time the party called the MLAs. You have an element of doubt on me... I feel humiliated,” he said, after submitting his resignation to Punjab governor Banwarilal Purohit. His reference was to a Congress legislative Party meeting that was called -- and without keeping him in the loop. He said he felt sad and humiliated that his contribution to the state was not recognised and he had been misread despite having done the best for it, including on sacrilege and drugs issues. “Punjab has been doing so well in every sphere. I do not understand why the party felt the need to make a change,” he added. The Congress currenlty has 80 MLAs in the 117-member state assembly.‘Sidhu a threat to national security’Terming Sidhu “dangerous”, “incompetent” and a “threat to national security”,  Singh said he will fight “tooth and nail” against any move to make Sidhu his successor. “Navjot Singh Sidhu is an incompetent man, he is going to be a disaster. I will oppose his name for the next CM face. He has a connection with Pakistan. It will be a threat to national security...,” Singh told news agency ANI.“I cannot allow such a man to destroy us, I will continue to fight the issues that are bad for his state and its people,” he added.Asserting that Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan is Sidhu’s “friend”, Singh told HT: “We have all seen Sidhu hugging Imran Khan and General Bajwa (Pakistan Army chief Qamar Javed Bajwa), and singing praises of the Pakistan Prime Minister at the opening of the Kartarpur Corridor while our soldiers were being killed at the borders every day.”Sidhu hugged Bajwa during his visit to the country for Imran Khan’s swearing-in ceremony and faced criticism. Singh had then termed it as “not a nice gesture” and “completely avoidable”.“The government of Punjab means the security of India, and if Sidhu is made the face of the Congress for chief ministership, I will fight him at every step,” he added.Singh, who has been asked by the Governor to continue in office as chief minister till alternative arrangements are made, said Sidhu could never be a good leader for Punjab. “He is a total disaster. When he was a (Punjab) minister , he could not even run one ministry, now can he run the entire Punjab? I know that man has no capability at all,” Singh said.A former cricketer-turned-politician, Sidhu, a four-time MP, joined the Congress from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of the 2017 Punjab assembly polls. He was inducted into the state cabinet but shared an uneasy relationship with the then CM, which eventually culminated in him quitting after Singh shuffled his portfolio in 2019.The CM had opposed his elevation as party chief, citing his lack of seniority in the Congress. Tensions between Singh and Sidhu, simmering since 2019, heightened in May after the Punjab government suffered a legal setback in a 2015 case of police firing on a crowd protesting the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib, the Sikh holy book.Sidhu and some leaders publicly accused Singh of corruption, prompting the Congress to set up the three-member panel. The panel met around 150 functionaries – including Singh twice -- and submitted its report to Gandhi on June 10. The panel recommended that Singh retain the charge but Sidhu be accommodated in a key role.  On July 18, Congress appointed Sidhu as the president of its Punjab unit. ‘Not hanging up my boots’Speaking after his resignation, Singh made it clear that he had no intention of quitting politics and said as an Army man, he has a lot of will and will remain active in the upcoming Assembly elections in Punjab. “I am not hanging my boots,” he declared, reiterating that he will decide on his future course of action after talking to his aides, including Congress MLAs. The leader claimed that he had himself asked MLAs who were supporting him to attend the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meet and the presence of a large number of legislators at the meeting did not mean they were supporting Sidhu. “Just a week ago, I sent to Sonia Gandhi a list of 63 MLAs who were supporting me,” he said, adding that MLAs usually respond to what they think Delhi wants, which was the case at the CLP meeting too. In any case, it is not possible to make all MLAs happy, he added.Pointing to the sweeping victory by the Congress under his leadership since 2017, Singh said he failed to understand the decision to replace him. “The people of Punjab were clearly happy with my government,” he said, adding that till three-four months ago, the tide was completely in favour of the Congress in Punjab but “they have cut their nose to spite their face and ended up from a winning to a losing position”.Asked if he would remain in Congress, the 79-year-old said, “I can’t answer that right now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navjot-singh-sidhu-a-total-disaster-says-amarinder-singh-after-ouster-101631989896594.html
19-09-2021||India||Toddler among 5 of family found dead in Bengaluru, cops suspect suicide||Four members of a family -- three women and a man-- were found hanging while the body of a nine-month-old baby, suspected to have died of starvation, was found in a house here on Friday night, police said. Police suspect the family members died by suicide.A two-year-old girl was found lying unconscious beside the bodies.The bodies of a 51-year-old woman, her two daughters aged 32 and 29, her 25-year-old son, and nine-month-old grandson have been sent for post-mortem examination and suicide will be confirmed only after that, Byadarahalli police said.Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Sanjeev Patil said that police were not able to recover any suicide note from the house. According to the officer, the incident came to light when the husband of the elderly woman returned home after five days. “He called the police and when they broke open the door, they found out that there were five bodies inside the house and [two-year-old] the baby was found alive. The bodies had started decomposing by the time they were found,” said Patil.In his statement to the police, the woman’s husband claimed that her daughter wanted to stay away from her in-laws and had asked her husband to move to a different house. “He said that he was not happy that his daughter was making these demands for their in-laws. The fact that she has been living in the house for the past year had irked the head of the family. He also claimed that his wife had asked his younger daughter also to do the same when she came home in February. He said there were some issues with his son as well. We are verifying these claims,” said a Byadarahalli police station official.The official added that on Sunday following one such argument, the man left the house claiming he didn’t want to stay with them anymore.Neighbours told police that there were constant arguments between the man and the other family members and last Sunday, following an argument over the same issue, the man had stormed out of the house. Since leaving the house he didn’t attend any calls made by the family members..The five bodies were found in a decomposed state and forensic experts have told police that the deaths could have occurred five days ago.Meanwhile, the two-year-old girl is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. “We have shifted the child to a private hospital since she was found to be unconscious. We are still awaiting a report from the hospital. When she recovers, we will provide her counseling,” said Patil.Soumendu Mukherjee, additional commissioner of Police (West) also said that the reason for the five deaths is yet to be ascertained. “The woman’s husband is in a state of shock. He will be inquired as soon as he is fit,”Mukherjee said.(If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist.) Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toddler-among-five-of-family-found-dead-in-b-luru-cops-suspect-suicide-101631989423617.html
19-09-2021||India||25 million jabs in a day didn’t go down well with Oppn: PM Modi||States and Union territories such as Himachal Pradesh, Goa, Chandigarh and Lakshadweep have administered at least one dose of a vaccine against Covid-19 to their entire populations, with a priority given to cities that have a high tourist influx, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday.Addressing health care workers and vaccine beneficiaries in Goa a day after India administered a record 25 million jabs against the coronavirus disease, PM Modi also said that the overwhelming response to the vaccination drive on his birthday on September 17 made a political party experience “fever”.“India has given a lot of priority to states with potential tourism sector in the vaccination campaign. Himachal Pradesh and Goa are some examples; (where) everyone has received their first dose already. Tourists can visit these places with a feeling of safety,” said Modi.Sikkim, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Kerala, Ladakh, Uttarakhand, and Dadra & Nagar Haveli were not far behind in vaccinating their populations, he added.On August 29, the Himachal Pradesh government announced that it has covered its entire adult population with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, becoming the first state in the country to do so. According to the CoWin dashboard, it continues to lead the country in key vaccination metrics – population covered with at least one dose, and the percentage of adults fully vaccinated. Around 63.7% of all adults in the state are partially vaccinated, while another 37.8% have been fully vaccinated.Modi said that the government has prioritised tourist destinations in the country for its vaccination drive to encourage international tourism.“It is very important that our tourism destinations reopen. When everyone from the hotel industry, taxi drivers, vendors and shopkeepers are vaccinated, people will feel safe to travel that destination,” he said.Earlier this week, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant also announced that 100% of Goa’s population had received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.“This is a major milestone in the fight against Corona. Every achievement of Goa that epitomises the concept of Ek Bharat -Shreshth Bharat fills me with great joy,” the Prime Minister said during the virtual interaction.Modi said that Goa braved heavy rains, cyclones and floods while maintaining the pace of vaccinations. He also lauded the healthcare workers for ensuring minimum vaccine wastage.“Goa is among the international tourist destinations where everyone is vaccinated,” he added.He said the spread of the virus has been reduced but people should not let the guard down. “We should give importance to COVID-19 protocol as much as to vaccination,” he said.While discussing the concerns over side effects of the vaccine during his interaction with healthworkers, the PM said, “I have heard of vaccine beneficiaries developing side effects. However, for the first time, I saw that a political party developed fever late last night after India achieved its vaccination record. Is there any logic to this?”The PM did not name any political party, however, his comments came after senior Congress leader P Chidambaram asked why the country had to wait till the PM’s birthday for the vaccination milestone.“Happy and grateful that 2.5 crore vaccinations were administered vaccines yesterday. But why did we have to wait until the PM’s birthday? Suppose the PM’s birthday was on December 31 then would the 2.5 crore vaccinations have been done only on the last day of the year? Vaccination is not like cutting a cake on a birthday,” Chidambaram said in a tweet.He also said, “Vaccination is a programme, it is a process. It has to be accelerated every day, not scale a peak on a birthday. Sobering thoughts: a) one-third of the adult population has yet to receive its FIRST dose. b) Only 21% has been FULLY vaccinated.”The former Union minister said the PM should celebrate his birthday everyday as BJP-ruled states “performed” on the day and vaccinated many times their daily averages.“BJP ruled states -- UP, MP, Gujarat and Karnataka -- “perform” on the PM’s birthday and vaccinate many times the daily average. On other days, they are “non-performing” states. I wish the PM celebrated his birthday every day,” said ChidambaramSoon after Chidambaram’s tweet, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said, “Looking forward to many more days of 2.1 crore vaccinations. This pace is what our country needs.”With nearly 25 million shots of the Covid-19 vaccine administered on Friday, India’s inoculation drive nearly doubled its previous single-day record for doses delivered, in a major push to the drive by several states to mark the PM’s birthday.States across the country – led largely by the ones ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) – were preparing for a record vaccination day as part of three-week celebrations to mark the Prime Minister’s 71st birthday. The Bihar government had announced it will administer 3 million shots on Friday; Gujarat targeted 3.5 million for the day; Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka said they were preparing for a massive vaccination drive, and Uttar Pradesh launched a 20-day ‘Seva Aur Samarpan Abhiyaan’.According to Co-WIN data analysed by HT, at least eight states – Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Telangana and Uttarakhand –set new single-day records of dose administration on Friday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25mn-jabs-in-a-day-didn-t-go-down-well-with-oppn-modi-101631989356220.html
19-09-2021||India||Disruption of proceedings in House not a privilege: Venkaiah Naidu||Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday said the disruption of proceedings amount to contempt of the House, and disruptors can’t claim it as their privilege to do so. Naidu’s comments come on the backdrop of a major ruckus on the last day of the monsoon session of the Parliament. An enquiry panel is likely to probe the incident.“Disruption of proceedings amount to contempt of the House, by the logic of which disruption cannot be claimed as a privilege by errant members,” Naidu said. Delivering the second Ram Jethmalani Memorial Lecture on “Is the disruption of parliamentary proceedings an MP’s privilege and/or a facet of parliamentary democracy?”, Naidu described various rules and other provisions for maintaining a certain standard of behaviour of MPs.He pointed out that after the Upper House started recording productivity in 1978, it saw 100% functioning till 1996 – an achievement that was repeated only in 1998 and 2009. Naidu also added that the productivity of Rajya Sabha during 2004-14 has been about 78%, and it declined to about 65% since then, an indication that the House performed better when the BJP was in the Opposition rather than the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disruption-of-proceedings-in-house-not-a-privilege-venkaiahnaidu-101631987435971.html
19-09-2021||India||Sonu Sood, aides evaded taxes worth ₹20 crore, says I-T dept||Bollywood actor Sonu Sood and his associates were involved in ₹20 crore tax evasion and violation of Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) while raising funds from abroad, the Income Tax (I-T) department said on Saturday, as raids on multiple locations linked to the actor continued for the third consecutive day.Since September 16, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), the administrative authority of I-T department, has raided 28 premises belonging to Sood, his foundation, associates and a Lucknow-based real estate group in Mumbai, Lucknow, Delhi, Kanpur, Jaipur and Gurugram, during which they allegedly found incriminating evidence pertaining to tax evasion. The agency has claimed that Sood routed his “unaccounted income in the form of bogus unsecured loans from many bogus entities”.“Investigations so far have revealed use of 20 such entries, the providers of which, on examination, have accepted on oath to have given bogus accommodation entries. They have accepted to have issued cheques in lieu of cash. There have been instances where professional receipts have been camouflaged as loans in the books of accounts for the purpose of evasion of tax. It has also been revealed that these bogus loans have been used for making investments and acquiring properties,” the CBDT said in a statement, adding that total tax evasion amounts to more than ₹20 crore, so far.Subsequently, the I-T department also alleged violation of the FCRA by the Sood Charity Foundation, a non-profit charity organisation established during the peak of the Covid-19 outbreak last year.The actor shot to national prominence after he arranged free transport through rail, air and road for numerous migrant workers to reach their home states during the nationwide lockdown clamped last year to contain the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.According to the CBDT, Sood’s organisation has collected donations worth ₹18.94 crore since April 1, 2021. Of this, around ₹1.9 crore has been spent so far on various relief work, while the remaining ₹17 crore is lying unutilised in the bank account of the foundation, it added.“It is seen that funds to the tune of ₹2.1 crore have also been raised by the charity foundation from overseas donors on a crowdfunding platform in violation of (Foreign Contribution Regulation Act) FCRA regulations,” the CBDT statement said.The I-T department had also conducted raids on various premises of a real estate firm, with whom Sood recently entered into a joint venture and “invested substantial funds”. The raids, the statement added, have unearthed “incriminating” evidence pertaining to tax evasion and irregularities in the account books.“The search has revealed that the said group is involved in bogus billing of sub-contracting expenses and siphoning off of funds. Evidence of such bogus contracts found so far is to the tune of over ₹65 crore,” it said.“Further, it has been unearthed that the said infrastructure group has entered into a dubious circular transaction to the tune of ₹175 crore with an infrastructure company based in Jaipur. Further investigations are being carried out to establish the full extent of tax evasion. Cash ₹1.8 crore has been seized during the search (at a company) and 11 lockers have been placed under prohibitory order,” it added.HT has reached out to Sonu Sood and his team, but did not receive any response till the time of print.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonu-sood-aides-evaded-taxes-worth-20-crore-says-i-t-dept-101631987375483.html
19-09-2021||India||Congress needs a permanent president: Shashi Tharoor||Senior Congress leader and Member of Parliament Shashi Tharoor on Saturday said the Congress party needs a permanent president. He said leaders like him feel that it will be realised soon. Talking to newsmen after attending a party function in Thodupuzha in Idukki district on Saturday, Tharoor said Sonia Gandhi led the party perfectly for many years and strengthened it, but now since she asked to relieve her of the responsibility, the party will have to find a new president.“We all need Rahul Gandhi to assume the position. If he is still reluctant we have to find an alternative. The party needs a permanent president and the process should speed up,” he said, adding many states will go to the poll in a couple of months. “We need a strong party and a strong leadership,” he said.Tharoor said change is quite visible in Kerala after the new leadership took over and it will help strengthen the party. Tharoor was one among 23 signatories of a letter sent to Congress president Sonia Gandhi last year seeking sweeping changes in the party and strong leadership through organisational elections.After his discharge in the Sunanda Pushkar death case in August, the Congress MP from Thiruvananthapuram is taking a lot of interest in state politics. He is close to new PCC chief K Sudhakaran who said several times that the party could not exploit the talent of a leader like Tharoor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-needs-a-permanent-president-shashi-tharoor-101631962834037.html
