20-09-2021||India||Govt may investigate Amazon bribery charges||India may investigate allegations that lawyers representing Amazon bribed officials, provided there is some evidence to that effect, two government officials said, asking not to be named. The officials were reacting to a report published on Monday by the website The Morning Context, which said the US-headquartered e-commerce firm had opened an investigation after a whistleblower said lawyers associated with the company bribed officials. “The online retailer is looking into the conduct of its legal representatives in India after allegations of corruption come to light,” the report said.Reacting to the report, Amazon India on Monday said it has zero tolerance for corruption, and it takes appropriate action against any such practice after an investigation. “We have zero tolerance for corruption. We take allegations of improper actions seriously, investigate them fully, and take appropriate action,” a spokesperson said when asked to comment on the report, without offering details. “We are not commenting on specific allegations or the status of any investigation at this time.” The whistleblower pointed to the role of an independent lawyer hired by the company, The Morning Context report said, citing unnamed people aware of the matter. The legal fees paid to the lawyer was in part “funnelled into bribing government officials”, the report said, citing the whistleblower. A senior corporate counsel at Amazon’s in-house legal team has been suspended, the website reported. The government is yet to receive any information or formal complaint on the matter, one of the government officials said. “Even the news report does not provide any specific detail about the alleged bribe, such as which era, which state, and who were the recipients of illegal gratification,” the official pointed out. The involvement of the central government on operational matters is minimal, as its job is to frame policy and rules, the official said, explaining that the actual business activities, such as warehousing, take place in the states. The government will certainly take action against any corporate entity indulging in any illegal activity as per the law of the land, but action will have to be based on facts and not media reports, the official added. The government is aware of unconfirmed reports and appropriate agencies may take up the matter after ascertaining facts, a second official said. There are reports that Amazon has been spending more than ₹2,000 crore in legal fees. “It’s time to think where all of this is going,” the official said.The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) of the US is stringent on such matters, according to an industry expert who has been engaged by a US firm. The law prohibits American firms and individuals from paying bribes to foreign officials, and prominent instances involving its violation have in the past led to settlements running into hundreds of millions of dollars. The expert requested anonymity.The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), which represent about 70 million domestic retail stores, said it will approach Gary Genseter, chairman, the US Securities & Exchange Commission (SEC), which is the repository body of FCPA, and also the corporate governance committee of Amazon Board, demanding a “fair and independent probe” into the matter. The lobby group has written to Union commerce minister Piyush Goyal, urging him to institute an enquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation. The latest allegations add to the legal problems Amazon has faced in India. These include a bruising fight with Future Retail after the latter signed a deal with a Reliance Industries subsidiary, a Competition Commission of India investigation into alleged collusion between Amazon and its principal e-commerce rival Flipkart, and even police complaints that were filed relating to shows on Amazon’s Prime Video platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-may-investigate-amazon-bribery-charges-101632162487024.html
20-09-2021||India||Rajnath speaks to US counterpart Austin on Afghanistan ahead of Quad Summit||New Delhi: Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday spoke with his US counterpart Lloyd Austin on the situation unfolding in Afghanistan and India-US defence cooperation. The conversation over phone came ahead of the Quad Summit to be held in Washington on September 24. “We discussed issues pertaining to bilateral defence cooperation & regional matters including situation in Afghanistan. We agreed to continue the useful dialogue & look forward to strengthening the partnership further,” Singh wrote on Twitter. India’s security establishment is concerned about terrorist activity in Afghanistan spilling over into the country via Pakistan after the Taliban takeover. US President Joe Biden is hosting the Quad summit at the White House on September 24. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Japan’s Yoshihide Suga and Australia’s Scott Morrison are expected to attend.The discussion between Singh and Austin on the Afghanistan situation came after India and Australia insisted Afghanistan must not become a safe haven for terrorists, or be used as a base for attacks on other nations, during the inaugural India-Australia 2+2 dialogue of defence and foreign ministers that concluded on September 11. India and Australia had called for steps to ensure an inclusive governing structure in Kabul and safe departure of people wishing to leave the war-torn country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-speaks-to-us-counterpart-austin-on-afghanistan-ahead-of-quad-summit-101632162427059.html
20-09-2021||India||Channi takes over, but Congress drama continues||Chandigarh: Charanjit Singh Channi was sworn in as the Punjab chief minister on Monday, becoming the state’s first Dalit CM, even as a political controversy over the change of guard just months ahead of assembly elections in the state grew with changing power dynamics within the ranks of the Congress.In his first comment after taking oath, Channi promised free water supply to smaller homes, a reduction in power tariff and a transparent government for the “common man”, and urged the Centre to repeal the three “black” farm laws.With under five months to go for the state elections, Captain Amarinder Singh resigned on Saturday after the Congress summoned a meeting of its lawmakers in the state, saying that he felt “humiliated”, but adding that he won’t accept newly appointed party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu as the next CM or the party’s face in the coming polls.Hours before the swearing-in ceremony on Monday, the Congress’s Punjab incharge Harish Rawat said the upcoming state elections will be fought under the leadership of Sidhu. Calling the statement “baffling”, former state unit chief Sunil Jakhar said it could “undermine” the authority of the new CM.Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni, both ministers in the Amarinder cabinet, were sworn in as deputy chief ministers at the ceremony, which was also attended by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. Amarinder skipped the swearing-in ceremony.At his first press conference as the CM, Channi, 58, teared up and described himself as an “aam aadmi (common) man”, while thanking the Congress leadership for picking him for the post. The chief minister said his would be a “government of the poor, for the poor and with the poor”.There will be no water and sewage charges for houses up to 150 or 200 square yards in urban areas, he said. The government will also reduce the electricity tariff, Channi said.“My wife is a doctor, my brother is a doctor. There are employees in my house. When the power bill comes, my wife tells me that the money goes from her pocket… these bills will be reduced,” the three-time MLA from Chamkaur Sahib said.While Channi did not divulge the details of the schemes, his promises in the poll-bound state appear to rival those announced by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which has pitched itself as the main Opposition party in the state.Channi also urged the Centre to repeal the three contentious farm laws which have led to months-long protests across the country. Asserting that the Congress supports the agitating farmers, Channi said: “Together, we have to make Punjab prosperous. Punjab is primarily an agrarian state. This government is pro-farmer.”Hundreds of thousands of farmers, largely from Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, have been protesting since last November, seeking a repeal of the farm laws. Several rounds of consultations with the central government have failed to resolve the deadlock.Besides Rahul Gandhi, Rawat, party leader Ajay Maken, former chief minister Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, Punjab Congress chief Sidhu, and Manpreet Singh Badal also attended the ceremony at the Raj Bhawan.After Channi’s election as the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader, the appointment of Randhawa, a Jat Sikh, and Soni, a Hindu, is being seen as an attempt by the Congress to balance the caste equations ahead of the polls and counter the attempt of rival parties to woo Dalit voters.While the Bharatiya Janata Party has declared that if voted to power, it will have a Dalit CM, the Shiromani Akali Dal has tied up with the Bahujan Samaj Party, with the promise to pick a deputy CM from the community. At 32%, Dalits constitute almost one-third of the state’s population – the highest anywhere in the country.After Rawat’s remark appeared to suggest that Sidhu will lead the efforts of the Congress for the assembly elections, Jakhar tweeted: “On the swearing-in day of Sh @Charnjit_channi as Chief Minister, Mr Rawats’s statement that ‘elections will be fought under Sidhu’, is baffling. It’s likely to undermine CM’s authority but also negate the very ‘raison d’être’ of his selection for this position.” Jhakhar was removed from the post of the state unit president to make way for Sidhu’s appointment.Soon, the Congress went into damage control, saying that Channi and Sidhu will both be “our” faces for the Punjab elections in 2022.Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the next Punjab assembly elections will be fought under the leadership of both Channi and Sidhu, and attacked the BJP, Akali Dal, BSP and Aam Aadmi Party for allegedly insulting a Dalit chief minister.He also questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP leadership on why they had not named any Dalit as their chief minister and why they and other leaders of the BSP, AAP and Akali Dal were undermining the young Congress Dalit leader.“Our faces will be Charanjit Singh Channi and Navjot Singh Sidhu as also ordinary Congress workers and leaders who will be supporting them. If anybody says one or the other will be the face, intentionally or otherwise, it is being misinterpreted by the media,” he told reporters.Channi is the chief minister and Sidhu is the organisation head of the Congress in Punjab, and the next elections will be fought under both of them, he added.Channi is learnt to have started consultations with the state president and other senior leaders for the expansion of his cabinet. There are indications that several new faces, including the leaders who rebelled against Amarinder Singh, may be inducted to make a clean break from the previous administration. Punjab Congress working president Sangat Singh Gilzian has sought due representation for backward classes in the cabinet. “OBCs constitute 31% of the state’s population. Their concerns need to be addressed,” he told reporters on Monday. Calling Channi’s appointment a mere “election stunt”, opposition parties hit out at the Congress on Monday.The BJP fronted its Dalit leaders to target the Congress and dared the party to make a public promise that Channi will be its chief ministerial face in Punjab if it was sincere about its move.BJP general secretary Dushyant Kumar Gautam, who is the party’s incharge for the state, said, “This is an old habit of the Congress. It believes that it can capture Dalit vote bank by making a Dalit chief minister for a few months. A conspiracy is being hatched in Punjab to grab Dalit vote bank.”BSP chief Mayawati, meanwhile, said that the Congress is rattled by the SAD-BJP alliance for the Punjab Assembly polls.“Congress still does not have faith in Dalits. Dalits need to be very alert to their double standards. I have full faith that Dalits will not fall for this stunt,” Mayawati said.Channi was elected the CLP leader on Sunday, a day after two-time chief minister Amarinder Singh stepped down, capping a long-drawn and bitter tussle in the Congress state unit. Channi, Randhawa and Soni were among the cabinet ministers who rebelled against Amarinder Singh amid his power struggle with party leader Navjot Singh Sidhu, who was appointed the state unit president last month despite Amarinder’s opposition. While Amarinder did not attend the swearing-in ceremony, Channi called him a “protector of water rights”. The new CM said his government will remain committed to the Congress leadership’s 18-point agenda for the state and the previous election promises will be fulfilled. “We will ensure a transparent government,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/channi-takes-over-but-congress-drama-continues-101632162247044.html
20-09-2021||India||Banks themselves will drive bad bank, says Nirmala Sitharaman||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday said that she was confident the National Asset Reconstruction Company Ltd (NARCL), effectively a bad bank, will work because “this entire mechanism is driven by the banks”. Last week, the finance minister announced ₹30,600 crore in government guarantees that will back the securities issued by NARCL to acquire bad loans worth ₹2 lakh crore. NARCL will buy these loans that are fully provided for by banks; the move will reduce bad loans on the books of banks, she announced. “Because this entire mechanism was driven by the banks; many of these big-ticket exposures are through consortia; unless all banks agree, no resolution is possible. Now because it’s through IBA (Indian Banks’ Association) it’s for them to constantly keep moving towards better resolution, towards consensus,” Sitharaman said in an interview with Hindustan Times. When asked if enough had been done for the telecom sector as part of a relief package announced recently, she said: “Definitely. The way in which the package has come – it also brings in reforms. It removes a lot of anomalies, and constraints. Business has been given space to breathe. Government wants that sector to be run in a free manner and also have more than two or three players. For free and fair competition, markets should be given play; and customers will benefit.” A four-year moratorium on dues, and the option for the government to convert dues into equity after the moratorium period expires, and prospectively redefining how adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues are computed were key elements of the relief package approved by the Union Cabinet. During last week’s Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council meeting, it was decided that the time was not appropriate for moving fuel under GST. On when such a move would be ideal, she said: “To a large extent, that depends on states feeling comfortable. States feel that they have very few items on which they can have a consideration to increase or decrease tax. Tax on fuel, liquor are in their hands. They feel that at this time they need to have revenues, and reach a level where they can let it go. I wouldn’t want to push states at a time like this.” Amid the growing hold of cryptocurrencies across the world and suggestions that India could develop its own digital currency, Sitharaman said such a decision has to be thought through. “We have to evolve something suitable for our systems. India has the strength of the technology; fintech gives us the command over the instrumentalities with which you can play; our economy is full of possibilities. So we have to be cautious; but we have to think it through.” The finance minister also said she felt reassured about where the Indian economy stood currently. “Indians have faced it all (because of Covid), have suffered, and have shown grit to come out of it. How much ever you do — and our government tried doing as much as it could – will not be enough. This is the kind of pandemic the world has not seen before, so I am willing to hear everything people say of what we could have done [better] and so on. But I am immensely grateful to the people of India. And looking at the way the vaccination drive is progressing, I feel we will come through it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/banks-themselves-will-drive-bad-bank-says-nirmala-sitharaman-101632162127031.html
20-09-2021||India||SC stays ₹15,000 payout for viewer who did not find trailer song in film||The Supreme Court on Monday stayed an order directing production house Yash Raj Films to pay a compensation of ₹15,000 to a viewer who felt cheated for not finding a song, publicised in the trailer of the 2016 Bollywood movie “Fan”, while watching the film at the theatre.The court stayed the order of the National Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission (NCDRC), which was passed on February 18, 2020, but questioned the production house for marketing the film with the song that wasn’t in the movie.A bench of justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian said, “The problem is that you (production house) show something else in the trailer which is not there in the movie. When the trailer is released it is a trailer of the movie. Why were you marketing your movie with the song when you knew it was meant to be for promotion of the film?”The song in question was “Jabra Fan” composed by Vishal Dadlani along with Shekhar Ravjianii. In 2016, Afreen Fatima Zaidi, a teacher from Maharashtra’s Aurangabad, heard the song and went to watch the film starring Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan. After the movie, a disappointed Zaidi filed a complaint before the district consumer court, which rejected her petition. She later approached the Maharashtra Consumer Commission, which held on September 22, 2017, that Yash Raj Films was liable to compensate Zaidi a sum of ₹10,000 along with litigation expenses of ₹5,000. This order was upheld in 2020 by the National Consumer Commission. On Monday’s hearing, Yash Raj Films -- represented by advocate Naomi Chandra -- argued it was common practice in the industry to feature songs in trailers, and not in the final movie. “The order of the National Consumer court must be stayed as it has far reaching consequences on the entire film industry,” Chandra said. “If there is a common practice in the industry that does not mean that the practice should continue,” the bench observed, issuing a notice to Zaidi and staying the consumer commission’s order. The question to be decided is whether the producer of a movie can be said to be a service provider as a movie ticket is a contract between the person who buys it and the cinema hall owner who exhibits the film. “You need to give plausible explanation,” the bench said. The order released on the court’s website did not specify when the matter will be heard next. The National Consumer Commission, in its 2020 order, had agreed with Zaidi that there was reason for her to feel cheated and that the decision to not feature the trailer song in the movie amounted to “unfair trade practice”.The commission had said that “if a person likes the song shown in the promo and based upon such liking decides to visit a cinema hall for watching the said movie for a consideration, he is bound to feel deceived, disappointed and dejected if the song shown in the promo is not found in the film. The practice of including a song in the promo of a film shown widely on TV Channels but excluding the said song while exhibiting the movie, in my opinion, constitutes an unfair trade practice”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-stays-15-000-payout-for-viewer-who-did-not-find-trailer-song-in-film-101632162067016.html
20-09-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination drive: 22% fully vaccinated, 65% receive first dose in India, says govt||Close to 65% eligible beneficiaries in India have received at least one dose of the vaccine while 22% of the people have received both doses against the Covid-19 disease, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Monday. Also, with over 8.5 million doses of the vaccine administered till 7pm on the day, the cumulative number of doses administered in the country crossed the 810-million mark, the ministry also said.“In a landmark achievement, India’s COVID-19 vaccination coverage has crossed 81 Crore landmark milestone (81,73,95,763) today. More than 85.68 lakh (85,68,026) Vaccine Doses have been administered till 7 pm today,” a statement from the ministry read.#IndiaFightsCorona➡️India’s cumulative vaccination coverage crosses 81 crore landmark milestone.➡️India now home to more than 64.8% and 22.2% eligible population vaccinated with first and second dose of COVID-19 vaccination respectively.Details: https://t.co/oTONdScHDu pic.twitter.com/d3iw2lBkqB“Out of 81,73,95,763, 64.8% (60,88,10,164) eligible population received first dose of COVID-19 Vaccination and 22.2% (20,85,85,599) eligible population received second dose of COVID-19 Vaccination,” it added. The ministry also said that the daily vaccination count for the day is expected to increase after the final reports for the day would be compiled by midnight.Also read | India to resume export of surplus Covid-19 vaccines next month: MandaviyaAs many as 817,395,763 doses have been administered so far in the country and this includes 608,810,164 first doses and 208,585,599 second doses, according to the ministry’s data. In beneficiaries between 18 and 44 years, 330,759,938 first doses and 62,464,374 second doses have been administered so far, the data also showed.Earlier in the day, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said that the country would resume the export of Covid-19 vaccines to other nations under the Vaccine Maitri initiative from October 2021. “India will be resuming export of vaccines under Vaccine Maitri in order to fulfil the commitment of India towards COVAX, in line with our motto Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam. The surplus supply of vaccines will be used to fulfil our commitment towards the world for the collective fight against Covid-19,” Mandaviya said. However, the minister also assured that vaccinating its own citizens remained the topmost priority of the government.Previously on August 27, 31 and on September 6 the daily vaccinations in the country crossed the 10-million mark and on September 17, more than 25 million doses were administered on the occasion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-drive-22-fully-vaccinated-65-receive-first-dose-in-india-says-govt-101632159299638.html
20-09-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: Sept 21, 1955 — East Germany becomes sovereign state, treaty with Russia signed||Moscow – Arshal Bulganin, Soviet Prime Minister, and Herr Otto Grotewohl, East German Premier, today signed a treaty restoring sovereignty to East Germany. The pact was signed in the Kremlin after four days of talks between top-ranking delegations from the two Governments. The new agreement follows the sovereignty given to the West German Government by the Western Big-Three Powers. Soviet troops will remain in East Germany as long as British. American and French forces stay in West Germany but the treaty provides that they shall not interfere in the internal affairs of East German Democratic Republic. The pact will be valid until the restoration of the ur.ity of Germany or until the two parties come to an agreement on an alteration or annulment of it. It will come into force with the exchange of documents of ratification which will take place in Berlin shortly. Yesterday Marshal Bulganin announced that all decisions and laws passed by the former Allied Control Council as they applied to East Germany between 1945 and 1948 were invalidated. REUNIFICATION The East German Government would in future be responsible for the control of its own frontiers. Dr Lothar Bolz, East German Foreign Minister, submitted the draft of the treaty of friendship to a meeting of the two delegations, Tass reported yesterday. Soviet policy that it is the two Germanys which must settle the question of reunification and a strong denunciation of N.A.T.O. were features of a statement made by Mr Khurschev, First Secretary of the Soviet Communist Party, at yesterday’s talks with the East German Government delegation visiting Moscow. Speaking of next month s meeting of the Big-Four Foreign Ministers in Geneva, Tass reports, Mr Khruschev said: “Out of the four States which will be represented by the Foreign Ministers in Geneva, three belong to the North Atlantic bloc and one State does not belong to this bloc. The Governments of three Powers, together with the Government of the German Federal Republic would like to reunite Germany on their conditions, and want the united Germany also to become a member of N.A.T.O. I am of the opinion that such a solution does not correspond to the interests of the German people, the interests of the security of the European people and the easing of international tension. SERIOUS OBSTACLE “It is quite obvious that the coming into force of the Paris Agreements has created a serious obstacle in the settlement of the German question. We propose the only correct way-the solution of this question (reunification of Germany) should be transferred into the hands of the German people.” After speaking of the recent talks between Dr Adenauer, West German Chancellor, and Russian Government leaders in Moscow leading to agreement on resumption of diplomatic relations, the Soviet Communist Party Chief said: “On our part we shall do everything so that relations between the Soviet Union and the Federal German Republic should develop successfully.” Next he came to the treaty between Russia and East Germany and said: “Our joint decision to retain Soviet troops on your territory is a temporary measure.” He added: “We are ready to withdraw our troops from Germany provided our partners in the war against Hitlerite Germany will withdraw their troops.”-||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-sept-20-1955-e-germany-becomes-sovereign-state-treaty-with-russia-signed-101632156788438.html
20-09-2021||India||Working with India, says UK on recognising Covishield vaccine certificate||NEW DELHI: The UK said on Monday it is working with India on the recognition of Covid-19 vaccine certification issued by Indian authorities, following criticism of new British travel rules that considered travellers who have received even the AstraZeneca jab, Covishield, to be unvaccinated.The latest changes in the UK government’s travel restrictions have upset the Indian side as travellers who have got both doses of Covishield would have to undergo 10 days of quarantine.A British high commission spokesperson said: “We are engaging with the government of India to explore how we could expand UK recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India.”The UK is committed to opening up international travel “as soon as is practicable” and the new rules were a “further step to enable people to travel more freely again, in a safe and sustainable way, while protecting public health”.The new rules, which were unveiled by Britain on Friday and become effective from October 4, were described by the UK as an effort to change the current “red, amber, green traffic light system” to a single red list of countries and “simplified travel measures” for arrivals from around the world.However, under the rules, only people who have got both shots of a double dose vaccine such as AstraZeneca, Pfizer or Moderna or the single shot Janssen vaccine “under an approved vaccination program in the UK, Europe, US or UK vaccine programme overseas” will be considered fully vaccinated.People who have received jabs under public health bodies in Australia, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Bahrain, Brunei, Canada, Dominica, Israel, Japan, Kuwait, Malaysia, New Zealand, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea or Taiwan will also be considered fully vaccinated.The rules provoked consternation in India as people who have received both doses of Covishield, the local version of AstraZeneca and one of the two main jabs used for the domestic immunisation programme, would be considered unvaccinated.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the UK has constantly reviewed visa rules throughout the pandemic to keep borders open while gradually and safely restarting travel. The UK will continue to review scientific evidence on other vaccines and keep health measures under regular review, the people said.Visa applications for all categories from Indian nationals continue to be processed and people do not need to be vaccinated to travel to the UK, they added.Regardless of an Indian national’s vaccination status, the person must take a pre-departure test and a Covid-19 test on or before day two of the visit, and on or after day eight, and self-isolate for 10 days. Travellers can opt to shorten their home quarantine to around five days under the UK’s “Test to Release” service.The Indian side was especially upset by the new rules as vaccination-related travel restrictions had been repeatedly taken up with the UK at the highest levels, including by foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and external affairs minister S Jaishankar.Shringla, during his visit to the UK in July, called for theearly removal of travel restrictions for Indians and the mutual recognition of Covid-19 vaccination certificates. He had pointed out that France was clearing travellers from India without quarantine if they were fully vaccinated and had a negative test.The new UK rules are expected to mostly affect students, who are now returning in large numbers to British universities. The change will mean they will have to pay extra for more tests and to quarantine.India has been pushing for mutual recognition of Covid-19 vaccination certificates in negotiations with countries around the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/working-with-india-says-the-uk-on-recognising-covishield-vaccine-certificate-101632156727527.html
20-09-2021||India||A Dalit chief minister in Punjab: Political masterstroke by the Congress?||Charanjit Singh Channi, who has replaced Amarinder Singh as the chief minister in Punjab, is the first Dalit to hold this office in the state. Punjab is the state with the highest share of Dalits, or Scheduled Castes (SC), in its population. But it is also clear that by selecting a Dalit for the top political job in the state, the Congress is trying to send a larger political message beyond the state’s borders. Kanshi Ram, who was among the tallest Dalit leaders in post-independence India and founded the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), was also a Dalit from Punjab. How successful will this strategy be? Here are four charts which try and answer this question.Not all of Punjab’s SC population is SikhSCs account for 38% of Punjab’s population, the largest among all states in the country. However, not all SCs in Punjab are Sikhs, although the latter are dominant among the state’s SC population. The share of Sikhs belonging to the SC category in Punjab is 27%, while the remaining 11% of the SC population is Hindu. But even 27% is quite high if one compares the share of SC population across states.What is the socio-economic status of Dalits in Punjab?Whichever indicator one takes to look at the socio-economic status of SCs, they are at the bottom of the economic hierarchy in India. Does this also hold true for the SC population in Punjab?This question is worth asking because Punjab is among the richest states in India. In 2018-19, the latest year for which per capita GSDP numbers are available for all major states, Punjab was ranked 10th among 19 major states in the country, and its income was 1.2 times the national per capita income average.India does not even have income statistics; leave alone income statistics across social groupings. So, there are no straight forward answers to the question of well-being levels of SCs in Punjab vis-à-vis the rest of the country. However, there is some statistical evidence on asset levels at the social group levels to answer this question.The 2015-16 round of the National Family and Health Survey (NFHS) -- this is the latest period for which data is available for Punjab -- allows classification of households belonging to broad social groups by wealth. Over two-thirds of SC households in Punjab were in the top two quintiles (top 40%), which is significantly higher than the national average, where only 27.2% of the SC population belongs to the top 40% .But the NFHS wealth rankings might not capture rural realityTo be sure, the NFHS classification of household wealth might not capture the reality in rural areas. This is because the NFHS looks at household ownership of consumer goods (such as televisions or cars) and the characteristics of their house (such as source of drinking water, toilet facilities, even the flooring).Things change once ownership of land is taken into account, which is an important determinant of socio-political power in India’s villages. The All-India Debt and Investment Survey (AIDIS) in 2018-19 collected data on value of land, building, livestock, transport, agricultural equipment, non-farm business equipment and financial assets. An HT analysis of unit-level data of AIDIS shows that the average worth of these assets for an SC household in Punjab was ₹871,386 as on June 30, 2018. This is 87% of the assets owned by an average Indian SC household: ₹996,088.The reason SC households in Punjab do badly compared to their peers in other states in the AIDIS, is (lack of) land ownership. Once land and buildings are taken out of the equation, the results resemble the NFHS trends, and SC households in Punjab are better off compared to those in other states.This also underlines a potential source of tension between the Dalit and non-Dalit population in rural Punjab. Despite lagging behind on land ownership, SCs have made advances as far as their living standards are concerned, which can possibly generate social-political tension.
20-09-2021||India||90% beneficiaries receive single Covid-19 vaccine dose in Kerala, state health minister lauds health workers||Almost 90% eligible beneficiaries in Kerala are inoculated with the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, while 37.35% have been administered with two doses, state health minister Veena George said on Monday. As many as 23,995,651 people (89.84%) have been given the first dose and 9,975,323 have been inoculated with both doses, she said. Further, 33,928,182 doses of the vaccine have been administered so far in the state, which is one among the worst affected by Covid-19 in India.In a post on the social media platform Facebook, George made the announcement. Moreover, she also said that the Wayanad district in Kerala has already achieved the target and other districts like Thiruvananthapuram, Pathanamthitta, Idukki and Ernakulam are moving towards achieving the target.Congratulating the health workers in these districts for their efforts, the minister also called upon the remaining people to get themselves immunised soon. She appealed to the people to shed any hesitancy about the vaccine, noting that the majority of people who lost their lives to the disease were unvaccinated and said that the vigilance against Covid-19 should continue in the state. She also stressed on the need to wear a face mask and maintain social distance and avoid public programmes, gatherings and large crowds.Also read | Kerala says stringent lockdown measures in areas with critical Covid spreadEarlier on August 16, Wayanad, an important tourist destination in the state, became the first district in Kerala where all eligible adults were inoculated with the first dose of the vaccine. Further, the state has set a deadline of September 30, by which all adults should be administered at least one dose of the vaccine. The announcement from the minister came with 10 more days left for the state’s target.Also, the announcement also comes as the Kerala government has announced dates for the reopening of educational institutes in the state. While higher education institutes would resume physical classes by October 4, schools for classes 1 to 7 and classes 10 and 12 would resume from November 1.George reassured that the state ministries of health and education would jointly meet and evaluate the preparations on this front. The evaluations would also factor in the sero prevalence survey report expected by this month’s end, the minister added. She urged students to take their full dosage of vaccines at the earliest.Mentioning about the spread of Dengue virus in the state, the minister asked the public to not worry and said, the propaganda that Dengue 2 is new is “baseless.” She said that Dengue virus has four variants and all have been reported from all states in India including Kerala.On Monday, Kerala continued with its trends of declining daily Covid-19 infections after 15,692 people tested positive for the disease in the last 24 hours. Also, 92 more people succumbed to their illness. With this, the state’s tally reached 4,524,158 and the death toll rose to 23,683, a bulletin from the state government showed. The active caseload was recorded at 167,008.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/90-beneficiaries-receive-single-covid-19-vaccine-dose-in-kerala-state-health-minister-lauds-health-workers-101632154737614.html
20-09-2021||India||BJP MP Sukanta Majumdar replaces Dilip Ghosh as party's Bengal president||In a major change of guard, the Bharatiya Janata Party on Monday appointed its Balurghat parliamentarian Sukanta Majumdar as the party's West Bengal president, replacing Dilip Ghosh.BJP national general secretary Arun Singh said in a statement late in the evening that the party national president JP Nadda made the appointment.Meanwhile, the BJP elevated Dilip Ghosh and former Uttarakhand governor Baby Rani Maurya as the party's national vice-presidents.The rejig comes 10 days before the assembly bypolls in the state, including in the crucial Bhabanipur constituency where West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee faces BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal.ALSO READ | West Bengal BJP not to contest Rajya Sabha bypollsA Doctorate in Botany, 41-year-old Sukanta Majumdar is a first-time parliamentarian who was recently handed over the charge of overssing Samserganj and Jangipur assembly seats, which will go to the bypolls on September 30, along with Bhabanipur.Majumdar has been a pracharak of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological parent of the BJP, till he joined the Bengal BJP in 2014.The change in BJP's leadership structure in Bengal also followed a number of high-profile defections from the party, including Mukul Roy, Tanmoy Ghosh, Biswajit Das, Soumen Roy and Babul Supriyo, following its defeat in the assembly elections. All of them crossed over to Trinamool Congress in the past couple of months.Singer-turned-politician Babul Supriyo blamed Dilip Ghosh for BJP's rout in the elections as he said the latter's “comments” during the poll campaigns were “incongruous with the ethos of Bengalis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-mp-sukanta-majumdar-replaces-dilip-ghosh-as-party-s-bengal-president-101632151173618.html
20-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rajnath Singh discusses Afghanistan with US' Lloyd Austin and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Rajnath Singh discusses Afghanistan, bilateral defence cooperation with US counterpartDefence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday spoke to his US counterpart Lloyd Austin over the telephone with the discussion focusing on the situation unfolding in Afghanistan and issues connected to bilateral defence cooperation. The conversation came days ahead of the Quad Summit to be held in Washington on September 24. Read more.India resumes export of vaccine doses. Know which nation received most dosesUnion minister for health and family welfare Mansukh Mandaviya announced on Monday that India will resume export of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccines and its contribution to COVAX from October onwards. Read more.‘Shocked’: NCW chief demands Channi’s resignation as Punjab CM over #Metoo caseThe National Commission for Women or NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma has demanded the resignation of Charanjit Singh Channi, who on Monday took oath as the 16th chief minister of Punjab, over allegations of sexual harassment against him. Calling Channi’s appointment to be “shameful”, Sharma said the new chief minister needs to be held “accountable and should resign from the post.” “We do not want another woman to go through the same experience and endure the same harassment that the IAS officer would have faced,” the NCW chief added. Read more.Goa tourism industry seeks SOPs before lifting of ban on foreign touristsGoa’s tourism industry on Monday sought Standard Operating Procedure (SOPs) for foreign tourists ‘immediately’ so that work can proceed as soon as the Centre lifts the ban on tourist visas. Read more.Sonu Sood says even taxmen were impressed with his paperwork, agreed he'd done ‘good work’Actor Sonu Sood is undeterred by the scrutiny he's being subjected to by the The Central Board of Direct Taxes. Days after it was alleged that he had evaded taxes and stocked up on crores of rupees, the actor issued a statement saying that every penny will eventually be spent on humanitarian causes. Read more.Explained: Why RCB are wearing blue jersey during IPL 2021 clash against KKRThe Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) players will step out onto the field sporting special blue jerseys against the Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) on Monday as a tribute to Covid-19 frontline warriors in India and worldwide. Read more.Mrunal Thakur slays hottest look ever in strapless black bra, cargo pantsTelevision-turned-Bollywood actor Mrunal Thakur's first “non-film collaboration” with Badshah saw her pulling off a tricky yet hands down her hottest avatar ever and the Internet has been on fire ever since. Badshah's new party track ‘Bad Boy X Bad Girl’ is out and fans can't stop swooning over Mrunal's sassy hot look in a strapless black bra, cargo pants and suspender body belt. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rajnath-singh-discusses-afghanistan-with-us-lloyd-austin-101632149406654.html
20-09-2021||India||Afghanistan, China: Harsh Shringla pins down India’s big security challenges||New Delhi: The situation in Afghanistan and the border standoff with China are among the security challenges confronting India, which is concerned about the recent changes in Kabul and their implications for the region, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Monday.While India’s immediate focus has been evacuating its nationals from Afghanistan, the country has backed efforts to ensure that Afghan soil isn’t used for sheltering terrorists or planning terror attacks, Shringla said while addressing JP Morgan’s India Investor Summit.Speaking on the theme “India’s foreign policy and its strategic imperative: The way forward”, he said, New Delhi has told Beijing that peace in the border areas is essential for developing bilateral ties in the wake of Chinese attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) over the past year. Harsh Shringla said India is “naturally concerned about the recent changes within Afghanistan and their implications for us and the region”. He noted the recent UN Security Council resolution 2593 that Afghan territory should not be used for “sheltering, training, planning or financing terrorist acts”, and specifically refers to terrorists proscribed by the UN, including those from Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM). Most Indians were able to leave Kabul in August, and a number of Afghans, including minorities, who wanted to travel to India, have also been able to do so. “However, this process could not be completed due to the security situation at the airport. Resumption of flights from Kabul airport is, therefore, a priority,” he added.India is also monitoring developments related to the humanitarian needs of Afghanistan.“In UNDP’s assessment, there is an imminent threat of poverty levels rising in Afghanistan. There is also a threat of an imminent drought and a food security crisis. It is important for the humanitarian assistance providers to be given unrestricted and direct access to Afghanistan,” Harsh Shringla said. The distribution of humanitarian assistance has to be done in a non-discriminatory manner to all sections of Afghan society, and India’s approach to Afghanistan is guided by the civilisational relationship with the Afghan people, he said.He recalled India’s development aid worth $3 billion and more than 500 projects spread across all 34 provinces of Afghanistan and said these initiatives had earned the country tremendous goodwill.Shringla listed the standoff with China and the situation in Afghanistan among the geopolitical challenges in India’s immediate neighbourhood. These situations were a reminder that traditional security challenges remain even while new realities are making themselves felt.“Chinese attempts over the last year to unilaterally alter the status quo in Ladakh have seriously disturbed peace and tranquillity in the border areas. These acts are in violation of our bilateral agreements and have inevitably impacted other aspects of the bilateral relationship,” he said. “We have made it clear to the Chinese side that peace and tranquillity in border areas are essential for the development of our relationship. Development of India-China relationship can only be based on ‘three mutuals’ – mutual respect, mutual sensitivity and mutual interests,” he added.Harsh Shringla reiterated India’s stated position that the largely positive trajectory of India-China ties in the past 40 years was largely due to the agreement between the two sides to ensure peace and tranquillity in the border areas. India has insisted that the overall normalisation of relations with China is linked to disengagement and de-escalation at friction points on the LAC. On the other hand, Beijing has said New Delhi should take forward relations in other areas while dealing with the border standoff separately.Shringla listed several “megatrends” the country is contending with, including a rebalancing in which global activity is moving towards Asia, the rise of China, the pressure on international systems, the vulnerability of global supply and value chains, emerging technologies, and “a battle between schools of thought”.“The pandemic and its fallout pose the most serious challenge to policymakers in a generation and more. Governance structures, national and international, have been and are being subjected to unprecedented stresses,” he said.India is seeking strategic autonomy, but this does not mean “seeking self-centred arrangements or turning the country inwards”, and the country will work for a less skewed distribution of economic activity by “making Indian businesses and the Indian economy more globalised”, he pointed out.Harsh Shringla said India is set to participate in the first in-person Quad Summit in the US next week and the four members of the grouping are engaged on issues of connectivity, infrastructure, emerging technologies, climate action, education and Covid-19 responses, including vaccine collaboration and resilient supply chains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistan-china-harsh-shringla-pins-down-india-s-big-security-challenges-101632150486907.html
20-09-2021||India||Covid-19 may be heading towards endemic stage in India, says virologist Gagandeep Kang||Top virologist Dr Gagandeep Kang said on Monday that the coronavirus pandemic in the country may be heading towards endemic stage, adding that a third wave, if it does take place, is likely to be due to local flare-ups that would be smaller and spread wider across the country.Also Read | 'If new variants are more infectious...': Virologist Gagandeep Kang on Covid 3rd wave threat“When you have something that is not going away in the near future, then it is heading towards endemicity. Right now, we are not looking at eliminating SARS-CoV-2. This means that the virus has to become endemic,” Dr Kang, who teaches at Vellore’s Christian Medical College, said in an interview with PTI. An endemic stage is one when a disease or illness, instead of going away, is regularly found in a particular region, meaning that people there have to learn to live with it.Explaining further, the vaccinologist said, “There have been several endemic diseases, such as influenza. But there can also be a pandemic layered on top of an epidemic disease. Thus, if there is a new variant, which totally escapes the immune response, there could be yet another pandemic. However, that doesn’t mean that SARS-CoV-2 is only a pandemic, and has stopped being endemic.”A potential third wave, Dr Kang projected, would not take place on a scale as big as that during the previous two waves. “What we would see are local, smaller flare-ups that would be spread wider across the country. Together, these may form a third wave if there is a lot of behavioural change during the festive season. However, its scale won’t be anything like what we saw before,” she said.She also called for development of better vaccines to deal with new, emerging variants of Covid-19. “Our vaccines are based on the ancestral variant of Sars-CoV-2. Are these the best that we have? I think that we need to develop new variant-based and new platform vaccines, and then test very carefully in clinical trials to maximise the values that these bring,” Dr Kang proposed.India logged 30,256 fresh infections of Covid-19 and 295 related fatalities in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s (MoHFW) dashboard. The total case count stands at 33,478,419, including 32,715,105 recoveries, 445,133 deaths and 318181 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-may-be-heading-towards-endemic-stage-in-india-says-virologist-gagandeep-kang-101632149317589.html
20-09-2021||India||India resumes export of vaccine doses. Know which nation received most doses||Union minister for health and family welfare Mansukh Mandaviya announced on Monday that India will resume export of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccines and its contribution to COVAX from October onwards.Mandaviya highlighted that the surplus supply of vaccines will be used to fulfil India’s commitment to the global fight against Covid-19 vaccines. COVAX is an initiative of the World Health Organisation (WHO) to ensure equitable distribution of vaccines across all nations with focus on impoverished nations. The initiative is co-led by Gavi, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and WHO.India supplied vaccines to 95 nations before the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic struck, according to the Union ministry of external affairs. India supplied 10.75 million Covid-19 vaccine doses as a grant to 46 countries out of which 200,000 vaccine doses were also given to UN Peacekeeping Forces. India commercially exported 35.79 million vaccine doses, according to data shared by the Union ministry of external affairs.Bangladesh received at least 3.3 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine under the grant system and was among the highest recipients of vaccines under commercial agreement of 7 million vaccine doses. Brazil and Morocco also received 4 million doses and 7 million doses, respectively, under this agreement. Among other countries who received more than 100,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses under grant system were -- Mauritius, Fiji, Paraguay, Mozambique, Nicaragua, Uganda, Kenya, Nigeria, Mongolia, Barbados, Afghanistan, Oman, Bahrain, Sri Lanka, Maldives, Bhutan, Nepal, Myanmar and Bangladesh.Several other African countries as well as island nations in the Caribbean and Oceania also received vaccine doses under the grant system.Other than Morocco and Brazil, South Africa also received a million vaccine doses under commercial agreement. The United Kingdom received 5 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines while Saudi Arabia received 4.5 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines. Neighbours Myanmar and Nepal received 2 million doses and 1 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine, respectively.India donated 19.86 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine under the COVAX initiative to several impoverished countries. According to the data, India so far has exported 66.36 million doses of vaccines while administering 800 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines to its own citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-resumes-export-of-vaccine-doses-know-which-nation-received-most-doses-101632148104022.html
20-09-2021||India||Chhattisgarh's ex-BJP MLA Yudhvir Singh Judev dies aged 39||Former Chhattisgarh BJP MLA Yudhvir Singh Judev died on Monday at a hospital in Bengaluru where he was being treated for a liver ailment, his family members said. Judev, 39, belonged to the erstwhile royal family of Jashpur in Chhattisgarh. He was the youngest son of BJP's influential leader Dilip Singh Judev, who died in in 2013. “Yudhvir had been suffering from a liver-related ailment since a long time. He had undergone treatment at a hospital in Delhi, from where he was shifted to Bengaluru hospital, where breathed his last at around 4 am on Monday,” said Ranvijay Singh Judev, his cousin and former BJP Rajya Sabha member. The body will be brought to Jashpur on Tuesday where the final rites will be held, he said. Yudhvir Judev is survived by mother Madhvi, wife Sanyogita and a daughter, he said. He was first elected as an MLA in 2008 from Chandrapur constituency and for the second consecutive time in 2013. In the 2018 Assembly polls, his wife Sanyogita was fielded as a BJP candidate from Chandrapur, but she had lost the election. Yudhvir Judev had also served as the chairman of the state's Beverage Corporation during his second tenure as an MLA. The Judev family is said to have a considerable influence in Chhattisgarh's northern part, particularly in Jashpur and Janjgir-Champa area. Chief Minister Bhupesh Bahghel expressed deep grief over Yudhvir Judev's death. He prayed for the departed soul to rest in peace and for the bereaved family to get enough strength to bear the irreparable loss, an official statement said. State BJP chief Vishnudeo Sai described Yudhvir Judev's demise as an "irreparable loss" for the party organisation and the region. Other BJP leaders, including national joint general secretary (organisation) Shivprakash and state in-charge D Purandeswari, also condoled his demise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarhs-ex-bjp-mla-yudhvir-singh-judev-dies-aged-39-101632146353395.html
20-09-2021||India||Why promote song in trailer, edit it out in movie, SC asks Yash Raj Films||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday stayed a consumer tribunal order directing film production house Yash Raj Films to pay ₹15,000 to a Maharashtra teacher who felt cheated because a song, ‘Jabra Fan’, used to promote the Shah Rukh Khan-starrer movie ‘Fan’ in the trailer, was edited out of the film.The two-judge bench of justices Hemant Gupta and V Ramasubramanian, however, questioned the production house for marketing the film with the song that was excluded from the movie.“The problem is that you (production house) show something else in the trailer which is not there in the movie. When the trailer is released, it is a trailer of the movie. Why were you marketing your movie with the song when you knew it was meant to be for promotion of the film?” the bench asked while hearing an appeal by the production house.Afreen Fatima Zaidi, a teacher in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad, complained in 2016 that she went to watch the movie with her family after seeing the song, ‘Jabra Fan’ and felt cheated and deceived when they didn’t find the song in the film.The district consumer redressal forum rejected her complaint. But she filed an appeal and convinced the state consumer disputes redressal commission. In 2017, the state commission ordered Yash Raj Films to pay ₹10,000 in compensation and ₹5,000 as litigation costs. The production house challenged the decision at the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission.On February 18, 2020, the national commission upheld the findings of the state commission and concluded that there was reason for Zaidi to feel cheated and the decision not to use the song shown in the movie’s trailer amounted to “unfair trade practice”.In its appeal before the Supreme Court, Yash Raj Films, represented by Naomi Chandra, said it was common practice in the industry to use songs in the trailer that necessarily do not feature in the movie. “The order of the National Consumer court must be stayed as it has far reaching consequences on the entire film industry,” Chandra said.The judges responded, saying, “If there is a common practice in the industry that does not mean that the practice should continue”.The bench said the question to be decided is whether the producer of a movie can be said to be a service provider since the movie ticket is a contract between the person who buys it and the cinema hall owner who exhibits the film.“You need to give a plausible explanation,” the bench added, as it issued notice to the teacher as well.In its 2020 verdict, the national commission reasoned that it was not necessary that the consideration for purchasing goods or hiring or availing services must necessarily be paid directly to the person who sells the goods or renders services to the consumer. “The consideration may also flow to the seller of the goods or the service provider as the case, may be through an intermediary,” the commission said, underlining that the price of the ticket received by the exhibitor, a cinema hall, was shared between the exhibitor, distributor and producer of the movie. “Therefore, it cannot be accepted that the complainant was not a consumer of the petitioner,” the nation commission said in its order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-promote-song-in-trailer-edit-it-out-in-movie-sc-asks-yash-raj-films-101632147786772.html
20-09-2021||India||Rajnath Singh discusses Afghanistan, bilateral defence cooperation with US counterpart||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday spoke to his US counterpart Lloyd Austin over the telephone with the discussion focusing on the situation unfolding in Afghanistan and issues connected to bilateral defence cooperation. The conversation came days ahead of the Quad Summit to be held in Washington on September 24. “We discussed issues pertaining to bilateral defence cooperation & regional matters including the situation in Afghanistan. We agreed to continue the useful dialogue & look forward to strengthening the partnership further,” Singh wrote on Twitter.The Indian security establishment is concerned about terrorist activity in Afghanistan spilling over into the country via Pakistan after the Taliban takeover. US President Joe Biden is hosting the Quad summit at the White House on September 24 Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Japan’s Yoshihide Suga and Australia’s Scott Morrison.The discussion between Singh and Austin on the Afghanistan situation also came days after India and Australia insisted Afghanistan’s soil must not become a safe haven for terrorists or be used for attacks on other nations during the inaugural India-Australia 2+2 dialogue of defence and foreign ministers that concluded on September 11.India and Australia also called for steps to ensure an inclusive governing structure in Kabul and the safe departure of people wishing to leave the war-torn country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-discusses-afghanistan-bilateral-defence-cooperation-with-us-counterpart-101632147427958.html
20-09-2021||India||‘Shocked’: NCW chief demands Channi’s resignation as Punjab CM over #Metoo case||The National Commission for Women or NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma has demanded the resignation of Charanjit Singh Channi, who on Monday took oath as the 16th chief minister of Punjab, over allegations of sexual harassment against him. Calling Channi’s appointment to be “shameful”, Sharma said the new chief minister needs to be held “accountable and should resign from the post.” “We do not want another woman to go through the same experience and endure the same harassment that the IAS officer would have faced,” the NCW chief added. The Indian Administrative Service officer accused Channi of sending inappropriate texts to her, but no formal complaint was registered and the issue was resolved following intervention by the former chief minister of Punjab Captain Amarinder Singh. However, the case was reopened in June this year after Punjab Women Commission chairperson Manisha Gulati sought a reply from the Punjab government. This move became an issue within the state Congress circles with ministers supporting Channi calling it a ‘witch hunt’ by the Captain camp.After Channi’s appointment, Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) IT cell head mockingly said “well done, Rahul” to address Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. He referred to the #Metoo allegations against Channi.Also Read | #MeToo and illegal mining allegations cast a shadowOn Monday, Sharma said that she was shocked and “utterly disappointed” to find Channi being appointed to the top post of the state. “One can only imagine what would be the state of women's safety in [Punjab] given the one at the helm of affairs is himself accused of threatening women security,” she added.The NCW chief also stated that if an IAS officer has been denied justice in the state, how can the ruling dispensation make sure that “common women” of Punjab would be safe. “Despite being a woman herself, the Congress chief (Sonia Gandhi) did not consider the #Metoo allegations made against Channi and appointed him the CM,” Sharma noted.Earlier in the day, BJP’s Punjab in-charge Dushyant Kumar Gautam took a jibe at the Congress party, saying that the only reason they picked Channi is that they want to win Dalit votes. Channi has become the first Dalit leader to be appointed as the chief minister of Punjab. Punjab will go into the polls in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shocked-ncw-chief-demands-channi-s-resignation-as-punjab-cm-over-metoo-case-101632145222950.html
20-09-2021||India||India has administered 800 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 800 million Covid vaccine doses by Sunday, September 19. In another development relating to vaccine, Global pharma major Pfizer and BioNTech SE said trial results of Covid vaccine showed that it is safe and produced robust neutralising antibody response in children aged five to 11 years, and they plan to seek regulatory approvals as soon as possible.Meanwhile, by 9am on Sunday, 804,372,331 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 8,542,732 doses were administered on the day.In the 18-45 age group, 325,321,724 people have been given the first dose while 59,105,510 have got their second shot as well.Also Read | Schools in Jammu reopen for classes 10, 12Among the healthcare workers, 10,368,565 have been given the first dose while 8,723,015 have got their second dose as well. Among the frontline workers, 18,344,648 have got their first dose and 14,480,304 have got their second dose too.
20-09-2021||India||Raj Kundra, his employee Ryan Thorpe get bail in pornographic film case||A local court in Mumbai on Monday granted bail to businessman Raj Kundra and his Information Technology (IT) head Ryan Thorpe on a surety of ₹50,000. The crime branch of Mumbai Police arrested Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty's husband Raj Kundra in July and filed a supplementary chargesheet against him on September 15 for his alleged involvement in pornographic film racket.While seeking bail in the case, Kundra told Metropolitan Magistrate Court in Mumbai that the videos were shot with the consent of the ‘actors’ and claimed that he owned the mobile app Hotshots only for a brief period of 10 months. Hotshots mobile app was developed for streaming adult and pornographic content that Kundra's firm produced.Kundra also claimed in his plea that during the time that he owned Hotshots, he had interacted with a few clients but had “never taken an active part in contract building or any of the content creation.”In its 1,467-page supplementary chargesheet, police presented statements of at least 42 people they have interrogated, including that of Shilpa Shetty, who said she was too busy with her work and was not aware of what Kundra was up to.Mumbai Police called Raj Kundra a "key conspirator" and charged him with cheating and for obscene and indecent advertisements and displays under various sections of the Indian Penal Code.Police also used sections of the Information Technology Act and Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act against Kundra. The businessman was arrested on July 19 along with 10 others for their alleged role in the production of pornographic content through an app called Hotshots.Mumbai Police stated in their remand application at that time that Kundra earned over  ₹1.17 crore from subcribers of Hotshots app on Apple's App Store between August and December 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raj-kundra-his-employee-ryan-thorpe-get-bail-in-pornographic-film-case-101632139148427.html
20-09-2021||India||Goa tourism industry seeks SOPs before lifting of ban on foreign tourists||Goa’s tourism industry on Monday sought Standard Operating Procedure (SOPs) for foreign tourists ‘immediately’ so that work can proceed as soon as the Centre lifts the ban on tourist visas.The Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG), a body of industry representatives, submitted a memorandum to Union minister of tourism and culture G Kishan Reddy seeking a resumption of charter flights -- which bring a bulk of the foreign tourists to Goa -- beginning October 1 even if it is via reciprocal bubble arrangement with countries. “This will give the operators a planning time, as the flights have to be announced and sold, the rooms have to be procured, aircraft have to be arranged, flying and landing permissions have to be obtained. That there should be vaccination certificate verification and Covid testing for international tourists as followed by all international destinations in the world and they should be allowed to follow similar SOPs as of domestic travellers,” the TTAG said in their representation. Also Read | Goa to launch ‘doorstep government’ initiative today, aims grievance redressalAccording to industry representatives, charter planes with tourists from Europe including Russia flying in and out of Goa airport make up 92% of the country’s charter industry and also bring a sizeable number of tourists to Goa. During his interaction with state political leaders and health workers in Goa on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi hinted that the Centre was keen on relaxing the ban on foreign tourist arrivals that was put in place in March 2020 a little after Covid-19 was declared a global pandemic. “The Centre is taking steps to welcome foreign tourists back. The government has taken a decision to give 500,000 tourists free visas. Travel and tourism stakeholders will be given loans of up to ₹10 lakh with a 100% guarantee by the government. Tourist guides are being given the facility of taking a loan of up to ₹1 lakh,” he said.Foreign tourists travel in larger groups and stay for a longer time, often the average duration of stay is between 14-21 days. To compensate for the loss of a single foreign booking, a hotel will have to secure four to five different bookings of domestic tourists to maintain the same level of occupancy. A domestic tourist on average stays on between 3-7 days. Meanwhile, the Goa Chamber of Commerce Industry, welcomed the Prime Minister’s announcement that the Central Government will permit international tourists into Goa shortly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-tourism-industry-seeks-sops-before-lifting-of-ban-on-foreign-tourists-101632138666296.html
20-09-2021||India||After Kabul mayor asks women to ‘stay at home’, Javed Akhtar’s appeal||Lyricist Javed Akhtar on Monday appealed to all Muslim bodies in the country to collectively condemn the order by the mayor of Kabul telling women to stay at home. “Aljazeera has reported that the mayor of Kabul has ordered all working women should stay at home I expect all important Muslim bodies to condemn it because it is being done in the name of their religion Where are all those who were till yesterday shouting in defence of 3 talaq" Akhtar posted on Twitter.Aljazeera has reported that the mayor of Kabul has ordered all working women should stay at home I expect all important Muslim bodies to condemn it because it is being done in the name of their religion Where are all those who were till yesterday shouting in defence of 3 talaqIn his first news conference since being appointed by the Taliban, Kabul mayor said on Sunday that women employees have been ordered to stay home, pending a further decision. “There are some areas that men can’t do it, we have to ask our female staff to fulfill their duties, there is no alternative for it,” Hamdullah Namony said, without specifying how many women employees were forced to stay home.Also read | After keeping them out of school, offices, Taliban say this about womenNamony said that just under one-third of close to 3,000 city employees were women and that they worked in all departments before the Taliban took over Afghanistan on August 15. He said exceptions were made for women who could not be replaced by men—in the design and engineering departments and the attendants of public toilets for women.Not just in Kabul, women across Afghanistan have been told to stay home but the Taliban have not yet announced a uniform policy. The Taliban government has issued several diktats rolling back the rights of girls and women. Girls in middle and high school have not been asked to return to school for the time being but boys in those classes resumed studies over the weekend. Women university students have been told they can attend classes but they will be gender-segregated and that they must follow a strict Islamic dress code.Also read | ‘Afghanistan's future depends on…’: Unesco urges reopening girls' schoolsLast Friday, the Taliban shut down the women's affairs ministry and replaced it with a ministry for the “propagation of virtue and the prevention of vice”, which has been tasked with enforcing Sharia. More than a dozen women staged a protest outside the ministry on Sunday, holding up signs calling for the participation of women in public life. “A society in which women are not active is (sic) dead society," read one of the signs.A number of women in Afghanistan have been protesting against the Taliban, demanding equal rights in all spheres of life.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-kabul-mayor-asks-women-to-stay-at-home-javed-akhtar-s-appeal-101632137737206.html
20-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: India tells China peace in border areas essential for bilateral ties and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Peace in border areas essential for bilateral ties with China: ShringlaIndia has told China that peace in the border areas is essential for developing bilateral ties, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Monday. Read more‘Old habit’: BJP says Congress made Channi Punjab CM to win Dalit votesBJP’s Punjab in-charge Dushyant Kumar Gautam, who himself is Dalit, said that the Congress followed the same tactic in Maharashtra and Rajasthan. Read more‘If anybody has the sharpest brain in this league, it’s MS Dhoni’: Sehwag lauds MSD’s captaincy against MI in DubaiFormer Indian opener Virender Sehwag lauded Dhoni’s presence of mind and on-field decision that turned the game upside down on Sunday in Dubai. Read moreKBC 13: Amitabh Bachchan left speechless after woman asks him to name her unborn grandchildA visibly moved Amitabh Bachchan was left speechless after a Kaun Banega Crorepati 13 contestant asked if he'd be willing to name her unborn grandchild. Read moreYoga for Alzheimer's: 5 effective asanas to prevent the neurologic disorderInternationally acclaimed spiritual yogic master, Grand Master Akshar reveals the 5 effective Yoga asanas that one can perform regularly. Read moreSkoda Kushaq received 10,000 bookings; automatic Style variant to get updatesSkoda Kushaq is offered with two petrol engine options. The automatic style variant will now also get six airbags and TPMS. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-tells-china-peace-in-border-areas-essential-for-bilateral-ties-and-all-the-latest-news-101632134159717.html
20-09-2021||India||Change of guard coming in Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh as well? 'No disturbance there,' says Bhupesh Baghel||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday asserted that “there is no disturbance” in Rajasthan, as a change of guard in Punjab has triggered speculations that a similar exercise could take place in the western state as well, with Ashok Gehlot making way for Sachin Pilot. Speculations are rife over a possible change in Chhattisgarh as well, with Baghel stepping down for state health minister TS Singh Deo. Also Read | Will resign on order from Sonia Gandhi, Rahul: Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh BaghelBaghel’s party, the Congress, is in power in all the three states.“A person from the Scheduled Castes was made CM for the first time. I congratulate him and welcome the decision taken by the high command,” the Congress leader said on Charanjit Singh Channi, the successor to Captain Amarinder Singh in the northern state, and also its first Dalit chief minister.Also Read | Chhattisgarh: The inside story of the Bhupesh Baghel-TS Singh Deo battle“However, there is no disturbance in Rajasthan,” he added, referring to the possibility of a new chief ministers being appointed there. A person from SC caste, Charanjit Singh Channi, was made Punjab CM for the first time. I congratulate him and welcome the decision taken by high command. There is no disturbance in Rajasthan: Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel on political situation in Punjab and Rajasthan pic.twitter.com/kxnUminlU8Baghel’s remarks came on a day when Deo arrived in Delhi, though the latter described it as a “personal” visit. “I have come here for my sister’s birthday. As you know, none of the party high command is here. Everything is normal in Chhattisgarh. All the issues that were there have been resolved,” he told media at the Delhi airport.Meanwhile, in Rajasthan, resignation by Gehlot’s officer on special duty (OSD) for a tweet seen as criticism of the Congress top brass over its handling of the situation in Punjab, fuelled rumours that the veteran Congressman could be on his way out, with Pilot taking over.In late 2018, the Grand Old Party defeated the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. However, in March last year, the BJP returned to power in MP when Jyotiraditya Scindia, who lost to veteran Kamal Nath in the race to chief ministership, jumped ship, triggering the collapse of the Nath-led government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/change-of-guard-coming-in-rajasthan-chhattisgarh-as-well-no-disturbance-there-says-bhupesh-baghel-101632136082146.html
20-09-2021||India||‘Tikait a dacoit’: BJP MP says protesters are not farmers||A Bharatiya Janata Party lawmaker on Sunday called farmer leader Rakesh Tikait a ‘dacoit’ and said that the protesting farmers are receiving funds from foreign donors to continue the agitation at Delhi’s borders.Lok Sabha MP from Uttar Pradesh’s Bahraich constituency, Akshaibar Lal Gond also said that the motivation for the protests come from people who associate with ‘Pakistan and Sikhistan’.“Tikait is a dacoit. There is no agitation by farmers. The protesters are not farmers, they are people from political parties who are motivated by 'Sikhistan' and Pakistan,” Gond was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Gond said money to fund the protests is coming from Canada and is intended to fund terrorist activities. “Money is coming from foreign countries including Canada. This money is for terror funding and agencies are probing it,” Gond said.Gond said that if ‘real farmers’ would have protested then the nation would have seen a shortage of foodgrains, dairy products and fruits and vegetables.“If the real farmers were protesting, then there would have been a shortage of food items. Vegetables, milk, food grains, and fruits would not have reached the markets,” Gond added, claiming that people know the true nature of the protesters.Gond was speaking at an event commemorating the four and a half years anniversary of the Bharatiya Janata Party government led by the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh Yogi Adityanath.The chief minister in a press release claimed that his government devoted itself towards uplifting the agricultural sector and livelihood of the farmers in the state. Yogi Adityanath listed achievements like timely payment to sugarcane farmers and revival of old sugar mills while opening new ones, government procurement of crops during the rabi and kharif while removing middlemen and farm loan waiver worth ₹ ₹36,000 crore to help at least 86 lakh farmers get back on their feet as major achievements of his regime.Adityanath also said that his government transferred ₹37,388 crores to more than 2.54 crore farmers under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana along with hiking the amount of MSP in order to give a boost to the sector.Earlier on Monday, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai slammed the Congress, saying that the party, along with ‘foreign agents’, are sponsoring the protests against the three farm laws. “It is Congress or foreign agents in the country who are the sponsors of the protests by the farmers which are happening in the borders of Delhi and other places,” Bommai was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Congress leader Dinesh Gundu Rao condemned Karnataka chief minister’s statements and said the statement is an insult to the protesting farmers. “If they have any proof, they should arrest those who are sponsoring it,” Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tikait-a-dacoit-bjp-mp-says-protesters-are-not-farmers-101632134949688.html
20-09-2021||India||Assam: Online gaming leads teen, friends to siphon ₹19L from father’s account||Police in Assam’s Sivasagar district have detained a minor with three others for allegedly siphoning ₹19 lakh from his father’s bank account with the chief aim to fund the habit of online gaming. According to the police, the class 7 student came in contact with two other minors and a 21-year-old youth while playing online games on a mobile phone. All of them were residents of Sivasagar district. “It appears that the minors and the 21-year-old were able to get the online banking details of the class 7 student’s father and transferred ₹19 lakh from the account in several transactions,” said Rakesh Raushan, superintendent of police, Sivasagar. The student’s father, who works as an engineer in a private oil-drilling company, had no knowledge of the transactions since the sms (short message service) alerts from the bank were received on his wife’s phone and deleted immediately by the student. Police didn’t explain immediately why transaction alerts from banks were being sent to the boy’s mother’s phone. When he finally saw that money had gone missing from his account, the student’s father lodged a complaint at the Joysagar police outpost last week. Based on the case lodged under sections 420 and 406 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) that relate to cheating and criminal breach of trust, the police detained the student, the two minor brothers and Nipuraj Gogoi (21) on Saturday. “The details of what exactly transpired and how the amount was transferred from the victim’s account would be known after further investigations. There could be some others involved in the racket,” said Raushan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-online-gaming-leads-teen-friends-to-siphon-rs-19l-from-father-s-account-101632135965929.html
20-09-2021||India||India to resume export of surplus Covid-19 vaccines next month: Mandaviya||India will resume export of vaccines against Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) under the government’s ‘Vaccine Maitri’ initiative from October 2021, the Union health ministry announced on Monday.“India will be resuming export of vaccines under Vaccine Maitri in order to fulfil the commitment of India towards COVAX, in line with our motto Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam. The surplus supply of vaccines will be used to fulfil our commitment towards the world for the collective fight against Covid-19,” said Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya.COVAX is co-led by Gavi, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and WHO (World Health Organisation), and aims at equitable distribution of Covid-19 vaccines, particularly focusing on the low and middle income countries.Also Read | Clinical trial results show Pfizer Covid-19 jab safe for children aged 5-11Till April-end this year,India exported 66.4 million Covaxin and Covishield vaccine doses that included doses as commercial supplies, grants and supplies to the COVAX facility meant for use in low and middle income countries across the globe.About the expected production in the coming months, the health minister said that more than 300 million (30 crore) vaccine doses will be produced in the month of October and at least 1 billion (100 crore) in the coming quarter. While there was no ban on vaccine exports, as neither the health ministry, commerce and industry ministry, department of promotion of industry and internal trade, nor the directorate general of foreign trade issued any formal orders asking to bar export of Covid-19 vaccines from the country, India halted vaccine export after new cases started surging during the second wave in the country.With the hard second wave that India saw April onwards, India began aggressively vaccinating its population and even expanded coverage to all adults from May 1. The vaccine supplies have been shipped for as many as 93 countries so far, for health care workers with the United Nations, and also their peacekeepers, as per the ministry of external affairs data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-resume-export-of-surplus-covid-19-vaccines-next-month-mandaviya-101632135905927.html
20-09-2021||India||Reconnecting to roots with Assamese as a medium||Eleven-year-old Anubhuti loves to learn new languages. But growing up in Whitby, a town located 50 km east of Toronto in Canada, she had little knowledge of Assamese, her mother tongue. It prevented her from interacting confidently with her cousins and family members back in Assam.
20-09-2021||India||Stalin writes to Modi seeking 5 million more Covid-19 vaccine doses per week to conduct regular mega camps||Following two mega Covid-19 vaccination camps across Tamil Nadu, chief minister MK Stalin on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking for increased weekly vaccine supply to the state. Stalin has demanded an additional 5 million doses to the state, every week, citing Tamil Nadu’s capability to utilise those vaccines and also to achieve the target of covering all eligible but unvaccinated population by October 31 this year.“In our estimation, the state is easily capable of utilising 50 lakh vaccine doses every week,” the Tamil Nadu chief minister wrote, saying that in a week five lakh doses could be administered every day for six days and 20 lakh doses for a mega camp on the seventh day. “I hence request you to kindly facilitate in providing the additional doses of 50 lakh Covid vaccines to the state along with equal number of 0.5 ml of AD syringes or 1 ml/ 2 ml syringes to the state every week,” he further wrote.'மாண்புமிகு முதலமைச்சர் @mkstalin அவர்கள், தமிழ்நாட்டில் அக்டோபர் 31 ஆம் தேதிக்கு முன்பாக தகுதியுள்ள அனைவருக்கும் #CovidVaccine போடுவதற்காக வாரம்தோறும் 50 இலட்சம் தடுப்பூசிகள் தமிழ்நாட்டிற்கு வழங்க வேண்டுமென்று மாண்புமிகு பிரதமர் திரு @narendramodi அவர்களுக்கு கடிதம்'#DMK pic.twitter.com/LCMB91cPmJStalin said he has directed his state officials to coordinate with the Union ministry of health and family welfare to provide all necessary information to get the additional number of doses to the state.The letter follows two mega vaccination camps, alongside the regular daily vaccinations, were organised in the state earlier this month. According to the chief minister, the camp on September 12 saw 28.91 lakh eligible people being vaccinated while the camp on September 19 helped vaccinate 16.43 lakh people.Also read | After India’s record vaccine doses on PM Modi's birthday, Nadda’s advice to oppn“The State has crossed 4 crore vaccinations and has administered over a crore dose in the first 19 days of this month,” he said. However, due to the lower per capita vaccine allocation to the state, it remained below the national average of vaccinations despite such an increase in its pace, Stalin also said.Stalin said that Tamil Nadu continued to remain below the national average because of the “inadequate pace” of the vaccination drive in the first four months in the state and since his government took over in May this year, the supplies of the vaccine doses received by the state were being exhausted within two or three days of reception.According to the Union health ministry’s data, Tamil Nadu has so far administered 43,003,500 doses of the vaccine, including 33,726,820 first doses and 9,276,680 second doses as of 7am on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalin-writes-to-modi-seeking-5-million-more-covid-19-vaccine-doses-per-week-to-conduct-regular-mega-camps-101632134164363.html
20-09-2021||India||First list of trusted telecom equipment providers to be out in October||The first list of trusted telecom equipment providers is expected to be released in the first week of October, Rajesh Pant, the national cyber security coordinator and designated authority for declaring Trusted Sources and Products said on Monday.“On December 16 last year, the Cabinet approved the landmark national security directive on telecom sector. This stipulated that in future, any equipment connected to the Indian telecom network by the Telecom Service Providers (TSP) has to be a trusted product and the telecom license conditions have been accordingly amended,” he said.“...Despite the problems due to the pandemic, we have accomplished our first mission in the desired time frame and the portal was launched on June 15, 2021.”Also Watch | Decoding Modi govt’s telecom sector relief. What it means for youThe verification process is done online on the portal is www.trustedtelecom.gov.in. The process starts with the telecom service uploading the details of the product and its Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM).“We first check the antecedents of the OEM and then request them to give details of the components up to active semiconductor level and their sources. This data is verified by a team of government officers from various ministries. Their recommendations are put up to the NSCT which also includes industry and academia members. Approvals of the NSCT are conveyed to the particular TSP who had initiated the request. The entire process has its checks and balances to avoid any mistakes and ensure total secrecy in handling the vast amount of data,” he said.The development comes in the wake of the government trying to reduce India’s dependence on Chinese telecom products, ever since the clash in Galway Valley in June last year. The safety and security of the country’s data have been among the foremost concerns.“We are the only nation in the world that decided to implement a positive list of trusted telecom products. A team of about 40 engineers has worked for six months in creating this portal,” Pant said. “The portal also takes into account the source of all the active components inside the equipment and you can imagine the effort we need to put in. The first challenge of the portal being launched on time has been achieved, and we are resolved in making this Directive a success to ensure national security. The world is keenly watching this unique initiative of India.”He added that the major vendors and their products will be verified and the first list of trusted sources and products is expected to be out in first half of October. After that it will be updated on a monthly basis.Pant also stressed that any equipment required for maintenance of the existing network is not covered by this directive, dispelling any concerns regarding delays in the sector. “The operators have nothing to worry and even we are concerned not to create any disruptions or impact the ease of doing business in any way...we are also giving one-time exemptions for any urgent cases and the TSPs are satisfied with these actions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1st-list-of-trusted-telecom-sources-to-be-out-in-oct-cyber-security-coordinator-101632133565981.html
20-09-2021||India||India, Nepal begin joint military exercise in Uttarakhand||India and Nepal began on Monday a 14-day combined battalion-level military exercise, called ‘Surya Kiran’, in Uttarakhand's Pithoragarh.During the exercise, which will continue till October 3, an Infantry Battalion each from the Indian Army and the Nepali Army will be training together to develop inter-operability and share their experience of counter-terrorism and disaster relief operations. 15th Edition of India-Nepal Joint Military Training Exercise #SuryaKiran is commencing from 20 Sep 21 at #Pithoragarh. The exercise is aimed at sharing experiences gained during the conduct of various counter insurgency operations by both countries.#IndianArmy#StrongAndCapable pic.twitter.com/CF76YmAGuAMore than 650 soldiers from both the countries, including the Indian Army's Garhwal Regiment, are participating in the 15th edition of the exercise at the Friendship Ground of the Army in Pithoragarh. An Army officer involved with the joint exercise said it includes 48 hours of gruelling drill to validate counter insurgency operations in mountainous terrains. The exercise will improve bilateral relationship between two armies and will be a major step to strengthen friendly relations between countries, he said."Every year there is a battalion exercise. One year it is in Nepal and, another year it is held in India. It is an exercise, in which we will establish military relations between the two countries. To provide training in counter-terrorism and to provide humanitarian assistance, medical evacuation under disaster management, we will be conducting this exercise," lieutenant seneral SS Mahal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The previous Surya Kiran military exercise was held in Nepal in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-nepal-begin-joint-military-exercise-in-uttarakhand-101632132024548.html
20-09-2021||India||Big Tech forays into India’s impoverished farms. Will it help?||Global tech giants and homegrown start-ups have set their sights deep into India’s impoverished farm economy. They believe the sector can offer opportunities worth billions at a time when the Modi government is wagering big on private investment to transform the country’s agriculture sector.
20-09-2021||India||‘Old habit’: BJP says Congress made Channi Punjab CM to win Dalit votes||Taking a fresh dig at Punjab’s ruling dispensation, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) in charge of the state unit, Dushyant Kumar Gautam on Monday said that selecting Charanjit Singh Channi as the first Dalit chief minister is part of the Congress’ “conspiracy” to get Dalit votes. After what can be justified as a roller-coaster of political events in Punjab, the Congress party on Sunday chose Charanjit Singh Channi to become the 16th chief minister to succeed Captain Amarinder Singh—who quit after claiming he “felt humiliated”.“This is an old habit of the Congress. It believes that it can capture the Dalit vote bank by making a Dalit the chief minister for a few months. A conspiracy is being hatched in Punjab to grab Dalit vote bank,” Gautam, who also belongs to the community, said. “The Congress has humiliated Dalits innumerable times,” he added.Emphasising his point, the BJP leader said that Congress in the past had made a similar move in Maharashtra and Rajasthan as well. Gautam pointed out that Congress made Dalit leader Sushil Kumar Shinde the chief minister of Maharashtra in 2003, only to replace him with Vilasrao Deshmukh when the party won the assembly elections in 2004.Also Read | Why will Charanjit Singh Channi have two deputies? Harish Rawat explainsThe BJP leader noted that in Rajasthan too, Congress made Jagannath Pahadia the chief minister of the state in 1980 but removed him from the post within a year. Gautam claimed that Congress often used former deputy prime minister Jagjivan Ram to grab votes of the Dalit community, but “insulted” him and even went to the extent of removing him from the party when the time came to pay him his due.Gautam is not the only BJP leader to take a jibe at Congress for selecting Channi. On Sunday, BJP’s IT cell head Amit Malviya tweeted that Channi faces action in a Me Too case after the three-time MLA allegedly sent an inappropriate text to a woman IAS officer in 2018. “It was covered up but the case resurfaced when the Punjab Women’s Commission sent notice. Well done, Rahul (Congress leader Rahul Gandhi),” Malviya added in his post.Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday took to the micro-blogging site to congratulate Channi for swearing-in as Punjab’s chief minister. “Will continue to work with the Punjab government for the betterment of the people of Punjab,” PM Modi tweeted.Notably, Punjab will go into elections next year. Channi was unanimously chosen for the charge after Amarinder Singh quit following four-and-half years of reign in the state. Singh’s departure was a culmination of the constant scuffle between him and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/old-habit-bjp-says-congress-made-channi-punjab-cm-to-win-dalit-votes-101632131762531.html
20-09-2021||India||Peace in border areas essential for bilateral ties with China: Shringla||India has told China that peace in the border areas is essential for developing bilateral ties in the wake of Chinese attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) over the past year, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Monday. As an immediate neighbour of Afghanistan, India is also concerned following the Taliban takeover of the country and its implications for the region, Shringla said while addressing JP Morgan’s India Investor Summit. Shringla, who was speaking on the theme “India’s foreign policy and its strategic imperative: The way forward”, listed “megatrends” the country is contending with, including a rebalancing in which global activity is moving towards Asia, the rise of China, the pressure on international systems, the vulnerability of global supply and value chains, emerging technologies, and “a battle between schools of thought”. Also Read | China launches unmanned spacecraft with supplies for under-construction space stationHe described the standoff with China and the situation in Afghanistan among the geopolitical challenges in India’s immediate neighbourhood. These situations were a reminder that traditional security challenges remain even while new realities are making themselves felt. “Chinese attempts over the last year to unilaterally alter the status quo in Ladakh have seriously disturbed peace and tranquillity in the border areas. These acts are in violation of our bilateral agreements and have inevitably impacted other aspects of the bilateral relationship,” Shringla said. “We have made it clear to the Chinese side that peace and tranquillity in border areas is essential for development of our relationship. Development of India-China relationship can only be based on ‘three mutuals’ – mutual respect, mutual sensitivity and mutual interests,” he said. Shringla also reiterated India’s stated position that the largely positive trajectory of India-China ties in the past 40 years was largely due to the agreement between the two sides to ensure peace and tranquillity in the border areas. India has insisted that the overall normalisation of relations with China is linked to disengagement and de-escalation at friction points on the LAC. On the other hand, Beijing has said New Delhi should take forward relations in other areas while dealing with the border standoff separately. Shringla said India is “naturally concerned about the recent changes within Afghanistan and their implications” for the region. While the immediate focus has been on evacuating Indian nationals from Afghanistan, he noted the recent UN Security Council resolution 2593 demands that Afghan soil should not be used for sheltering, training, planning or financing terror acts and also specifically refers to terrorists proscribed by the Security Council, including those from Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM). Most Indians were able to leave Kabul in August, and a number of Afghans, including minorities, who wanted to travel to India, have also been able to do so. “However, this process could not be completed due to the security situation at the airport. Resumption of flights from Kabul airport is, therefore, a priority,” he added. India is also monitoring developments related to the humanitarian needs of Afghanistan. “In UNDP’s assessment, there is an imminent threat of poverty levels rising in Afghanistan. There is also a threat of an imminent drought and a food security crisis. It is important for the humanitarian assistance providers to be given unrestricted and direct access to Afghanistan,” Shringla said. The distribution of humanitarian assistance has to be done in a non-discriminatory manner to all sections of Afghan society, and India’s approach to Afghanistan is guided by the civilisational relationship with the Afghan people, he said. Shringla also recalled India’s development aid worth $3 billion and more than 500 projects spread across all 34 provinces of Afghanistan, and said these initiatives had earned the country tremendous goodwill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peace-in-border-areas-essential-for-bilateral-ties-with-china-says-shringla-101632132067056.html
20-09-2021||India||Babul Supriyo says Mamata Banerjee's words music to his ears||Former Union minister Babul Supriyo said he had a very “musical talk” with Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee and the latter’s words were music to his ears.The singer-turned-politician who recently jumped ship from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to the ruling camp in Bengal said the chief minister asked him to work and sing with all his heart. Speaking further about his meeting with the CM in Kolkata, Supriyo said she urged him to continue with his musical endeavours even during the upcoming Durga puja festival.He further thanked Banerjee and her nephew Abhishek, who now heads the party as the national general secretary, for welcoming him into the TMC family with much warmth and affection.Also read | ‘Wait and watch’: TMC says more leaders to join after Babul Supriyo’s entry“I'm very happy to meet her (Banerjee). The affection and warmth with which she welcomed me to the TMC family...She asked me to work with all my heart and sing with all my heart which I think is an icing on the cake. She said 'Pujor samayo tumi gaan karo' (sing even during the Puja),” Supriyo was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“We had a very musical talk. At the same time whatever she said was really music to my ears. I want to thank Didi and Abhishek for welcoming me so affectionately and warmly to the TMC family,” he added.On Sunday, Supriyo said he would not wish to campaign for Banerjee for the upcoming bypoll in Bhabanipur slated to be held on September 30.Regarding his decision to switch loyalty to the Trinamool Congress, of which he had been a vocal critic, the former Union minister of state for environment said he had been in politics for seven years now and felt it was a good opportunity for public welfare.Supriyo was stripped off his portfolio during the recent Cabinet reshuffle at the Centre following which he had announced to “quit” politics in July. However, he later decided not to reliquish his membership of the Parliament where he represented the Asansol constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babul-supriyo-says-mamata-banerjee-s-word-music-to-his-ears-101632131481680.html
20-09-2021||India||I have a weakness for pizzas and chocolates: Pankaj Advani||A game of billiards might not sound like a very strenuous sport to most, however physical fitness and flexibility play an important role in it. In a candid chat, 23-time billiards and snooker world champion Pankaj Advani debunks such assumptions and opens up about his diet and fitness mantra.Born in Pune, Advani started playing cue sports when he was 10 years old. “Back then, people used to make fun of my height and not take me seriously as I was always the youngest and shortest player. Years of hard work and practice helped me deliver performances that are appreciated by all,” says the 36-year-old.The athlete, who was also into badminton, cricket, basketball and table tennis during his school days, says cue sports have always been his favourite. “Once I got introduced to billiards and snooker, I was obsessed. The thrill of competing and evolving as an athlete keeps me going,” he says.The recipient of the Arjuna award (2004), Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award (2006) and Padma Shri award (2009), believes in remaining physically fit for good performance. “Professionally, I have a gym routine for alternate days, almost 3 to 4 times a week as working on one’s core, flexibility and stability is key to performing efficiently at the highest level,” he shares. On other days, he prefers going for walks and an occasional run to increase his cardiovascular capacity.When it comes to his diet, the athlete sticks to healthy options. “I like keeping my stomach light and not overeating, especially during training or tournaments. I am a vegetarian and love my fruits, fruit juices and veggies. Having said that, I do have a weakness for pizzas and anything to do with chocolates so I indulge in them, occasionally,” he says, adding, “My mantra is simple: Everything in moderation.”Billiards is a game of finesse and control whereas snooker is about power and hitting. Maintaining consistency in both is not an easy feat. “Nothing comes to us easily in life. One has to learn to deal with both success and failure in a mature way. Sports psychology is very essential in developing athletes mentally, emotionally and spiritually. I’m lucky to have my brother, Shree, take care of that as he is a sports psychologist,” he says.Ask him about his favourites at the Tokyo Games this year, he is quick to answer, “They all gave it their best at the Olympics and the results showed us that we can be the best if we believe in more and dream big. Lovlina (Borgohain), Aditi Ashok and our women’s hockey team were my heroes this time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-have-a-weakness-for-pizzas-and-chocolates-pankaj-advani-101632129665639.html
20-09-2021||India||SC seeks Centre's response on plea seeking priority Covid-19 vaccination for pregnant women||The Supreme Court on Monday issued a notice to the Union government over a petition seeking directions to the latter to classify pregnant women and lactating mothers as “high-risk” category for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and, as such, give them priority for vaccination against the viral illness, news agency PTI reported.Also Read | Pregnant women can now get vaccinatedA bench of Justice DY Chandrachud and Justice BV Nagarathna directed the Centre to file its response within two weeks over the plea filed by the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR).During the hearing, advocate Vrinda Grover, who appeared on behalf of the child rights body, argued that though the Central government issued guidelines for inoculating pregnant women against Covid-19, it is now being claimed that vaccinating them could lead to “adverse effects.” “We need to declare women facing such conditions as high-risk categories, and since people are dealing with a virus that they don’t know much about, there is a need to conduct continuous research to observe the effects of vaccination on them,” Grover submitted in the top court, adding that a platform should also be set up to register women, who are expecting, for the purpose of properly monitoring the effects of a Covid-19 jab on them.Noting that the DCPCR’s appeal was filed in May this year during the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, the bench sought assistance of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, the Centre’s top law officer, to apprise it on the policy to administer vaccine shots to pregnant women, and what additional steps can be taken.On July 2, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) announced that women who are pregnant will, henceforth, be eligible for the ongoing nationwide inoculation drive, which commenced on January 16. Under the exercise, at least 808,568,144 doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered in the country till now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-centre-s-response-on-plea-seeking-priority-covid-19-vaccination-for-pregnant-women-101632127047691.html
20-09-2021||India||TN exhausts stock, vaccination halted today after Sunday’s 1.6m inoculations||Tamil Nadu inoculated at least 1.6 million people as of 8pm on Sunday, thereby exhausting its vaccine stock for a second time this month. “The vaccines in our hand are over, so tomorrow no facility will be able to conduct vaccination ,” health minister M Subramanian said on Sunday evening. “We request that people who have registered to receive a vaccine tomorrow not to go to camps... We hope we will receive more vaccines from the Centre tomorrow so that the process can be re-started.”Previously on September 12, again a Sunday, Tamil Nadu conducted a 12-hour mega vaccination drive, and managed to inoculate 2.89 million people. At that time, the state had 2.9 million doses in hand and had conducted the drive across 40,000 camps. This time it had half the number of vaccine doses (about 1.1 million of Covishield and 500,000 of Covaxin) and the state held only 20,000 camps with the target of administering 1.5 million doses. The state health department is distributing vaccines to all districts based on their population and vaccination performance indicators. There is a special focus along the nine districts bordering Kerala which is witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases and is also dealing with Nipah and Zika, putting Tamil Nadu on alert. Also Read | Tamil Nadu government’s preventive measures kept Zika, Nipah virus at bay: SubramanianThough Tamil Nadu’s tally is hovering around 1,500-1,600 new cases daily, officials do not want to let their guard down. “Vaccination is the only way to prevent a third wave,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “As of today, in September alone we have crossed the milestone of vaccinating 10 million people. Since January, government facilities alone have vaccinated more than 40 million people. “We are slated to receive the next batch of vaccines only on September 22 but we have approached the Centre to send us supplies tomorrow,” Radhakrishnan told reporters on Sunday. “But this is a good position to be in. From January to March, when we have vaccine stocks, the public wasn’t coming forward to take it. We have also asked for more vaccines based on our higher population as compared to the other states.”Tamil Nadu’s vaccination story started from absolute hesitancy due to fear of side-effects among other factors. The perception began to change only during May and June when the second wave of Covid-19 peaked. But vaccination numbers were still low. July onwards, there has been a steady supply of vaccines from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tnexhausts-stock-vaccination-halted-today-after-sunday-s-1-6m-inoculations-101632126545370.html
20-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Ex-IAS Rajiv Aggarwal takes over as Facebook's public policy head and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Former bureaucrat Rajiv Aggarwal takes over as Facebook’s public policy headAggarwal will report to Ajit Mohan, vice president & managing director, Facebook India, and will be a part of the India leadership team. Read moreWest Bengal BJP not to contest Rajya Sabha bypollsThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in West Bengal has decided not to contest the Rajya Sabha by-election which is scheduled to be held on October. Read more'If he wanted to, he could have done it after the tournament': Gambhir on Kohli's decision to step down as RCB captainVirat Kohli on Sunday announced that he has decided to step down as captain of Royal Challengers Bangalore at the completion of the IPL 2021. Read moreShabana Azmi in Spielberg-produced Halo, Pravessh Rana in Apple's Foundation; new wave of Indians heading to HollywoodShabana Azmi will appear in the Steven Spielberg-produced series Halo; Kubbra Sait and Pravessh Rana are in Apple's Foundation. Read morePost pregnancy diet: Nutrition tips new mothers must follow, as per AyurvedaAyurveda says resting for about six to eight weeks after giving birth and consuming a nutritious diet is important for full recovery. Read moreOla Electric S1 Pro gets more interest than Ola Electric S1. What's better?Ola Electric has priced the S1 electric scooter at ₹1 lakh while the S1 Pro is priced at ₹1.30 lakh. Read more'170 km/h': Gadkari travels in speeding car to check Mumbai-Delhi ExpresswayIn a video, Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari was seen inspecting a stretch of the expressway in a Kia Carnival car. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-ex-ias-rajiv-aggarwal-takes-over-as-facebook-s-public-policy-head-101632120961433.html
20-09-2021||India||Mayawati says Congress yet to trust Dalits fully as Channi becomes Punjab CM||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati said on Monday Charanjit Singh Channi’s appointment as the next chief minister of Punjab appeared to be a poll gimmick while congratulating the latter for his new role. She also hit out at the Congress over Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat’s reported statement that the next assembly election in the state would be contested under party president Navjot Singh Sidhu.The 58-year-old Channi, who was sworn-in by governor Banwarilal Purohit at a simple ceremony in the Raj Bhavan, became the first Dalit Sikh to head the state. Channi's name was announced by the Congress a day after Amarinder Singh put in his papers citing humiliation following months of power-sharing tussle.Mayawati said the Congress’ move to contest the state polls under a non-Dalit meant the grand old party did not fully trust the community. Also, it revealed the Congress was apprehensive of the alliance the BSP had formed with the Akalis.Also read | PM Modi congratulates new Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi“I congratulate Charanjit Singh Channi on becoming Punjab CM. It would have been better if he had been appointed as CM earlier,” the BSP head was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“I have also come to know through media that the next Punjab assembly elections will be fought under the leadership of a non-Dalit. This means the Congress still does not fully trust the Dalits. Congress is also scared of the SAD-BSP alliance in Punjab,” the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said.In June this year, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and BSP joined hands for the 2022 Assembly election in the state with leaders of the two parties calling it a “historic” move that would usher in inclusive development in the state.Earlier in the day, veteran Congress leader and former state unit chief Sunil Jakhar said he was baffled by Rawat’s statement that election in the state would be led by Sidhu. He said Rawat’s announcement coming on the day of Channi's swearing-in could undermine the latter’s authority while also justify his selection for the position.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mayawati-says-congress-yet-to-trust-dalits-fully-as-channi-becomes-punjab-cm-101632121757812.html
20-09-2021||India||West Bengal BJP not to contest Rajya Sabha bypolls||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in West Bengal has decided not to contest the Rajya Sabha by-election which is scheduled to be held on October. “BJP will not nominate any candidate for Rajya Sabha bypoll due in West Bengal. The outcome is predetermined. Our focus is to make sure unelected CM to be unelected once again. Jai Ma Kali,” tweeted Suvendu Adhikari, leader of the opposition in the West Bengal legislative assembly. Also Read | Poll campaign for Samserganj, Jangipur elections in Bengal to begin todayThe Trinamool Congress has named Sushmita Dev, who recently joined the Mamata Banerjee-led party after quitting the Congress, for the bypoll which was necessitated after TMC leader Manas Bhunia vacated the Rajya Sabha seat after winning the assembly polls from Sabang in West Midnapore district. The TMC controls 11 of 16 Rajya Sabha seats from the state, while Congress has two and CPI(M) one. Last week, TMC leader Arpita Ghosh resigned from the Rajya Sabha on the instructions of the party’s top leaders. The seat is now vacant. The BJP’s unit in the state did not contest the August 9 Rajya Sabha by-election too, paving the way for TMC nominee Jawhar Sircar to be elected unopposed. The BJP is focusing on the by-election to Bhabanipur assembly seat scheduled on September 30. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is contesting from Bhabanipur to retain her chief ministerial berth. The BJP has pitted youth leader and advocate Priyanka Tibrewal against her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-bjp-not-to-contest-rajya-sabha-bypolls-101632122045408.html
20-09-2021||India||‘Will continue to work with you for betterment of people’: PM Modi congratulates new Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday congratulated Charanjit Singh Channi after the latter was sworn-in as the 16th chief minister of Punjab. Taking to Twitter, PM Modi said that the Union government will continue to work with the border state’s new government for the betterment of the people.Also Read | Charanjit Singh Channi takes oath as next Punjab chief minister“Congratulations to Shri Charanjit Singh Channi Ji on being sworn-in as Punjab’s chief minister. Will continue to work with the Punjab government for the betterment of the people of Punjab,” Prime Minister Modi tweeted, congratulating the new chief minister who was administered oath of office at the Raj Bhavan in Chandigarh a little after 11am. Congratulations to Shri Charanjit Singh Channi Ji on being sworn-in as Punjab’s Chief Minister. Will continue to work with the Punjab government for the betterment of the people of Punjab.Along with Channi, two deputy CMs, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni, were also sworn-in. Also Read | Sukhjinder Randhawa, OP Soni sworn in as Punjab deputy CMsOn Sunday, Channi, who is fifty-eight years old, was elected as the leader of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) in Punjab, paving the way for him to become the next chief minister of the northern state, which is likely to go to polls early next year.Also Read | A grassroots leader who rose through the ranks rapidlyA three-term and sitting MLA from the Chamkaur Sahib assembly constituency, Channi is the first member from Punjab's Dalit community to be elected to the state's top post. Under Captain Amarinder Singh, who resigned last Saturday, he held the portfolio of technical education and industrial training. Channi has also been the leader of Opposition in the Punjab assembly.The Congress currently has 80 legislators in the 117-member assembly. In 2017, the party returned to power here by convincingly defeating the-then ruling Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) combine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-continue-to-work-for-betterment-of-people-pm-modi-congratulates-new-punjab-cm-charanjit-singh-channi-101632120453768.html
20-09-2021||India||Vice President calls for modernising agriculture to boost farmers’ income||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu has called for modernisation of agriculture to boost rural economy. Speaking at an event in Gurugram on Sunday, Naidu said, “Building on our past experiences, we must regularly revisit and renew our strategies on agriculture and rural development and introduce new technologies as part of our efforts to build a self-reliant India.”He said agriculture is the backbone of the Indian economy and the country cannot progress if the villages remain underdeveloped. Agriculture is the primary source of livelihood for about 58% of India’s population, according to a report by IBEF. The Vice President underscored the need to guarantee income security for the nation’s farmers and to unshackle the latent potential of India’s rural economy. He said, “Doubling the farmers’ income should be our endeavour. Along with this, the quality of life of people in rural areas should be improved.”While there is no official data on the rural household income for recent years, the Reserve Bank of India data on agricultural wages, an important component of the rural income, illustrates a decreasing rate of growth between 2014 and 2019.In the traditional village economy, a MGNREGS worker is considered as the poorest. However, as reported last week by Hindustan Times, the latest Situation Assessment Survey (SAS) shows that for all but five states in India, average income from cultivation per agricultural household is actually less than what MGNREGS work would theoretically pay in 365 days. This illustrates the urgent need to improve agricultural incomes in the economy. Naidu’s comments come in the backdrop of the farmers’ agitation that has continued for more than ten months with hundreds of farmers agitating against the controversial farm laws. The protest has caused obstruction of traffic and road blockades in multiple regions of Delhi-NCR, Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, and in a smaller measure across other states, leading to a disruption of supply chains which had already been under pressure post-lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vice-president-calls-for-modernising-agriculture-to-boost-farmers-income-101632120244961.html
20-09-2021||India||Magnitude 5 earthquake hits Manipur, no loss of life or property||An earthquake measuring 5.0 on the Richter scale hit the northeastern state of Manipur at around 12.54 am on Monday, according to the National Centre for Seismology (NCS), ministry of earth sciences. The loss to life or property was reported in the aftermath of the quake, which originated at a depth of 82 km and had its epicentre around 31km from Shirui in Manipur’s Ukhrul district, as per NCS data.Most of the residents kept sleeping through the tremors. “We are not aware of it,” said an Imphal West district resident. Residents of other districts such as Senapati, Tamenglong, and Ukhrul.An earthquake with a magnitude of 4.9 on the Richter scale struck the state on July 26 this year. Its epicentre was close to Ukhrul district too.On January 4, 2016, Manipur witnessed a strong earthquake measuring 6.7 on the Richter scale with its epicentre in Tamenglong. It claimed eight lives and damaged many houses and structures including the iconic ‘Nupi Keithel’ (Women’s market) in Imphal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/magnitude-5-earthquake-hits-manipur-no-loss-of-life-or-property-101632119945086.html
20-09-2021||India||Covid-19: India's active caseload at six-month low, positivity rate at 2.57%||Even as fresh Covid-19 infections remained above the 30,000-mark for the fifth day in a row on Monday, the active caseload declined to 0.95 per cent, the lowest since March.At 3,18,181, India’s active case count was at its minimum in 183 days, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said. A reduction of 13,977 cases was recorded in the active caseload in a span of 24 hours.The country saw 30,256 people testing positive for the coronavirus in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 3,34,78,419.On Sunday, 30,772 cases were registered with the active count touching 0.99 per cent. This was a 13.7 per cent less than Saturday’s figures when 35,662 fresh cases were reported. Also read | 200k volunteers, 400k workers drafted to fight Covid in rural areasOn Friday, 34,403 samples tested positive across the country, while the figure was 30,570 on Thursday. While the weekly positivity rate (2.07 per cent) remained below three per cent for 87 days, the daily positivity rate (2.57 per cent) has been less than three per cent for 21 days, the ministry said.The country reported less than 50,000 daily new cases for 85 straight days.With 43,938 people getting cured from the viral disease, the cumulative recoveries stood at 3,27,15,105 at a rate of 97.72 per cent.As many as 295 people died due to related complications which pushed the fatality tally to 4,45,133.Also read | Covid-19 vaccination drive scaled up in poll-bound statesMeanwhile, 37 lakh (37,78,296) doses of the vaccine against the virus was administered in the last 24 hours taking the nationwide tally to 80.85 crore.The last week also marked a record vaccination drive with over 2.5 crore doses being administered on Friday on the occasion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-india-s-active-caseload-at-six-month-low-positivity-rate-at-257-101632115969668.html
20-09-2021||India||Former bureaucrat Rajiv Aggarwal takes over as Facebook’s public policy head||Social media giant Facebook on Monday announced that former bureaucrat and Uber executive Rajiv Aggarwal will be taking over as director of public policy. In his new role, Aggarwal will define and lead important policy development initiatives for Facebook in India on an agenda that covers user safety, data protection & privacy, inclusion and internet governance. Aggarwal will report to Ajit Mohan, vice president & managing director, Facebook India, and will be a part of the India leadership team.Ajit Mohan said Facebook is an ally for the exciting economic and social transformation that India is witnessing, with digital playing a central role. “We realise we are deeply immersed in the fabric of India and we have the opportunity to help build a more inclusive and safe internet that benefits everyone in the country. I’m thrilled that Rajiv is joining us to lead the public policy team.” With his expertise and experience, Rajiv will help further our mission to build transparency, accountability, empowered and safe communities, all of which we recognize as our responsibility,” he added.Also Read | Facebook’s broken policies, tech, and managementAggarwal will succeed Ankhi Das who stepped down in October last year after a controversy erupted over Facebook’s enforcement of its hate speech policy. Reports suggested that the social media company did not remove content by members of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party Aggarwal’s last assignment was with Uber where he was the head of public policy for India and South Asia, the statement said. He comes with 26 years of experience as an Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officer, and has worked as a district magistrate in nine districts across Uttar Pradesh. He steered India’s first ever-national policy on Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) as joint secretary in the department for promotion of industry and internal trade, and was instrumental in the digital transformation of India’s IP offices, the statement said.He has been closely associated with the India-US bilateral trade forum, besides being India’s lead negotiator on IPRs with other nations, it added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-bureaucrat-rajiv-aggarwal-takes-over-as-facebook-s-public-policy-head-101632118024900.html
20-09-2021||India||Visakhapatnam couple has twins same day they lost 2 daughters||A Visakhapatnam couple became the proud parents of twin daughters the same day two of their children were killed two years ago in a boat accident. T Appala Raju and Bhagyalakshmi lost their daughters in a boat accident on September 15, 2019, in the Godavari river. Appala Raju’s mother was also killed in the accident as they were going to Lord Ram's temple in Bhadrachalam in the neighbouring state of Telangana, according to news agency PTI."We are so happy and blessed. It’s all God’s grace," Bhagyalakshmi was quoted as saying by the news agency.Bhagyalakshmi and her husband, who works with a glass manufacturing unit, approached a fertility centre in the city last year. And, they were blessed with twin daughters delivered through the IVF process on September 15. "We did not expect twins, but it’s a real blessing," Bhagyalakshmi said, according to PTI.The twins weighed 1.9kg and 1.6kg and are healthy.Dr Sudha Padmasree said the case was taken up as a challenge and priority, reported the agency. "The couple were fully supportive," she added.The boat with 77 passengers on board capsized on September 15, 2019, in the swirling waters of Godavari river at Katchuluru of Devipatnam block in Andhra Pradesh’s Godavari district killing 51 people. The 77 passengers were on their way to the picturesque tourist spot Papikondalu, about 60km from Rajahmundry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/visakhapatnam-couple-has-twins-same-day-they-lost-2-daughters-101632115750462.html
20-09-2021||India||Charanjit Singh Channi takes oath as next Punjab chief minister||Congress' Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday took oath as the 16th chief minister of Punjab, replacing Captain Amarinder Singh who resigned on Saturday amid the ongoing political tussle with the party’s state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu. The 58-year-old Dalit Sikh leader was administered the oath of office and secrecy by Governor Banwarilal Purohit at a simple ceremony. He took the oath in Punjabi. Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat and Navjot Singh Sidhu were also present at the ceremony.Also Read | Charanjit Singh Channi appointment doesn’t hurt Sidhu’s CM prospects in PunjabBorn in Punjab’s Bhajauli village near Kurali in 1963, Channi has quickly risen through the ranks in the Congress party. He has also served as a member of the assembly three times from the Chamkaur Sahib constituency. Channi also served as technical education minister in Amarinder Singh's cabinet.Before the swearing-in ceremony, Channi met Harish Rawat. Later in the day, Channi is scheduled to meet Amarinder Singh.Amarinder Singh resigned from the post of Punjab chief minister on Saturday following months of infighting between him and Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. The resignation came less than an hour before Congress held a legislature party (CLP) meeting, which was originally planned to mitigate the infighting.Also Read | Why will Charanjit Singh Channi have two deputies? Harish Rawat explainsFollowing Amarinder Singh’s resignation and hours of meetings and deliberations, the party unanimously elected Channi as the leader of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) of Punjab on Sunday. Rahul Gandhi congratulated Channi after the announcement. “Congratulations to Shri Charanjit Singh Channi Ji for the new responsibility. We must continue to fulfill the promises made to the people of Punjab. Their trust is of paramount importance,” Gandhi tweeted.Punjab Congress leaders Brahm Mohindra and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa will be the two deputies to Charanjit Singh Channi as the state heads to the assembly elections next year. The Congress has 80 MLAs in the state assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/charanjit-singh-channi-takes-oath-as-next-punjab-chief-minister-101632116333735.html
20-09-2021||India||UP CM Yogi Adityanath says Ambedkar taught Rashtra Dharma, not caste politics||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that previous governments had paid lip service to the scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and the backward classes, and the Bharatiya Janata Party government, in comparison, had been busy renovating and beautifying memorials of iconic personalities from these communities.Speaking as the chief guest at the concluding session of the national executive of BJP’s Scheduled Caste (SC) Morcha in Varanasi on Sunday, Adityanath said that it was Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who finally launched the ‘Swachh Bharat Mission’ in 2014 after other governments had failed to deliver any substantial benefits for the backward communities. Adityanath said that due to the Swachh Bharat Mission, toilets were built in the homes of 100 million people across the country and 95% of the beneficiaries were from the SCs, STs and the Other Backward Classes (OBCs). A total of 26.1 million people were given assistance to build toilets in Uttar Pradesh, he added.Yogi also said that the Swachh Bharat Mission brought unprecedented improvement in the lives of people and changed India’s image in the world. Listing other welfare schemes started by the BJP-led Central government, Yogi said houses were given to 25 million people under the ‘PM Awas Yojana’ in the country. In Uttar Pradesh, 4.2 million people were given houses after 2017, he said, adding that free ration was being given to 800 million people in the country including 150 million people in Uttar Pradesh.Yogi alleged that during the Samajwadi Party’s rule, deaths due to starvation were reported from Sonbhadra, Kushinagar and Chitrakoot districts because the free ration meant for the poor was getting cornered by SP workers instead. He said that the fraud ended following a probe-- ordered by the BJP government after assuming power in the state in 2017—which found 4 million fake ration cards.Yogi said that during the Covid-19 pandemic, no one was left to die of hunger as free ration was ensured for all the poor people.Listing several projects to beautify and renovate memorials for icons from the backward communities, Yogi said Sant Ravidas temple was being made at Seer Govardhan in Varanasi, a memorial to Maharaja Suheldev was being built in Bahraich, apart from a national memorial to Baba Saheb Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar in Lucknow. He said people who were in power earlier should be asked as to why this work was not done during their tenure. In poll bound Uttar Pradesh, where the BJP aims to return to power by overcoming identity politics among the Hindu population, CM Adityanath recalled Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar’s philosophy. He said that Ambedkar was revered due to his work for social justice, equality and Indian values and tradition. He claimed that Ambedkar’s contemporary Jogendranath Mandal was forgotten soon since he favoured the creation of Pakistan and worked against Rashtra Dharma (duty towards the nation) and those who were opposed to the Rashtra Dharma today will meet the same fate.“Remember, we have no caste..., we have only one religion that is Rashtradharma. The one who follows rashtra dharma and works for rashtra dharma will be revered. The society will offer him respect,” Yogi said. Asserting that the BJP did not do caste politics, he said, the party worked to bring harmony in the society. He claimed that the BJP governments had implemented many public welfare schemes to realise the dreams of Ambedkar to bring about a radical change in the standard of living of the underprivileged.Speaking of other welfare schemes run by the Central government, he pointed out that 500 million people had benefited from the ‘Ayushman Bharat’ health insurance scheme which guarantees free treatment up to ₹5 lakh/ year for poor people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-says-ambedkar-taught-rashtradharma-not-caste-politics-101632116944720.html
20-09-2021||India||Mobile numbers linked to Aadhaar: Scope of TAFCOP service expanded||A service recently, launched by the central government which enables users to check all the phone numbers linked with their Aadhaar numbers, now covers more geographical area. The Telecom Analytics for Fraud Management and Consumer Protection (TAFCOP) portal now covers the users in Delhi and its nearby National Capital Region (NCR), according to a report in Livemint.TAFCOP was so far available in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.It also allows users to check all the phone numbers linked with their Aadhaar numbers. The government plans to make it pan-India in the near future, Livemint reported."This website has been developed to help subscribers, check the number of mobile connections working in their name, and take necessary action for regularising their additional mobile connections if any. However, the primary responsibility of handling the Customer Acquisition Form (CAF) lies with the service providers," the Department of Telecom (DoT) has mentioned on the TAFCOP website.As per government rules, individual mobile subscribers can register up to nine mobile connections in their name.Here are the steps a user needs to follow to check phone numbers registered against the Aadhaar number:1) Visit the TAFCOP website. You will see a field on the home page to enter the mobile number.2) Now, click on the 'Request OTP' tab.3) To validate, enter the OTP number received.4) All the numbers linked with your Aadhaar number will be displayed on the website.5) From these numbers, users can report and block the numbers not in use by themselves or are no longer required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mobile-numbers-linked-to-aadhaar-scope-of-tafcop-service-expanded-101632116144748.html
20-09-2021||India||UP speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit clarifies 'Rakhi Sawant-Mahatma Gandhi' remark||Uttar Pradesh Assembly Speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit is facing the ire of social media users after he made a controversial remark at a gathering of intellectuals. Addressing the event in Unnao on Sunday, Dixit said if one could become great just by dressing scantily, then Bollywood actor "Rakhi Sawant would have become greater than Mahatma Gandhi".He later clarified on Twitter that the remarks were twisted out of context. The remarks were made at 'prabuddh varg sammelan' (meeting of intellectuals) organised by the BJP in the Bangarmau assembly constituency."In our opinion, no one has become an intellectual by writing a book on any topic. If that was the case for so many years, I have read at least 6,000 books," the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader said."Gandhiji used to dress scantily. He used to wrap just a dhoti. The country called him Bapu. If somebody could become great just by taking their clothes off, then Rakhi Sawant would have become greater than Mahatma Gandhi," he added.After a video clipping of his speech went viral on social media, Dixit issues clarification on Twitter and claimed that he is being quoted out of context. "Some friends on social media are showing the clip of a video of my speech which conveys a different meaning," Dixit wrote in Hindi on the micro-blogging site. "This was the part of my speech at the 'prabuddh sammelan' in Unnao, in which the moderator of the 'sammelan' introduced me saying that 'I am an enlightened writer'," he added.
20-09-2021||India||India logs 30,256 new Covid cases, 295 deaths; Kerala remains top contributor||India's Covid-19 tally remained above the 30,000 mark on Monday as the country clocked 30,256 cases in the last 24 hours, the data published on the Union health ministry's website at 8am showed. Kerala remained the leading contributor with 19,653 infections and 152 deaths.The overall nationwide tally has now jumped to 33,478,419, while the death toll stands at 445,133, according to the health ministry.The active cases declined to 318,181 and now comprises 0.95 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020. Meanwhile, the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.72 per cent.The number of people recovered from the viral disease has surged to 32,715,105, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent, the health ministry also mentioned.After Kerala, Maharashtra was the second contributor to the daily cases of the country. On Sunday, the state reported 3,413 new Covid-19 infections of which Mumbai logged 420 fresh cases, as per the state health bulletin.With this, the state tally mounted to 65,21,915 including 42,955 active cases.On Saturday, the ministry of information and broadcasting shared a graphic on social media, listing out symptoms that can occur within 20 days of administration of any vaccine against Covid-19. In such cases, the central government recommended patients to immediately consult a health professional.This includes shortness of breath, chest pain, vomiting or persistent abdominal pain, blurred vision or pain in the eyes and severe or persistent headache. Some may also face weakness in any body part, seizures and pain in limbs or swelling in arms or feet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-tally-remains-above-30-000-for-second-consecutive-day-101632114467426.html
20-09-2021||NA||Highlights: Sand mafia will be finished, says Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi||Congress leader Charanjit Singh Channi was sworn-in as the 16th chief minister of Punjab on Monday at the Raj Bhavan in Chandigarh. He became the first individual from the Dalit community in Punjab to take charge of the top post.Earlier in the day, Channi, a three-time MLA from Rupnagar's Chamkaur Sahib, offered prayers at a gurdwara in Rupnagar.Also Read| Charanjit Singh Channi takes oath as next Punjab chief ministerPunjab Congress in-charge Harish Rawat and state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu were present at the oath taking ceremony. However, former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh skipped the event.Also Read| In first remarks as Punjab CM, Charanjit Singh Channi says he is aam aadmiOn Saturday, the Congress leadership announced Charanjit Channi’s name as the chief minister following day-long consultations within the top leadership. In the previously led Amarinder Singh cabinet, Channi had served as the minister of technical education.Also Read| Infighting to polls: Channi faces tall taskSingh had resigned from the CM’s post on Saturday after months-long power-sharing tussle with Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu. Punjab is one of the last three remaining Congress-ruled states in the country. While putting in his papers, Singh said he felt humiliated - a reference towards the doubts raised by the Congress’ central leadership over his capabilities to run Punjab.  Follow all the updates here:Capt Amarinder did good work for Punjab, will take it forward, says CM ChanniChief minister Charanjit Singh Channi also said on Monday that his predecessor Captain Amarinder Singh did work for Punjab, adding he will take it forward.  Sand mafia will be finished, says Punjab CM Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi said on Monday that sand mafia in the state will be finished, adding, a decision regarding this issue will be taken up in the cabinet today. Punjab CM Channi says aam aadmi's rule established, urges Centre to repeal farm lawsAfter being sworn in as the 16th chief minister of Punjab, Charanjit Singh Channi said on Mondat that aam aadmi's rule has been established the state and urged the Union government to take back the three new farm laws. ‘Congratulate Charanjit Singh on becoming Punjab CM, but…’: BSP chief Mayawati I have also come to know through media that the next Punjab assembly elections will be fought under the leadership of a non-Dalit. This means that Congress still does not fully trust the Dalits. Congress is also scared of the SAD-BSP alliance in Punjab: BSP chief Mayawati pic.twitter.com/uDWLwGaAzYBahujan Samajwadi Party president Mayawati on Monday congratulated Congress leader Charanjit Singh on becoming the 16th chief minister of Punjab but said it would have been better if he was given the charge of the top post earlier.  "Channi's appointment as CM a few months ahead of Punjab assembly elections appears to be a poll gimmick, Mayawati told news agency ANI. PM Modi congratulates new Punjab CM Charanjit Singh ChanniCongratulations to Shri Charanjit Singh Channi Ji on being sworn-in as Punjab’s Chief Minister. Will continue to work with the Punjab government for the betterment of the people of Punjab.“Congratulations to Shri Charanjit Singh Channi Ji on being sworn-in as Punjab’s Chief Minister. Will continue to work with the Punjab government for the betterment of the people of Punjab,” PM Modi tweeted. Rahul Gandhi reaches Raj Bhavan after Channi takes oath as Punjab CM#WATCH Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu congratulate Charanjit Singh Channi on becoming the new Punjab CM#Chandigarh pic.twitter.com/QSl0QY9jI8Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has reached Raj Bhawan moments after Charanjit Singh Channi was sworn-in as Punjab CM.Harish Rawat, Navjot Singh Sidhu attend ceremony, Capt Amarinder  Singh skipsPunjab Congress in-charge Harish Rawat and state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu were present at the oath taking ceremony. However, former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh skipped the ceremony. Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Brahm Mohindra sworn in as deputy CMs of PunjabSukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Brahm Mohindra were sworn in as the deputy chief ministers of Punjab on Monday. Earlier, Brahm Mohindra was tipped to be one of the two deputy chief ministers, but his name was dropped at the eleventh hour.Charanjit Singh Channi takes oath as 16th CM of PunjabCharanjit Singh Channi was sworn-in as the 16th chief minister of Punjab on Monday. Channi became the first individual from the Dalit community in Punjab to take charge of the top post. The 58-year-old leader was administered the oath of office and secrecy by governor Banwarilal Purohit at a simple ceremony in the Raj Bhavan in Chandigarh. He took the oath in Punjabi.Charanjeet Singh Channi arrives at Raj Bhawan, minutes before swearing-in ceremonyChanni has arrived at the Punjab Raj Bhawan. In minutes from now, he will be sworn in as the state's 16th chief minister. Brahm Mohindra, Sukhjinder Randhawa to be Punjab deputy CMsPunjab Congress leaders Brahm Mohindra and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa will be the two deputies to Charanjit Singh Channi, who takes oath as the first Dalit chief minister of the state in the presence of party leader Rahul Gandhi in Chandigarh on Monday. Read moreRahul Gandhi liklely to attend Channi's oath taking cermony Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is likely to attend Charanjit Singh Channi's oath taking ceremony as the 16th CM of Punjab. Shortly: Charanjit Singh Channi to take oath as 16th CM of PunjabMoments from now, Congress leader Charanjit Singh Channi will take oath as the 16th chief minister of Punjab at 11am today in Chandigarh, just a few months before the high-stakes assembly elections in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/charanjit-singh-channi-swearing-in-live-updates-101632112388718.html
20-09-2021||India||Poll campaign for Samserganj, Jangipur elections in Bengal to begin today||Campaign for the Jangipur and Samserganj assembly seats in West Bengal, where elections are scheduled later this month, will take off today.The Election Commission of India (EC) cancelled polls in these two constituencies after the death of two candidates. Elections to 292 other seats were held in March and April.While Rezaul Haque, the Congress candidate from Shamserganj, died on April 15, RSP candidate from Jangipur Pradip Nandi, passed away a day later. Both had tested positive for Covid-19.As per provisions of the Representation of the People Act, in case a candidate of a recognized party dies, the poll is put off to allow the party to decide on a new candidate.Also Read | Kolkata woman allegedly raped in Patna, says she is getting threatsOn September 4, the EC announced elections and by-elections in Bhabanipur, Jangipur and Samserganj. The campaign for the Bhabanipur by-election, from where West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is contesting to retain her berth started the same day.“As the candidates of Jangipur and Sanserganj had the opportunity of campaigning in April and May, this time they have been given a campaign window of just around a week,” said an EC official.The elections are scheduled on September 30, and counting will be held on October 3. The campaign will come to an end three days before the poll date.All political gatherings have been banned because of Covid-19 restrictions imposed by the state government. As a result, political parties are stressing more on door-to-door campaigns.“Due to the pandemic, the EC issued instructions that door-to-door campaigns should be held with a maximum of five persons, including the candidate,” said an EC official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/poll-campaign-for-samserganj-jangipur-elections-in-bengal-to-begin-today-101632114064611.html
20-09-2021||India||Ahmedabad: From today, unvaccinated people banned from using public transport||Starting Monday, people who have not taken any of the two vaccine doses against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will not be allowed to enter public transport or civic buildings in Gujarat's Ahmedabad. The decision was taken to ramp up the inoculation drive and overcome possible vaccine hesitancy.This comes days after Mukesh Kumar, commissioner of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, told news agency PTI that unvaccinated people will be barred from entering into the vehicles of the civic transport service, the Bus Rapid Transit System as well as Kankaria lakefront, Sabarmati riverfront, libraries, gymnasiums and sports complexes.“Entry will be allowed only for persons having one or both doses (if eligible) of vaccine for availing various municipal services. Vaccine certificates shall be checked at the entry point of such facilities. To be effective from 20 September, Monday,” Kumar tweeted last week.Authorities in Gujarat have so far administered 56,704,892 doses to eligible beneficiaries of which nearly 40 million have received the first dose and the remaining 16,748,118 are fully vaccinated, i.e received both doses.Last Friday, on the occasion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 71st birthday, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state government led by chief minister Bhupendra Patel, administered more than 2.21 million doses in Gujarat, establishing a new record in daily inoculations. Of these, Surat administered the highest doses at around 277,000. Ahmedabad administered 231,639 vaccines while followed by Vadodara at 122,986 and Rajkot with 105,829 doses.Meanwhile, the daily Covid-19 tally in Gujarat dropped to a single digit for the first time in 2021; just eight new cases were reported on Sunday, which pushed the caseload up to 825,723. The death toll remains unchanged at 10,082, as no infected patient has succumbed to the viral disease since September 4. The total recoveries in Gujarat have climbed to 815,505 and only 16 active cases are there in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahmedabad-from-today-unvaccinated-people-banned-from-using-public-transport-101632109214241.html
20-09-2021||India||Chhattisgarh: 9 dead in road accident in Bastar’s Kondagaon district||Nine persons returning from a funeral were killed and seven others injured after an autorickshaw, in which they were travelling, collided with a sports utility vehicle (SUV) in Kondagaon district of Bastar region on Sunday, police said. Two among the injured, who were admitted to a local hospital, were said to be in serious condition.The accident took place near Borgaon turn under Farasgaon police station limits when the autorickshaw collided with the SUV, which was coming from Jagdalpur in the evening, said Rahul Dev Sharma, additional superintendent of police, Kondagaon.“Seven people died at the spot while two others died at the hospital. Seven others travelling in the autorickshaw suffered injuries and were admitted to a local hospital,” said the ASP.The driver of the SUV fled from the spot after the incident, leaving the vehicle there.“The deceased and the injured were all related to each other and had gone to attend a funeral at a nearby village,” Sharma said.Police said they have launched a hunt for the driver of the SUV and registered a case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-9-dead-in-road-accident-in-bastar-s-kondagaon-district-101632112864542.html
20-09-2021||India||Widespread rain likely over Gujarat, Rajasthan and MP for next two days||Widespread and heavy rain is likely over Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Uttarakhand till September 23, according to India Meteorological Department.A low pressure area is lying over central parts of east Rajasthan and adjoining west Madhya Pradesh. A cyclonic circulation is lying over northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining areas of north Odisha-West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts. Also Read | No rain, expect cloudy skies in Delhi today: IMDWestern part of the monsoon trough is lying south of its normal position and its eastern end is its near normal position. Due to these meteorological features, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rain is likely over Gujarat, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh during the next 4-5 days. Isolated very heavy rain is also likely over east Rajasthan today; over Gujarat region today and tomorrow and over Saurashtra and Kutch till September 23. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rain is very likely over Uttrakhand till September 23. Widespread rainfall with and isolated heavy rain is likely to continue over Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rain-likely-over-gujarat-rajasthan-and-mp-for-next-two-days-101632112385084.html
20-09-2021||India||Army launches search op along LoC in Uri after detecting suspicious movement||The army has launched a search operation along the Line of Control (LoC) after detecting some suspicious movement in North Kashmir’s Uri sector on Sunday.However, so far no contact has been established, and the army isn’t sure if infiltrators have sneaked into Uri or returned to Pakistan Occupied Kashmir.Defence spokesperson Col Emron Masavi confirmed that suspicious movement was detected along the LoC on the intervening night of September 18/19. “Search of the area is under progress,” he said.Also Read | Hundreds ‘pedal for peace’ in SrinagarThis year there has been significant drop in infiltration attempts on the LoC in North Kashmir especially from Uri, Nowgam, Tanghdar, Keran, Machil and Gurez sectors. Officials at the army’s 19 infantry and 27 infantry divisions, which are responsible for keeping an eye on the LoC from Uri to Gurez, also acknowledge the drop in infiltration attempts from across the LoC.“The guard can’t be lowered as we don’t know when things can turn volatile. Our men are on constant vigil. It’s the strict vigil on the LoC which has prevented infiltration attempts,” said a senior army officer in north Kashmir.Officials said that September and October months are always crucial vis-a-vis infiltration attempts as passes and ridges generally used for the infiltration close due to heavy snowfall. Official sources, however, said in last couple of months, several infiltration attempts were made into Kashmir from various sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-launches-search-op-along-loc-in-uri-after-detecting-suspicious-movement-101632111364367.html
20-09-2021||India||Punjab turmoil may have ripple effect in Rajasthan||The change of guard in Punjab, with the Congress replacing Captain Amarinder Singh with Charanjit Singh Channi as chief minister, may have a rippling effect on Rajasthan politics too where another Congress government has been battling factional rivalry. For a year, chief minister Ashok Gehlot and former deputy CM Sachin Pilot have been at loggerheads. A compromise formula worked out by the party’s central leadership is yet to bring in a thaw in the relationship, with many lawmakers upset about a promised cabinet reshuffle, which is the lynchpin of the compromise formula, taking longer to materialise. For now, the Pilot camp is chuffed by the Punjab development. “We expect good news soon,” said a Congress leader close to Pilot on condition of anonymity. He added that Pilot has already had meetings with senior Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, over the week and was confident that the party will take an “assertive” decision in the coming weeks. Also Read | Don’t take any step to harm Congress, Rajasthan CM Gehlot urges Amarinder SinghBut political watchers say that the ground situation in Rajasthan is different from Punjab as Gehlot still has control over the party, unlike Amarinder Singh, who lost control over Punjab Congress when Navjot Singh Sidhu was appointed its president. Unlike Punjab, where assembly elections are in March 2022, the state polls in Rajasthan are still more than two years away in December 2023. “Gehlot is also very close to the Gandhi family,” political analyst Manish Godha pointed out, suggesting that a repeat of Punjab in Rajasthan is unlikely. He, however, warned that the “party leadership will have to work on pacifying the dissidents as time is running out”. A second senior Congress leader said after Punjab, Rahul Gandhi is expected to focus on Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, where chief minister Bhupesh Baghel may be replaced by health minister T S Singhdeo. He said Pilot met Rahul on Friday evening and had a long discussion, triggering expectations of a cabinet reshuffle and political appointments. Pilot did not respond to HT’s text messages or calls. “What the party leadership has done in Punjab has boosted our confidence that changes would happen here too,” said another legislator close to Pilot — the third to talk about imminent change in Rajasthan government. “The changes are more for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls where the Congress is looking at a three-figure mark,” said the second leader quoted above. Those considered close to Gehlot said there was a huge difference between Amarinder and Gehlot. “Amarinder wasn’t the choice of Delhi for chief ministership, whereas Gehlot was called to Delhi and announced as the CM. In addition, Gehlot enjoys the support of more than 100 MLAs in the state,” said a state cabinet minister considered close to Gehlot. Soon after the Punjab development on Saturday, Gehlot’s officer on special duty (OSD) Lokesh Sharma had remarked on microblogging platform Twitter that when a strong person gets forced and an insignificant person gets an ego massage, then nobody can save the crop from getting eaten by the fence itself. The tweet was seen as a comment on the Congress high command’s handling of the Punjab crisis and sparked controversy, forcing Sharma to resign on Sunday. He, however, claimed that the tweet was not directed at the party high command. On Sunday morning, Gehlot also defended the party high command and added that those in the party who get upset about losing power should listen to their conscience. “I personally believe that the Congress president chooses the CM at the risk of inviting displeasure of several leaders who are in the race for chief ministership. However, when the same chief minister is changed, he/she is displeased and holds the decision wrong. One should listen to one’s inner voice in such moments,” Gehlot tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-turmoil-may-have-ripple-effect-in-rajasthan-101632108544400.html
20-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: ‘Singh’s resignation sign of Congress’ decline in Punjab,’ says opposition and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Amarinder Singh’s resignation sign of Congress’ decline in Punjab’: OppositionCaptain Amarinder Singh’s (retd) resignation as Punjab chief minister on Saturday has brought the focus back on infighting in the Congress party with experts and political rivals suggesting the move could hurt the grand old party’s prospects in the upcoming assembly elections in the state. Read MoreAction-packed week of UN General Assembly to begin. Here's what's on agendaThe 76th session of the UN General Assembly (UNGA) is set to kick off its high-level week, where discussions will be held on expanding access to Covid-19 vaccines and confronting the rising dangers of climate change. Read MoreChanni prays at historic gurdwara before taking oath as Punjab’s first Dalit CMCongress leader Charanjit Singh Channi, 58, who will be taking oath as Punjab’s first Dalit chief minister in Chandigarh at 11am on Monday began his big day by paying obeisance at the Gurdwara Katalgarh Sahib in his Chamkaur Sahib constituency. Read More'I don't know what Pollard was thinking. CSK could have been 60, 70 or 80 all out': Pietersen critical of MI's captaincyKevin Pietersen was pretty outspoken at the mid-innings interval of the Chennai Super Kings vs Mumbai Indians Match 30 of the IPL 2021, believing MI lost grip of the game when they allowed CSK to come back in the game after having them on the mat at 24/4 in the Powerplay. Read MoreEmmys 2021 full winners list: From Ted Lasso to The Crown, see who won awardsThe Emmy Awards 2021, celebrating the best of television, marked a return to in-person award ceremonies after going virtual last year. Read MoreLoved Ananya Panday's glam three-piece bikini in Maldives holiday pics? Here's what it costsBollywood star Ananya Panday served major wanderlust vibes on the weekend as she escaped to the Maldives for a mini holiday. Read MoreWatch: Virat Kohli to step down as Royal Challengers Bangalore Captain after IPL 2021||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-amarinder-singh-s-resignation-sign-of-congress-decline-in-punjab-says-opposition-and-all-the-latest-news-101632107676822.html
20-09-2021||India||UP issues guidelines for Navratri, Dussehra and Chehallum. Details here||The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday issued guidelines in view of Shardiya Navratri, Vijayadashami, Dussehra, and Chehallum. The government has asked people to maintain law and order and communal harmony during the time of the festivals.The guidelines are also significant in view of the warnings from health experts about the third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), for which the Centre too has raised concerns.Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary (Home) Avnish Kumar Awasthi said while granting permission for the establishment of Durga Puja Pandal and Ramlila stage, care should be taken that public traffic is not affected.The idols should be installed in the traditional but empty space, their size should be kept as small as possible and there should not be more people than the capacity of the ground, the guidelines said.As much as possible small vehicles should be used for the immersion of idols and the minimum number of people should be involved in the programme.The state government has also paid special attention to public facilities like electricity, drinking water and cleanliness.This comes on a day when the Yogi Adityanath government relaxed the restrictions on wedding ceremonies. It said that the number of daily cases of Covid-19 have been falling in the state. However, the guidelines for festivals have been issued in order to ensure that the infection doesn't rear its head again.According to revised rules for gatherings, maximum number of people allowed at weddings and other celebrations has been increased to 100. Earlier, this limit was capped at 50, for events taking place in both closed and open locations.The state government order has mandated that a distance of six feet must be maintained while planning the seating arrangement for the guests at the venue of the event.Also, a Covid-19 help desk should also be set up at the entrance of the location, the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-issues-guidelines-for-navratri-dussehra-and-chehallum-details-here-101632106599801.html
20-09-2021||India||Gujarat CM Bhupendra Patel in Delhi today; to meet President, PM Modi||Gujarat Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel is scheduled to meet President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday in New Delhi, said Chief Minister's office.Patel, who recently took charge as the Chief Minister of the state after Vijay Rupani stepped down from the post, will pay a one-day visit to Delhi.This will be Patel's first meet with the country's top leadership, after assuming the Chief Minister's post.During his short visit, Patel will also meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national President Jagat Prakash Nadda.Bhupendra Patel was sworn in to the topmost position in the state on Monday. In Gujarat Cabinet's swearing-in ceremony was held on Thursday, a total of 24 ministers took oath at Raj Bhawan in Gandhinagar.Rupani had submitted his resignation to state Governor Acharya Devvrat on Saturday, months before 2022 Assembly elections in the state.With Rupani's resignation as the Chief Minister, he became the fourth Chief Minister in the BJP-led state government in the country this year to opt for this move. Earlier, former Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat and Trivendra Singh Rawat tendered their resignations.Born in Ahmedabad, Patel is a first-time MLA from the Ghatlodia seat, a post previously held by Anandiben Patel, who is currently serving as the Governor of Uttar Pradesh with an additional charge of Madhya Pradesh.The party is counting on Patel to navigate the party through tough waters during the upcoming assembly elections in 2022. In the 2017 state election, the BJP won 99 of the state's 182 Assembly seats, Congress got 77 seats. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-cm-bhupendra-patel-in-delhi-today-to-meet-president-pm-modi-101632106276034.html
20-09-2021||India||Nitin Gadkari inspects Delhi-Mumbai Expressway, car clocks 170kmph||Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari recently checked the progress of the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway, which will pass through four states, according to Livemint.After starting from Delhi, the eight-lane expressway will pass through Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat before reaching its final destinaton Mumbai. It is likely to be completed by March 2023. The Expressway is being built as part of Phase-1 of the Centre’s Bharatmala Pariyojana.Livemint report carried a 90-second video uploaded on YouTube on September 16, in which Gadkari is seen inspecting an empty stretch of the expressway in a Kia Carnival car and was seated in the front passenger seat.Upon entering the expressway, the car’s speed went up to around 170 kilometres per hour (Kmph), and it was moving smoothly. Though the Livemint report said that top speed on the expressway has been limited to 120 Kmph.During the video, Gadkari could also be heard saying that a small aircraft could land on the expressway.Previously, the Union minister had conducted an aerial survey of the expressway and said it will cut travel time between Delhi and Mumbai to 12 hours, adding that it will also help in saving crores of litres of petrol and diesel.“Once the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway is completed and opened for the public, we will get at least ₹1,000-1,500 crore as toll revenues every month,” Gadkari was quoted as saying by news agency PTI on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitin-gadkari-inspects-delhi-mumbai-expressway-car-clocks-170kmph-101632100362393.html
20-09-2021||India||‘Amarinder Singh’s resignation sign of Congress’ decline in Punjab’: Opposition||Captain Amarinder Singh’s (retd) resignation as Punjab chief minister on Saturday has brought the focus back on infighting in the Congress party with experts and political rivals suggesting the move could hurt the grand old party’s prospects in the upcoming assembly elections in the state.Considered by many to be the Congress party’s principal challenger in 2022 Punjab polls, the Aam Aadmi Party said the Congress was similar to a “sinking Titanic ship”. In a video message posted on Twitter, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha said, “Governance in the state of Punjab has been the biggest casualty in the Congress’ Game of Thrones.”AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh claimed the Congress was near its “end” in Punjab, and that AAP will be the biggest beneficiary of this possible outcome, India Today reported.He also mocked the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress for recent changes of chief ministers in party-ruled states. “We change our politics; BJP, Congress change their chief ministers,” he said.BJP general secretary Tarun Chugh said Amardinder Singh’s resignation was result of a “panic reaction” by the Congress brass to salvage the party’s situation ahead of the Assembly polls next year. “The Congress in Punjab is licking the dust to revive itself,” he stated.“The mafia raj of the Congress in Punjab would prove to be the last nail in its coffin in Punjab,” Chugh added.Union minister and BJP MP from Punjab Som Prakash said Singh’s resignation showed that the Congress was “desperate”. “The Congress is in decline, Akalis have lost the trust of people, so we are hopeful that people of Punjab will give opportunity to the BJP which can give a stable and progressive government in the state,” PTI quoted him as saying.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) (Sanyukt) leader Parminder Singh Dhindsa said Singh was made a “scapegoat” by the Congress to save the party from allegations of non-fulfilment of promises. “The whole drama was only to put the blame of non-fulfilment of promises on Amarinder Singh,” he said.Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah took to Twitter to criticise the Congress. “I guess it’s too much to expect [from] the Congress to take the fight to the BJP when its state leaders are too busy fighting amongst themselves,” he wrote. He added, “Ordinarily, I wouldn’t give a toss about the fratricide in the Congress party - their party, their business. However, what the Congress does has direct fallout for every political party outside the NDA orbit because almost 200 Lok Sabha seats see a direct BJP-Congress fight.”Haryana health minister Anil Vij went on to blame Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu for Amarinder Singh’s resignation and claimed “its script was written the same day Navjot Singh Sidhu entered the Congress.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-s-resignation-sign-of-congress-decline-in-punjab-opposition-101632102604204.html
20-09-2021||India||Opposition parties' 11-day protest against Centre begins today. Here's what's on agenda||From Monday, nineteen opposition parties will hold protests and demonstrations across the country against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government at the Centre. The protests will go on till the end of September. Opposition leaders said that the form of these protests will be decided by the respective state units of their parties, depending on conditions of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) norms in their states.At a virtual meeting in August, the opposition parties stressed on unitedly moving forward to defeat the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. The leaders of these parties also issued an 11-point charter of demands before the Centre. “We will jointly organise protest actions all over the country from 20th to 30th September, 2021,” the leaders said in a joint statement after the virtual meeting convened by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi.The demands include a repeal of the three new farm legislations, a Supreme Court-monitored investigation into the Pegasus hacking controversy, early elections in Jammu and Kashmir and release of all political detainees there and a high-level probe into the Rafale deal.“We, the leaders of 19 Opposition parties, call upon the people of India to rise to the occasion to defend our secular, democratic, republican order with all our might. Save India today, so that we can change it for a better tomorrow,” the opposition leaders said in a joint statement.The leaders blamed the Centre for an abrupt end of the monsoon session of Parliament, accusing it of not holding talks on the Pegasus issue, new farm legislations, inflation, price rise, unemployment and also the alleged management of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. They demanded an immediate speeding up of the vaccination drive against Covid-19 to prevent the third wave of the pandemic.“Apart from denying the Opposition their right to raise crucial issues concerning the country and the people, the government steamrolled legislations through the din of the disruption caused by its handling of both Houses of Parliament,” the leaders further said in the statementThe opposition leaders also strongly criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech on Independence Day (August 15), by saying it was full of rhetoric, empty slogans and disinformation and was a repackaging of speeches given in 2019 and 2020.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-parties-11-day-protest-against-centre-begins-today-101632097918751.html
20-09-2021||India||Charanjit Singh Channi to take oath as Punjab chief minister today: 10 points||Congress leader Charanjit Singh Channi is slated to take oath as Punjab's 16th chief minister on Monday at 11am. The swearing-in ceremony will be held in Chandigarh.Three-time MLA from Chamkaur Sahib constituency, the Dalit leader has quickly risen through the ranks.Channi was born in Punjab’s Bhajauli village near Kurali in 1963. His family was settled in Malaysia where his father worked, but they returned to India in 1955 and settled in Kharar town of SAS Nagar district of Punjab.Here are the latest developments:• Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is expected to attend the oath-taking ceremony, news agency ANI reported.• The party's Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat said on Sunday that there will be two deputy chief ministers in the state. "One deputy chief minister will be from Jat Sikh community and the other will be from the Hindu community," he was quoted as saying by ANI.Also Read: Channi to be Punjab's first Dalit CM• According to Congress leaders, the gathering at the ceremony will be small consisting of 40 people.• Meanwhile, Union minister Meenakshi Lekhi said on Sunday that it is a matter of 4-6 months and the people will choose its chief minister again.• Amarinder Singh on Saturday stepped down from the post of Punjab chief minister following months of infighting between him and Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.• The resignation came less than an hour before the Congress held a legislature party (CLP) meeting. The meeting was originally planned to mitigate the infighting the party was facing between the Singh and Sidhu camps, but after former's resignation, discussions were held on choosing the next chief minister of Punjab.• Channi was unanimously elected as the Leader of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) of Punjab and is set to take over as next chief minister following Captain Amarinder Singh's resignation.• Channi was technical education minister in Amarinder Singh's cabinet.• He faces the daunting task of controlling the incessant infighting, which is unlikely to ebb even after Amarinder Singh's exit and could emerge as a major challenge for a party trying to retain power in the state.• Channi will have to hit the ground running to fulfil the 18-point to-do list of pending promises that the high command handed to Amarinder three months ago for implementation before the state polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/charanjit-singh-channi-to-take-oath-as-punjab-chief-minister-today-10-points-101632097020531.html
20-09-2021||India||Govt announcement on international tourism likely in 10 days: Officials||Government officials are considering whether India can reopen its doors to international tourists as countrywide cases of Covid-19 have largely remained stable over the last few weeks, according to people aware of the matter, who said the announcement may be made within the next 10 days.Visas for foreign tourists have not been issued for the last one-and-a-half years, since the first outbreak of the infectious disease in the country.The move to reopen is in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement on Saturday that the government is planning to allow foreign tourists into Goa. “Tourism can resume in the coming tourism season just like before. We are planning to allow foreign tourists to come here... This will be possible when we give as much importance to corona precautions as much as we have given for vaccinations. It is our duty,” he said during an interaction with Goa health care workers.Senior officials of the Union home ministry are in discussions with stakeholders on the expected date to reopen the Indian economy for tourism, among other factors.Discussions are also on to waive off visa costs for the first 500,000 foreign tourists who apply. The free visa scheme will be applicable till March 31, 2022, or before if the 500,000-mark is crossed first. The total financial implication for this would be ₹100 crore, one of the ministry officials said.PM Modi too had spoken of the free-visa scheme on Saturday, saying that the central government was taking steps to “welcome foreign tourists back”.This will help revive the tourism, hospitality and aviation sectors that have been badly hit by the Covid-19 pandemic since March 2020, when the first nationwide lockdown was announced, the official said.The cost for a month-long e-tourist visa is country-specific, but ranges around $25 ( ₹1,842). A year-long multiple entry tourist visa charge costs around $40 (approximately ₹3,000).Ministry officials also said they are considering the conditions for approval of foreign travel — for instance, whether visas should be allowed only for vaccinated travellers, and if tourists from countries battling Covid-19 outbreaks should be barred. All scheduled international flights have been suspended in India since March 2020 but special flights under bilateral “air bubble” arrangements -- through which carriers of two countries can operate flights -- are being run.A second official aware of the matter hinted that the reopening of foreign tourism may be phased out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-announcement-on-int-l-tourism-likely-in-10-daysofficials-101632080516944.html
20-09-2021||India||Survey shows income of farmers has risen: Agriculture secretary||Amid continuous protests against the contentious farm laws, a Situation Assessment Survey (SAS) of Agricultural Households, Land and Livestock Holdings of Households of Rural India, 2019, conducted from January to December 2019 revealed a 59% surge in farmers’ incomes that are not adjusted for inflation, on a nominal basis. The survey also showed that farmers’ incomes adjusted for inflation -- which economists call real income -- have risen by about 2%. However, when the inflation-unadjusted incomes are distributed among the number of farming households to derive per capita farmers’ incomes, one gets a figure of ₹27 a day, as reported by HT earlier. In an emailed interview to HT’s Zia Haq, Union agriculture secretary Sanjay Agrawal answers key questions on the survey.1. This survey is a departure from previous situational assessment surveys in that it accounts for earnings from land holdings and livestock, not just crops. The parameters of the two surveys are different. What’s the rationale for this? That’s correct. The National Statistics Office (NSO) of Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MoSPYI) carried out a survey on “Land and Livestock Holdings of Households and Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households” in the rural areas of India with an integrated schedule of enquiry. Prior to this, Land and Livestock Holding Surveys (LHS) and Situation Assessment Survey (SAS) of Agricultural Households used to be conducted as separate surveys. The idea is to take a holistic view of a farmers’ income. There is no sense in doing separate surveys to assess incomes from dairy and livestock, for instance, because dairying is a major area of farming activity. 2. What is the average monthly income of an agricultural household according to this survey? Can you explain in full all the sources of income that were taken into consideration?Sure. At the all-India level, an average monthly income per agricultural household during agricultural year 2018-19 is ₹10,218. Out of the total average, income from wages is ₹4,063, followed by cultivation /net receipt from crop production ( ₹3,798), net receipt from farming of animals ( ₹1,582), net receipt from non-farm business ( ₹641) and income from leasing out of land ( ₹134). Out of the total income earned by agricultural households, 39.8 % of income is earned from wages followed by cultivation/net receipt from crop production (37.2 percent), farming of animals (15.5%), and income from non-farm business (6.3%). 3. So, the survey includes non-farm wages too? Yes, the objective of the survey is clear. It is to capture the current income situation of an agricultural household at a holistic level and not leave out any source of income. That’s how we can know what their total income situation is. SAS definition of cultivator is any household who gets output worth ₹4,000 a year and is self-employed in agriculture as main or subsidiary occupation. So, if one keeps one goat just to get little milk for tea, etc, and gets, say, 150 litres of milk a year, and is engaged in non-agriculture activity as the main occupation, he becomes a cultivator based on this definition. Thus, going by the definition, this 37.2 % from crop production is not the right reflection of income from cultivation by land-owning farmers.4. Can you clarify how the survey arrives at the average monthly income of ₹10,218 and its methodology? Sure, I am happy to explain. An agriculture household earns income from different sources as evident from the survey report. Members of an agriculture household may be pursuing various agriculture and non-agricultural activities. It reveals that wages comprise the maximum share of the income of an agriculture household followed by income from crops. Wages can be from different sources like agriculture wages for a variety of farm activities and also MGNREGS. If the average monthly income of the agriculture household is ₹10,218 as mentioned in the report, then the average daily income would be 10,218x12/365= ₹336. Even if we take the monthly income from the crops alone (Table 1) which is ₹3,798, then the daily income would be 3,798/30 = ₹126 which is much higher than ₹27 projected by a section of the media.Table 1. Average Monthly Income per Agricultural Average  Monthly Income in Rs. Household Percentage 1. Income from wages ₹4,063 39.8% 2. Income from crop production ₹3,798; 37.2%3. Income from farming of animals Rs. 1,582; 15.5% 4. Income from non-farm business ₹641; 6.3% 5. Income from leasing out of land ₹134; 1.3%Average monthly income ₹10, 218(Source: NSS Report No. 587: Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households and Land and Livestock Holdings of Households in Rural India, 2019) From the above table, it is evident that the average monthly income of an agricultural household is ₹10,218. Out of which, income from wages ₹4,063 (39.8%) income from crop production ₹3,798 (37.2%), income from farming of animals ₹1,582 (15.5%), income from non-farm business ₹641 (6.3%), income from leasing out of land ₹134 (1.3%). Source: NSS Report No. 587: Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households and Land and Livestock Holdings of Households in Rural India, 2019 5. The survey shows an inflation-unadjusted increase in total monthly incomes of about 59%, if one compares the current income level of ₹10,128 with ₹6,426 from the previous 2012-13 survey. But part of the increase is because of accounting of non-farm income such as land lease? But part of the increase in farm income is because the survey accounts for non-farm incomes too, such as land lease?As I said, the idea is to measure an agricultural household’s total income situation. The title of the survey itself suggests so. There is no reason at all to do separate surveys of dairy and livestock income. The objective is to get a comprehensive idea about the income situation of an agricultural household. Let me re-emphasise that even if we talk of income from crops alone, that works out to be ₹126 per day, not ₹27 or so as some media reports say. Beside the increase in income of agri households, they benefited from increase in real prices of agriculture commodities. The WPI for agri in these six years increased from 111 to 134 and the WPI for non-agri increased from 106 to 116. Thus, the terms of trade index moved in favour of agri from 104 to 120, an increase of 16 per cent between 2012-13 and 2018-19. Source: Niti Aayog. 6. Don’t you think farmers need even higher incomes, adjusted for inflation, because they are still affected by poor realisations as markets are always uncertain? Of course. That is why there has been an unprecedented enhancement in budget allocation. In the year 2013-14, the budget allocation for the department of agriculture was only ₹21,933.50 crore. This has been increased by more than 5.5 times to ₹1,23,017.57 crores in 2021-22. A total of ₹1.58 lakh crore has been released so far to 11.37 crore farmers’ families through direct transfer into their bank accounts under the PM-KISAN scheme. The recently enacted farm law related to Trade & Commerce of Farmers Produce creates an ecosystem for sale of scheduled agriculture commodities at farmgate level, which shall create opportunities of value addition at the village levels, leading to further enhancement of agricultural household’s income. Further, this will accelerate more investment in marketing and supply chain infrastructure, including storage facilities near to farm gate, creating more employment opportunities for rural areas. The farm law related to the Farming Agreement shall support farmers, especially small and marginal farmers, with a legal framework to produce high value crops, which shall be instrumental in additional income from cultivation. The fixation of MSP at one-and-a-half times the cost of production and ensuring enhanced procurement has been a major focus as well. The institutional credit for farmers has increased from ₹7.3 lakh crore in 2013-14 and has reached over ₹16.6 lakh crore in 2020-21 The government has approved ₹1 lakh crore Agriculture Infrastructure fund for building post-harvest and other agriculture-related infrastructure near the farm gate. The government has been actively promoting Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs) for better bargaining power with the market and to get good prices for their produce.7. Do you think there is any improvement in the situation of farmers between the two surveys 2012-13 to 2018-19? Yes. The viability of agriculture has improved, the overall indebtedness has come down and appetite for risk mitigation has improved. Viability of agriculture The number of rural households getting primary income from agriculture has gone up from 54% in 2013 to 58% in 2019. That is agriculture assumes more economic importance to more rural households. The income of agricultural households increased in nominal terms by 59% between 2013 and 2019 (from 6,426 to 10,219). The Consumer Price Index (rural) increased by 35% (from 105 to 142) during the same period, suggesting a real income increase of 24% to agricultural households. The share of income from crop production of agricultural households in the lowest size class of land possessed (having < 0.01 hectares or landless) has increased from 1% to 15% between 2013 to 2019. Their income from farming (including livestock farming) has increased from 27% to 34%. Overall indebtedness of agricultural households has come down The percentage of agricultural households indebted has come down from 52% in 2013 to 50% in 2019. The percentage decrease is substantial in agricultural households having less than 1 acre of land. In land size class < 0.01, the decrease is 3.4% (from 41.9% to 38.5%) and in the next lowest size class (having <0.04 hectare (one acre)) the decrease is a maximum of 6.5% (from 47.3% to 40.8%). The amount of outstanding credit has come down substantially in the lowest land size class that is from ₹31,100 to ₹26,883.The decrease in nominal terms is 14%, adjusting for inflation the decrease is more than 50%. Crop insurance (risk mitigation) has gone up The percentage of crop-producing households insuring their crops has substantially increased, which indicates more farmers are adopting risk mitigation measures. During July-December, while 8.3% households insured paddy in the present survey, the percentage is 4.8% in the corresponding half of 2012-13, for soyabean 27.5% and 14%, for cotton, 25.4% and 10.4%. During January-June, those insuring paddy are 13.9% in the present survey and 3.9% in the corresponding half of 2012-13; for rapeseed/mustard, it is 8.9% and 5.1% ; for cotton, those insured are 28.8% and 14.9%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/survey-shows-income-of-farmers-has-risen-agriculture-secretary-101632080224290.html
20-09-2021||India||Don’t rely on Modi wave to win state elections: Yediyurappa||Former Karnataka chief minister and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader BS Yediyurappa on Sunday said the Narendra Modi wave would help win Lok Sabha elections easily, but party leaders and workers need to put in the effort to win state elections, retracting his earlier statement that the prime minister cannot alone help win elections. “Let us not be under some notion. In the name of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, it is easy to win the Lok Sabha elections. But by not only stating Modi’s name to win elections, but we should also put in efforts and by helping development works reach the people we should win elections,” Yediyurappa said on Sunday in Davangere, about 260 km from Bengaluru. The statements come when Karnataka is preparing for several elections at zilla and taluk panchayats levels, MLC polls and other polls in the coming year under chief minister Basavaraj Bommai. The Bharatiya Janata Party in Karnataka has seen significant changes in leadership with Yediyurappa forced to step down and Bommai replacing him as the chief minister, much to the discontent of several senior leaders in the party overlooked for the top job. Yediyurappa recently lavished praise on governance by his successor Bommai.“Mr. Bommai is running the administration well,” Mr. Yediyurappa said, before adding, “The Government under Mr Bommai is giving a good administration. Even the people of the state feel the same. I am sure, the government will do better in the coming days”, he said.The BJP has intensified its outreach to muster support from the grassroots-level workers to strengthen its base ahead of the 2023 assembly elections. Several leaders of the saffron outfit spoke in the BJP working committee meeting in Davangere. He added that the party should be strengthened by bringing in more leaders from the Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and other backward classes into the BJP fold that would help strengthen the party and the organisation. Yediyurappa asked BJP legislators and leaders not to take the opposition parties lightly. He said that the opposition parties have their calculations and strength. It is no secret that Yediyurappa and the BJP’s national leadership under Modi and Amit Shah was strained and the latter being forced out two years before his term could end. Speaking to reporters later, Yediyurappa said that the meaning of what he said was that the party should win 140 plus seats (in 2023) based on the blessings of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and our special efforts. He also said that state Congress president DK Shivakumar was trying to contact BJP legislators and that there was no chance of anyone from the saffron fold leaving. He said that there was a higher chance of Congress leaders coming to the BJP. Yediyurappa is also planning to undertake a state-wide tour to build the party, adding to apprehensions of the BJP’s top leadership, which have so far been unable to replace the stature of the 78-year-old. Yediyurappa has built his career on caste-based politics as against the BJP, which is trying to infuse Hindutva, adding to the contrasting approaches to help the saffron outfit return to power. People aware of the developments said that the BJP is anxious about Yediyurappa’s upcoming tour. However, Arun Singh, the national general secretary of the BJP, in charge of Karnataka on Sunday, said that Yediyurappa does not need any green signal from the party for his tour. “There is no need for a green signal. BS Yediyurappa is the tallest leader amongst all parties in the state. If he tours (the state), it will be beneficial for the party and inspire workers,” Singh said. Meanwhile, chief minister Basavaraj S Bommai on Sunday exhorted party leaders and workers to gear up for the upcoming bypolls and Bengaluru municipal elections and said the party has to win all the elections.“There are two Assembly bypolls (Hanagal and Sindagi constituencies), legislative council elections and a few panchayat elections. We, seniors, have discussed about them. We will take every election seriously right from the local-level elections to Parliamentary elections,” he said at the inaugural session of the BJP’s State core committee meeting.He shared his joy over the BJP’s victory in the Belagavi municipal election for the first time.“We started with conquering Mysuru municipal corporation by having our own Mayor and now we have won the three municipal corporations in north Karnataka (Belagavi, Hubballi-Dharwad and Kalaburagi),” Bommai said.He said the party has to gear up for the upcoming Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) election. He said he was confident of the BJP getting full majority in the BBMP poll.The Chief Minister reiterated his commitment to serve the people. In this connection, he recalled the mega inoculation drive carried out to celebrate the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi as Seva Samarpan Divas (Dedicating Services Day).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-rely-on-modi-wave-to-win-state-elections-yediyurappa-101632078963803.html
20-09-2021||India||Kerala Police top list in tracking offenders using fingerprint analysis||Kerala police ranked first in the country in tracking offenders through the use of fingerprints, according to the 2020 report of the Central Finger Prints Bureau (CFPB). Last year Kerala was ranked second after Andhra Pradesh. According to the CFPB report, the Kerala fingerprint bureau cracked 675 criminal cases followed by Karnataka with 517 and Andhra Pradesh came third with 412 cases. The report carried a special mention about the work carried out by the state fingerprint bureau and police in cracking the sensational snakebite murder in Kollam in south Kerala last year. “It is an ample proof of the hard work of the state fingerprints bureau backed by technology leveraged effectively for crime prevention and detection. Officers of the bureau assisted by the AFIS (automated fingerprint identification system) software put up a stellar performance in becoming the first,” said state additional director general of police Manoj Abraham, an expert in cyber security. The country has a Central Finger Print Bureau and every state has its bureaus which help in the investigation process by using fingerprint science. Fingerprint evidences are most scientific and foolproof, according to experts. The job of a fingerprint expert is to develop chance prints left by criminals at the crime scene and match them with the fingerprints in the database of convicts. When investigation begins at a crime scene, a fingerprint expert is first to visit the spot to closely observe the site. The expert then develops the chance prints left by criminals at the scene. The collected chance fingerprints are then matched with the fingerprints database. This helps identify if the crime was carried out by someone who is already in the records of the bureau. There is a National Automated Finger Prints Identification System (NAFIS) to streamline the countrywide process for database. The report carried a special mention about the way police team cracked the sensational murder of 25-year-old Uthra in 2020. Initially it was dismissed as a mere snakebite case but police and parents got suspicious as this was the second snakebite that proved fatal. She received the fatal bite when she was undergoing treatment for the first bite. Later police arrested her husband P Sooraj and a local snake handler who provided a cobra to him. During investigation it was found that Sooraj had bought a cobra from the snake handler after paying him ₹10,000. He also got necessary training from the handler. He reportedly took it to Uthra’s house in Anchal, where she had been undergoing treatment at her parents’ place since the first incident. The police said that after Uthra fell asleep, Sooraj allegedly took out the snake from the bottle and threw it on her. He kept awake all night to ensure that it did not bite him. He left the room in the morning and started reading a newspaper in the verandah. Uthra’s mother found her daughter unconscious in the morning. She was rushed to a hospital where doctors said she died of snake bite. The case is on trial stage and police recreated the entire incident though digital and dummy presentation. The cracking of theft in India’s first indigenously built aircraft carrier INS Vikrant two years ago also found mention in the report. The accused, two painters working in the ship, were arrested after matching their fingerprints taken at the time of employing them. The National Investigation Agency arrested them last year from north India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-police-top-list-in-tracking-offenders-using-fingerprint-analysis-101632078422758.html
20-09-2021||India||Amarinder Singh expressed ‘personal anguish’ to Sonia Gandhi in letter before resignation||Hours before he resigned as the Punjab chief minister, Amarinder Singh wrote a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, expressing “personal anguish” at the decision and hoped that it doesn’t damage the “peace and development in the state”.“Notwithstanding my personal anguish, I hope this will not cause any damage to the hard-earned peace and development in the state, and that the efforts I have been focusing during the last few years, would continue unabated, ensuring justice to one and all,” Singh wrote in the letter on Saturday as he informed the party president of his decision to step down, barely five months before the state assembly elections are due early next year. Singh's decision came after months of infighting and dissidence, which escalated after the promotion of Congress leader Navjot Sidhu to the position of the state unit chief. Without mincing words, Singh said that he felt “humiliated” by the recent developments in the state party unit and sensed a lack of trust in him on part of the Congress high command.In the letter, Singh said: “The people of Punjab are looking up to the Indian National Congress for its mature and effective public policies, which not only reflect upon good politics, but also address the concerns of the common man that are specific to this border state.”Listing out the achievements of his government over the last few years, notwithstanding “numerous challenges”, he said: “My government fulfilled 89.2% of the promises, while work is in progress on the remaining commitments.”Tensions between Singh and Sidhu, simmering since 2019, mounted in May after the Punjab government suffered a legal setback in a 2015 case of police firing on a crowd protesting the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib, the Sikh holy book.Sidhu and some leaders publicly accused Singh of corruption, prompting the Congress to set up the three-member panel. The panel met around 150 functionaries – including Singh twice -- and submitted its report to Gandhi on June 10. The panel recommended that Singh retain the charge but Sidhu be accommodated in a key role. On July 18, Congress appointed Sidhu as the president of its Punjab unit.On the issue of the sacrilege cases and the subsequent police action of 2015, for which his government came under criticism not only from the Opposition but some leaders from the party’s state unit questioning him for not doing enough, Singh said the government which he earlier headed was committed to ensuring justice in the matter. “Criminal proceedings in these cases are currently underway and I am sure that justice will be done in due course,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-expressed-personal-anguish-to-sonia-gandhi-in-letter-before-resignation-101632077881878.html
20-09-2021||India||Charanjit Singh Channi appointment doesn’t hurt Sidhu’s CM prospects in Punjab||The Congress’s Punjab plan went off smoothly with the removal of Captain Amarinder Singh as CM and finding a suitable replacement in Charanjit Singh Channi, 58, who was picked to lead the border state on Sunday, party insiders said.Two senior leaders told HT that while the high command took the final call that the Congress government in Punjab required an urgent reshuffle at the top, the leadership was also clear that it should preferably be someone other than state party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.This arrangement, however, is temporary, according to Congress functionaries and doesn’t discount the possibility of Sidhu becoming CM if Congress wins the assembly elections next year.“In our meetings, we had discussed plans for Amarinder’s replacement. We found it wouldn’t be suitable to appoint Sidhu as it would be like rubbing it on Amarinder and his loyalists,” said a senior leader involved in the Punjab plan.The Congress looked at three choices: a Dalit, a Hindu or a Sikh leader as Singh’s successor.“Our choice included Channi and Sunil Jakhar”, said the leader cited above. Channi was the minister for technical education Jakhar was the predecessor of Sidhu in the PCC.While Channi’s name found lot of support a section of the party opposed Jakhar’s name. We even got threats from a former PCC chief that he will quit the party with his followers if Jakhar is made the CM,” said the leader cited above.The option was to anoint a Dalit leader—the state has about 32% Dalit (both Hindu and Sikh) population that constitutes a strong vote bank— was also an attempt to reach out to a wider voter base.But after Amarinder quit, a section of Sidhu’s followers started demanding that he be made the CM.“The instruction is given from Delhi to Harish Rawat, general secretary in charge of the state, and party general secretary Ajay Maken, was to secure the consent of all MLAs to let the high command decide the new chief minister. They convinced all MLAs and a unanimous decision was taken to let Congress president Sonia Gandhi decide the new CM,” said the second leader.Singh, 79, resigned on Saturday months before the Punjab election as the party wanted a new face to fight anti-incumbency after ground reports suggested that he had lost popularity. The Congress leadership also secured signatures of more than 60 MLAs demanding Singh to be removed.Singh cautioned the party against the appointment of Sidhu as the CM. “I will never allow him (Sidhu) to come,” Singh said in a few media interviews and alleged, “He is an anti-national element. I will not allow him.” Singh alleged that Sidhu was a friend of Pakistan’s prime minister Imran Khan and chief of army staff, Qamar Javed Bajwa.Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala later tweeted, “INC creates history by appointing Punjab’s first Dalit CM in Sardar Charanjit Channi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/charanjit-singh-channi-appointment-doesn-t-hurt-sidhu-s-cm-prospects-in-punjab-101632077645143.html
20-09-2021||India||Women may lead BRO projects along border||The Border Roads Organisation (BRO) plans to create four women-led road construction companies (RCC) to handle projects in forward areas along the India-China border, officials familiar with the development said on Sunday. Two women-led RCCs each will come up in the western and the north-eastern sectors, the defence ministry said in a statement.The announcement comes weeks after BRO appointed a woman officer, Major Aaina Rana, as the commanding officer of the 75 RCC at Pipalkoti in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli. She will be responsible for providing forward connectivity along the India-China border. Rana’s RCC is the BRO’s first women-led RCC as all three platoon commanders under her are women engineers.“As India celebrates 75 years of Azaadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, it also celebrates the ongoing efforts of our nation towards women empowerment…By empowering them with the tools of authority, responsibility and respect, BRO firmly believes that women will always be active participants in the endeavour of nation building,” the statement said.In April, BRO’s Vaishali S Hiwase took over as the first woman commanding officer of an RCC responsible for providing forward connectivity along the India-China border in the northern sector.BRO is building strategic roads in Ladakh, Jammu and Kashmir, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim and plans to complete all 61 strategic roads along the China border by December 2022 to allow swifter mobilisation of troops and stores to forward areas.The move to create women-led RCCs comes at a time when new avenues are being opened for women in the armed forces and those wanting to join the armed forces.Last month, the Indian Army promoted five women officers to the time-scale rank of colonel after the completion of the mandatory 26 years of service. That was the first time that women officers were promoted to the rank outside the medical, legal and education wings of the army.The development came 18 months after the Supreme Court ruled that women officers, who joined the Indian Army through short service commission (SSC), were entitled to permanent commission and command roles.The doors of the of the National Defence Academy (NDA), thus far a male preserve, are also being opened to women. Women were allowed to serve in select branches of the three services as SSC officers almost three decades ago. The headcount of women in the military has increased almost three-fold over the last six years, with more avenues being opened to them at a steady pace. As of February 2021, there were 9,118 women serving in the army, navy and air force.One of the turning points for women in the military came in 2015 when the Indian Air Force decided to induct them into the fighter stream. Women are now being assigned to warships too, but tanks and combat positions in infantry are still no-go zones for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/women-may-lead-bro-projects-along-border-101632076881307.html
20-09-2021||India||200k volunteers, 400k workers drafted to fight Covid in rural areas||A portal set up in June to track how Covid-19 is being managed in the rural areas now shows that four lakhfrontline workers and two lakh volunteers have been drafted to fight the pandemic at the grassroots level. Called the Covid-19 dashboard and managed by the Panchayati Raj ministry, the portal has data of the over 2.5 lakh panchayats that India has and shows that 45% of them have set up health and sanitation committees. The dashboard was set up after the second wave of the pandemic with the idea to prevent another devastating wave from wreaking havoc. “Different states have adopted different strategies to manage Covid. Even within the state, districts have taken different approaches. Similarly, at the panchayat level, some have focused on handwashing campaigns, others may have resorted to creating WhatsApp groups or wall paintings to make people aware about social distancing,” said a senior official of the Panchayati Raj ministry, on condition of anonymity. Another senior official of the ministry said the dashboard helps track Covid-related activities in every panchayat. “Such granular data was not available last year. This helps us to be prepared and step up efforts where needed,” he said. To be sure, the government has panchayat-level data for several other programmes under rural development. During the last five years, it even started the satellite mapping of rural assets and public programmes. The dashboard also shows that over 86,000 panchayats have conducted Covid-awareness campaigns while 84,000 have updated community preparedness checklists.It also shows that 57,000 panchayats have been able to identify high-risk populations in their areas, and more than 1.5 lakh home isolation kits—basic medicines and thermometers—have been distributed in rural India.But ministry officials say the penetration of Covid-related activities could be much deeper in the rural areas as states operate differently. “After all, we can’t impose anything on the states as panchayat is a state subject. We are here only to help,” said the first official. At present, the dashboard uploads data every fortnight. “But if the cases increase, we also have the provision to upload data in real-time,” said the second official.On September 15, the country registered 30,570 new casesin the rural areas, mostly in the southern states with Kerala topping the list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/200k-volunteers-400k-workers-drafted-to-fight-covid-in-rural-areas-101632076861903.html
20-09-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination drive scaled up in poll-bound states||Administering at least one Covid vaccine dose to the entire eligible population in election-bound states such as Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand is a priority for the government, people familiar with the matter said on Sunday.Also, the target of a landmark one billion Covid vaccine doses is likely to be achieved by the second week of October, officials from the central government said.“We are looking at giving at least one shot of the Covid-19 vaccine to all eligible beneficiaries in states that are going to have assembly elections soon. States such as Goa and Himachal Pradesh have already seen 100% first-dose coverage, and then there are states such as Punjab and Uttar Pradesh where assembly elections are to be held next year and we shall ensure at least first dose is given,” said a senior government functionary aware of the development, on condition of anonymity.Goa and Himachal Pradesh have already administered at least one dose of the vaccine to their entire eligible population.The Centre has been stressing the need to avoid crowding as far as possible to curb disease transmission; and if there is a need to step out at public places where there is a possibility of having a heavy crowd then it should be done only by those who are fully vaccinated.“The vaccines that we have are disease modifying, which means we know that vaccines prevent severe disease and death,” said Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), during a media briefing on Covid-19 updates recently.“...mass gatherings should be discouraged, particularly in the upcoming festival season because we still have few districts which are having the problem; and full vaccination should be a pre-requisite if it is absolutely essential or it becomes critical to have a gathering of some people,” he added.Cumulative Covid vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 800 million on Saturday. The government said 20% of India’s adult population has been fully vaccinated and 62% has got at least one dose.Of all the vaccines used, around 89% have been the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India under the brand name Covishield. At least 10% have been Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and about 1% the Russian-made Sputnik V vaccine.At least 50% of the beneficiaries have been administered the first dose in Uttar Pradesh. The target is to cover 100% of the eligible population with at least one shot before the polls, a senior official said.Commenting on the delay in the availability of Pfizer and Moderna’s Covid vaccines in India, the official said changes in the demands of manufacturers from time to time were responsible. “We already have given permission for emergency use and the rest of the formalities are being taken care of,” the official added.The Centre is also focusing on increasing vaccination coverage at tourist hot spots in the country.On Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that tourist destinations were prioritised for vaccination during an interaction with health care workers and vaccine beneficiaries in Goa.He said that states and Union territories such as Himachal Pradesh, Goa, Chandigarh, and Lakshadweep have administered at least one dose of the vaccine to its entire population. He added that Sikkim, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Kerala, Ladakh, Uttarakhand, and Dadra Nagar Haveli were not far behind.“India has given a lot of priority to states with potential tourism sector in the vaccination campaign. It is very important that our tourism destinations reopen. Himachal Pradesh and Goa are some examples; everyone has received their first dose already. Tourists can visit these places with a feeling of safety,” said Modi.Union health secretary, Rajesh Bhushan, also asked 11 states that are reporting a more dangerous type of dengue to take steps to ensure early detection of cases, start fever helplines and stock adequate amount of testing kits, larvicides, and medicines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jab-drive-scaled-up-in-poll-bound-states-101632076801296.html
20-09-2021||India||Karnataka: 3 held for remarks over Mahatma Gandhi||Police arrested three people on Sunday, a day after alleged Hindu right-wing leader attacked the state government over demolition of illegal religious structures and said that “they didn’t even spare Mahatma Gandhi to protect Hindus”.“Three people, including the main accused, Dharmendra have been taken into custody and we are conducting an inquiry,” N Shashi Kumar, the Mangaluru city police commissioner said on Sunday.“When we didn’t spare Mahatma Gandhi to protect Hindus, do you think we will spare you? As long as the Hindu Mahasabha is there, we are not going to allow you to demolish Hindu temples,” Dharmendra said on Saturday during a press conference.Kumar said that one Lohit Kumar Suvarna registered a complaint that there were some people who were removed from the outfit and were misusing the name of the right wing outfit and have made controversial remarks against Gandhi Ji.Kumar said that cases were filed under relevant Indian Penal Code sections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-3-held-for-remarks-over-mahatma-gandhi-101632076683312.html
20-09-2021||India||YSRCP sweeps Andhra Pradesh local body elections||The ruling YSR Congress Party in Andhra Pradesh secured a landslide victory in the elections held to Zilla Parishad and Mandal Parishad (block parishads), the counting for which was held on Sunday.The YSRCP won 547 out 553 Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituency (ZPTC) seats and 7,284 out of 8,063 Mandal Parishads Territorial Constituencies (MPTC), results for which were declared till 7.30 pm.Counting for the pending 88 ZPTCs and 1,504 MPTCs was underway, when the reports last came in, according to the state election commission.The main opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) won only three ZPTCs and 675 MPTCs. While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its alliance partner Jana Sena drew a blank in Zilla Parishads, it won 23 and 85 seats in the Mandal Parishad elections, respectively.State panchayat raj and rural development minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy said the poll outcome proved that chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy had gained the trust of the people by fulfilling the election promises. “The results clearly show that the TDP has lost the people’s support,” he added.In a statement, the party claimed that the ZPTC and MPTC results suggested TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu’s downfall in his own assembly constituency Kuppam in Chittoor district. “The YSRCP bagged all the four ZPTCs and 62 out of 65 MPTCs in Kuppam. In the gram panchayat elections held in February this year, too, YSRC had won 75 out of 89 gram panchayats,” the statement read. However, TDP spokesman and former minister S Chandramohan Reddy dismissed YSRCP’s claims that it had achieved a landslide victory in the polls. He reminded the ruling party that the TDP had boycotted the local body elections after its representation against the election irregularities earlier fell on deaf ears.“It is an open secret that the ruling YSRCP resorted to threats, intimidation and forced unanimous results in many places. They misused the police and the official machinery without any shame,” he said.In all, there are 660 ZPTC seats and 10,047 MPTC seats in the state, of which as many as 126 ZPTC and 2,371 MPTC seats were elected unanimously in March last year, when the election process to the local bodies commenced.Polling for the remaining seats, which were initially scheduled for sometime later that month, was put on hold by former state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar in view of the nationwide lockdown imposed due to the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic.The process for the conduct of elections to the remaining seats resumed on April 2 this year, a day after new state election commissioner Neelam Sawhney assumed charge.Polling for 515 ZPTC seats and 7,219 MPTC seats was held on April 8. In all, 12,955,980 voters exercised their franchise. Voting could not be held for eight ZPTC and 355 MPTC seats due to court cases, while it was withheld in 11 ZPTCs and 81 MPTCs due to the death of the candidates.Counting of votes for the ZPTC and MPTC elections was supposed to be held on April 10, but was stalled by a single judge bench of the state high court following a petition filed by the TDP and Jana Sena parties.Later on May 21, the bench ordered cancellation of the ZPTC and MPTC polls on the grounds that the SEC had not followed the mandatory four-week model code of conduct to be in force between the date of announcement of schedule and the conduct of the elections, as per the Supreme Court directions.The SEC challenged the single-judge bench verdict before a division bench comprising chief justice Arup Kumar Goswami and justice N Jayasurya. The SEC argued that the Supreme Court rule for following four-week model code of conduct cannot be applicable to the local body elections.It further contended that the four-week rule was not followed for municipal elections and gram panchayat elections held in April this year. For municipal elections, there was a gap of only 22 days and for panchayat elections, it was only 26 days.After hearing the arguments, the division bench of the high court on September 16 struck down the single-judge’s order and permitted the SEC to go ahead with the counting of votes for the ZPTC and MPTC elections||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ysrcp-sweeps-andhra-pradesh-local-body-elections-101632076568969.html
20-09-2021||India||‘Survey shows farm incomes have risen’||Amid continuous protests against the contentious farm laws, a Situation Assessment Survey (SAS) of Agricultural Households, Land and Livestock Holdings of Households of Rural India, 2019, conducted from January to December 2019 revealed a 59% surge in farmers’ incomes that are not adjusted for inflation, on a nominal basis.The survey also showed that farmers’ incomes adjusted for inflation -- which economists call real income -- have risen by about 2%. However, when the inflation-unadjusted incomes are distributed among the number of farming households to derive per capita farmers’ incomes, one gets a figure of ₹27 a day, as reported by HT earlier.In an emailed interview to Zia Haq, Union agriculture secretary Sanjay Agrawal answers key questions on the survey.This survey is a departure from previous situational assessment surveys in that it accounts for earnings from land holdings and livestock, not just crops. The parameters of the two surveys are different. What’s the rationale for this?That’s correct. The National Statistics Office (NSO) of Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MoSPYI) carried out a survey on “Land and Livestock Holdings of Households and Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households” in the rural areas of India with an integrated schedule of enquiry. Prior to this, Land and Livestock Holding Surveys (LHS) and Situation Assessment Survey (SAS) of Agricultural Households used to be conducted as separate surveys. The idea is to take a holistic view of a farmers’ income. There is no sense in doing separate surveys to assess incomes from dairy and livestock, for instance, because dairying is a major area of farming activity.What is the average monthly income of an agricultural household according to this survey? Can you explain in full all the sources of income that were taken into consideration?Sure. At the all-India level, an average monthly income per agricultural household during agricultural year 2018-19 is ₹10,218. Out of the total average, income from wages is ₹4,063, followed by cultivation /net receipt from crop production ( ₹3,798), net receipt from farming of animals ( ₹1,582), net receipt from non-farm business ( ₹641) and income from leasing out of land ( ₹134). Out of the total income earned by agricultural households, 39.8 % of income is earned from wages followed by cultivation/net receipt from crop production (37.2 percent), farming of animals (15.5%), and income from non-farm business (6.3%).So, the survey includes non-farm wages too?Yes, the objective of the survey is clear. It is to capture the current income situation of an agricultural household at a holistic level and not leave out any source of income. That’s how we can know what their total income situation is. SAS definition of cultivator is any household who gets output worth ₹4,000 a year and is self-employed in agriculture as main or subsidiary occupation. So, if one keeps one goat just to get little milk for tea, etc, and gets, say, 150 litres of milk a year, and is engaged in non-agriculture activity as the main occupation, he becomes a cultivator based on this definition. Thus, going by the definition, this 37.2 % from crop production is not the right reflection of income from cultivation by land-owning farmers.Can you clarify how the survey arrives at the average monthly income of ₹10,218 and its methodology?Sure, I am happy to explain. An agriculture household earns income from different sources as evident from the survey report. Members of an agriculture household may be pursuing various agriculture and non-agricultural activities. It reveals that wages comprise the maximum share of the income of an agriculture household followed by income from crops. Wages can be from different sources like agriculture wages for a variety of farm activities and also MGNREGS. If the average monthly income of the agriculture household is ₹10,218 as mentioned in the report, then the average daily income would be 10,218x12/365= ₹336. Even if we take the monthly income from the crops alone (Table 1) which is ₹3,798, then the daily income would be 3,798/30 = ₹126 which is much higher than ₹27 projected by a section of the media.From the above table, it is evident that the average monthly income of an agricultural household is ₹10,218. Out of which, income from wages ₹4,063 (39.8%) income from crop production ₹3,798 (37.2%), income from farming of animals ₹1,582 (15.5%), income from non-farm business ₹641 (6.3%), income from leasing out of land ₹134 (1.3%). Source: NSS Report No. 587: Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households and Land and Livestock Holdings of Households in Rural India, 2019The survey shows an inflation-unadjusted increase in total monthly incomes of about 59%, if one compares the current income level of ₹10,128 with ₹6,426 from the previous 2012-13 survey. But part of the increase is because of accounting of non-farm income such as land lease? But part of the increase in farm income is because the survey accounts for non-farm incomes too, such as land lease?As I said, the idea is to measure an agricultural household’s total income situation. The title of the survey itself suggests so. There is no reason at all to do separate surveys of dairy and livestock income. The objective is to get a comprehensive idea about the income situation of an agricultural household. Let me re-emphasise that even if we talk of income from crops alone, that works out to be ₹126 per day, not ₹27 or so as some media reports say. Beside the increase in income of agri households, they benefited from increase in real prices of agriculture commodities. The WPI for agri in these six years increased from 111 to 134 and the WPI for non-agri increased from 106 to 116. Thus, the terms of trade index moved in favour of agri from 104 to 120, an increase of 16 per cent between 2012-13 and 2018-19. Source: Niti Aayog.Don’t you think farmers need even higher incomes, adjusted for inflation, because they are still affected by poor realisations as markets are always uncertain?Of course. That is why there has been an unprecedented enhancement in budget allocation. In the year 2013-14, the budget allocation for the department of agriculture was only ₹21,933.50 crore. This has been increased by more than 5.5 times to ₹1,23,017.57 crores in 2021-22.A total of ₹1.58 lakh crore has been released so far to 11.37 crore farmers’ families through direct transfer into their bank accounts under the PM-KISAN scheme. The recently enacted farm law related to Trade & Commerce of Farmers Produce creates an ecosystem for sale of scheduled agriculture commodities at farmgate level, which shall create opportunities of value addition at the village levels, leading to further enhancement of agricultural household’s income.Further, this will accelerate more investment in marketing and supply chain infrastructure, including storage facilities near to farm gate, creating more employment opportunities for rural areas.The farm law related to the Farming Agreement shall support farmers, especially small and marginal farmers, with a legal framework to produce high value crops, which shall be instrumental in additional income from cultivation. The fixation of MSP at one-and-a-half times the cost of production and ensuring enhanced procurement has been a major focus as well. The institutional credit for farmers has increased from ₹7.3 lakh crore in 2013-14 and has reached over ₹16.6 lakh crore in 2020-21 The government has approved ₹1 lakh crore Agriculture Infrastructure fund for building post-harvest and other agriculture-related infrastructure near the farm gate.The government has been actively promoting Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs) for better bargaining power with the market and to get good prices for their produce.Do you think there is any improvement in the situation of farmers between the two surveys 2012-13 to 2018-19?Yes. The viability of agriculture has improved, the overall indebtedness has come down and appetite for risk mitigation has improved.Viability of agricultureThe number of rural households getting primary income from agriculture has gone up from 54% in 2013 to 58% in 2019. That is agriculture assumes more economic importance to more rural households. The income of agricultural households increased in nominal terms by 59% between 2013 and 2019 (from 6,426 to 10,219). The Consumer Price Index (rural) increased by 35% (from 105 to 142) during the same period, suggesting a real income increase of 24% to agricultural households. The share of income from crop production of agricultural households in the lowest size class of land possessed (having < 0.01 hectares or landless) has increased from 1% to 15% between 2013 to 2019. Their income from farming (including livestock farming) has increased from 27% to 34%.Overall indebtedness of agricultural households has come downThe percentage of agricultural households indebted has come down from 52% in 2013 to 50% in 2019. The percentage decrease is substantial in agricultural households having less than 1 acre of land.In land size class < 0.01, the decrease is 3.4% (from 41.9% to 38.5%) and in the next lowest size class (having <0.04 hectare (one acre)) the decrease is a maximum of 6.5% (from 47.3% to 40.8%).The amount of outstanding credit has come down substantially in the lowest land size class that is from ₹31,100 to ₹26,883.The decrease in nominal terms is 14%, adjusting for inflation the decrease is more than 50%.Crop insurance (risk mitigation) has gone upThe percentage of crop-producing households insuring their crops has substantially increased, which indicates more farmers are adopting risk mitigation measures. During July-December, while 8.3% households insured paddy in the present survey, the percentage is 4.8% in the corresponding half of 2012-13, for soyabean 27.5% and 14%, for cotton, 25.4% and 10.4%.During January-June, those insuring paddy are 13.9% in the present survey and 3.9% in the corresponding half of 2012-13; for rapeseed/mustard, it is 8.9% and 5.1% ; for cotton, those insured are 28.8% and 14.9%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/survey-shows-farm-incomes-have-risen-101632076310399.html
20-09-2021||India||Jaishankar discusses Afghanistan situation with Saudi counterpart Prince Faisal||The developments in Afghanistan and other regional issues figured in discussions on Sunday between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his visiting Saudi Arabian counterpart Prince Faisal bin Farhan al Saud.Prince Faisal is the first Saudi minister to visit India since the Covid-19 pandemic broke out last year. Strategic and security cooperation between the two countries have grown in recent years and they held their first naval exercise in August.“Very useful exchange of views on Afghanistan, the Gulf and the Indo-Pacific,” Jaishankar said in a tweet after the meeting. He added that he and Prince Faisal had discussed “cooperation in the political, security and socio-cultural pillars of our strategic partnership”.India has urged the world community not to rush into recognising the Taliban setup in Kabul, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi pointing out last week that the new regime in Afghanistan is not inclusive and was formed without negotiations.The discussions between the two ministers on Sunday will help shape the way forward on Afghanistan, including the issue of recognising the setup created by the Taliban after they took over the country on August 15.Prince Faisal had recently said Saudi Arabia hopes the Taliban’s interim cabinet will help Afghanistan to achieve stability and overcome violence and extremism. He also said that Saudi Arabia will support “the choices the Afghan people make regarding the future of their country, away from external interference”.The external affairs ministry said in a statement that the two ministers also discussed all issues related to bilateral relations and regional and international issues of mutual interest. They reviewed the implementation of the Strategic Partnership Council Agreement signed by the two sides during Modi’s visit to Saudi Arabia in October 2019.“They expressed satisfaction at the meetings held under the Agreement and progress achieved. Both sides discussed further steps to strengthen their partnership in trade, investment, energy, defence, security, culture, consular issues, health care and human resources,” the statement said.The ministers also discussed bilateral cooperation at multilateral forums such as the UN, G20 and Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC).Jaishankar tweeted that he had urged Prince Faisal for the “early resumption of direct flights to Saudi Arabia”, and that the two sides had agreed to “work closely on all Covid-related challenges, including to travel”.The external affairs ministry said Jaishankar had appreciated Saudi Arabia’s support for the Indian community during the pandemic and urged Saudi Arabia to further relax restrictions on travel from India.In addition to being one of India’s largest energy suppliers, Saudi Arabia is home to 2.6 million Indians, the largest expatriate community in the kingdom and one of the biggest concentrations of expatriates in West Asia.Last month, Saudi Arabia relaxed travel restrictions for Indians who have received both doses of a Covid-19 vaccine in the kingdom. Under new guidelines, Indians who travel to India after receiving both doses in Saudi Arabia will be able to directly return to the kingdom without having to quarantine in a third country. The move benefited Indians who work in Saudi Arabia and were stuck in the country because of strict travel restrictions.Prince Faisal is scheduled to meet the Prime Minister on Monday before he departs for New York to participate in the UN General Assembly session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-discusses-afghanistan-situation-with-saudi-counterpart-prince-faisal-101632076205680.html
20-09-2021||India||Monsoon deficiency drops to 4% due to September rains: IMD||There has been a 4% deficiency in monsoon rains till Sunday in comparison to the 9% deficiency at the end of August, even as more showers are expected till the end of this month, India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s extended range forecast revealed.Currently, the monsoon is in the “normal” category which is 104% to 96% of the long period average.Monsoon rains have been extremely skewed this year with 9.6% excess at the end of June, 6.8% deficiency in July, 24% deficiency in August and 28.7% excess in September till Sunday. Instead of July and August, September has been the most active monsoon month this year.According to the north Indian Ocean’s extended range outlook, a cyclonic circulation is likely to form over east-central Bay of Bengal around September 23-24 with a near similar pattern of movement as the one that is presently over Madhya Pradesh. The cyclonic circulationlikely to form over Bay of Bengalis expected to bring widespread rains over central and parts of northwest India.“The monsoon trough is very active right from the northern parts of the country to the western Pacific. The favourable position of Madden Julian Oscillation (MJO) is supporting convective activity. Though a cyclonic circulation is weaker in intensity than a low pressure system, it is likely to bring rainfall over many parts of the country till the end of the month,” Sunitha Devi, in charge of cyclones at IMD, said.The MJO is an eastward moving disturbance of clouds, rainfall, winds and pressure that traverses the planet in the tropics and returns to its initial starting point in 30 to 60 days on average, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Its location and amplitude strongly modulates the intensity of tropical convection and features like low pressure systems over the north Indian Ocean.In September, the monsoon season changed so abruptly that districts which were “severely” and “extremely” dry as per the IMD’s drought monitoring from June to August, have now turned “mildly dry” as per the standard precipitation index (SPI).The SPI is an index used to monitor drought -- it is negative for drought and positive for wet conditions.For the period June to August, 129 districts were found to be in moderately/severely/extremely dry conditions or moderately/severely arid conditions, and 43 districts under dry conditions in all the three drought indices (rainfall, aridity and SPI monitored by IMD). These 43 districts remained under severe water-stressed conditions till the end of August.The maximum number of districts which faced dry/arid conditions were in Gujarat, but are now in wet condition following widespread and heavy rain this month. Almost all of northeast India and Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh continue to remain dry.“There is a sudden revival in the dry states which is good because there were drought conditions in Gujarat and parts of Odisha. This will help in groundwater recharge ahead of winter crops,” Pulak Guhathakurta, head of climate research division at IMD Pune, said.“Power of the #monsoon! Rainfall deficit at the end of August (left) turning to rainfall surplus in mid-September (16th, right). Red colors showing drought and green wet areas! Entire scenario changed due to rainfall in a few days! Regions face both drought and wet extremes!!” tweeted Vimal Mishra, associate professor, civil engineering and earth sciences at IIT Gandhinagar, with maps of soil moisture.Normally, five to six depressions form during the monsoons (June- September) whichenhances rain in the core monsoon zone when they travel in the west-northwest direction. However, the first depression of this monsoon formed in September over northwest Bay of Bengal. It intensified into a deep depression on September 13 and moved across Odisha and north Chhattisgarh during September 13 and 14, and weakened into a well-marked low pressure area over northeast Madhya Pradesh on September 15. A cyclonic circulation also formed over east central Bay of Bengal on September 16 which moved to Odisha and another cyclonic circulation was over south Gujarat at the same time.“A cyclonic circulation formed yesterday, which is lying over northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining areas of north Odisha-West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts, will travel and bring rain. Another is expected to form next week. There is likely to be active monsoon conditions till the end of month. This is mainly because of the location of MJO and active northwest Pacific. The remnants of systems forming in the Pacific also help in development of low pressure areas and cyclonic circulations over Bay of Bengal. We had forecast this early this month,” IMD director general M Mohapatra explained.The withdrawal of monsoons from northwest India has already been delayed by three days. The IMD’s extended range forecast indicates widespread rainfall till October 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-deficiency-drops-to-4-due-to-september-rainsimd-101632075484953.html
20-09-2021||India||3,000kg drugs worth ₹21,000 crore from Afghanistan seized at Gujarat port||In possibly the biggest ever single seizure of drugs in India, the Directorate of Revenue and Intelligence (DRI) has recovered 3,000kg of Afghan heroin worth approximately ₹21,000 crore in the international market from two containers at Mundra port in Gujarat, people familiar with the development said on Sunday.The consignment, originating from Afghanistan, now under Taliban rule, was shipped to Gujarat on September 13-14 via Iran’s Bandar Abbas Port and was hidden inside the containers of semi-processed Afghan talc, imported by a firm based in Andhra Pradesh.A Chennai-based couple has been arrested and several Afghan nationals from the Delhi-National Capital Region have been detained by agencies. They are being intensively interrogated for possible Taliban-ISI link, said an official, requesting anonymity.The DRI on September 16 and 17 searched the two containers, exported by a Kandahar-based company, on the basis of specific intelligence inputs upon which it found 1,999.58kg of heroin packed in two bags in one container and 988.64 kg heroin in one bag in another container. It was layered between the talc to avoid detection by security and customs officials.Experts from the Gandhi Nagar Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) examined the substance and found it to be “very high quality” heroin that likely originated in Afghanistan. Officials have estimated the worth of heroin at ₹7 crore per kg in the international market, which makes it the largest seizurein India ever.Following the recovery, searches have been carried out at several places, including Delhi, Ahmedabad and Gandhidham in Gujarat and a few places in Andhra Pradesh.Several Afghan nationals have been “picked up” and are being questioned about suspected links with the consignment/its smugglers,the officials cited above said.Intelligence agencies believe that Pakistan and anti-India elements in the Taliban together are trying to push Afghan heroin into India to shore up finances for terror activities.There have already been multiple meetings among central agencies to discuss the impact in terms of drugs smuggling, infiltration of foreign terrorists and terror activities in India following the Taliban’s takeover of Kabul on August 15.The Afghanistan government had briefly banned the export of talc in 2015, which are a major source of funding for both Taliban and Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) as they get $10 to $12 per tonne mined talc, used in baby powder, in Nangarhar, Sherzad and Achin areas, said a counterterrorism official who asked not to be named.Officials said there could be several more arrests in this case as it has larger international ramifications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3000kg-drugs-worth-21-000-crore-from-afghanistan-seized-at-gujarat-port-101632074400922.html
20-09-2021||India||UP man shot by son he pestered to study||A 19-year-old man allegedly shot at his father after being asked to study in the Chinhat area of Lucknow on Sunday, officials said. While the accused, Aman Yadav, is absconding, his father, Akhilesh Yadav, 45, is undergoing treatment at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences hospital in Lucknow, the officials said. According to officials, Akhilesh, a private security guard, was returning home after a morning walk on Sunday when he spotted Aman at a shop near their house. He scolded his son about his performance in school exams and asked him to study. Aman is a student in Class 10.“Enraged over being reprimanded, Aman rushed home, got a double barrel gun and shot at his father when Akhilesh was entering the house,” assistant deputy commissioner of police SM Qasim Abidi said. “The bullet hit Akhilesh in the thigh. Aman then fled the scene,” Abidi said.A police team rushed to the scene after the victim’s neighbours alerted them, and took Akhilesh to a hospital, the official said. He is reported to be out of danger, he said. “The gun used in the crime was registered in Akhilesh’s name,” he said. Chinhat police have filed a case under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 307 (attempt to murder) in connection with the incident and a probe in the matter has begun, he said. “Two police teams have been formed to search for and arrest Aman Yadav who is absconding. We have also sought help from his family members and relatives in tracing him,” said Abidi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-man-shot-by-son-he-pestered-to-study-101632074340969.html
20-09-2021||India||Monsoon normal despite heavy rainfall in September||Only about two weeks remain in the 122-day-long June-September monsoon season. Given this, cumulative monsoon rainfall this season is likely to remain in the normal zone. This is despite the fact that there were days in the last two weeks when the departure of daily rainfall from past averages was higher than any other day this monsoon. Such days, as has been the pattern this season, only made up the deficit which was created due to dry patches in previous weeks. However, rainfall in the last two weeks has ended the deficit in the 130 main reservoirs of the country.High rainfall in the past two weeks has only reduced deficitThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) analyses trends in rainfall for any interval by comparing it with the average of rainfall for that interval in the 1961-2010 period (called the Long Period Average or LPA). As of 8.30am on September 18, cumulative rainfall’s departure from the LPA for this monsoon season was a deficit of 0.1% according to IMD’s gridded rainfall dataset, which is within the normal range. IMD considers a deviation of up to 20% on either side of LPA as normal, a positive deviation of 20% or more as excess, and a negative deviation of 20% or more as deficient rainfall.IMD’s broad categories, however, do not detail how rainfall has varied this season. Cumulative rainfall remained in the normal range throughout since June 29, but has also varied within this range. On June 30, there was a 15.2% surplus in cumulative rainfall. This changed to a 2.21% surplus on July 31 and a 5.48% deficit on August 31, before arriving at the 0.1% deficit on September 16.These changes in cumulative rainfall’s deviation from LPA have taken place on the back of wide variation in daily rainfall. In June, the daily rainfall was above the LPA on 18 of 30 days. Such days decreased to 14 in July and only 9 in August. The regular rainfall in September – 13 of 18 days have seen above LPA rainfall – has therefore only managed to make up for the deficit at the end of August.
20-09-2021||NA||Highlights: TN reports 1,697 new Covid-19 cases, 27 deaths in last 24 hours||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:TN reports 1,697 new Covid-19 cases, 27 deaths in 24 hoursTamil Nadu reports 1,697 new #COVID19 cases, 1,594 recoveries and 27 deaths in the last 24 hoursTotal cases: 26,45,380Total recoveries: 25,93,074Death toll: 35,337Active cases: 16,969 pic.twitter.com/74WM5ALhbRWith 1,697 new Covid-19 cases and 27 deaths in the last 24 hours, Tamil Nadu's tally reached 2,645,380 and the death toll climbed to 35,337, reports ANI.Suspicious movement detected along LoC in Uri sector, search of area under progress: PRO Defence, SrinagarSuspicious movement was detected along the Line of Control (LoC) in Uri sector on the intervening night of September 18-19. A search of the area is under progress: PRO Defence, SrinagarSuspicious movement was detected along the Line of Control (LoC) in Uri sector on the intervening night of September 18 - 19 and the search of the area is under progress, reports ANI quoting the Defence PRO in Srinagar.'Will try to ensure Amarinder Singh attends swearing-in but its up to him': Harish RawatDecision (to choose new Punjab CM) was taken yesterday only, we were only waiting to meet the Governor...The party was unanimous on Charanjit Singh Channi's name... We will try to ensure that he (Amarinder Singh) is there at oath-taking, but it's up to him: Harish Rawat, Congress pic.twitter.com/Ykn6MGIZhfCongress leader Harish Rawat said that he will try to ensure that Amarinder Singh attends the oath-taking ceremony of new CM Charanjit Singh Channi but also said “it's up to him,” reports ANI.Amarinder Singh thanks state officers, employees for ‘giving their best’On the eve of relinquishing my duties as CM, I thank the officers & employees of the State for giving their best to put Punjab on the path of peace & progress in the 4.5 years of my Government. May you continue to serve the people of the State with the same zeal & commitment.Former Punjab CM Amarinder Singh thanked the officials and the employees of the state government for “giving their best” during his 4.5 years as the CM. “May you continue to serve the people of the State with the same zeal & commitment,” he said.Delhi prisons department to start initiative to professionally train Tihar jail inmates in sportsDelhi Prisons Department will soon kick-start new initiative to impart professional training to inmates of Tihar Jail in various sports: OfficialsThe Delhi Prisons Department would kick start new initiative aimed at imparting professional training to Tihar jail inmates in various sports, reports PTI citing officials.Maharashtra report 3,413 new Covid-19 cases, 49 deathsWith 3,413 new Covid-19 cases and 49 deaths, Maharashtra's total confirmed cases reached 6,521,915 and the death toll climbed to 138,518. Mumbai saw 423 new infections and five deaths as the city's tally reached 738,101 and the death toll went up to 16,053.Channi to take oath as Punjab CM tomorrow at 11amCharanjit Singh Channi to take oath as new Punjab CM tomorrow at 11am.Punjab CM-designate Channi's supporters celebrate outside Guv's house in ChandigarhSupporters of new Punjab CM-designate Charanjit Singh Channi celebrate outside Governor's house in Chandigarh pic.twitter.com/KLVUWpellPPunjab CM-designate Charanjit Singh Channi's supporters celebrate outside the governor's house in Chandigarh, reports ANI.Punjab CM-designate Charanjit Singh Channi reaches Governor's house in ChandigarhPunjab CM-designate Charanjit Singh Channi reaches Governor's house, Chandigarh. pic.twitter.com/dJdWJcIqsVPunjab's CM-designate Charanjit Singh Channi has reached the governor's house in Chandigarh, reports ANI. ‘Not disappointed at all’: Randhawa on Charanjit Singh Channi being elected as Punjab CMIt's high command's decision..., I welcome it. Channi is like my younger brother...I am not at all disappointed...: Congress leader Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, after announcement of Charanjit Singh Channi as new Punjab Chief Minister pic.twitter.com/jHbAHapQEHSukhjinder Singh Randhawa said that it was the decision of the Congress high command to appoint Charanjit Singh Channi as the CM of Punjab and said he was not disappointed at all, reports ANI. “I welcome it. Channi is like my younger brother,” he said.Congress names Charanjit Singh Channi as new Punjab CLP leader, CM-designateIt gives me immense pleasure to announce that Sh. #CharanjitSinghChanni has been unanimously elected as the Leader of the Congress Legislature Party of Punjab.@INCIndia @RahulGandhi @INCPunjab pic.twitter.com/iboTOvavPdCharanjit Singh Channi unanimously elected as the leader of the Congress legislature party of Punjab, tweets senior Congress leader Harish Rawat.Congress' Harish Rawat, Sukhjinder Randhawa to meet Governor Banwarilal Purohit at 6.30pmPunjab governor Banwarilal Purohit has given time to AICC general secretary Harish Rawat and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to meet him at 6.30 pm, according to Raj Bhawan sources.7 dead, 9 injured in road accident near Borgaon, Bastar in Chhattisgarh: PoliceSeven dead, nine injured in a road accident near Borgaon in Kondagaon Tehsil, Bastar in Chhattisgarh, reports ANI citing P Sundarraj, Bastar IG. ‘Will have to wait 2 to 3 hours’: Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on decision about next Punjab CM, reports ANINo decision yet (on new Punjab CM), you will have to wait for 2-3 hours... announcement will be made today: Congress leader Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa pic.twitter.com/m2UYP1HnLVCongress leader Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said there has been no decision made on next CM of Punjab. He also said that the decision would be made today and asked to wait for the next two to three hours, reports ANI. Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa seeks time to meet Governor Banwarilal Purohit, reports ANI citing sourcesCongress leader Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has sought time for a meeting with Governor Banwarilal Purohit amid political developments in Punjab: SourcesRandhawa is likely to become the next Chief Minister after Captain Amarinder Singh resigned, yesterday. pic.twitter.com/lVWPvpt3u9Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, whose name Congress MLAs in Punjab have proposed for the next CM, has sought time for a meeting from governor Banwarilal Purohit, reports ANI citing sources.France says Joe Biden, Emmanuel Macron to talk in coming days, reports AFP#BREAKING France says Macron, Biden to talk in coming days after submarines spat pic.twitter.com/f8jK2pKdUkUS President Joe Biden and French President Emmanuel Macron to talk in the coming days after the spat between the two countries over the submarine deal with Australia, reports AFP.UP to allow 100 people in weddings, other celebrationsThe Uttar Pradesh government has increased the maximum number of people allowed at weddings and other celebrations to 100 from the existing limit of 50. according to an order by state's additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi.Congress proposes name of Sukhjinder Randhawa for post of Punjab CM, reports ANIPunjab | All MLAs have named Sukhjinder Randhawa for CM before Congress high command, he will become the CM: Congress MLA Pritam Kotbhai, in Chandigarh pic.twitter.com/ISAjIwCrqkCongress MLAs have proposed the name of Sukhjinder Randhawa for the post of Punjab CM, reports ANI citing MLA Pritam Kotbhai.EAM Jaishankar urges early resumption of direct flights to Saudi ArabiaUrged early resumption of direct flights to Saudi Arabia. Agreed to work closely on all Covid-related challenges, including to travel.External affairs minister S Jaishankar has urged his counterpart in Saudi Arabia Faisal bin Farhan for early resumption of direct flights to the kingdom. Afghanistan and Covid-19 were also discussed by the two ministers.Karnataka MLA Srinivas Gowda resigns from JD(S)Karnataka MLA Srinivas Gowda, representing the Kolar constituency, said on Sunday that he has resigned from the HD Deve Gowda-led Janata Dal (Secular). “I have resigned from JD(S). I have met DK Shivakumar as I was in Congress earlier,” he told news agency ANI.Security forces neutralise IED weighing 10 kgs in ChhattisgarhChhattisgarh | Security forces have neutralised an IED weighing approximately 10 kgs planted by Naxals in Dhamtari pic.twitter.com/UivVwk0d49Adityanath says UP has risen to No 2 in ‘Ease of Doing Business’ national ranking Uttar Pradesh (UP) chief minister Yogi Adityanath told reporters on Saturday that during his time in the office UP has risen to a become the second best state in the country in terms of ‘Ease of Doing Business’ ranking. He further said that UP has climbed from 6th spot in the economy of the country to second position.Serbian foreign minister arrives in Delhi Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia, Nikola Selakovic, arrives in New Delhi today morning. pic.twitter.com/Lhg78azLToPunjab CLP meeting deferred, no new time announcedThe Punjab CLP meeting, which was to be held at 11am, has been deferred, Congress party sources said. No new time has been decided, they added.‘Awaiting Sonia Gandhi’s orders': Congress MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid ahead of CLP meetingWe are awaiting Sonia Gandhi's orders. Immediately after, a decision will be taken in the CLP meeting. There is a background and issues behind the resignation of Captain Amarinder Singh: Congress MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid after meeting with Sunil Jakhar, in ChandigarhIndia reports 30,773 new Covid-19 cases in a dayIndia reported 30,773 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the tally of cases to 3,34,48,163. In the last 24 hours 309 deaths have also been reported from all over the country, the death toll now stands at 4,44,838, according to the Union health ministry.A total of 55,23,40,168 samples tested for Covid-19, says ICMRThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said a total of 55,23,40,168 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in the country till September 18, with 15,59,895 samples being tested in the last 24 hours.Lokesh Sharma, OSD to Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot, quits Lokesh Sharma, Officer on Special Duty (OSD) to Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot resigned from his post on Sunday after a tweet he posted on September 18 sparked off a controversy, reported ANI.Mizoram reports 1,104 Covid-19 cases, 2 deathsCOVID19 | Mizoram reports 1,104 fresh infections and 2 deaths; Active cases 14,456 pic.twitter.com/g3iSvAEzScIsrael recaptures last two prison-break fugitives#BREAKING Israeli army recaptures last two prison-break fugitives: official pic.twitter.com/z53WS8wH1F||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-september-19-2021-101632010587114.html
