21-09-2021||India||Assam, Nagaland CMs take part in Naga peace talks||KOHIMA: The Naga peace talks received a fillip on Tuesday, when the chief ministers of Nagaland and neighbouring Assam met with negotiators of the Indian government and the Isak Muivah-led National Socialist Council of Nagalim (NSCN-IM) in Dimapur. Three important meetings took place in Nagaland’s most populous city: between representatives of NSCN-(IM) and New Delhi’s emissary AK Mishra, between Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio and his Assamese counterpart Himanta Biswa Sarma, and between the chief minsters and Mishra, the latest in a line of interlocutors who is a retired special director of the Intelligence Bureau. “At Dimapur today, we held a discussion with NSCN(IM) representatives in presence of Nagaland CM Neiphiu Rio about the ongoing pece talks with GoI (Government of India)....We are keen that the ongoing peace talks fructify into concrete results soon,” Sarma tweeted on Tuesday evening.Although details of the meetings were not immediately known, they were “positive” and the consultations will continue, according to people aware of the matter, including representatives of NSCN (IM), who declined to be named. The people said future meetings could take place in Delhi next. HT could not independently confirm this. Earlier, Naga peace talks were stalled in October 2019 over differences on issues related to the 2015 Framework Agreement, and NSCN-IM’s insistence on a separate Naga flag and constitution. Mishra, who will be in Nagaland till September 23, is scheduled to meet the working committee of seven Naga nationalist political groups (NNPGs) with whom the central government had signed an “agreed position” in 2017.The latest developments taking place in Nagaland since Mishra’s arrival a few days after Governor RN Ravi was transferred to Tamil Nadu have lead to expectations of an early resolution to the decades-old Naga peace process. However, it is unclear how New Delhi will balance two separate understandings with NSCN (IM) and the seven other groups. There is also the ceasefire agreement with the Niki Sumi-led faction of the NSCN (Khaplang) on September 8 last year. Meanwhile, the Assam Congress said that the participation of Sarma in the Naga talks could compromise Assam’s interest.“It has been reported that CM Nagaland and CM Manipur have also been asked to be part of the talks along with CM Assam. But we have come know thar CM Manipur has decided not to participate in the talks due to differences on “Greater Nagalim issue”, said Assam Congress president Bhupen Kumar Borah in a statement. NSCN-IM had been insisting on the final peace deal to encompass Greater Nagalim (areas in states neighbouring Nagaland including Assam where Nagas reside). Congress leaders demanded that the central government should immediately put the contents of the 2015 Framework Agreement in the public domain.“We also demand that the Prime Minister, Home Minister and Sarma should make their intentions public to the people of Assam before venturing into such doubtful and dubious expeditions in the name of peace talks,” Assam Congress said in a statement on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-nagaland-cms-take-part-in-naga-peace-talks-101632248774475.html
21-09-2021||India||‘No consensus’: Saarc foreign ministers’ meeting in New York cancelled||NEW DELHI: The secretariat of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) informed the grouping on Tuesday that a planned meeting of foreign ministers in New York this week has been cancelled because of a “lack of concurrence” among member states.The grouping that brings together Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka has been largely moribund since its 19th annual summit, which was to be held in Islamabad in 2016, was cancelled after an attack on an Indian Army camp at Uri that was blamed on Pakistan-based terrorists.The strained relations between India and Pakistan also affected Saarc’s functioning, which operates on the principle of consensus. India has sought to broaden regional cooperation through other groupings that exclude Pakistan.An official letter sent by the Saarc secretariat to the foreign ministries of the eight countries on Tuesday said it received a note verbale or unsigned diplomatic correspondence from Nepal’s foreign ministry that stated the informal meeting of foreign ministers, which was to be held on the margins of the UN General Assembly in New York on September 25, “will not take place” because of the “lack of concurrence from all member states”.Besides the strained relations between India and Pakistan, there has been a question mark over the meeting because of the status of Afghanistan following the takeover of the country by the Taliban last month. The interim setup created by the Taliban in Kabul has not been formally recognised by any country, and India has questioned its legitimacy as it is not inclusive and was not formed through negotiations.In recent years, the strains in India-Pakistan relations have been reflected at the Saarc foreign ministers’ meetings in New York. In 2019, Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi boycotted the speech of his Indian counterpart at the Saarc meet to protest changes in the special status of Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-consensus-saarc-foreign-ministers-meeting-in-new-york-cancelled-101632248655760.html
21-09-2021||India||Sharad Pawar ‘backstabbed’ Congress, can never be our leader: Sena’s Geete||Shiv Sena leader and former Union minister Anant Geete has said that Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, who once “backstabbed” Congress, cannot be a “guru” for Sena workers.The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of the Sena, NCP and Congress in Maharashtra was only an “adjustment”, he said at a rally in Raigad district, his home turf, on Monday.While the opposition BJP claimed that Geete expressed the views of Sena workers, an NCP leader said he had been sidelined and the comment did not warrant reaction.Pawar is considered to be the architect of the MVA, formed after the Sena severed its alliance with the BJP in 2019. “Pawar cannot ever be our leader as this government is merely an adjustment. Let people use as many accolades for Pawar as they want, but our guru is only (late Sena supremo) Balasaheb Thackeray. As long as this government is functioning, it will go on...If we separate, our home is Shiv Sena...,” he said.The former MP added: “Pawar formed his party by back-stabbing Congress. If Congress and NCP cannot become one, the Sena also cannot toe the Congress policy entirely. Congress and NCP were not always cordial (to each other).” Dismissing Geete’s remarks as his personal opinion, Sena leader Sanjay Raut said: “Pawar is a national leader, and at this moment, we are together in this government which is functioning properly… He (Geete) is not connected with the government; some leaders may have personal opinions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-backstabbed-congress-can-never-be-our-leader-sena-s-geete-101632248654718.html
21-09-2021||India||India says UK vaccine rule is ‘discriminatory’||New Delhi: India on Tuesday urged the UK to change a policy requiring visiting Indian nationals to quarantine even if they are fully vaccinated, describing it as “discriminatory”.The issue was raised by external affairs minister S Jaishankar during a meeting with his British counterpart Liz Truss on the margins of the UN General Assembly in New York late on Monday. The issue of vaccine certification has emerged as a fresh irritant in bilateral ties as Indian nationals who have received both doses of Covishield, the local variant of Britain’s AstraZeneca vaccine, will be considered as unvaccinated and will have to quarantine for 10 days under new British travel rules that will come into effect from October 4. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla told a media briefing on Tuesday that India could consider imposing “reciprocal measures” against countries that don’t accept the country’s vaccine certification. The basic issue, Shringla said, is that Covishield is a licensed product of a UK company that is manufactured in India, and five million doses of the vaccine have even been supplied to Britain at the request of the UK government, and used by the National Health Service.“Therefore, non-recognition of Covishield is a discriminatory policy and does impact on those of our citizens travelling to the UK,” he said.“Urged early resolution of quarantine issue in mutual interest,” Jaishankar tweeted after his meeting with Truss. Shringla said the minister raised the issue “strongly” with Truss and was given certain assurances “that this issue would be resolved”. The UK said on Monday it is working with India on the recognition of Covid-19 vaccine certification issued by Indian authorities following criticism of the new travel restrictions, suggesting that the recognition of the certificates themselves is an issue to be worked out. A British high commission spokesperson said: “We are engaging with the government of India to explore how we could expand UK recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India.” The new UK rules, which were unveiled on Friday, were described by Britain as an effort to change the current “red, amber, green traffic light system” to a single red list of countries and “simplified travel measures” for arrivals from around the world. Under the rules, only people who have got both shots of a double dose vaccine such as the Oxford-AstraZeneca, Pfizer or Moderna or the single shot Janssen vaccine “under an approved vaccination program in the UK, Europe, US or UK vaccine programme overseas” will be considered fully vaccinated. People who have received these jabs in Australia, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Bahrain, Brunei, Canada, Dominica, Israel, Japan, Kuwait, Malaysia, New Zealand, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea or Taiwan will also be considered fully vaccinated, the UK added. UK recognises the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine that is marketed by AstraZeneca as Vaxzevria, but not Covishield. In August, phase 2 /3 trials by Serum Institute of India established the bio-equivalence between the doses. The findings of the trial was released as preprint by The Lancet.Congress MP and former minister Shashi Tharoor said he had cancelled a planned book tour of Britain to protest against the rules. “It is offensive to ask fully vaccinated Indians to quarantine,” he said.Shringla said India had offered some partner countries the option of mutual recognition of vaccine certification. “Obviously, as we go along, we will have to see how it goes. But if we don’t get satisfaction, we would be within our rights to impose reciprocal measures,” he said. Shringla said the Covid-19-related travel restrictions of the US policy had been gradually liberalised and India’s category within the American policy had been upgraded. He noted, for instance, that visas for Indian students were being speeded up by the US. Going forward, a number of Indian professionals are expected to be given American visas and it was “positive news” that fully vaccinated people would be allowed to travel to the US, he said. The Indian side was especially upset by the new rules as vaccination-related travel restrictions had been repeatedly taken up with the UK at the highest levels, including by Shringla and Jaishankar, in recent months. Experts have weighed in on the controversy, urging regulatory authorities around the world to accept the World Health Organization’s emergency use listing to recognise coronavirus vaccines. “We cannot have multiple *classes* of vaccines for travel. The Multilateral Leaders Task Force ‘calls on all regulatory authorities around the world to...support the acceptance of the WHO Emergency Use Listing procedure’,” Gita Gopinath, the chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, said in a tweet on Saturday, a day after the UK’s new rules were announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-says-uk-vaccine-rule-is-discriminatory-101632248595512.html
21-09-2021||India||Decisive decade for the world: Biden at UNGA||WashingtonIn his first speech at the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) since taking office, US President Joe Biden on Tuesday said it was “a decisive decade for our world” which will “quite literally determine our futures”, as he vowed to pivot from post-9/11 conflicts and take a global leadership role on crises ranging from climate to the Covid-19 pandemic.The high-level segment of the 76th UNGA began in New York on Tuesday.Biden called on UN member states to work together to confront common challenges such as the climate crisis and Covid-19 and underscored his commitment to multilateralism, citing the elevation of the Quad group with India, Australia and Japan to summit-level engagement and said the Indo-Pacific was among the most consequential regions in the world.In his maiden address at the UN general assembly, the US President defended the messy end to the Afghanistan war, said America was ready to compete with China economically and ideologically but was not seeking to relaunch another Cold War, and reaffirmed support for multilateral bodies such as the UN and World Health Organization that were attacked and abandoned by his predecessor Donald Trump.Biden said that in his view, the world is at an “inflection point in history”. He said the US will double its financial commitment on climate aid and spend $10 billion to fight hunger.“We’ll stand up for our allies and our friends and oppose attempts by stronger countries to dominate weaker ones, whether through changes to territory by force, economic coercion, technical exploitation or disinformation. But we’re not seeking – I’ll say it again – we are not seeking a new Cold War or a world divided into rigid blocs,” Biden said.“The United States is ready to work with any nation that steps up and pursues peaceful resolution to share challenges even if we have intense disagreement in other areas,” Biden said.Biden stressed a decidedly contrasting theme in his speech to Trump’s America First approach as he called for countries to work together. Citing the death and devastation brought on by the Covid-19 pandemic, the American President said “our shared grief is a poignant reminder that our collective future will hinge on our ability to recognise our common humanity, and to act together… I believe we must work together as never before”.Defending his decision to end the Afghanistan war, he said: “We’ve ended 20 years of conflict in Afghanistan. And as we close this period of relentless war we’re opening a new era of relentless diplomacy of using the power of our development aid to invest in new ways of lifting people up.”The US President has faced criticism and questions at home and abroad about the pullout of international troops from Afghanistan, including from allies and partners such as India, and of the chaotic evacuation marked by the killing of 13 US troops and about 200 Afghan civilians. Ten people were killed in a US drone strike during that period who turned out to be civilians, including seven children, and not Islamic State-Khorasan operatives as the US initially described them.The US President went on to reiterate the importance of working together with other countries and multilateral bodies. Over the last eight months, he said, he prioritised “rebuilding our alliances, revitalizing our partnerships, and recognizing they are essential and central to America’s enduring security and prosperity”. He spoke of NATO and EU, which also faced withering criticism and harsh words from Trump.“We elevated the Quad partnership among Australia, India, Japan and the United States to take on challenges ranging from health security to climate to emerging technologies,” Biden said of the Quad, which is scheduled to hold its first in-person summit meeting on Friday, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Australia’ Scott Morrison and Japan’s Yoshihide Suga at the White House. The first summit of the group was held virtually in March at President Biden’s initiative, elevating engagement of the group rapidly from the level of officials to ministers.Though the US President did not name China, it formed the backdrop for chunks of his speech. Arguing that the world faced a choice between those who support western democratic values and authoritarian regimes like China, he said: “The future belongs to those who give their people the ability to breathe free, not those who seek to suffocate their people with an iron hand authoritarianism.”“The authoritarians of the world, they seek to proclaim the end of the age of democracy, but they’re wrong.”Overcoming global challenges “will hinge on our ability to recognize our common humanity”, Biden said.Biden added that he remains committed to peacefully resolving a dispute with Iran over its nuclear program. He vowed to defend US ally Israel but said a two-state solution with the Palestinians is still needed but a distant goal.He said the US wants “sustained diplomacy” to resolve the crisis surrounding North Korea’s nuclear and ballistic missile programs. North Korea has rejected US overtures to engage in talks.Discussing oppression of racial, ethnic and religious minorities, Biden singled out China’s Xinjiang region where rights groups estimate that one million Uyghurs and other ethnic minorities have been interned in camps.UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, who begins a second five-year term at the helm of the world body on January 1, warned earlier of the dangers of the growing gap between China and the United States, the world’s largest economies.“I fear our world is creeping towards two different sets of economic, trade, financial and technology rules, two divergent approaches in the development of artificial intelligence - and ultimately two different military and geopolitical strategies,” Guterres said.“This is a recipe for trouble. It would be far less predictable than the Cold War,” Guterres said.With inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decisive-decade-for-the-world-biden-at-unga-101632248593953.html
21-09-2021||India||Data protection bill: In old draft, JPC proposed to back some safeguards||The draft report of the joint parliamentary committee (JPC) on the data protection bill, drawn up when it was headed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Meenakshi Lekhi, was finally circulated last week among the members of the panel as a summary of proceedings, people aware of the matter said. The report was in penultimate stages and some of its key suggestions -- while still under discussion -- may likely be retained in the report that will now be drawn up under the new chairperson, BJP’s PP Chaudhary, the people said on condition of anonymity. The JPC has been looking into the draft law since 2019 and has been given several deadline extensions -- the latest being due to a change in several members, including the chairperson, after Lekhi was inducted as a minister. The report drafted at the time was yet to be circulated for final inputs by members despite their demands.  As per the summary now shared, the report proposed to treat social media platforms as publishers -- a move that would make them liable for content posted by users -- and to add back the condition of “just, fair, reasonable and proportionate” in Section 35, which deals with exemptions that the government can claim in accessing personal data, one of the people cited above said. This was of particular concern because the bill cleared by the government allowed for the government to claim an exemption as long as it felt it was “necessary or expedient” to do so in a particular set of circumstances, such as those relating to national security. The test of “just, fair, reasonable and proportionate” was part of the first version of the law, which was presented as the recommendation of the Srikrishna Committee.The summary, the people cited above said, also proposed to refer the 2019 Bill as the data protection bill, 2021 and that it be applied irrespective of any other law governing contractual relations between a data fiduciary and a data principal in so far as they relate to the contours of the bill. It will supersede other laws, including the information technology act and even the telegraph act, experts said, if the recommendations are accepted and included in the final legislation. The summary report also says the Information Technology Act was unable to manage social media intermediaries, and that “the Act had not been able to regulate social media platforms adequately because the Act has not been able to keep at pace with the changing nature of the social media ecosystem”. The Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019 has general provisions regarding social media platforms and intermediaries and the committee felt the need to immediately regulate such platforms. The person mentioned above said the “designated intermediaries are working as publishers of the content, owing to the fact that they have the ability to select the receiver of content and also exercise control over the access to any such content hosted by them, therefore, a mechanism must be devised for their regulation”. Many of these are part of changes being considered by the JPC, which is studying the personal data protection bill, sent to it for further deliberation after parliamentarians objected to the version introduced in Parliament in 2019, the officials said.The final report of the JPC is yet to be tabled in Parliament and the committee has now sought until the winter session to submit its report. To be sure, the central government will decide the final shape of the bill that will be presented to Parliament for legislation.As far as the ability of the government to seek exemptions, the committee said section 35 of the Act should include the test for “just, fair, reasonable and proportionate procedure” to curb any misuse. Any requests to override protections to personal data would require the government meet the tests of necessity, proportionality and legitimate state action as laid down in the Puttuswamy judgment, the summary added. A proposal to allow data principals to choose how their data will be handled after their death was also included, the person mentioned above said. Asked if the IT Act had failed to regulate intermediaries, Supreme Court lawyer NS Nappinai said it was a possibility. “But for this, the IT Act has to be reviewed for amendments. Buttressing shortfalls in IT Act through a data protection law may not be the solution,” she said. Nappinai added that the proposed Section 35 has drawn the most flak. “Sometimes I feel that many other important concerns get overlooked due to the focus on this provision. The PDP 2018 had a similar provision but exemptions were only permissible through parliament enacted law. Even that was considered a dilution. That any executive act or procedure has to be “just fair reasonable or proportionate” is a sine qua non (it is obvious),” she said. “If that is an addition being proposed, it does not really protect against misuse, but merely reiterates the obvious.” Nappinai highlighted that the clubbing of personal and non-personal data is untenable. “Assuming that PDP and NPD have now been possibly compressed into a single enactment, the same is not entirely unwelcome but to do so as in Sec. 91 of PDP 2019 is completely unsustainable. If the errors of that provision have been carried over, the same is likely to be afflicted with the malaise of excessive delegation of parliamentary powers to government authorities,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/data-protection-bill-in-old-draft-jpc-proposed-to-back-some-safeguards-101632247876341.html
21-09-2021||India||Channi, Sidhu arrive in Delhi, discuss Punjab cabinet expansion with Congress leaders||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, his two deputies Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni, and state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu met the central leadership of the Congress in Delhi on Tuesday to discuss the expansion of the state cabinet, said people aware of the details. The party high command was represented by All-India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal and AICC Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat. Rajya Sabha member Ambika Soni also met Channi and his team separately.With less than five months to go for the assembly elections in the state, Channi and Sidhu are keen to expand the council of ministers to accommodate some people from the group that took on former CM Captain Amarinder Singh. They also want to get cracking on an 18-point agenda drawn up by the central leadership to deliver on the election promises made by the party in 2017. “The new cabinet will see the induction of a few new faces by keeping out some of those who were part of the Amarinder Singh cabinet and involved in controversies to give it a fresh look and make a clean break from the previous setup,” a person familiar with the developments said on condition of anonymity. The names doing the rounds for inclusion in the cabinet include Inderbir Singh Bolaria (Amritsar south), Amrinder Singh Raja Warring (Gidderbaha), Pargat Singh (Jalandhar Cantt), Sangat Singh Gilizian (Urmar) and Madan Lal Jalalpur (Ghanaur). Gilzian, who has been seeking due representation for backward classes in the cabinet, had made a personal request to Rahul Gandhi for inclusion in the new cabinet when he was in Chandigarh to attend the oath-taking ceremony of the new chief minister and his two deputies on Monday, said sources. There is speculation that Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi and Sham Sunder Arora may not find a place in the new team. They formerly held ministries such as social justice, sports and industriesbut were embroiled in controversies related to disbursal of funds and land. Several legislators, including former ministers Balbir Singh Sidhu and Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and MLA Parminder Singh Pinky, are also camping in Delhi in the hope of getting ministerial berths. Channi and Sidhu did not speak to the media or respond to calls. The chief minister, his deputies and the state chief will fly from Delhi to Amritsar on Tuesday nightwhere they will pay obeisance at the Golden Temple and visit the Durgiana Mandir early in the morning. On their way to Chandigarh, they are likely to visit Dera Sachkhand Ballan, a place revered by the Scheduled Caste community in Jalandhar. Meanwhile, the AlCC made two more appointments in the state Congress on Tuesday: Yoginder Pal Dhingra has been appointed general secretary while Gulzar Inder Chahal is the new treasurer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/channi-sidhu-arrive-in-delhi-discuss-punjab-cabinet-expansion-with-congress-leaders-101632247576304.html
21-09-2021||India||UP teen raped in moving bus on Yamuna Expressway: Police||AGRA: A 14-year-old girl was allegedly raped in a moving private bus when she was travelling with her family on the Yamuna Expressway on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday, police said. According to the police, based on the complaint by the girl’s mother, a first information report (FIR) was lodged against two support staff of the bus at Shikohabad police station of Firozabad. According to the FIR, a 30-year-old woman boarded the bus with her 14-year-old daughter, and 18-year-old niece. They were seated in the front portion of the bus (near the driver’s seat). The Kanpur-bound AC sleeper bus left the Badarpur Border in Delhi around 11pm on Monday and was on its way to Agra on the Yamuna Expressway when the incident took place, police said. In the FIR, the woman said two staff on the bus, identified as Bablu and Anshu, offered her liquor when she went into one of the AC cabins of the bus. After she threw the glass out of the window, Bablu caught hold of her hand and broke her bangles. When she moved out of the cabin, she found her daughter was missing from the seat, according to the complaint. “My daughter was seen coming out of another cabin and was in tears. She said that one of the staff, Anshu, outraged her modesty,” the FIR stated quoting the woman. She alleged that the bus was not stopped despite her requests to the driver and fellow passengers. “Both the accused, Bablu and Anshu, got off the bus. While Bablu got down at Tappal in Aligarh, Anshu alighted at Naujheel area of Mathura. Teams are being sent to these districts and contact has been established with SSP Mathura as we found their location in Mant town. SSP Etawah has also been alerted as the accused belong to the district,” said AK Shukla, SSP (Firozabad). “A case has been registered against the accused under Sections 376 (rape), 354 (molestation) of the Indian Penal Code besides Section 3/4 of the Protection of Children against Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act,” Shukla added. The complainant registered the FIR at Shikohabad police station after her relatives reached there, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-teen-raped-in-moving-bus-on-yamuna-expressway-police-101632247334799.html
21-09-2021||India||After Owaisi's house vandalised, he asks PM Modi who ‘radicalised these goons’||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah after his Delhi residence was vandalised by members of Hindu Sena on Tuesday. Sharing the pictures of his official residence at Delhi’s Ashoka Road, Owaisi said that the vandals were armed with axes and sticks as they pelted stones at his house and destroyed the nameplate.“My Delhi residence was vandalised today by radicalised goons. Their cowardice is well known & as usual they came in a mob, not alone. They also chose a time when I was not home. They were armed with axes and sticks, they pelted stones at my house, my nameplate was destroyed,” the Lok Sabha MP said wrote on Twitter.
21-09-2021||India||Kerala, Karnataka mull restrictions in theatres as daily Covid-19 cases decrease||With the number of single-day coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections reducing in the states of Kerala and Karnataka, both governments have said that a decision on either reopening theatres or allowing them to function with full capacity would be taken soon.Karnataka’s health minister K Sudhakar on Tuesday said that the state government might consider allowing 100% occupancy in theatres and also revoke some other restrictions on swimming pools and pubs. “The government wants to support the theatres. We are aware that the entire film business, including cinema theatres, cinema staff have suffered huge financial losses. The government is thinking positively,” news agency PTI quoted him as saying.However, the minister also struck a cautious tone saying that the government does not want the infections to flare up due to the reopening and a decision would be taken accordingly. “In two-three days we will discuss with the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC-consisting of experts), following which the chief minister along with senior ministers will take a final decision,” he added.Also read | Covid R-value drops below 1 in September, remains above 1 in some major citiesThe state currently allows theatres to run with half their capacity while the film industry has been pressing for the full operation of theatres. “We had earlier planned to allow all activities in all the districts on reporting less than 2% (positivity), so as cinema theatres are already in loss, and the entire film industry has suffered financial losses, the government will have to stand by them,” Sudhakar further said.Meanwhile, in neighbouring Kerala too, the state government had hinted that a decision regarding the reopening of theatres could be expected soon.Saji Cheriyan, state minister for cultural affairs and fisheries, said that the government would consider reopening theatres in the next phase. Unlike Karnataka, in Kerala theatres have remained shut for nearly six months due to the second wave of infections in the state, according to a report by the Malayalam news website Mathrubhumi.“The current situation in the state is comparatively better. Of course, we are thinking about its reopening. After reaching an understanding, a decision will be taken in this regard soon,” Cheriyan said, according to PTI. Further, he also highlighted that the test positivity rate (TPR) in Kerala has shown a decline in the past few days. The state has also recently announced 90% inoculation of first doses to eligible beneficiaries there and is also planning to reopen educational institutions from October.On Tuesday, Karnataka logged 818 new infections of Covid-19 and 21 fatalities as the tally there reached 2,969,361 and the death toll touched 37,648. While in Kerala, 15,768 more people tested positive for the disease and 214 succumbed to their illness.So far, 4,539,926 people have been infected by the virus and 23,897 have died in Kerala. The active caseload stood at 13,741 in Karnataka while in Kerala it was 161,195, according to the latest data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-karnataka-mull-restrictions-in-theatres-as-daily-covid-19-cases-decrease-101632244889427.html
21-09-2021||India||Agri, food exports rise nearly 22% in April-August period, data reveals||India’s export of agricultural and processed-food items increased 21.8% in dollar terms between the five months of April and August 2021 compared to the corresponding year-ago period, beating pandemic-induced disruptions, official data released on Tuesday showed. “Quick estimates” of export of products monitored by the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority rose to $7,902 million in April-August 2021 from $6,485 million in April-August 2020. The jump in exports of agricultural and processed food products during the first five months of current fiscal “is in continuation of growth in exports witnessed in the financial year 2020-21”, an official statement said. Rice exports grew 13.7% from $3,359 million in April-August 2020 to $3,820 million in April-August 2021, according to the data. Export of fruits and vegetables clocked a 6.1% growth in dollar terms, while there was a 142.1% jump in export of “other cereals”. Meat, dairy and poultry products sold abroad increased 31.1% in the first five months of the current fiscal (2021-22), the data showed. Exports are key to driving farm incomes. India’s farm exports grew five times from just $8.7 billion in 2004-05 to $42.6 billion during 2013-14. They then fell sharply to $33 billion in 2016-17 and had been muted since. Trends show a reversal of stagnation of farm exports. In the financial year ended March 2021, the country exported farm produce worth nearly $42 billion, a growth of about 18%, on the back of a rise in global commodity prices, according to official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agri-food-exports-rise-nearly-22-in-april-august-period-data-reveals-101632244997467.html
21-09-2021||India||AUKUS has no link with Quad, won’t impact grouping’s functioning, says Shringla||The new security alliance between Australia, the UK and the US has no link with the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue and will have no impact on the functioning of the grouping, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Tuesday ahead of the first in-person Quad Summit. Shringla’s remarks, the first official response to AUKUS from the Indian side, came against the backdrop of widespread speculation on whether the new security alliance would dilute the Quad’s agenda or affect the working of the grouping that brings together India, Australia, Japan and the US. “Let me make it clear that the Quad and the AUKUS are not groupings of a similar nature,” Shringla told a media briefing ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the US, during which he will participate in the maiden in-person Quad Summit on September 24. The Quad is a “plurilateral grouping of countries with a shared vision of their attributes and values” and the four members have a shared vision of the Indo-Pacific as a free, open, transparent and inclusive region, he said. “On the other hand, AUKUS is a security alliance between three countries. We are not party to this alliance. From our perspective, this is neither relevant to the Quad nor will it have any impact on its functioning,” he added. The new alliance was unveiled last week by Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and US President Joe Biden against the backdrop of China’s assertive actions across the Indo-Pacific, and its first initiative is aimed at equipping Australia with nuclear-powered submarines built with technology from the US and the UK. France, a close strategic ally of India, reacted angrily to the new alliance as it resulted in Australia scrapping a nearly $90-billion deal to build 12 French-designed conventional submarines. Responding to a question on whether there are any nuclear proliferation-related concerns regarding AUKUS, Shringla said Australia had already clarified that it would be working on nuclear-propelled submarines but “it would not have any nuclear weapons and, as such, will not be in contravention with any of Australia’s or international commitments with regard to the issue of nuclear proliferation”. He said there is also no link between the Malabar naval exercise and the Quad, just “as there is no link between the AUKUS and the Quad”. The Malabar exercise is conducted by the navies of India, the US and Japan, and Australia has joined the drills for the second consecutive year in 2021. Shringla said the Quad has come a long way as a grouping, from initially holding meetings of senior officials to organising a meeting of foreign ministers in 2019 and moving to a virtual summit in March this year. “As we go along, I think we have already found a lot of common ground,” he said. The Quad has also adopted a “positive and proactive agenda” with an array of initiatives at the global level to address contemporary issues such as the Covid-19 pandemic, supply of vaccines to Indo-Pacific nations, new and emerging technologies, climate change, infrastructure, maritime security, education, and humanitarian assistance and disaster relief. “The Quad will deal with all issues that would further its objectives of seeing our common vision of an Indo-Pacific region that is free, open and inclusive. From that perspective, the Quad will function and will do what it takes. The effort is to move on areas that would seek to co-opt and enable the Quad to cooperate with our Indo-Pacific partners,” Shringla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aukus-has-no-link-with-quad-won-t-impact-grouping-s-functioning-says-shringla-101632243074217.html
21-09-2021||India||India to not buy Pfizer, Moderna Covid-19 vaccines as local production jumps: Report||India's government will not buy Covid-19 shots from Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna, three government sources told Reuters, mainly because domestic output of more affordable and easier-to-store vaccines has jumped.That essentially means the globally popular vaccines, which their makers have pledged not to sell to private parties during the pandemic, will not be available for now in the world's two most populous countries - China and India.The Indian government has also declined to meet the US companies' requests for legal protection over any side-effects from the use of their shots, which are currently made only in the United States or Europe, two of the sources said.No company has received such protection in India."Earlier, there was a shortage, there was a need," said one of the sources, referring to India's appeal to the companies in April for vaccines when infections exploded and shots were in short supply."Their price will be high. Why should we take on their conditions?"A second source said: "The government will not buy Pfizer and Moderna vaccines. They are free to have private tie-ups after necessary regulatory clearances. But sovereign indemnity is clearly something we can't give".A Pfizer spokesperson in India said discussions were ongoing and it remained committed to bring the vaccine to the country.The company reiterated that "during the pandemic phase, it would supply the Covid-19 vaccine only to central governments and supra-national organisations".Moderna and India's health ministry did not immediately respond to requests for comment.Moderna, through its Indian partner Cipla, already has emergency-use authorisation in India for its vaccine, which, like the Pfizer one, needs ultra-cold storage - facilities that much of India lacks.Both vaccines cost several times more than India's main shot, Covishield, a licensed version of the AstraZeneca drug.India's monthly domestic output has trebled since April and will reach 300 million doses in October, according to Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, who on Monday announced a restart of India's vaccine exports from the October quarter.The government, however, is expected to buy locally filled and finished doses of Johnson & Johnson's vaccine, Reuters reported on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-not-buy-pfizer-moderna-covid-19-vaccines-as-local-production-jumps-report-101632241304079.html
21-09-2021||India||'Not right in any way': TN requests Centre to postpone resumption of Covid vaccine exports||The Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday requested the Centre to postpone resumption of exports of Covid-19 vaccines, saying only one third of the country's population have been fully inoculated so far and 115 crore vaccines are still required to give the shots to all the people. Minister for medical and family welfare Ma Subramanian put forth the request after Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday said that exports of surplus Covid-19 vaccines would resume next month under the 'Vaccine Maitri' programme. Talking to reporters after unveiling the simulation centre at Apollo Hospitals in Vanagaram on Tuesday, Subramanian said the global medical fraternity welcomed the vaccination programme in India, as inoculating people holds the key in the fight against the Covid-19 virus. However, shortage of vaccines had resulted in Tamil Nadu being unable to hold vaccination camps on September 20 and today, he said. The Minister pointed out that the Centre had announced that 80 crore people nationwide have received the jabs, of which 61 crore have received the first dose. "Considering the total population of 1.3 billion people who need to be inoculated, 70 per cent of them were identified to be above the age of 18 years, which is 97.30 crore," he said. Subramanian said that till date 20.77 lakh people, or one third of the population have received the second dose. So the country still requires another 115 crore doses to vaccinate every one, he said. The minister said he had raised with Mandaviya, the issue of vaccinating those in this age group, as was being contemplated by other countries, to which he had replied that he would inform him after holding discussions with the officials. "Considering all these (issues), the news of resuming vaccines for exports will not be right in any way.. On behalf of the people of Tamil Nadu, we request Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) and the Union Health Minister to postpone the idea to resume vaccine exports and set a target to inoculate all the people in the country", Subramanian said. On the initiatives taken by the Tamil Nadu government to vaccinate people, he said 45.34 lakh people have been given the shots in 60,000 camps state-wide on September 12 and 19. The government requires 12.12 crore vaccines to vaccinate people in the state, he said, adding that 6.06 crore people aged above 18 years have been identified as eligible to receive the shots. "Till date we have vaccinated 4.37 crore people and still need 7.50 crore vaccines" he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-right-in-any-way-tn-requests-centre-to-postpone-resumption-of-covid-vaccine-exports-101632240701198.html
21-09-2021||India||TMC asks high court to greenlight Abhishek Banerjee’s Tripura rally; rejected||AGARTALA: The Tripura high court on Tuesday rejected a petition by Trinamool Congress (TMC) to seek permission for a public rally by party leader Abhishek Banerjee in state capital Agartala, declining to interfere with the administration’s order issued a day earlier that prohibits public rallies between September 21 and November 4 in West Tripura district.Tuesday’s court verdict comes as a huge setback to the TMC that intended to amp up the campaign against the Biplab Deb-led government with Banerjee’s roadshow on September 22 but could not get the requisite police permission.Tripura’s top law officer Siddhartha Shankar Dey said the single bench of justice Arindam Lodh heard lawyers from the TMC and the government. “After hearing everyone, the high court declined to interfere with the state government’s order imposing restrictions on public gatherings,” the state’s advocate general said.The TMC has already twice rescheduled Banerjee’s rally, initially proposed for September 15, due to the refusal of the police to give the requisite approval.On Monday, West Tripura district magistrate Rajib Datta imposed prohibitory orders in the district banning any kind of meeting or gathering in the Sadar sub-division where Agartala prominent spots for public meetings are located including Rabindra Shatabarshiki Bhawan, Swami Vivekananda Maidan, Agartala Town Hall and Orient Chowmuhani.“Any kind of meeting/procession/public gathering by any political party in Sadar Police Sub Division (East Agartala and West Agartala areas) is prohibited w. e.f. 6 A.M of 21.09.2021 to midnight 04.11.2021,” said the notification issued on September 20.The notification said there was an apprehension that political parties activists might attempt to do mischief and any kind of violence in the capital city might lead to sporadic clashes among the political parties that will impact the law and order of the state.TMC Rajya Sabha member Santanu Sen said it was proof that the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party was afraid of his party.“The BJP government is scared of us, and that’s why they are trying to stop our activities. But we are with the people, and we will stick to them in the coming days as well,” Sen said.Veteran Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Pabitra Kar said, “ This restriction is an attempt to restrain democratic work of the opposition parties. Despite this, we are working for the people and will continue our activities in future too.” BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharjee said his party will abide by the decisions of the state government and the high court. “Everybody should obey this,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-asks-high-court-to-greenlight-abhishek-banerjee-s-tripura-rally-rejected-101632239533661.html
21-09-2021||India||Why can’t Modi-Shah duo break narcotics syndicate in Gujarat, asks Congress||The Congress on Tuesday questioned why Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah were unable to stop the drug supply and break the narcotics syndicate in Gujarat, a day after the Directorate of Revenue and Intelligence seized 3,000 kg of Afghan heroine worth nearly ₹21,000 crore from two containers at the Mundra Port. “The fact is, Gujarat has witnessed and has become one of the favourite destinations (of drug smuggling), which is unfortunate. Gujarat has become a safe haven. Why is Mr Modi, the Prime Minister of India, who is from Gujarat, Mr. Amit Shah, who is the Home Minister of India, also from Gujarat unable to control this, unable to break into the drug syndicate?” said Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera. He also questioned why the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) does not have a full-fledged Director General for the last 18 months. “These are questions we all need answers to,” said the Congress leader. HT reported how the consignment, originating from Taliban-ruled Afghanistan was shipped to Gujarat on September 13-14 via Iran’s Bandar Abbas Port and was hidden inside the containers of semi-processed Afghan talc, imported by a firm based in Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-can-t-modi-shah-duo-break-narcotics-syndicate-in-gujarat-asks-congress-101632238694434.html
21-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi, Macron vow to ‘act jointly’ in Indo-Pacific and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi, Macron vow to ‘act jointly’ in Indo-Pacific as France fallout with US, AustraliaPrime Minister Narendra Modi and French President Emmanuel Macron on Tuesday vowed to “act jointly” in the Indo-Pacific region, the French presidency said, amid fallout with Australia and the US due to the AUKUS deal. During a telephonic conversation, Macron assured PM Modi of continued “commitment to the strengthening of India's strategic autonomy, including its industry and technology base, as part of a close relationship based on trust and mutual respect." [Read more…]Covid R-value drops below 1 in September, remains above 1 in some major citiesWith the daily new Covid-19 infections in India receding slowly, researchers have found that the R-value or the reproductive number for Covid-19 in the country has dropped below 1 in September. The value denotes how many people an infected person impacts on average and is an indicator of how efficiently a virus spreads. [Read more…]ED to probe money laundering in 3,000 kg of Afghan heroin detected at Mundra PortThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) is all set to launch a money laundering investigation into the seizure of the largest ever consignment of Afghan heroin – approximately 3,000 kg heroin worth ₹21,000 crore – from two containers at Mundra port in Gujarat last week, as the case has larger international ramifications, people familiar with the developments said. [Read more…]Drone heard along Indo-Pak border; Search operation finds nothingTarn Taran A joint team of the Punjab Police and the Border Security Force (BSF) personnel launched a search operation at the international border near Khalra village of Bhikhiwind sub-division in Tarn Taran district on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday, after a drone was heard in the area. [Read more…]KBC 13: ₹1 crore contender calls Amitabh Bachchan's pocket square 'badaa bekar'. WatchA new promo for an upcoming episode of Kaun Banega Crorepati 13 was shared online on Tuesday. It showed host Amitabh Bachchan in conversation with contestant Pranshu Tripathi, who wasn't too impressed with the actor's outfit. [Watch here]Dia Mirza makes strong summer statement for virtual meetings in blue khadi suitFrom being unappreciated to being trendy, khadi fabric has made it to the ramp and United Nation Environmental Programme's Goodwill Ambassador, Dia Mirza is all for flaunting it as she recently donned it for some virtual meetings. Making a strong summer statement in the blue khadi suit, Dia reminded one of “clean air and blue skies” as she sizzled in the unique mix of the western suit and Indian kurta. [Read more…]Questions will be asked': Pietersen, Gavaskar 'astonished' as Punjab Kings ignore Gayle on 42nd birthdayFormer cricketers Sunil Gavaskar and Kevin Pietersen wershocked to see Punjab Kings leave out Chris Gayle from their Playing XI on the occasion of the swashbuckling batsman's 42nd birthday. PBKS skipper KL Rahul that the four overseas players the team went ahead with for Match 32 of the IPL 2021 against Rajasthan Royals in Dubai are Nicholas Pooran, Adil Rashid, Aiden Markram and Fabian Allen. [Read more…]Lamborghini hits triple century in India, Urus SUV captains supercar teamLamborghini on Tuesday announced that it had delivered 300 units of various models to customers in India. And while it has been a rather slow going over 12 years of presence in the country, the past few years have seen a jump which is also thanks to the resounding success of Urus SUV here and the world over. [Read more…]Long term JioPhone plan priced at ₹749 on launch; 2GB data per monthThe JioPhone is a popular option in the feature phone space and Reliance Jio is now spicing up its appeal with a new plan. This is the JioPhone plan priced at ₹749. The newly launched JioPhone ₹749 prepaid long term recharge plan is the most expensive plan and at the same time, the most affordable. How? When the long-term plan benefits are counted, it comes across as being quite affordable. That means the high JioPhone plan price will not pinch much. [Read more…]||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-macron-vow-to-act-jointly-in-indo-pacific-and-all-the-latest-news-101632236797247.html
21-09-2021||India||Covid R-value drops below 1 in September, remains above 1 in some major cities||With the daily new Covid-19 infections in India receding slowly, researchers have found that the R-value or the reproductive number for Covid-19 in the country has dropped below 1 in September. The value denotes how many people an infected person impacts on average and is an indicator of how efficiently a virus spreads.The R-value, which was 1.17 in August end, has reduced to 0.92 in mid-September indicating the slowing down of the transmission of the disease, news agency PTI reported citing researchers from the Institute of Mathematical Sciences in Chennai.However, the data also showed that the R-value remained above 1 in some cities namely, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata and Bengaluru while in Delhi and in Pune it remained below 1. Also, in Kerala and Maharashtra, two of the worst affected states in the country, the R-value was below 1.Also read | India's fresh Covid infections fall to 26,115; active cases lowest in 6 months“The good news is that India's R has continued to be less than 1, as is that of Kerala and Maharashtra, the two states having the highest number of active cases,” PTI quoted Sitabhra Sinha of the Institute of Mathematical Sciences as saying. The value was recorded to be 1.17 at the end of August, declined further to 1.11 between September 4 and 7 and fell below 1 since then.In the four cities, the R-value was found to be 1.09 in Mumbai, 1.11 in Chennai, 1.04 in Kolkata and 1.06 in Bengaluru. The R-value witnessed a declining phase after the devastating second wave of infections in India. It was recorded at 1.37 between March 9 and April 21 in the country, during the peak of the second wave. According to the latest update, the R-value was found to be 0.92 between September 14 and 19.On Tuesday, 26,115 new Covid-19 cases and 252 related deaths were reported in the country. The death toll currently stands at 445,385 and the active caseload was recorded at 309,575, according to data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-r-value-drops-below-1-in-september-remains-above-1-in-some-major-cities-101632236713164.html
21-09-2021||India||ED to probe money laundering in 3,000 kg of Afghan heroin detected at Mundra Port||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is all set to launch a money laundering investigation into the seizure of the largest ever consignment of Afghan heroin – approximately 3,000 kg heroin worth ₹21,000 crore – from two containers at Mundra port in Gujarat last week, as the case has larger international ramifications, people familiar with the developments said. HT reported on Monday that the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) had seized the consignment after it was smuggled from Afghanistan’s Kandahar district via Iran’s Bandar Abbas port. Five people including a Chennai based couple – Govindaraju Durga Purna Vaishali and her husband Machavaram Sudhakar, two Afghan nationals and another Indian citizen have already been arrested by the DRI in the case. A senior ED official said –“With a possible Taliban-Pakistan-Afghanistan link emerging in the high-quality heroin consignment smuggled through a shell company, it is a fit case to be probed under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and to seize the assets of conspirators.” The consignment, originating from Afghanistan, now under Taliban rule, was shipped to Gujarat on September 13-14 via Iran’s Bandar Abbas Port and was hidden inside the containers of semi-processed Afghan talc, imported by a firm – Ashi Trading Company - based in Andhra Pradesh’s Vijayawada. Vijayawada Police said in a statement on Tuesday that the drugs consignment has no link with the city except that an address linked to the couple is from there. “It has been learnt that Durga Purna Vaishali, resident of Chennai had taken GST registration in August 2020 on the address at Satyanarayana Puram, Gadiyaramvari Street, Vijayawada. Sudhakar, a resident of Chennai, is the husband of Vaishali. The above building is owned by Govindaraju Taraka who happened to be the mother of Vaishali,” said a Vijayawada police statement. It added that Vaishali took Import and Export Licence (IEC Code) from the Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) for export and import purpose”. It said the smuggled heroin in the guise of talcum powder that landed at Mundra Port was intended to reach Delhi, but not to Vijayawada as alleged in some sections of the media. The two containers had 1,999.58 kg and 988.64 kg heroin packed respectively, layered between the talc to avoid detection by security and customs officials. Officials have said the substance is “very high quality” heroin originated in Afghanistan and it is worth ₹7 crore per kg in the international market, which makes it the largest seizure in India ever. There have already been multiple meetings among central agencies to discuss the impact in terms of drugs smuggling, infiltration of foreign terrorists and terror activities in India following the Taliban’s takeover of Kabul on August 15. The Afghanistan government had briefly banned the export of talc in 2015, which is a major source of funding for both Taliban and Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP) as they get $10 to $12 per tonne mined talc, used in baby powder, in Nangarhar, Sherzad and Achin areas, said a counterterrorism official who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-to-probe-money-laundering-in-3-000-kg-of-afghan-heroin-detected-at-mundra-port-101632236473452.html
21-09-2021||India||India's next Air Chief Vivek Chaudhari flew missions during 1999 Kargil war||NEW DELHI: The government on Tuesday announced that Air Marshal Vivek Chaudhari will take over as the next chief of the Indian Air Force after Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria retires on September 30. Chaudhari is currently serving as the IAF’s vice chief.The government has followed the seniority principle in appointing Chaudhari to the top job. He will be the senior-most IAF officer the day Bhadauria retires. An experienced pilot, Chaudhari has logged more than 3,800 hours of flying on a variety of fighter planes such as MiG-21, Mig-29 and Sukhoi-30. He has commanded important fighter bases in his military career including one in Kashmir. He also flew several air defence missions during the 1999 Kargil war with Pakistan. Chaudhari was commissioned into air force’s fighter stream in December 1982. Before taking over as the IAF’s vice chief, he commanded the Western Air Command at a time when the IAF was inducting its new Rafale fighter jets at Ambala and operationalising them at the earliest was a top priority amid the border row with China. He earlier held the appointment of IAF deputy chief at the Air Headquarters in Delhi and steered a raft of key procurements. He was closely associated with the Rafale programme as the deputy chief --- he was the head of the bilateral high-level group monitoring the progress of the fighter jet project in France.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-marshal-vivek-chaudhari-is-next-iaf-chief-says-govt-101632236173527.html
21-09-2021||India||Air Marshal V R Chaudhari appointed next Chief of Air Staff||The Centre on Tuesday appointed Air Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari as the next Chief of Air Staff. He will assume charge after Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria retires on September 30. He took over as the Vice Chief of Air Staff on July 1 from Air Marshal HS Arora. Having flown a variety of fighter aircraft and with a flying experience of more than 3,800 hours, Chaudhari was commissioned into the fighter stream of the Indian Air Force on December 29, 1982. Air Marshal Chaudhari was Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Western Air Command from August 1, 2020.Decorated with Param Vishisht Seva Medal, Ati Vishisht Seva Medal and Vayu Sena Medal, the Air Officer has held various command, staff and instructional appointments at various levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-marshal-v-r-chaudhari-appointed-next-chief-of-air-staff-101632234029333.html
21-09-2021||India||HT This Day: September 23, 1986 — Historic ‘tie’ at Chepauk||Cricket history was re-enacted at the Chepauk here today when the first Test between India and Australia ended in an incredible and pulsating tie. Amid scenes of mounting tension and excitement, India, chasing a victory target of 348 runs in 87 overs, were all out for 347 in the penultimate ball of the five-day match. The only other tie in cricket history took place 26 years ago. That was when Richie Benaud’s Australia tied with Frank Worrell’s West Indies in the dramatic first Test at Brisbane in December, 1960. When Australia declared their second innings this morning at the overnight score of 170 for five, it was a fair decision by skipper Allan Border who, in his wildest of dreams, would not have imagined of a breathtaking finish to the match. And in the end, it was Kapil Dev’s India who narrowly missed greater glory by just one run. An Indian victory was very much on the cards till the penulatimate over when they needed only seven runs from 12 balls with two wickets in hand. However, that was not to be as left arm spinner Ray Bright dismissed Shivlal Yadav and then off-spinner Greg Mathews trapped last man Mahinder Singh leg-before in the fifth ball of the last over to tie the match. The tireless efforts of Bright and Mathews also saved Australia from the embarrassment of losing the match after piling up the mammoth total of 574 for seven in the first innings. At one stage during the mandatory session of 20 over’s, Australia had almost given up the match when they resorted to pressure tactics and gamesmanship. It was to the credit of umpires Data Dotiwala and Vikram Raju that they withstood the pressure and called the bluff when the Australians indulged in time-wasting tactics, perhaps, with the hope of fading light intervening on their behalf. “We are upset”, was terse comments of Australian team manager Alan Crompton about the match. Cricket manager and former skipper Bob Simpson was gracious when he said: “It was the right result for positive cricket.” Skipper Kapil Dev dedicated the Indian performance to team effort. But be had special praise for two seasoned campaigners, Sunil Gavaskar and Mohinder Amarnath, for the build-up of the Indian innings. “Though we lost wickets, we were also gaining runs,” was how Kapil justified the Indian strategy during the mandatory overs. India were favourably placed at the start of the 20 mandatory overs at 230 for three. It was only when they tried to hit out against the accurate spin attack of Mathews and Bright that they began to lose wickets. The last four wickets, which fetched 152 runs in the first innings, could get only 16 runs this evening. Various interpretations could be made from the different cameos of the Indian onslaught. The most commanding innings came from Gavaskar who missed his 33rd Test hundred by just 10 runs. The most stylish knock came from Amarnath, the most fortuitous form Srikkanth, while Chetan Sharma and Yadav vied for the most unselfish. Besides, there was the pleasing 39 from Pandit and an audacious, unbeaten 48 from Shastri. The match rules stipulated that India had 67 overs at their disposal for four and a half hours play, besides the 20 mandatory overs. A target of 348 in a day suggested a need of concentration rather than a reason for consternation. Instead, it was a pleasant surprise for the 25,000 fans that thronged the giant Chidambaram Stadium when India accepted the challenge right from the start. The pitch offered encouragement to the spinners but it seemed possible to score runs if enough patience and application could be mustered. Gavaskar and Amarnath certainly showed the necessary qualities with a 103-run stand for the second wicket although Srikkanth had lost his patience just before lunch. Earlier, paceman McDermott was slugged out of the firing line. Left-arm speedster Reid varied pace with optimism but with unavailing results. And till tea, when India were 193 for two, Australia’s efforts were maximum perseverance with minimal inspiration. After Gavaskar’s dismissal, when Jones took a diving catch at cover, Azharuddin showed good reflexes and Pandit exemplary footwork as they raised visions of an Indian victory. There then followed a slump when Azhar and skipper Kapil left in quick succession. It was then that Shastri took charge with two on-side sixes off Mathews. Thereafter, fortune fluctuated when Chetan and More fell to Bright. Yaday, too, swing Mathews for a six before he was bowled by Bright. At that stage India were 344 for nine with eight balls to go. Maninder safely played two balls from Bright and then Shastri got ready to face Mathews in the last over. After a defensive push, Shastri took two runs when Waugh misfielded at mid-wicket. The Indian vice-captain then took a single to tie the scores. With the Australian fielders swooping around like vultures, Maninder survived the fourth ball before he fell leg-before to Mathews. Mathews was the epitome of accuracy. His haul of five for 146 took his match figures to 10 for 249. Bright, who claimed five wickets for 94 runs, too was never far away from the stumps but at times his line wavered. “Mathews and Bright helped our cause at the right moment,” said skipper Border. They also salvaged some of the Aussie pride in the process. Dean Jones and Kapil Dev shared the Man-of-the-Match award for their batting exploits in the first innings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-september-23-1986-historic-tie-at-chepauk-101632232813525.html
21-09-2021||India||HT This Day: September 22, 1995 — A day of devotional frenzy||India was gripped by unprecedented devotional frenzy today as idols of Ganesh and other leading deities of the Hindu pantheon ‘‘consumed” milk offered to them by devotees who thronged temples in thousands since early morning.Life came to a virtual stand-still in the Capital with large crowds con verging on temples big and small In every corner of the city. Office goers and schoolchildren were also seen queuing up although housewives were predictably, in the forefront.Reports from State capitals in different corners of India said that similar phenomena had been observed almost everywhere. Be it Bombay, Calcutta or Bangalore, all metropolitan cities were gripped by the same frenzy. Cities like Lucknow, Bhopal, Jaipur and other towns like Indore, Ambala, Shimla, Meerut, Kanpur, Siliguri all reported similar occurrences.However, places not well-served by telecom links did not seem to be affected. A Hindustan Times correspondent currently visiting Jharsuguda in Orissa was flabbergasted when asked over telephone whether any such phenomenon had happened there.In Delhi, the police had to intervene outside many major temples as crowds became unmanageably large and disputes erupted about positions. In the queue in a by-lane off Janpath, people were seen climbing on to a Himachal Tourism bus where a small idol of Ganesha on the dash-board apparently also accepting milk.Such was the impact of the “phenomenon” that supplies of milk ranout by late morning and devotees were seen sharing small bowlfuls among themselves. The milk was usually offered to idols in a smallspoon and in many cases the idols appeared to absorb the offering.According to the acting Head priest of the Laxmi Narain Temple (Birla Mandir), devotees started arriving around 6 a.m. saying they had heard that Lord Ganesh had broken his “eternal divine fast” and would accept milk.The 60 year-old priest said he himself then offered a cup of milk to the idol which was “immediately consumed”. By 11 a.m. an estimated 10,000 devotees had visited the temple and offered milk to various idols of the Shiva family and over 100 litres of milk had been“consumed”.The news of this so-called chamatkar spread with incredible rapidity.While the head priest of the popular Hanuman Mandir in Connaught Place said worshippers started arriving by 5.30 a.m., in other places word spread that idols of Ganesha would consume milk only between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m.The telecom revolution resulted in this phenomenon replicating itself throughout India by Mid-day while the Indian diaspora located in countries as far apart as Hong Kong, Australia and England claimed similar phenomena had been observed there too, at different times during the day. When the phenomenon did not occur in at least two temples in the U.S. preists said it would be because of the time difference.A distinct pattern was noticeable in Delhi about the spreading of the news. Announcement were made from loudspeakers of the main temple in many localities, resulting in crowds gathering quickly. Thereafter, devotees rushed to smaller temples where the phenomenon appeared to replicate.Rationalists scoffed at the reports, attributing it to mass hysteria or normal surface tension, while others saw a definite political ploy in what was said to be deliberate bid to invoke religious passion with an eye to the next year’s Lok Sabha poll. But as the day wore on, more and more people appeared to be convinced that a most inexplicable phenomenon had indeed taken place.By the evening, reports flowed in of even brass and wood idols of Ganesha absorbing milk. Callers claimed to have witnessed plastic statues even of Madonna “consuming” offerings of milk.People experimented with idols in their homes apparently with missed results. It worked in some case, while in others the deity stubbornly refused to during the offering. Callers claimed that idols at home would consume milk only after a particular chant addressed to Shiva was devoutly recited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-september-22-1995-a-day-of-devotional-frenzy-101632232513374.html
21-09-2021||India||Vegan food products to get their own FSSAI-launched logo. Check how it will look||The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) will soon launch a logo for vegan food products for the first time ever. FSSAI chief executive officer Arun Singhal told news agency ANI that there is a movement brewing for veganism as many people want to completely avoid dairy-based products due to various reasons including allergy.While people are aware of the green dot for vegetarian food and brown for non-vegetarian food, there’s no logo to identify vegan food products, said Singhal.“For them, we have the vegan food logo that will help people to make their choice," ANI quoted Singhal as saying.FSSAI drafted rules for vegan food products after the Cental government outlined vegan foods and mentioned the compliance requirement. Vegan foods are completely plant-based and do not originate from animals in any form, including ingredients, additives and processing aids of animal origin.Vegan food products can not make use of milk and milk products, fish, poultry, meat, egg or egg products, honey bee or honey products, materials of insect origin like silk, dyes, bone char used in sugar bleaching among others, according to the draft regulations."The food products or ingredients to be called vegan shall not have involved animal testing for evaluating the safety of the final product or ingredient and shall not contain any animal-derived GMOs or products prepared using an animal-derived gene for manufacturing the ingredients or products," the draft rules say.Vegan foods and food products will have a green square with the letter ‘V’ in it to help consumers identify them properly.Meanwhile, FSSAI also plans to introduce front-of-package (FoP) labelling on packaged foods which will provide simple nutrition information in a more accessible location. Singhal said that many countries which used FoP labels witnessed a reduction in consumption of junk food, reported PTI.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vegan-food-products-to-get-their-own-fssai-launched-logo-check-how-it-will-look-101632230462875.html
21-09-2021||India||Deliberating law to curb ‘involuntary religious conversions’: Karnataka minister||The Karnataka government on Tuesday said it is deliberating on introducing a law and taking other measures to check “involuntary religious conversions” after a ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator raised the issue in the state assembly and claimed his mother has been converted after she was “brainwashed”. Goolihatti D Shekar, the legislator, said there has been “heightened activity” around conversions. “In Chitradurga (district) and my constituency (Hosadurga) around 15,000-20,000 people have already been converted,” he said.Shekar said his mother was taken to a church and asked not to apply vermillion on her forehead, remove all photos of Hindu gods and puja items from the house. He claimed his mother was also asked to listen only to “Christian songs” and has even changed her ringtone, which has become an embarrassment within the family. “Dalits, backward classes, and even Muslims are converted,” he said.Shekar said those who resist are slapped with false cases of atrocities and even rape among other charges. He added that if some want to convert, it is their wish but that they should leave all the benefits of the faith or group they were entitled to and include themselves in the one they are joining.Also Read | Congress says Bommai govt’s Bill on religious structures aimed at vote-bankOther legislators supported the proposal for a law against conversations, which they said was disturbing the peace of society.Assembly speaker Visweswara Heggade Kageri said he had spoken about the issue in detail between 1999 and 2001 during the SM Krishna-led Congress government in the state. “There are many other states which have this law, and it would be useful if we too bring in something,” said Kageri.Devanand Fulsasingh Chavan, a Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) legislator, alleged Christian missionaries were targeting the vulnerable Banjara community in his constituency of Nagthan in Vijayapura district. He added entire settlements of these communities have been converted in recent years.Araga Jnanendra, the state home minister said the government is aware of these developments and deliberating on the law and other measures at the earliest. He sought details of organisations slapping false charges. Jnanendra said the charges will be investigated and action will be taken against such people or missionaries.BJP-ruled states such as Madhya Pradesh have criminalised what they call forced religious conversion, including through interfaith marriages. Critics of the legislation say they are being misused to target minorities.There have also been allegations, especially against Christian missionaries, that they lure weak and oppressed people and convert them by promising monetary and other rewards.“For adult baptism, we ask the concerned party to go to the court to make an affidavit or a notary and in that we record that it is not out of force and out of voluntary commitment to come to the church for Baptism,” Rev PK Samuel, the Bishop of the Church of South India told Hindustan Times on Tuesday.The Reverend said that the CSI is a mainline church and does not use such (forceful) methodology.“Unless there is a court affidavit or notary, we do not allow Baptism in my church and all the priests have been given this instruction. This (pattern) has not been there now but for the last 20-25 years,” he said. There are 125 churches in the Diocese.“We allow children because the parents belong to the church,” the Reverend added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deliberating-law-to-curb-involuntary-religious-conversions-karnataka-minister-101632229753047.html
21-09-2021||India||Could mull imposing reciprocal measures: India on new UK vaccine policy for travellers||India on Tuesday urged the UK to change a policy requiring visiting Indian nationals to quarantine even if they are fully vaccinated, describing it as discriminatory.The issue was raised by external affairs minister S Jaishankar during a meeting with his British counterpart Liz Truss on the margins of the UN General Assembly in New York late on Monday. The issue of vaccine certification has emerged as a fresh irritant in bilateral ties as Indian nationals who have received both doses of Covishield, the local variant of Britain’s AstraZeneca vaccine, will be considered as unvaccinated and will have to quarantine for 10 days under new British travel rules that will come into effect from October 4. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla told a media briefing on Tuesday that India could consider imposing “reciprocal measures” against countries that don’t accept the country’s vaccine certification. The basic issue, Shringla said, is that Covishield is a licensed product of a UK company that is manufactured in India, and five million doses of the vaccine have even been supplied to Britain at the request of the UK government and used by the National Health Service.“Therefore, non-recognition of Covishield is a discriminatory policy and does impact on those of our citizens travelling to the UK,” he said.“Urged early resolution of quarantine issue in mutual interest,” Jaishankar tweeted after his meeting with Truss. Shringla said the minister had raised the issue “strongly” with Truss and was given certain assurances “that this issue would be resolved”. The UK said on Monday it is working with India on the recognition of Covid-19 vaccine certification issued by Indian authorities following criticism of the new travel restrictions. A British high commission spokesperson said: “We are engaging with the government of India to explore how we could expand UK recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India.” The new UK rules, which were unveiled on Friday, were described by Britain as an effort to change the current “red, amber, green traffic light system” to a single red list of countries and “simplified travel measures” for arrivals from around the world. But they triggered anger in India, with many describing the rules as discriminatory. Congress MP and former minister Shashi Tharoor said he had cancelled a planned book tour of Britain to protest against the rules. “It is offensive to ask fully vaccinated Indians to quarantine,” he said.Shringla said India had offered some partner countries the option of mutual recognition of vaccine certification. “Obviously, as we go along, we will have to see how it goes. But if we don’t get satisfaction, we would be within our rights to impose reciprocal measures,” he said. Shringla said the Covid-19-related travel restrictions of the US policy had been gradually liberalised and India’s category within the American policy had been upgraded. He noted, for instance, that visas for Indian students were being speeded up by the US. Going forward, a number of Indian professionals are expected to be given American visas and it was “positive news” that fully vaccinated people would be allowed to travel to the US, he said. The Indian side was especially upset by the new rules as vaccination-related travel restrictions had been repeatedly taken up with the UK at the highest levels, including by Shringla and Jaishankar, in recent months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/could-mull-imposing-reciprocal-measures-india-on-new-uk-vaccine-policy-for-travellers-101632229273345.html
21-09-2021||India||Tripura govt restricts political events as TMC seeks to make inroads||The Tripura government has imposed restrictions on public meetings and processions of political parties till November 4 in the West Tripura district, where the state capital Agartala is located. The move comes a week after the state police twice disallowed Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Abhishek Banerjee’s rally in Agartala on Wednesday.In a notification by West Tripura district magistrate Rajib Datta, prohibitory orders have been imposed and meetings or gatherings have been barred from September 21 till November 4 citing “an apprehension” that political activists might attempt mischief and lead to violence.“Any kind of meeting/procession/public gathering by any political party in Sadar Police Subdivision (East Agartala and West Agartala areas) is prohibited w. e.f. 6 A.M of 21.09.2021 to midnight 04.11.2021,” said the notification.An officer at the state police headquarters said that they are yet to receive the order copy, though they heard of it. Also Read | Rule of law is replaced by rule of jungle, says Tripura opposition leader Manik SarkarA single judge high court bench of justice Arindam Lodh on Tuesday rejected TMC’s petition for staying the notification.TMC leader Shantanu Sen said the state’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government is scared of them and that is why it is trying to stop their activities. “But we are with the people, and we will stick to them in the coming days as well.”BJP leader Nabendu Bhattacharjee said, “We will obey the decisions of both the state government and the high court. Everybody should obey this.”Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Pabitra Kar said, “This restriction is an attempt to restrain the movements of the opposition parties.”TMC leader Kunal Ghosh separately fell ill during questioning by police related to a political violence case lodged in Khowai district last month. Sen said Ghosh cooperated with the police and was rushed to the hospital because of low blood pressure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-govt-restricts-political-events-as-tmc-seeks-to-make-inroads-101632228132865.html
21-09-2021||India||PM Modi, Macron vow to ‘act jointly’ in Indo-Pacific as France fallout with US, Australia||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and French President Emmanuel Macron on Tuesday vowed to “act jointly” in the Indo-Pacific region, the French presidency said, amid fallout with Australia and the US due to the AUKUS deal. During a telephonic conversation, Macron assured PM Modi of continued “commitment to the strengthening of India's strategic autonomy, including its industry and technology base, as part of a close relationship based on trust and mutual respect."Macron’s office said that the shared approach of the two countries within the framework of the Euro-Indian relationship “aims to promote regional stability and the rule of law, while ruling out any form of hegemony.” It stated that bilateral cooperation will be further strengthened in all areas, particularly on the economic front. France also welcomed India’s decision to resume deliveries of vaccines to COVAX from next month.The telephonic conversation was held days after the US, the UK, and Australia announced a defence deal under which America and Britain will provide Australia with the technology to build nuclear-powered submarines.Also Read | India shares challenges that led to AUKUS formation: Aus envoy Barry O’FarrellThe new security pact, which is seen as an attempt to challenge China’s increased assertiveness in the region, was a major setback for France as it led to the cancellation of a $40 billion French submarine order from Australia. French called the deal a “stab in the back” and recalled its ambassadors from the United States and Australia.PM Modi and Macron also expressed serious concerns over the ongoing political and humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan. Both leaders shared concerns about the possible spread of terrorism, narcotics, illicit weapons and human trafficking in Taliban-controlled Afghanistan.They stressed the need to allow humanitarian organisations to operate in Afghanistan and respect the fundamental rights of Afghans. They also agreed to coordinate ahead of multilateral summits such as G20 and COP26, the French presidency said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-macron-vows-to-act-jointly-in-indo-pacific-as-france-fallout-with-us-australia-101632227623841.html
21-09-2021||India||‘Those in Delhi using Jammu & Kashmir as laboratory’: Mehbooba Mufti||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday remarked that leaders like former Prime Ministers Jawaharlal Nehru and Atal Bihari Vajpayee had a vision for Kashmir, but the present dispensation at the Centre is bent on creating a divide between the Hindus and the Muslims.The former Jammu & Kashmir chief minister slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party-led (BJP) government at the Centre and said that those in Delhi are using the Union territory as a laboratory and are experimenting here."Those in Delhi are using Jammu & Kashmir as a laboratory and are experimenting here. Leaders like Nehru and Vajpayee had a vision for Jammu & Kashmir but this government creates a divide between Hindu and Muslims. Sardars are now Khalistani, we are Pakistani, only BJP is Hindustani," Mehbooba Mufti was quoted as saying by news agency ANI at a press conference in Srinagar.Mufti criticised the Union territory's administration's decision to change the names of government-run schools after slain security personnel and said these exercises won't automatically fetch students jobs.“They are only changing names (naming schools after martyrs) but children will not get employment by changing names,” the PDP leader was quoted as saying.Mufti asked what Prime Minister Narendra Modi was doing to tackle the high unemployment rate in the Union territory.In August last, Jammu divisional commissioner Raghav Langer notified that all government-run schools in the Union territory will be renamed after Indian Army jawans, CRPF and state police personnel who were killed in the line of duty. In a letter to the deputy commissioners of 10 Jammu districts, he asked them to identify government schools that can be named after the slain soldiers.ALSO READ | Will continue to explore possibilities to get J&K’s spl status back: MehboobaSupporting the strike called by the traders’ body in Jammu on Wednesday, against the opening of Reliance retail stores in the city, Mufti said the shops will destroy small businesses. "What we have in the country, they (BJP government) are selling to corporate houses", she was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.On Sunday, the PDP chief said her party would fight the upcoming assembly elections in Jammu & Kashmir while ruling out any alliance with the BJP.Mufti also accused the BJP of playing politics over the issues of Taliban rule in Afghanistan, and Pakistan's purported role in it, to attract votes in Kashmir. She said the government doesn't talk about farmers rights and unemployment, and alleged that the BJP has brought miseries to the people of the country and left Jammu and Kashmir “destroyed”.ALSO READ | Don’t know why PM gets angry when I talk about holding dialogue with Pak: MehboobaComing down heavily on the BJP, Mufti said that it is not Hindus but the “democracy and India which are in danger under the BJP rule”, which has undone all the "good work" of the past 70 years of the Congress. She remarked that the BJP is selling national assets and raising the prices of essentials commodities to fill its coffers to "buy or intimidate" opposition legislators.The PDP leader claimed all projects which were launched during her tenure as the chief minister of Jammu & Kashmir have been halted by the BJP-led government at the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/those-in-delhi-using-jammu-kashmir-as-laboratory-mehbooba-mufti-101632224450005.html
21-09-2021||India||Search ops in Jammu and Kashmir’s Uri enters third day. Key points||A search operation launched by the Indian Army to flush out infiltrators in Uri in Jammu and Kashmir entered the third day on Tuesday, according to officials. The army launched the operation along the Line of Control (LoC) after it detected some suspicious movement in the Uri area of Baramulla district early on Sunday. “The search operation is still underway in Uri," the army said in a statement on Tuesday, according to news agency ANI.Officials have said that the search operation is being conducted to ensure that nobody has crossed over the border. News agency PTI reported citing a defence spokesperson that the search operation was on in the area but did not elaborate if the forces found anything after the reports of major infiltration bid in the Uri sector.Also watch | Big infiltration bid on Uri attack anniversary, Army's search enters 3rd day
21-09-2021||India||Maharashtra governor and Uddhav Thackeray face off over Saki Naka rape case||Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and the state’s coalition government led by Shiv Sena are engaged in a tussle over the Saki Naka rape and death case with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray telling Koshyari that his support for the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) demand to call a special session of state assembly to discuss the incident will be “lethal for democracy”.Earlier, Koshyari had requested Thackeray to consider BJP’s women lawmakers demand for a special session to discuss the issue of women security. In response, Thackeray said that since violence against women was a national issue, Koshiyari should request Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah to call a four-day special session of the Parliament over the issue.A week ago, a delegation of BJP women MLAs (members of legislative assembly) met the governor and urged him to direct the state government to convene a two-day special session of the state legislature to discuss violence against women in the backdrop of rape and murder of a woman at Saki Naka in Mumbai. Following this, Koshyari wrote a letter to the chief minister and said that he may consider the demand.On September 20, Thackeray responded with a strongly-worded four-page letter and referred to the cases of rape and murder of women in BJP-ruled states such as Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir (a Union territory) and said that the issue was not only limited to Saki Naka. “As the governor you have expressed concern over violence against women in the backdrop of Saki Naka case. We are also concerned about the same. But the matter is not limited only to Saki Naka, in fact it is a nationwide problem and hence the entire women community is looking at you with hope. Thus, I want you to demand from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah to call a four-day special session of the Parliament to discuss it in detail. Saki Naka case can also be discussed during the same session,” stated Thackeray in his letter.Thackeray also pointed out that Mumbai Police had acted swiftly and arrested the suspects immediately. Koshyari and the Maharashtra government have been locked in a bitter tussle for quite some time. The governor is yet to clear the 12 names approved by the state cabinet in November last year to be appointed as the members of the legislative council. Every six years, 12 members are nominated to the Upper House of the state legislature by the governor on the recommendation of the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-governor-and-uddhav-thackeray-face-off-over-saki-naka-rape-case-101632224352452.html
21-09-2021||India||Demand for air travel picks up as airlines allowed to operate up to 85% capacity||The demand for air travel has picked up since the civil aviation ministry last week allowed airlines to operate up to 85% of their pre-Covid capacity domestically, according to airlines and industry experts. Airlines expect the air traffic to be back to pre-Covid levels by the end of this year as the fare cap has been being removed and travellers are starting to fly more.“We expect domestic air travel to reach pre-pandemic level by December 2021,” said a spokesperson for IndiGo, India’s largest airline by market share.Experts said with Canada and the US easing their travel restrictions for Indians, the international market is gradually opening up and that too will increase the passenger numbers. “We urge the government to allow more bubble flights with fewer travel restrictions to more and more countries. As an industry, our objective should be to be at full scheduled service by summer for all international destinations. It will require a lot of heavy lifting by the government to get us there,” the IndiGo spokesperson said.Also Read | ‘Within our rights to impose reciprocal measures’: Shringla on UK vaccine ruleGaurav Bhatia, executive director, Bird Group, which owns Amadeus software for ticket reservation and distribution in India, said the increase in the capacity will enable airlines to operate more flights and push up passenger loads significantly. “In addition to providing more options on the existing routes, it will also open up more domestic routes. We forecast bookings to increase by over 25% by the end of September 2021. The trend will only be upward moving thereon. Bookings were already on the rise, as per our data, even before the new guidelines kicked in.”Bhatia said changes in fare fixing mechanisms will bring much-needed cheer for the airlines. “Cheaper fares will be on offer for flyers; a move that will stimulate the market and strengthen revenue management cycles.”IndiGo said it is pleased with the decision to allow airlines to operate with 85% capacity. “The demand has certainly picked up and we are expecting it to strengthen further in the upcoming festive season. We are bullish about the overall growth and demand for domestic travel and increasing the cap to 85% is a welcome move,” said the IndiGo spokesperson.There has been an uptick in passenger growth in the last few months and business travel has also started to slowly grow, said rating agency CRISIL. According to CRISIL, air traffic in the domestic sector will not be back to pre- Covid levels before March 2022. “With private offices opening up, many of the employees are slowly returning to their base locations. While these are the positives, we are still at least two quarters away from getting back to pre- Covid levels in the domestic route,” said Jagannarayan Padmanabhan, director (transport and logistics), CRISIL Infrastructure Advisory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/demand-for-air-travel-picks-up-as-airlines-allowed-to-operate-up-to-85capacity-101632224052397.html
21-09-2021||India||After Punjab, hope for a Dalit CM in Uttarakhand too, says Harish Rawat||Former chief minister of Uttarakhand and Congress general secretary Harish Rawat has said that he “wants to see a Dalit CM in Uttarakhand also.” Rawat’s comment on Monday assumes significance as the party has appointed Charanjit Singh Channi as the first Dalit Sikh chief minister of Punjab.Rawat made the statement while addressing a public meeting during the party’s Parivartan Yatra in Laksar constituency of Haridwar. Rawat played a major role in ending the crisis in Punjab, a state that holds the charge. Also, Uttarakhand has 18% Dalit voters with the majority of them in Haridwar district where he made the statement on Monday. Also Watch | Explained: What Charanjit Channi’s choice as Punjab CM says of the CongressRawat returned to Uttarakhand on Monday to join the concluding day of the second leg of Parivartan Yatra in Haridwar along with party state president Ganesh Godiyal, party state in-charge Devendra Yadav and leader of Opposition Pritam Singh. “History has been made in Punjab as Congress leadership under party national president Sonia Gandhi, a son of Dalit has been appointed the CM. I want to pray to the almighty to let me witness a Dalit becoming the CM of Uttarakhand in my lifetime,” he said. With the statement coming months before the next assembly elections, political analysts say Rawat “hit two birds with a stone.” “Rawat has played his cards cleverly. Firstly, he has tried to gain the support of the Dalits for the Congress with his statement. Secondly, being the senior-most leader in Uttarakhand Congress, he is obviously wanting to become the CM if the party wins. But if he fails, then he has indicated that he won’t allow any of his rivals in the party to become the CM but only a Dalit face...right now it is his loyalist Pradeep Tamta,” said senior political commentator Jai Singh Rawat. Another political analyst, MM Semwal, agreed and said, “With the Punjab development still fresh, Rawat tried to take advantage of it in Uttarakhand. Though he is thanking party national president Sonia Gandhi for it, he also played a major role in it while being the state unit’s in-charge. So by playing that card, he tried to portray himself as the messiah of Dalits in Uttarakhand.” The BJP meanwhile, called the move as “Congress’ hypocrisy when it comes to Dalits.” Party state president Madan Kaushik said, “By making Channi the Punjab CM months before the assembly elections there, Congress’s Punjab state in-charge has revealed its hypocrisy towards Dalit as he has also declared that the party will contest the assembly polls under Navjot Singh Sidhu. That means Channi’s Dalit face is of importance for them only till the polls.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-punjab-hope-for-a-dalit-cm-in-uttarakhand-too-says-harish-rawat-101632223692463.html
21-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Karnataka's religious structures bill aimed at vote bank, says Cong and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Congress says Bommai govt's bill on religious structures aimed at vote-bankThe Congress on Tuesday hit out at the Basavaraj Bommai-led government for introducing the Karnataka Religious Structures (Protection) Bill, 2021, that sought to protect illegal religious structures built on a public place. Read moreAssam foreigners’ tribunal says NRC is finalA foreigners’ tribunal in Assam’s Karimganj district has called the updated National Register of Citizens (NRC) final even as it is yet to be notified and declared a resident of the area an Indian national citing his inclusion in the document. Read moreChina: PLA soldiers killed at Galwan Valley now part of education on patriotismThe People’s Liberation Army (PLA) is citing the example of Chinese soldiers killed during the Galwan Valley clash with Indian border personnel in mid-June 2020 to teach lessons on patriotism to China’s primary schoolchildren. Read moreIn special edition, Limca Book of Records honours frontline Covid-19 workers, innovatorsIn a special edition, the Limca Book of Records (LBR) has honoured frontline Covid-19 workers, as well as innovators who, it said, helped the country with their “selfless acts” during the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. Read moreBharat Biotech completes phase 2/3 trials of Covaxin in children, to submit data by next weekBharat Biotech on Tuesday said that the phase 2/3 trials of Covaxin for inoculation in children under the age of 18 are over. Read more‘The mystery will remain’: Irfan Pathan explains why Chakravarthy can be a 'huge X-factor' for team India in T20 WCVarun Chakravarthy on Monday night justified his selection for the upcoming T20 World Cup, which begins next month in the UAE and Oman. Bowling against Royal Challengers Bangalore, the mystery spinner registered the magical figures of 3 for 13, after dismissing the likes of Glenn Maxwell, Wanindu Hasaranga and Sachin Baby. Read moreKangana Ranaut objects to Alia Bhatt's ‘kanyadaan’ ad: ‘Stop manipulating naive consumers’Actor Kangana Ranaut has reacted to a new advertisement featuring actor Alia Bhatt. In the commercial, for a bridal wear brand, Alia played a bride who doesn't agree with the practice of ‘kanyadaan (giving one’s daughter away)' at some Indian weddings. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-karnataka-s-bill-on-religious-structures-aimed-at-vote-bank-says-congress-and-all-the-latest-news-101632222655335.html
21-09-2021||India||Assam foreigners’ tribunal says NRC is final||A foreigners’ tribunal in Assam’s Karimganj district has called the updated National Register of Citizens (NRC) final even as it is yet to be notified and declared a resident of the area an Indian national citing his inclusion in the document. Bikram Singha, the resident, was declared a doubtful voter whose citizenship was under suspicion after the state’s border police registered a case against him in 2008. The tribunal on September 10 declared him an Indian citizen based on the appearance of his name in the updated NRC published in 2019.“Preparation of NRC for Assam was directed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in a time-bound manner and fixed a time schedule whose last step was mentioned as Finalization of Final updated NRC. Final NRC In Assam has been published as per direction and monitoring of the Hon’ble Supreme Court, so there should not be any doubt about finality or legality of NRC for Assam...,” said Sishir Dey, a member of the tribunal.“..Notification for preparation of NRC in Assam was issued by Register General of India. Final NRC, (i.e. Supplementary List of NRC together with Draft NRC) has been published on 31.08.2019 which is available online on the official website of NRC Assam wherein also it’s referred and mentioned as ‘Final NRC’. This legal position is still in force. The National Identity Cards have yet to be issued to the Citizens whose names have been included in Final NRC. But there is no doubt that this NRC Assam published in 2019 is nothing but Final NRC...”Also Read | Assam Police arrest 450 land brokers in crackdown against ‘Dalal Raj’The NRC was updated on the basis of the Assam Accord of 1985, which was signed after a six-year-long agitation against undocumented immigrants. The process took four years to complete under the supervision of the Supreme Court, which ordered revision of the 1951 list. The final list announced on August 31, 2019, excluded over 1.9 million applicants. As many as 33 million people applied to be included on the list that identifies Indian citizens.Singha, a resident of Jamirala village in Karimganj district, was earlier declared a doubtful voter by the tribunal on the basis of an ex-parte judgement after he failed to appear before it. He remained untracked for a while. Singha later appeared before the tribunal delaying its order by almost two months. Dey heard his case on September 1. But Singha’s lawyer could not produce adequate documents which could establish his family was living in India prior to 1966, the year when Citizenship Act was first amended.Singha’s name was included on the voter list in 1997. His other documents, including a land deed of 1968, showed his father and grandfather lived in Jamirala village before 1968. His father served as an Indian Air Force employee after 1972. But the documents could not help him to prove his citizenship in the tribunal. No document could establish the fact that they were residents in Assam prior to 1966.Singha’s lawyer argued as his name appeared in the final NRC in August 2019, he should be considered as Indian citizen. She referred to the White Paper on Foreigners’ Issue published by Assam’s home and political department in October 2012 and said it says anyone born between January 26, 1950, and July 1, 1987, can be considered an Indian citizen by birth irrespective of the nationality of parents.Dey cited Section 6A and Section 3 of the Citizenship Act and added it is clear that Section 6A deals with persons who came to Assam from a specified territory. “Their children are not covered by the provisions of section 6A but are covered within the ambit of section 3 of the Citizenship Act 1955. Thus Section 3 of the Citizenship Act is applicable in Assam as the rest of India unless and until it’s repealed, amended or struck down. Nothing of these has happened yet.”The Assam government on September 4 directed the foreigners’ tribunals to refrain from passing consequential orders and stick to “opinion” while passing judgement on a person’s nationality. Soumen Choudhary, a lawyer, called the tribunal’s verdict in Singha’s case a welcome judgement. “The evidence from...(Singha)’s side has been overwhelming. The NRC part can be a trendsetter if confirmed by the high court.”Kamal Chakraborty, a social activist who helped many doubtful voters to fight their cases, called for the need for a more humane approach while dealing with such matters. “Many genuine Indian citizens are facing allegations of not being Indian just because courts delay their hearings. At one point, I started believing that foreigners’ tribunal courts have no use because they do not have the courage to pass a judgement. But this judgement has changed my opinion. This will help many others to fight their cases.”Those left out of the final NRC were assured that they would not be declared foreigners and have the option of filing appeals. But they have not been issued rejection slips, which would enable them to file appeals. The NRC is yet to be notified by the Registrar General of India. Several applications seeking re-verification of the list are pending in the Supreme Court.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party has argued that 1.9 million people excluded was much lower than the actual number of undocumented immigrants in the state. It insisted that nearly 200,000 genuine Indians were left out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-foreigners-tribunal-says-nrc-is-final-101632222612470.html
21-09-2021||India||In special edition, Limca Book of Records honours frontline Covid-19 workers, innovators||In a special edition, the Limca Book of Records (LBR) has honoured frontline Covid-19 workers, as well as innovators who, it said, helped the country with their “selfless acts” during the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. Released on Monday, the book is 2020-2022 combined edition of LBR, its publishing house, Hachette India, said.The special edition puts spotlight on various aspects of India's fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, including the Vande Bharat mission, which was announced in May last year. As the world's largest repatriation exercise, it saw India evacuate, across six phases thus far, its citizens stuck from various countries, who got stuck there due to restrictions put in place to curb the spread of the viral illness.The edition further talks about Covaxin and Covishield, the first two vaccines which were approved for the nationwide vaccination drive, which began on January 16. Covaxin, developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited in partnership with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), is the country's first home-made shot against this contagious disease. Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), meanwhile, manufactures the Oxford University-AstraZeneca shot locally as Covishield.The book also narrates the story of Noccarc Robotics, a start-up founded by Nikhil Kurele and Harshit Rathore. Set up in 2017, the Pune-based start-up developed two critical care medical devices to address urgent needs in Covid-19 times: Noccarc V310 and Noccarc H210. While the former is an ICU ventilator, the latter is a high flow oxygen therapy device.Thomas Abraham, magaing director, Hachette India, described this as a “landmark.” Abraham said, “Despite interruptions and disruptions from the past two years, the LBR is back. I am particularly delighted that I was part of the book from its inception, and now, once again, as it leaves 30 editions behind. India at its best marches on.”In the last 24 hours, India logged 26,115 new Covid-19 cases and 252 fresh fatalities, according to the Union health ministry. Active cases, it said, are at their lowest in 184 days, while recovery rate has mounted to 97.75%, highest since March last year. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-special-edition-limca-book-of-records-honours-frontline-covid-19-workers-innovators-101632219322446.html
21-09-2021||India||Bharat Biotech completes phase 2/3 trials of Covaxin in children, to submit data by next week||Bharat Biotech, the Hyderabad-based biotechnology company and the makers of Covaxin Covid-19 vaccine, on Tuesday said that the phase 2/3 trials of Covaxin for inoculation in children under the age of 18 are over. The company also said that it expects to submit the data to the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) by next week.Bharat Biotech’s chairman and managing director Krishna Ella also said that the data analysis following the trials is currently underway and the report would be submitted soon. “Paediatric Covaxin just completed phase 2/3 trials. The data analysis is going on. We will be submitting the data (to the regulator) by next week. The number of subjects (volunteers) is touching 1,000,” news agency PTI quoted him as saying.Also read | Covaxin's wait continues, WHO ‘delays’ emergency use nod till October 5Further, Ella also announced that the phase 2 trials of the company’s intranasal vaccine against Covid-19 is expected to conclude by the end of September. The intranasal vaccine creates an immune response in the nose, an entry point for the virus into the human body, thus offering protection against the infection and transmission of the virus, he noted.The trials for the intranasal vaccine are being conducted on about 650 volunteers, who have been grouped into three cohorts. The first group received Covaxin as the first dose and the intranasal as the second, the second group got intranasal shots for both doses while the third group received it for the first dose and Covaxin for the second, Ella said. Each dose has been administered following a 28-day gap, he added.Briefing on the production of Covaxin, Ella said that it would reach 55 million doses in October against the 35 million doses in September. “We are supplying 35 million this month. Next month we will be definitely supplying 55 million doses. Production at Bangalore is catching up very fast,” PTI quoted him as saying.The Union government on Monday said that it would resume export of Covid-19 vaccine doses to other countries under the Vaccine Maitri initiative from October. Commenting on this, Ella said that the company is ready to export the shots if the Centre permits, but is currently not in a hurry to look for overseas markets.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-completes-phase-2-3-trials-of-covaxin-in-children-to-submit-data-by-next-week-101632221086743.html
21-09-2021||India||Money laundering case: No interim relief to TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee, wife||The Delhi high court on Tuesday refused to grant any interim relief to Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee and his wife Rujira against the summons from the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a money laundering case. The court fixed the date for the next hearing to September 27.It also asked the central agency to reply within three days to an appeal from the couple challenging the summons issued in an alleged coal mining scam. The petitioners had sought the court's direction in setting aside the summons. Abhishek and Rujira wanted the ED to be directed to not summon them to the national capital and carry out any further examination in Kolkata.Also read | I will hang myself publicly if…: TMC’s Abhishek Banerjee on ED summonsThe matter was listed before Justice Yogesh Khanna for hearing.Banerjee, who is also the nephew of Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee, was issued summons under Section 50 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, that required personal appearance of him along with a voluminous set of documents.The ED opposed the plea saying money laundering has national and trans national ramifications and its investigation is not restricted to any police station or area.Also read | ED grills Abhishek Banerjee for almost 9 hours in illegal coal mining caseThe petitioners alleged they had serious apprehensions about the fairness of the investigation being conducted by the ED owing to the fact that the respondent was adopting a pick-and-choose attitude with respect to certain persons and was giving undue benefit and protection to complicit individuals and extracting false, baseless and malicious statements from them."The respondent agency is also selectively leaking information to the media with the intent of harming the reputation of the petitioners and encouraging a media trial, the details of which are further elaborated in the accompanying petition, in order to falsely embroil the Petitioners in baseless and scandalous allegations," read their plea.The CBI has already interrogated the TMC leader in the case.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-interim-relief-to-tmc-mp-abhishek-banerjee-his-wife-in-money-laundering-case-101632219120719.html
21-09-2021||India||Congress says Bommai govt's Bill on religious structures aimed at vote-bank||The Congress on Tuesday hit out at the Basavaraj Bommai-led government for introducing the Karnataka Religious Structures (Protection) Bill, 2021, that sought to protect illegal religious structures built on a public place.Congress MLA NA Harris said the Bill was tabled in the Assembly as part of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) vote-bank politics. “They demolished temples, now they are saying they will protect them. They are making fools out of people. They should not touch any religious structure. It's being done for vote-bank. Everything cannot be made legal. They should have had a discussion (on the issue),” Harris was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.They demolished temples, now they're saying they'll protect them. They're making fools out of people. They shouldn't touch any religious structure. It's being done for vote bank. Everything can't be made legal. They should've had a discussion: Karnataka Congress leader NA Harris pic.twitter.com/31wNDhyI1IAccording to multiple reports, the Bill was framed in the wake of a court directive to demolish all structures “constructed on public places without the authority of law”, while also mandating that such structures would not come up in future.“It is considered necessary to provide for the protection of religious construction in public places before the date of commencement of this Act in order to protect communal harmony and not hurt the religious sentiments of the public,” it said.The Bill would cover all institutions of all faiths and include temples, mosques, churches, gurdwaras and so on.Revenue minister R Ashok said the government introduced the Bill to protect temples. “We have to protect institutions of all religions," he added.BJP leader CT Ravi said some issues could have been avoided had the Bill been brought up earlier, adding the Congress was doing drama over the issue. “We welcome the Karnataka government's decision,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-says-bommai-govt-s-bill-on-religious-structures-aimed-at-votebank-101632217630011.html
21-09-2021||India||Assam Police arrest 450 land brokers in crackdown against ‘Dalal Raj’||Assam Police have arrested 453 land brokers in raids conducted across the state since Monday night as part of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government’s crackdown on ‘dalals’ or brokers operating in land revenue and circle offices.The raids followed two weeks after chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told land revenue and circle officers to get rid of land brokers from their offices before October 3. “On Monday night, Assam police rounded up nearly 450 land brokers from different parts of the state. We have a list of nearly 700 such persons involved in taking illegal commissions from common people and harassing them. We will try and get all of them by Tuesday evening,” Sarma said on Tuesday. “I again warn government officials not to be in touch with these land brokers and help citizens without taking any bribes or through intermediaries. We want to change the existing system and put an end to ‘dalal raj’ (rule of brokers). I also request residents not to take help of brokers for any work,” he added. Earlier this month, Sarma complained to land revenue department officers about no land-related issues faced by commoners getting resolved without bribing brokers. Urging all officers to dispose of all pending files in their offices quickly, the CM informed that the government would launch Mission Basundhara, a scheme to help residents address their land-related issues like mutation, correction of names, sale permission, updating of records etc., from October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-police-arrest-450-land-brokers-in-crackdown-against-dalal-raj-101632216371812.html
21-09-2021||India||On Narendra Giri’s death, Adityanath says all aspects being probed, guilty will be punished||The death of Narendra Giri, a top Hindu seer, is being investigated from all aspects and the guilty will not be spared, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Tuesday as several political parties, including the Shiv Sena, sought a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the crime. Adityanath said the case will be solved soon and that evidence has been collected in connection with the seer’s death. “The postmortem will be done tomorrow… I politely request everyone to not give unnecessary statements during the process and let the investigating agencies do their work," Adityanath was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also watch | Mystery over top Hindu priest's death: PM Modi, Yogi remember Narendra Giri 
21-09-2021||India||‘Hindutva strangulated’: Shiv Sena seeks CBI probe into Narendra Giri’s death||Shiv Sena on Tuesday attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Uttar Pradesh government over the death of seer Narendra Giri in mysterious circumstances, and claimed that “Hindutva was strangulated in Uttar Pradesh.” The leader of former BJP ally sought a CBI probe into Giri’s death in line with the demand by some other political parties.Giri was the head of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, which is the apex decision-making body of the 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders of the country. He was found hanging from a ceiling fan in his room at his Prayagraj Math on Monday evening. A purported suicide note was found from his room and it named his disciple, Anand Giri, and two others, police said. All these three people have been arrested. Police also said that his disciples at math had said that the Mahant’s room was bolted from inside. However, some have expressed surprise at the mysterious circumstances surrounding his death.Sena leader and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said Narendra Giri was an “important seer”, who was at the forefront of Ayodhya-Ram Janmabhoomi movement and his death was “suspicious” and even though it was being called a case of death by suicide, his followers believed it to be a case of “murder”.“When Sadhus were killed by a mob in Palghar, that time the BJP called it an attack on Hindutva and hue and cry was raised from Uttar Pradesh as well. The manner in which Narendra Giri’s suspicious death has come to light, I think someone has strangulated Hindutva in Uttar Pradesh. This case should also be probed by CBI or the Central Bureau of Investigation. The mysterious death should be probed independently,” Raut said in New Delhi.Raut was referring to the lynching of two Hindu ascetics and their driver in April 2020 at Gadchinchale village in Palghar district. Following the lynching incident, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had called his Maharashtra counterpart, seeking stringent action against the perpetrators of the crime.A senior UP police officer said that the suicide note said that though Giri wanted to live with dignity, he was unhappy due to some reasons. He claimed that his disciples have confirmed that the handwriting in the note was that of Mahant Narendra Giri but anything concrete could be said only after proper investigations.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP CM Yogi Adityanath condoled Giri’s death. Expressing sorrow on his death, the PM hailed Giri for playing a vital role in uniting saints of different streams while remaining true to the spiritual traditions. Adityanath termed his death a huge loss to the spiritual world.Deputy UP CM Dinesh Sharma, while expressing sadness over the seer’s death, said the state government will get it investigated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindutva-strangulated-shiv-sena-seeks-cbi-probe-into-narendra-giri-s-death-101632214511596.html
21-09-2021||India||Kejriwal promises job quota for Goa residents ahead of state polls||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced one job for each family in Goa and 80% reservation in private sector jobs for local residents if his party forms the next government in the state. Kejriwal, who made similar promises in poll-bound Uttarakhand on Sunday, also announced a monthly income support of ₹3,000 for unemployed youths in Goa till they land jobs.Addressing reporters here, the Delhi chief minister said unemployment was one of the biggest issues facing the state and the Covid-19 pandemic has added to the woes. “Corona has made people unemployed, people have gone bankrupt. For many years, Goa has not had mining, there was unemployment on that front too. Many youngsters are forced to leave the state. We have to create job opportunities here. You need an honest government with good intentions,” he said. “Government jobs are reserved for Goans with 15 years of domicile... we will bring a law to reserve 80% private jobs for Goan youth. We will ensure employment to one youngster per household, and a monthly stipend of ₹3,000 till that happens,” he added. The AAP chief arrived in the state on Monday for a two-day visit, to drum up support for his party ahead of polls in February next year. He also tried to woo the people dependent on mining and tourism sectors, the major recruiters in Goa. While mining came to a standstill after the Supreme Court in February 2018 cancelled the renewals of 88 operational mining leases and asked that they be issued afresh, the Covid-19 induced lockdown has adversely affected the tourism industry.Kejriwal assured a monthly remuneration of ₹5,000 to families dependent on the two industries till these sectors are normalised. “Tourism dependent families are unemployed and they will be given ₹5,000 per month. Likewise, mining dependent families will also get a monthly stipend of ₹5,000,” he said. Kejriwal promised to set up a skills university offering various courses, through tie-ups with corporates, to students who complete Class XII and assured jobs on completion of the course. Taking a dig at the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state for allegedly “copying” the AAP’s governance model by promising free water and doorstep services scheme of his government, Kejriwal said: “Why vote for ‘duplicate’ when you can vote for the ‘original’?”Asked how he intends to fund his poll promises in Goa, Kejriwal said it would be through ‘honesty’. “When the Delhi government was formed, it was revenue negative. The CAG report now says that the Delhi government is running in profit. We achieved it through honesty. There is no lack of revenue in Goa, there is a lack of intent,” he said.This is Kejriwal’s second visit to the state in the last two months. In his earlier visit in July, he had assured free electricity up to 300 units per month in the state if his party was voted to power. In the 2017 Goa assembly polls, the AAP had drawn a blank.Reacting to Kejriwal’s announcements, BJP leader and former MP Narendra Sawaikar said: “It is easy to say anything. These are hollow promises. The people of Goa have seen the work done by the BJP government over the last nine-and-a-half to ten years and will vote on the basis of that.” “Unless the AAP strengthens its base and moves around on the ground, such promises will not cut ice with the electorate enough to win election,” a political analyst, who refused to be named owing to his past associations with various political parties, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-promises-80-private-job-quota-for-locals-if-voted-to-power-in-goa-101632214451808.html
21-09-2021||India||Assam govt has been communicating with ULFA: Sarma on talks with Paresh Baruah||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has said his government had maintained some communication with the head of rebel group Paresh Baruah ever since he took charge of the administration. He further said he had sought permission from Union home minister Amit Shah to directly talk to Baruah if the need arose. Sarma said Shah asked to ensure that the dialogue was held in a structured manner.The chief minister said everything was at a preliminary stage and it would be a long-drawn, urging everyone to not draw any immediate conclusion over the latest developments.“As of now, I only took permission to speak to him (Baruah) over the phone or through other media so that we can give a push to the peace process. But those are very preliminary things. No conclusion should be drawn and it will be a long affair,” Sarma was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.So, as of now I only took permission to speak to him (Baruah) over the phone or through other media so that we can give a push to the peace process. But those are very preliminary things, no conclusion should be drawn & it will be a long affair: Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma (2/2)The CM held a meeting with the home minister in New Delhi on Sunday following which he said he was partly involved in the ongoing peace process with the NSCN-IM, but was not officially holding any negotiation with the Naga rebel group.As convenor of the NEDA, I have sometimes talked to some political parties (in Nagaland) in the past," he said. Sarma is the convenor of the North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA), the northeast version of the NDA where major parties of the region are constituents.Regarding talks with the ULFA, Sarma said if things moved in a proper direction, the central government may get involved in peace parleys with the outfit at a later stage.Sarma assumed charge as Assam chief minister on May 10 replacing Sarbananda Sonowal who was later given charge at the Centre and will soon likely to become a Rajya Sabha member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-govt-has-been-communicating-with-ulfa-sarma-on-talks-with-paresh-baruah-101632212648183.html
21-09-2021||India||Maharashtra resident doctors threaten to go on strike from next week||The Maharashtra State Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) has threatened to go on a strike from next week if their demands including waiver of tuition fee for postgraduate medical students, Covid incentives, and better hostel facilities at government-run medical colleges are not met.State medical education minister Amit Deshmukh promised the fee waiver over a month back, but it is yet to be implemented. In August, a delegation of resident doctors met Deshmukh with a list of their demands.Also Read | Maharashtra ACB gets nod to launch second inquiry against Param Bir Singh“The file regarding fee waiver and Covid incentives has been forwarded by the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) to the state medical education minister but to date, we have not heard any update from the state government. Therefore, MARD has decided to call for a strike of all resident doctors unless our demands are met,” said Pranav Jadhav, vice president, MARD. He added the association is giving a seven-day notice to the government before going on the strike.In a tweet following his meeting with the delegation on August 11, Deshmukh said, “For the last year and a half, resident doctors have been at the forefront of our fight against Covid-19 by working day in and out for months together. Our department is positive of bringing about necessary changes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-resident-doctors-threaten-to-go-on-strike-from-next-week-101632213011746.html
21-09-2021||India||‘Britain should get their act together’: Shashi Tharoor on new travel rules||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor has slammed the British government for its new travel rules that would make 10-day institutional quarantine mandatory for Indians inoculated with both doses of Covishield vaccine, Oxford-AstraZeneca jab manufactured in India.Urging the British to get “their act together”, Tharoor said the country cannot have it both ways. The Serum Institute of India (SII) is manufacturing the vaccines developed by Oxford University and pharma giant AstraZeneca.“Either you (UK) ask Serum Institute of India (SII) to make those vaccines and ship it to Britain or you say you don't accept the vaccines. You can't have it both ways,” the Thiruvananthapuram MP said.Tharoor also accused the UK government of “double standards” and said he had pulled out of a debate at Cambridge university and from launch events for the UK edition of his book as he had no time to “sit in quarantine for 10 days”.“Double standards applied by the UK are impossible to understand. I personally don't have time to go to a country and sit in quarantine for 10 days. So I've cancelled my trip,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The UK government’s new Covid-19 travel rules, which will come into force from October 4, will consider Indians inoculated with both doses of the Covishield vaccine to be unvaccinated and require them to undergo institutional quarantine for 10 days.The rules have provoked severe backlash against the British government as Covishield is one of the two major vaccines used in India’s domestic vaccination programme. Moreover, the UK expanded its vaccine approval norms to include the likes of Japan, Singapore, Malaysia and 14 other countries but failed to recognise the vaccine passport issued by India. India has taken up the issue with Britain at the highest diplomatic levels.Congress leader Jairam Ramesh has also hit out at the UK government’s new rules and accused it of indulging in racism. Serum has supplied Covishield doses even to the UK, but now the country is refusing to recognise the same vaccine. "Absolutely bizarre considering Covishield was originally developed in the UK and The Serum Institute, Pune, has supplied to that country too! This smacks of racism," Ramesh tweeted on Monday.External affairs minister S Jaishankar and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla both have repeatedly asked the UK to remove the travel restrictions placed on Indians and called for mutual recognition of vaccine passports.The UK government has declared that it will consider the Covid-19 vaccine jabs administered by the public health bodies in Australia, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Bahrain, Brunei,Canada, Dominica, Israel, Japan, Kuwait, Malaysia, New Zealand, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea or Taiwan to be valid.However, vaccinated individuals travelling from India would have to take a pre-departure test and a Covid-19 test on or before day two of the visit, and on or after day eight, in addition to quarantining for 10 days on arrival.Following severe backlash, the UK government has said it was working with India “to explore how we could expand UK recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/britain-should-get-their-act-together-shashi-tharoor-on-new-travel-rules-101632211512642.html
21-09-2021||India||'I want to thank you...': Bengal BJP chief's message to people trying to save state from 'becoming Afghanistan’||Sukanta Majumdar, the newly-appointed chief of the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) West Bengal unit, on Tuesday thanked people who, he said, “are trying to save the state from becoming Afghanistan.” Majumdar, whose predecessor Dilip Ghosh was made a national vice-president of the party in a reshuffle on Monday, also warned those leaving its Bengal unit for the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC), saying that their defection won't finish the BJP.Also Read | BJP MP Sukanta Majumdar replaces Dilip Ghosh as party's Bengal president“I thank the people who are trying to save West Bengal from becoming Afghanistan. Our fight has to continue against the Taliban in West Bengal,” he said, according to news agency ANI. Taking a jibe at the TMC, the Balurghat parliamentarian said that it has become “a family-owned property in the garb of a political party,” referring to its supremo and chief minister Mamata Banerjee, and her nephew Abhishek. On the contrary, he said, it is only the BJP which gives important responsibilities to ordinary people. Also Read | Sukanta Majumdar, new Bengal BJP chief, promises to live up to expectations“If central forces are deployed for local body polls, then we will show them what we can do,” Majumdar also said.If some people think that by leaving BJP they will finish the party, it won't happen. Our fight has to continue against the 'Taliban' in West Bengal. If TMC dares to let us vote using central forces in local body polls, we'll show them what BJP can do: WB BJP chiefIn the bitterly contested assembly elections, which took place here across an unprecedented eight phases, from late March to late April, and in the shadow of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, the TMC secured a third consecutive term by winning 213 seats. The BJP, meanwhile finished second, registering its best-ever haul with 77 seats. Banerjee, however, lost to her former protege, BJP's Suvendu Adhikari, from Nandigram. She now faces a by-election against Priyanka Tibrewal on September 30, from Bhabanipur.In the wake of election results, several leaders jumped ship to Banerjee's camp. Two high-profile exits from the BJP are those of Mukul Roy and Babul Supriyo. While Roy's entry marks his return to the Trinamool, Supriyo is in his first stint.    "||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-bjp-chief-thanks-people-trying-to-save-state-from-becoming-afghanistan-101632208098562.html
21-09-2021||India||‘Jobs for youth, skill university’: AAP’s 7 employment guarantees in Goa||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday made seven guarantees about increasing employment in the state of Goa, which will witness assembly elections next year. Addressing a press conference, Kejriwal, who is also the national convener of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said, “The youth in Goa is extremely disturbed. They don't have employment. Despite being educated, they are unemployed. Many youths from poor families don't have work either. The Covid-19 pandemic led to the loss of employment and many families have been affected. ”Kejriwal pointed out that due to unemployment, a majority of Goa's youth is leaving the state and it is important to create job opportunities.Also Read| ‘Nobody is helpless’: Praful Patel nudges Cong to decide on Goa poll allianceThe first guarantee which he gave was that Goa's youth will have right over state government jobs, and they will be recruited on a merit basis. “I was told that it is not possible to get a government job in Goa without any bribe or recommendation or without being well-connected with any minister or MLA. This will be stopped.”My 7 Guarantees for Goa's youth▪️Jobs for Goans, not just for MLA's relatives▪️1 Job/family for unemployed▪️3000/month until then▪️80% pvt jobs reserved for Goans▪️5000/month for unemployed in tourism due to COVID▪️5000/month for mining ban affected▪️Skill UniversityKejriwal also promised that arrangements will be made to provide jobs to one unemployed youth in every household. “The third guarantee is that till the time the youth does not get employed, the person will get ₹3,000 per month as unemployment allowance.”Eight per cent of jobs in the private sector will be for the Goan youth, Kejriwal announced his fourth guarantee, adding a law will be introduced for the same. “Families dependent on tourism who became unemployed due to Covid will be given ₹5,000 per month until their employment is restored,” the Delhi CM announced his fifth guarantee for increasing employment in Goa.Also Read| 'Kejriwal jo kehta hai...': Delhi CM promises free electricity in Goa if AAP wins 2022 pollsFamilies dependent on mining and are suffering due to the closure of mines will also be given ₹5,000 per month until mining activity resumes, the sixth guarantee said. The seventh and final guarantee which Arvind Kejriwal gave is the creation of a skill university in Goa, similar to the one in Delhi, where children will be able to learn their preferred skill after Class 12 so that they can become employable.Earlier this month, the AAP launched a campaign against the problem of unemployment in Goa and asked people to not vote for parties that have failed to provide jobs.Apart from bringing in employment reforms in Goa, the Kejriwal-led party also announced four guarantees in the power sector. They included providing 300 units of free electricity every month to each family in Goa, waiving off all old and pending electricity bills, ensuring 24x7 power supply and providing free electricity to the state's farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-poll-bound-goa-arvind-kejriwal-makes-7-employment-guarantees-101632206102487.html
21-09-2021||India||IED recovery case: NIA conducts searches at 7 locations in Jammu and Kashmir||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) carried out searches at seven locations in connection with the recovery of Improvised Explosive Device (IED) in Jammu on June 27, news agency ANI reported. The searches were carried out in Anantnag, Baramulla, Srinagar, Doda and Kishtwar, ANI report further said.It quoted officials to say that the raids were conducted based on interrogation of some arrested Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists.The NIA took over the investigation in the case on July 19, which came to light after an attack on Indian Air Force (IAF) base on June 27, in which two personnel were injured. The attack was carried out by Pakistan-based terrorists with the help of drones, which dropped the payload.Drones have been repeatedly spotted in the region since the attack.The IED, weighing around five-six kilograms, was recovered by Jammu Police from a suspected LeT operative who was tasked with using it at a crowded place. Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbag Singh had said that a major terror attack was averted with the discovery of the IED.The NIA has raided a number of locations across the union territory during the course of its investigation and even arrested a terrorist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ied-recovery-case-nia-conducts-searches-at-7-locations-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101632210247991.html
21-09-2021||India||Before Punjab CM Channi, here are Dalit leaders who held top post in country||Charanjit Singh Channi became the first Dalit chief minister of Punjab on Monday a day after the ruling Congress nominated him for the post. A member of the Ramdasia community, he is among a handful of Dalits who have served as chief ministers: -- Damodaram Sanjivayya (Andhra Pradesh) was the first Dalit to become a chief minister. He held the post from January 1960 to March 1962. In 1962, Sanjivayya went on to become the first Dalit chief of the Congress.-- Bhola Paswan Shastri, a freedom fighter, served as Bihar’s chief minister from 1968 to 1971. He was also the first Dalit to be elected as the state’s top official.Also Read | Punjab CM Channi, Sidhu to visit Delhi, hold talks on cabinet expansion-- Ram Sundar Das, another freedom fighter, became the second Dalit chief minister of Bihar in 1979.-- Mayawati, the Bahujan Samaj Party chief, a Dalit, has served as Uttar Pradesh chief minister four times. She is also the lone woman member of the community to have held the post.-- Congress leader Sushilkumar Shinde, a Dalit, has served as the Maharashtra chief minister as well as a Union minister.-- Jitan Ram Manjhi served as Bihar’s third Dalit chief minister from May 2014 to February 2015.-- Jagannath Pahadia served as Rajasthan chief minister from June 1980 to July 1981. He was the first Dalit to hold the post in the state. A Congress leader, Pahadia also served as the governor of Haryana and Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/before-punjab-cm-channi-dalit-leaders-who-held-the-top-post-in-country-101632209770895.html
21-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Erin O'Toole takes jibe at Justin Trudeau and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Sent back with another minority mandate’: Elections lost, Erin O'Toole takes parting shot at Justin TrudeauThough Trudeau's Liberal Party is leading in Canadian elections, it is set to finish below the majority mark of 170 in the House of Commons. Read morePunjab CM Channi, Sidhu to visit Delhi, hold talks on cabinet expansionPunjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi will meet Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi to hold talks on the expansion of the state cabinet. Read moreMithali Raj completes 20000 international runs, hits fifth consecutive fifty in women ODIsIndia women’s skipper Mithali Raj reached another remarkable milestone in her illustrious career during the first ODI against Australia on Tuesday. Read moreDiljit Dosanjh responds to those who question his allegiance to Punjab, says their 'mental level' isn't up to the markDiljit Dosanjh has responded to critics who question his allegiance to his home state Punjab on the basis of how much time he spends there. Read moreEsha Gupta in nude bralette and waist-high slit skirt set is ravishing, see all picsNude colours are all the rage this season, and this style statement even has the stamp of approval from our favourite celebrities in the industry. Read more2021 Yamaha YZF-R15 V4.0 launched in India; gets Traction Control, Quick ShifterIndia is the first country in the world to have received the new-generation R15. The bike has been priced from ₹1.68 lakh. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-erin-o-toole-takes-jibe-at-justin-trudeau-and-all-the-latest-news-101632206307115.html
21-09-2021||India||Assam: Union minister Sarbananda Sonowal files nomination for RS polls||Union minister Sarbananda Sonowal filed nomination papers for the vacant Rajya Sabha seat from Assam on Tuesday. The former chief minister of the state was accompanied by current CM Himanta Biswa Sarma, Atul Bora of Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and Pramod Boro of the United Peoples Party Liberal (UPPL)-- the latter two are presidents of parties in alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Assam . “I congratulate Sonowal on his nomination so that he can contribute towards Assam and northeast’s development from the floor of the parliament as well as a minister of the Union cabinet,” Sarma said after filing of nomination papers. With the Congress and other opposition parties not naming any candidate for the polls to be held on October 4, Sonowal is expected to win the election uncontested. The last date for filing of nominations is Wednesday. The present Rajya Sabha seat had fallen vacant after former Bodoland Peoples’ Party (BPF) leader Biswajit Daimary resigned earlier this year and joined the BJP. He later contested as a saffron party candidate in the assembly elections held earlier this year and was elected Speaker of the new assembly. Sonowal, who had won from the Majuli assembly seat, was inducted as a member of the Union cabinet in July this year. He is expected to resign from his assembly seat after October 4. “We decided against fielding any candidate for this Rajya Sabha polls as the numbers are not in our favour,” Assam Congress president Bhupen Kumar Borah said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-union-minister-sarbananda-sonowal-files-nomination-for-rs-polls-101632207310740.html
21-09-2021||India||2 pilots die as army helicopter crash-lands in J&K's Udhampur district||Two pilots succumbed to their injuries after a helicopter of the Indian Army force-landed near Patnitop in Udhampur of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday. The pilots had been evacuated and rushed to a treatment facility, an army spokesperson said, adding further details were being ascertained.In a statement, the army said one of the deceased was a captain, while the other one was a major. Their families were being informed.“Today, during a training sortie in the Patnitop area, the Indian Army Cheetah Helicopter crash-landed in the Shiv Garh Dhar area in Udhampur district,” the army added.Earlier, a police officer said a search team was rushed to the spot. It was the locals who launched the rescue operation and evacuated the injured men from a deep gorge. The officer said the chopper either crashed or crash-landed on a hill. “Search parties have been rushed to the area, but it will take around one and a half hour to reach there by foot. Dense fog in the area is making it difficult for the searchers to pin point exact location,” he added.DIG, Udhampur Reasi Range Suleman Choudhary, said, “We got information and dispatched a police team towards the Shiv Garh Dhar.” (With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/helicopter-crashes-in-j-k-s-udhampur-district-search-teams-rushed-to-spot-101632206349016.html
21-09-2021||India||Sharad Pawar backstabbed Congress, can't be Shivsainik's guru: Anant Geete||Amid repeated reports of rumblings within the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), a senior leader of the Shiv Sena has hit out at Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar calling him a backstabber who cannot be a “guru” for his party’s functionaries. Anant Geete, a former Union minister, further said the MVA government, comprising the Sena, NCP and Congress, was just an adjustment.According to a report by PTI, Geete said Pawar had "backstabbed" the Congress to form his party and cannot be a "guru" for Shivsainiks, a place reserved for the late Balasaheb Thackeray.Also read | Uddhav Thackeray refers to Union minister as future colleague, BJP plays safePawar is considered the architect of the Sena-led MVA government which came to power in 2019 after the Sena parted ways with its decades-old partner BJP over power-sharing issues.Addressing a rally in his home turf Raigad on Monday, Geete said, “Sharad Pawar cannot ever be our leader as this government (MVA) is merely an adjustment. Let people use as many accolades for Pawar but our 'guru' is only (late) Balasaheb Thackeray. As long as this government is functioning, it will go on… If we separate, our home is Shiv Sena and we will always stick with our party.”Also read | BJP, MVA polls apart; Sena the new targetWhile stating that he did not harbour any "ill-intention" towards the Sena-headed government and wanted it to succeed, the former MP from Raigad, “If the Congress and NCP cannot become one, the Shiv Sena also cannot toe the Congress policy entirely. The Congress and NCP were not always cordial either.”The NCP was formed on May 25, 1999, by Pawar, PA Sangma and Tariq Anwar after they were expelled from the Indian National Congress for disputing the right of Italy-born Sonia Gandhi to lead the party. The NCP later became a part of the Congress-led UPA governments at the Centre in which Pawar served as agriculture minister.In Maharashtra, the Congress and NCP shared power till 2014 when the Aghadi government was defeated by the BJP.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-backstabbed-congress-can-t-be-shivsainik-s-guru-anant-geete-101632205653008.html
21-09-2021||India||Amended Bill in Rajasthan legitimises child marriages, says NCPCR||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) on Monday wrote to Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra expressing concern over the passage of the Registration of Marriages (Amendment) Bill in the state saying it legitimises child marriages.“The Commission is apprehensive that the enactment of Registration of Marriages (Amendment) Bill, 2021 may have a serious impact on the physical, psychological, social and education of minors in the State,” the commission said in its letter to Mishra. It added the Bill provides for the registration of child marriages. “The Bill further states that the marriage between a bridegroom who has not completed 21 years and a bride who has not completed 18 years of age could be registered by parents or guardians within 30 days of the marriage.”The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party opposed the Bill even as Rajasthan minister Shanti Kumar Dhariwal maintained registering a child marriage does not give it legal status. Dhariwal said anyone who organises such marriages even after they have been registered will face consequences. He cited a 2006 Supreme Court order and said it directed registration of all types of marriages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amended-bill-in-rajasthan-legitimises-child-marriages-says-ncpcr-101632204490559.html
21-09-2021||India||Maharashtra ACB gets nod to launch second inquiry against Param Bir Singh||The Maharashtra government has given the go-ahead to the state Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) for another open inquiry against former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh over corruption charges, people aware of the matter said. ACB is conducting a separate inquiry against Singh on the complaint of police inspector Anup Dange, who has alleged that Singh demanded ₹2 crore for reinstating him through a relative when he was under suspension last year.The latest inquiry against Singh is based on a complaint submitted in April by police inspector BR Ghadge. A First Information Report (FIR) was registered against Singh in April on the basis of Ghadge’s complaint alleging criminal conspiracy, destruction of evidence, and under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities Act).Also Read | Pornography case: Raj Kundra may walk out of jail todayIn his complaint, Ghadge accused Singh of corruption and taking money for postings of senior inspectors.Singh did not answer phone calls and messages for his comment.The state home department gave the go-ahead for the second probe on Monday. ACB can now call witnesses, suspects, record their statements and issue lookout circulars.Under open inquiries, ACB generally carries out preliminary probes against government employees, scrutinises their transactions, banking activities, financial dealings, property details to see if they have amassed any assets disproportionate to their known sources of income.If any cognisable offence is indicated, the ACB registers an FIR under the Prevention of Corruption Act and begins an investigation.Complaints started piling up against Singh after he wrote a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray this year alleging that former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh allegedly asked Mumbai police officers to collect ₹100 crore every month from the bars and restaurants. The letter prompted a Central Bureau of Investigation probe against Deshmukh and forced him to resign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-acb-gets-nod-to-launch-second-inquiry-against-param-bir-singh-101632202870204.html
21-09-2021||India||Military Nursing Service dy DG wins National Florence Nightingale Award for 2020||The National Florence Nightingale Award, the highest national distinction a nurse can achieve, has been conferred upon Brig SV Saraswati, deputy director-General of Military Nursing Service (MNS) for 2020. President Ram Nath Kovind conferred the award in a virtual ceremony on Brig Saraswati for her contribution as a nurse administrator.“As a renowned operation theatre nurse, she has assisted in more than 3,000 lifesaving and emergency surgeries and has trained residents, operation room nursing trainees and auxiliary staff in her career,” the defence ministry said in a statement.Also Read | Uri infiltration: Army search ops enter 3rd day; mobile services suspendedBrig Saraswati is from the Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh and was commissioned into the MNS on December 28, 1983. She has served in the MNS for more than three and half decades, especially in perioperative nursing.She has served at several pan-India Army hospitals and United Nations Peace Keeping Forces in Congo, according to the government statement, where she has done various outreach activities for the troops and trained more than 1,000 soldiers and families in basic life support.She received the General Officer Commanding-in-Chief Commendation (2005), the United Nations Medal (MONOC) (2007), and the Chief of the Army Staff Commendation for her outstanding service (2015).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/military-nursing-service-dy-dg-wins-national-florence-nightingale-award-for-2020-101632201550255.html
21-09-2021||India||Farmers in Odisha continue to be the poorest: Govt surveys||Despite a separate budget for agriculture from 2012-13 and around ₹9,000 crore cash assistance to millions of farmers under the Kalia scheme since January 2019, farmers in Odisha continue to be the poorest in the country, two surveys conducted by the Centre have found.The All-India Debt & Investment Survey, 2019, conducted between January and December 2019 by the National Sample Survey Organisation (NSSO), the report of which were released this month, showed that the average value of assets (AVA) per farmer household in the state was ₹6.21 lakh. According to the last such NSSO survey in 2013, the AVA per farmer household in Odisha was ₹5.71 lakh.As per the latest NSSO survey, the AVA in rural Odisha was ₹5.32 lakh while in urban Odisha it was 13.41 lakh. It showed the rural farmer households in Odisha were the poorest in the country. They were poorer than those in rural Assam with an AVA of nearly ₹7 lakh. In Jharkhand, the AVA in rural households was ₹8.6 lakh. In Chhattisgarh, it was ₹8.9 lakh and ₹7.89 lakh in West Bengal.Also Read | Three government school teachers suspended for submitting fake OTET certificateThe Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households and Land and Livestock Holdings of Households in Rural India, 2019, conducted by the National Statistical Office, the report of which was released last week, showed that the average monthly income of an Odisha farmer was ₹5,112. The income was second lowest after that of farmers in Jharkhand ( ₹4,895).In 2021-22, Odisha allocated ₹17,469 crore budget for agriculture. The allocation was almost double of ₹5,627 crore allocated in 2012-13.Farmer leaders said despite this, they are not surprised by the findings of the surveys as there has been no significant investment in the agriculture sector in the state in areas like irrigation.“More than 45% of the farmers in Odisha are sharecroppers who have very little landholdings or are landless. If they toil in the lands of others, how much would they earn? If they till their own land, the rising input cost, as well as lack of remunerative prices for the harvest, locks them in a cycle of debt. The announcement of the Naveen Patnaik government about irrigating at least 35% farmlands in all the 314 blocks of the state has remained a mere slogan. Besides, there is no separate mandi for cotton, maize, onion or any other vegetable produce. How would the income from farming grow?” asked Ashok Pradhan, convener of the Paschima Odisha Krushak Sangram Samanwaya Samiti, a farmers’ association.Farmer leader Akshay Kumar said despite assistance under the Kalia scheme and having a separate budget for agriculture, Odisha has failed to create agricultural infrastructure. “Whatever is being done is only for short term relief measures. Besides, as a coastal state, farmers in the state are bearing the brunt of climate change almost every season. This year, rains arrived in September when paddy sowed in western Odisha districts has almost died. The farmers in Odisha lurch from one crisis to another without any major support from the government.”Another farmer leader Saroj said the Kalia scheme or PM-Kisan failed to benefit the intended beneficiaries as such schemes cannot address a deep-rooted problem. “Multi-pronged approach and systemic change can bring gradual transformation. While the Odisha government keeps demanding the Centre raise paddy MSP to ₹2,930, it is yet to give the bonus to farmers like neighbouring Chhattisgarh. It is interested in paying lip service.”State agriculture minister Arun Sahoo said his government is committed to ushering in sustainable growth in the agriculture sector. “The existing network of procurement centres is being strengthened to benefit small and marginal farmers.” He said a new agriculture policy aims to cash in on the untapped potential of the state’s agriculture sector while ensuring environmentally, economically and technologically inclusive growth. “Farmers are being imparted training on the use of technology in terms of emerging agriculture issues and solutions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-in-odisha-continue-to-be-the-poorest-101632199750211.html
21-09-2021||India||India's fresh Covid-19 infections fall to 26,115; active cases at lowest in over 6 months||India's daily count of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) witnessed a major fall, as 26,115 more people tested positive for the viral illness, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) dashboard showed on Tuesday. With the addition of new patients, the nationwide infection tally has jumped to 33,504,534, as per the data.The number of active patients in the country fell by 8606 to 309,575. Active cases comprise 0.92% of the overall caseload; this is the lowest contribution of active cases towards the nationwide tally since March 2020, the health ministry noted in a statement. It also highlighted that these are at their lowest in more than 6 months, or 184 days.In another significant development, the percentage of people who have recovered from Covid-19 till now, has mounted to 97.75%, highest since last March. With the addition of 34,469 people who were discharged after recovery, the total number of such cases in the country now stand at 32,749,574. Meanwhile, 252 fresh daily fatalities took the toll to 445,385 or 1.33% of the total cases.The ministry also noted that both weekly (2.08%) and daily positivity rates (1.85%) remained below 3%, staying under the mark for the last 88 and 22 days respectively. 1,413,951 samples were tested for the contagious disease on September 20, taking total number of samples tested thus far to 555,035,717, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said. COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/YYv51yKYwOOn the vaccination front, at least 818,513,827 vaccine doses have been administered since the nationwide drive began on January 16. Of these, 9,646,778 were administered on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-fresh-covid-19-infections-fall-to-26-115-active-cases-at-lowest-in-over-6-months-101632196675605.html
21-09-2021||India||Come November, fliers from India, other nations can enter US with vaccine proof||Amid widespread concerns over travel restrictions to the United States, a senior government official said President Joe Biden announced on Tuesday strict protocols will be in place beginning early November to prevent the spread of coronavirus from international passengers.Once the protocol is in place, fliers from several countries, including those from Europe, the UK, India and Brazil, would be allowed to enter the US with proof of vaccination.The new policy will replace a patchwork of travel bans first instituted by President Donald Trump last year and tightened by his successor Joe Biden that restricted travel by non-citizens who have in the prior 14 days been in the United Kingdom, European Union, China, India, Iran, Republic of Ireland, Brazil or South Africa.According to a report by news agency ANI, the official said all adult foreign nationals would have to be fully vaccinated to enter the country.Also read | Afghanistan, vaccine protocol discussed as UK, India foreign ministers meet“Today, President Biden announced that beginning in early November, US will be putting in place strict protocols to prevent spread of Covid-19 from passengers flying internationally into the US by requiring that adult foreign nationals traveling here be fully vaccinated,” the senior official was quoted as saying.He said, “But we’re very proud of the fact that we’ve been able to develop a protocol that would permit travel by individuals and families and business people from the EU and UK, as well as from Brazil and India and other countries, to the United States with proof of vaccination.”Also read | Working with India, says UK on recognising Covishield vaccine certificateAs the US would soon be moving towards a consistent requirement for all international fliers, there would be no specific restriction for individual countries. “Critically for our European partners and the UK, this policy means that we'll no longer be implementing current 212(f) travel policies for individual countries as of early November. We’ll be moving to a consistent requirement for all international air travelers coming to the US,” he added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/come-november-fliers-from-india-other-nations-can-enter-us-with-vaccine-proof-101632197405711.html
21-09-2021||India||Kerala auto driver wins ₹12 crore in lottery||Sometimes lady luck seems to be hiding inside 'fancy' things. At least it so happened to a Kerala auto driver who will now smile all his way to the bank with the help of a 'fancy' lottery ticket that fetched him a ₹12 crore jackpot. A day after the Onam bumper lottery results were announced, the lucky winner was identified on Monday as Jayapalan P R, an auto driver from Maradu near here. The result was announced on Sunday and the ticket bearing serial number TE 645465 emerged as the lucky winner."I bought the ticket on September 10 from Tripunithura. I found this number as a fancy number," Jayapalan told reporters. The auto driver would take home over ₹7 crore of the total bounty, after deduction of tax.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-auto-driver-wins-rs-12-crore-in-lottery-101632195049268.html
21-09-2021||India||Uri infiltration: Army search ops enter 3rd day; mobile services suspended||The Army’s operation to track down a group of infiltrators that sneaked into Uri along the Line of Control (LoC) in the Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir entered into the third day on Tuesday even as mobile voice calls and the internet were suspended in the area on Monday afternoon.The operation was launched after the Army said it detected movement of the infiltrators close to LoC and since then the forces have been trying to locate them. People aware of the matter said the Army had inputs that a fresh group of infiltrators has sneaked into Uri via Gawahalan village taking the cover of darkness and thick foliage. The operation is going on and a high alert has been sounded for the Army camps located in the area.Also Read | Don’t approach higher offices for redress of grievance: J&K admn to government employeesLocals said that from Monday afternoon, mobile and internet services have been suspended in the area as the Army believes that the fresh group of infiltrators could use mobile phones to get in touch with their local contacts.Uri is located close to the LoC and is among shortest routes for infiltration even as a three-tier security cover is in place in the region. Defence spokesperson Col Emron Masavi on Monday confirmed that suspicious movement was detected along the LoC over the weekend. “Search of the area is under progress,” he said.Army’s 15 Corps commander Lt General DP Panday told journalists on Monday that there have been two successful attempts of infiltration in Kashmir. He added one group of infiltrators was neutralised in Bandipora and an operation to track down another group is underway.This year, there has been a significant drop in infiltration attempts along the LoC, the Army has said. September and October are crucial vis-a-vis infiltration attempts as passes and ridges generally used for the infiltration close due to heavy snowfall from November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-operation-to-track-down-infiltrators-continues-in-kashmir-101632196510615.html
21-09-2021||India||‘Astrology no excuse to resile from vow to marry, avoid rape case’: Bombay HC||Bombay high court has refused to accept ‘astrological incompatibility’ as a valid reason for a Badlapur resident to resile from his promise to marry his girlfriend and get himself cleared of the charge of rape under the guise of false promise of marriage.33-year-old Avishek Mitra had moved HC after an additional sessions judge at Dindoshi rejected his plea for discharge from the rape case, registered by Borivali police on the basis of a complaint lodged by his girlfriend, a Borivali resident.She alleged that the two knew each other since 2012 as they worked together at a five star hotel in Mumbai and during the course the accused exploited her emotionally to have physical relationship with him, under false promise of marriage.She added that when she conceived, the accused forced her to abort, claiming that he wanted to marry her, but two years later. However, she said, from December 2012, he started avoiding her and on December 28, she lodged a police complaint.As the assistant commissioner of police referred them for counselling, the accused appeared along with his parents on January 4, 2013 and unconditionally agreed to marry her. Two days later, the complainant withdrew her complaint, but to her surprise, on January 18, the accused wrote to the counsellor backtracking from marriage.Eventually, the complainant filed a fresh complaint and the police registered an offence, and subsequently also filed a charge-sheet against the accused. The accused moved HC after the trial court last year rejected his plea for discharge.Before HC, it was argued on his behalf that the material on record did not suggest that there was absolutely no intent on his part to marry the complainant when he entered upon the relationship, nor could it be suggested that the promise to marry was false.His counsel added that at the most it could be regarded as a case of breach of promise on account of astrological incompatibility, since the horoscopes of the two did not match. A single judge bench of justice Sandeep Shinde refused to accept the contention. “It is apparent that the applicant in the guise of astrological incompatibility of the horoscopes avoided the promise,” said the bench. “Thus, I am convinced that the material on record suggests, it is a case of false promise to marry which apparently vitiates the complainant’s consent,” justice Shinde concluded and dismissed the plea of the accused for discharge.“In the case in hand, there is sufficient material to suggest that since inception, the applicant had no intention of upholding his promise to marry the complainant,” said the judge. “Prima-facie, I am of the view that the applicant prevailed over the complainant to withdraw her first complaint by promising that he would marry her. However, his intentions were otherwise. Had the intentions been bonafide and true, the applicant would not have addressed a letter to Mr Parulekar (counsellor) and resiled from his promise tomarry the complainant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/astrology-no-excuse-to-resile-from-vow-to-marry-avoid-rape-case-bombay-hc-101632195009917.html
21-09-2021||India||Widespread rain likely over MP, east Rajasthan, Uttarakhand this week||Widespread rain is likely to continue over parts of central and northwest India particularly Uttarakhand this week, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).A low pressure area is lying over southern parts of Gangetic West Bengal and neighbourhood. A cyclonic circulation is lying over east Rajasthan & neighbourhood and extends upto mid-tropospheric levels. The western part of the monsoon trough is lying south of its normal position and its eastern end is near its normal position. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls very likely over east Rajasthan and west Madhya Pradesh till September 25,and over east Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha till September 23 and Chhattisgarh, Madhya Maharashtra, Marathawada and Konkan and Goa till today. Also Read | India can achieve net zero in greenhouse gases emission by 2065-70, says MontekScattered to fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rain is very likely over Uttarakhand till September 25. Widespread and heavy rain is likely to continue over Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal today. A cyclonic circulation likely to form over eastcentral and adjoining northeast Bay of Bengal around September 25. It is likely to move westnorthwestwards and reach Odisha coast during the subsequent 48 hours. Under its influence, a fresh spell of heavy rainfall is likely over Odisha and adjoining areas from September 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rain-likely-over-mp-east-rajasthan-uttarakhand-this-week-101632194949934.html
21-09-2021||India||Assam Congress says it suffered due to alliances, to go alone in by-polls||The Congress party said on Monday it will fight the upcoming assembly by-polls in Assam on its own since it has suffered due to alliances in the past. “We’ve suffered due to alliances. Local leaders have been disheartened due to losses sustained in the last assembly polls. We want to strengthen our roots and contest the coming by-polls alone,” Assam Congress president Bhupen Kumar Borah said during an interaction with senior journalists in Guwahati. Congress had formed a ‘mahajot’ (grand alliance) of 10 parties for assembly polls held earlier this year to counter the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its allies. It managed to win 29 seats while the grand alliance bagged 50 of the total 126 seats. The BJP and its allies returned to power with 75 seats. Last month, Congress decided to sever ties with the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), a partner in the ‘mahajot’ which had won 16 seats. By-elections to six assembly seats are expected to take place in coming weeks. Two seats were left vacant after the deaths of lawmakers, one each from Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) and United Peoples Party Liberal (UPPL) due to Covid-19. Three other seats fell vacant after two Congress and one AIUDF MLA shifted to the BJP. The sixth seat is likely to be vacated by former chief minister and Majuli MLA Sarbananda Sonowal, who joined the Union cabinet earlier this year. Sonowal is expected to win Assam’s vacant Rajya Sabha seat without contest since opposition parties, including the Congress, haven’t decided on fielding any candidate yet for the October 4 poll. Borah said on Monday that the Congress is still undecided whether it will contest all the six seats where by-polls will be held.Notification for the by-polls to the assembly seats is yet to be released. “We need to be realistic. We lost the Majuli seat by over 48,000 votes in the assembly polls. Hence, it might not be reasonable to contest from there. We will definitely contest four of the six seats. Applications have been invited from prospective candidates and the deadline for it is September 27,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-congress-says-it-suffered-due-to-alliances-to-go-alone-in-bypolls-101632193269969.html
21-09-2021||India||Afghanistan, vaccine protocol discussed as UK, India foreign ministers meet||The situation in Afghanistan and the early resolution of the issue of Indian travellers to the UK having to quarantine for 10 days figured in a meeting between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his British counterpart Liz Truss on the margins of the UN General Assembly in New York. Both India and the UK have expressed concerns about the lack of inclusivity in the new setup created by the Taliban following the group’s takeover of Afghanistan last month. The two countries have also said that Afghan soil should not become a hub for terrorism. “Exchanged views on developments in Afghanistan and the Indo-Pacific. Urged early resolution of quarantine issue in mutual interest,” Jaishankar tweeted after his meeting with Truss on Monday. Jaishankar said he had also discussed progress on the Roadmap 2030 that aims to elevate relations to a comprehensive strategic partnership over the next decade. The road map was adopted at a virtual summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his UK counterpart Boris Johnson in May, when the two sides also launched an Enhanced Trade Partnership and unveiled plans to finalise an interim trade deal by mid-2022. Also Read | Afghanistan crisis, China border row major security challenges for India: ShringlaThis was Jaishankar’s first meeting with Truss since she was appointed the UK foreign secretary last week, replacing Dominic Raab. Truss has played a key role in advancing trade ties with India in her former role as secretary of state for international trade. The issue of vaccine certification emerged as a fresh irritant in India-UK ties as Indian nationals who have received even the AstraZeneca vaccine as considered to be unvaccinated under new British travel rules that will come into effect from October 4. The UK said on Monday it is working with India on the recognition of Covid-19 vaccine certification issued by India authorities following criticism of the new travel restrictions. A British high commission spokesperson said: “We are engaging with the government of India to explore how we could expand UK recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India.” The UK is committed to opening up international travel “as soon as is practicable” and the new rules were a “further step to enable people to travel more freely again, in a safe and sustainable way, while protecting public health”. The new rules, which were unveiled by Britain on Friday, were described by the UK as an effort to change the current “red, amber, green traffic light system” to a single red list of countries and “simplified travel measures” for arrivals from around the world. The Indian side was especially upset by the new rules as vaccination-related travel restrictions had been repeatedly taken up with the UK at the highest levels, including by foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and external affairs minister S Jaishankar, in recent months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/af-vaccine-certification-figure-in-meeting-between-india-uk-foreign-ministers-101632192789640.html
21-09-2021||India||Army's combing ops continue in Uri; mobile services, internet snapped||The Indian Army operation in Jammu and Kashmir's Uri is going on for more than 30 hours, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported on Tuesday. The forces launched the combing operation after detection of suspicious movement along the Line of Control (LoC) on the intervening night of September 18 and 19.Mobile telephony and internet services were suspended in the Uri sector on Monday due to the ongoing operation of the Army, news agency PTI reported. The soldiers also intensified its combing operation, PTI reported quoting officials.The Army had detected the “suspicious movement” along the LoC in Uri Sector on the night intervening September 18 and 19 following which an operation was launched in the area.Earlier, a police team in Noor Bagh area of Srinagar was attacked by terrorists on Saturday."A team of Police while laying cordon came under fire from terrorists in Noor Bagh, Srinagar. Terrorists fled the scene -1 pistol and 1 AK 47 recovered. Reinforcement of Police and CRPF expanded the cordoned area. Search underway," said Jammu and Kashmir Police.According to Jammu and Kashmir police, terrorists fled after firing and dropped their weapons.A labourer was shot dead by unidentified terrorists in the Nehama area Kulgam district on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armyc-combing-ops-continue-in-uri-mobile-services-internet-snapped-101632191742324.html
21-09-2021||India||PM Modi to focus on counter-radicalisation at UNGA to fight extremist ideologies||Addressing the plenary session of the SCO Council of Heads of State on September 17, Prime Minister Modi called for SCO to develop a strong network between the moderate, tolerant, and inclusive institutions and traditions associated with Islam in India. He asked almost all SCO countries to address the challenge of increased radicalism in the region, which is at the root of the challenges of peace, security, and trust deficit.With Taliban military occupation of Afghanistan and its extremist ideology set to dominate the UNGA this week, Prime Minister will talk about counter-radicalization and other tools to fight political Islam in his speech on September 25. It is the weaponization of religion with an aim to capture political power that has led to bloodshed in Af-Pak region.This important statement came as the first SCO Summit met after the departure of American and NATO forces from Afghanistan and Taliban once again took complete control over the country. Concerns have once again risen about the fate of the Afghan people, impact on regional stability and security, and the likelihood of Afghanistan once again becoming a well spring of terrorism. At the very least, Taliban have already shown that their extremist ideology is not a thing of the past.Prime Minister Modi has made five important points. One, he has pointed to the Islamic heritage of India, which is inclusive, tolerant, and moderate. Two, this version of Islam has been the prevalent one in the region for centuries. Three, as he has argued over the past several years, the fight against terrorism will succeed when terrorism is delinked from religion and when the more enlightened, progressive and inclusive vision of Islam prevails over the radical and extremist interpretation of Islam, for political purpose, in this contest of ideas. Four, he has once again, as he had done in Central Asia tour in 2015, reminded the world of the spiritual links between India and Central Asia. Five, he has rejected the idea of an inevitable clash of civilisations.PM Modi also sees Afghanistan in that context. In his address at the inauguration of the Afghan Parliament building in December 2015 or during the inauguration of the Salma Dam a few months later, he lauded the tradition of liberalism, the message of Sufi saints of Afghanistan and the achievements of the country in literature and poetry. At the SCO Summit, he was once again making the point that the Taliban way of life is not either natural or inevitable for the people of Afghanistan. This is an important message that we will carry to Washington DC and UNGA in New York.With Taliban military occupation of Afghanistan and its extremist ideology set to dominate the UNGA this week, Prime Minister will talk about counter-radicalization and other tools to fight political Islam in his speech on September 25. It is the weaponization of religion with an aim to capture political power at the behest of an ambitious and unscrupulous neighbour Pakistan that has led to bloodshed in Af-Pak regionBeyond the state sponsorship of terrorism by Pakistan against India as a politico-military strategy, terrorism has also sprung from violent and extremist twists given to certain schools of Islamic thoughts. Some of it is framed against occupation and injustice by the western world or for political purpose. Often, though, it has also turned into a contest between different strains for domination, leading to spiralling level of violence. Institutions of undivided India have taken different forms in independent India and Pakistan.This is not the first time PM Modi has spoken about the need for advancing the traditions of Sufism and the liberal worldview of Islam to combat terrorism and extremism. He spoke at length on this issue in the keynote address to the World Sufi Forum in Delhi in March 2016. Just as he had called for reviving the ancient Buddhist links for a peaceful future in Asia in his address to the Parliament in Mongolia.In his remarks, PM Modi has once again highlighted that in addition to the instruments of diplomacy, military and intelligence, it is important to win the battle of ideas, hearts and minds to deal with the security challenges in the region. This was also a clear message to Pakistan that has sought to use Islam to pursue its own political aims and project the existence of a polarised religious order in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-focus-on-counter-radicalisation-at-unga-to-fight-extremist-ideologies-101632191284445.html
21-09-2021||India||Coal scam case: Delhi HC to hear Abhishek Banerjee’s plea challenging ED summons||The Delhi high court will on Tuesday hear a plea filed by Trinamool Congress (TMC) general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and his wife Rujira, challenging summons issued to them by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with its investigation into an alleged coal scam case. Abhishek is the nephew of TMC supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee.The Enforcement Directorate’s investigation is based on the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI’s) First Information Report (FIR), which was registered in November 2020 regarding alleged mass coal pilferage in Eastern Coalfields Limited mines in Kunustoria and Kajora regions of the state.Both Abhishek and Rujira sought the Delhi high court’s direction to set aside and quash the summons issued to them. Last week, the petitioners sought direction from the ED to not summon them to New Delhi and carry out the investigation in Kolkata, by saying that they are permanent residents of the city and the coal scam case pertains to the state of West Bengal.According to the plea, the ED issued fresh summons to Abhishek on September 10, under Section 50 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, requiring the personal appearance of him along with a voluminous set of documents on September 21 in the national capital.The TMC general secretary and his wife have alleged that they have serious worries about the fairness of the investigation being carried out by the ED, "owing to the fact the respondent is adopting a pick and choose attitude with regard to certain people and is giving undue benefit and protection to complicit individuals and in return extracting false, baseless and malicious statements from them", news agency PTI reported on Monday.The plea also read that the central agency was selectively leaking information to the media, with an intention of harming the reputation of the petitioners and encouraging a media trial.Previously, the ED asked Abhishek Banerjee to appear before it on September 6, while Rujira on September 1. Rujira had expressed her inability to appear before the ED on September 1 by citing the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and requested the agency officials to visit her residence in Kolkata.“This refers to summons dated August 18, 2021, asking me to appear in person in New Delhi on September 1. I am a mother of two infants, and travelling to New Delhi physically alone in the midst of the pandemic will put me and my children at grave risk,” she said in a letter addressed to ED’s assistant director Sumat Prakash Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coal-scam-case-delhi-hc-to-hear-abhishek-banerjee-s-plea-challenging-ed-summons-101632189138637.html
21-09-2021||India||No indication of potential 3rd wave yet in Maharashtra: Minister||As active Covid-19 cases dipped below 42,000 for the first time in seven months, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Monday said there was no indication of a third wave hitting the state as of now. The state administration, however, will be watching the situation for a fortnight due to the festival season.“As of now, there is no indication of a potential third wave in Maharashtra. However, the daily tally is likely to increase owing to crowding to celebrate festivals. But if we ramp up the vaccination drive, it will help in containing the transmission rate,” Tope said while talking to reporters in Jalna on Monday.Maharashtra recorded 2,583 fresh Covid infections on Monday, pushing the state’s count to 6,524,498. The number of active cases reduced to 41,672 as 3,836 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours. It was for the first time in the past seven months that active cases dipped below 42,000 since the beginning of the second Covid-19 wave in the state. On February 2, the number of active cases in Maharashtra stood at 41,586.The state on Monday also reported 28 infection-related casualties, pushing Maharashtra’s Covid death toll to 138,546. Ahmednagar reported 12 deaths, most in the state..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-indication-of-potential-3rd-wave-yet-in-maharashtra-minister-101632189129539.html
21-09-2021||India||PM Modi to address UNGA, meet Biden, Harris in US||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will have bilateral meetings with both US President Joe Biden (September 24) and vice president Kamala Harris (September 23) in the course of a busy three-day trip to the US that will see him addressing the United Nations General Assembly in New York as the first speaker of the day.The highlight of the trip is also the first in-person meeting of Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, or Quad, leaders on September 24, with Modi, Japanese PM Yoshihide Suga and Australian PM Scott Morrison being hosted by Biden in the White House. The US President will also host a gala dinner the same day.According to people in US and Indian diplomatic circles, Modi will also meet one-on-one with five chief executives of top American companies on September 23. While Apple CEO Tim Cook is expected to be one of the five who will meet the Indian PM in Washington, the other names are still being finalised. The same day, Modi will also have bilateral meetings with Suga and Morrison.
21-09-2021||India||Row over BJP leader Uma Bharti’s remark on bureaucrats||Bhopal: Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Uma Bharti courted controversy by saying bureaucrats are there only to “pick up our (leaders’) slippers” and that they have “no standing to delay anything.” After a two-minute video, in which the leader was purportedly seen making the controversial remarks, went viral on social media on Monday, she apologised for her comments.HT cannot independently verify the authenticity of the video, which was shared by several social media users.“Aapko nahi pata bureaucracy kuchh nahi hoti, chappal uthanewali hoti hai. Chappal uthati hai hamari. Hum log hi raji ho jate hai uske liye. (You do not know that bureaucracy is nothing. Bureaucracy is there to pick up our chappals (slippers). They pick up our slippers. We only got agreed for that),” Bharti is heard saying in the video.In the video, Bharti was seen interacting with some people and commenting on reservation. “Nothing is going to happen with reservation till it applies in the private sector. Everything is going to be privatised. The government land is being handed over to the private sector and what will happen with reservation…,” Bharti is heard saying in the video.Meanwhile, state Congress committee spokesperson Narendra Saluja said, “BJP senior leader Uma Bharti raised an important issue of privatisation but also insulted bureaucrats. She should apologise bureaucrats for undermining them. BJP leaders should also clear their stand on this.” However, BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal said, “Uma Bharti was talking informally with some people on her residence and it is her personal opinion. She is the right person to comment on that.”On Monday evening, Uma Bharti through number of tweets clarified her position. “I am thankful to the media for showing my full video. I am talking in favour of bureaucrats that some incompetent leaders use the name of bureaucrats to hide their incompetency,” she tweeted.“The bureaucrats always supports true and strong leader,” Bharti said in another tweet.She also said she was talking informally with a delegation of OBC leaders at her residence in Bhopal but she shouldn’t have used bad words. “I learned today that I should talk sensitively even among the limited people,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-over-bjp-leader-uma-bharti-s-remark-on-bureaucrats-101632168128079.html
21-09-2021||India||Rule of law is replaced by rule of jungle, says Tripura opposition leader Manik Sarkar||AGARTALA: Former Tripura chief minister, CPM heavyweight and leader of opposition, Manik Sarkar, alleged that after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) came to power in the northeastern state in 2018, ‘jungle raj’ or lawlessness has been prevailing in the state and there is no implementation of the Indian Constitution. In an interview with Hindustan Times, Manik Sarkar, who was chief minister of Tripura for 20 years from 1998, also spoke about the Trinamool Congress’ continuing efforts to build its base in the state. Edited excerpts: How do you see the status of the Left parties in Tripura after the BJP came to power? The opposition is under attack in Tripura. They cannot exercise their democratic rights. We have never raised slogans of uprooting the existing government from the very beginning. I was restrained several times during my visit to different areas. Besides, many opposition legislators are also facing objections while entering into their own constituency. Being an opposition leader, I have to go to each and every constituency. People are struggling with poverty, hunger and other basic amenities. Should I not go to them? Opposition voices are scuttled here, there is no freedom and rule of law. How would you rate the BJP government in Tripura? The BJP failed to implement what they promised before coming to polls in 2018. Many of our party offices were set ablaze, party supporters’ houses were attacked and even the media is under attack. Advocates who stood beside the attacked people, also faced attacks. Practically, rule of law is replaced by rule of jungle. If we want to say in one sentence, there is no implementation of Indian Constitution in Tripura. Tripura witnessed a volatile situation recently. What do you think the reason for the situation? The BJP government has become unpopular due to its anti-people policies and attacks on democratic rights. They are getting more and more detached from people; these fascist attacks are out of desperation. The administration, on the other hand, has been arm twisted and pressurised by ruling party. Without any space to work freely, Tripura Police, which won Presidents Colour during our tenure, isn’t able to perform. We are absolutely unsatisfied with the action taken on the attacks on our party workers. But Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb accused CPM of violence and blamed the party of trying to plunge Tripura into lawlessness? (Laughs) People have seen what happened. What will be the Left Front’s strategy to fight the 2023 assembly polls? Our strategy is to stand by the working class people- farmers, daily wage labours, minorities, indigenous, other backward classes etc. We want to ensure peace and restoration of democracy. We shall build movement among the people.We accepted the verdict of the people in 2018. But, people have started raising questions about performance of the ruling government. Those who were misled earlier, have realised and confessed that they have made a gross error. A government, within so less period, cannot become isolated from the masses. We are in our real place - connected with the masses. That’s why, we had to face attacks. If we would have been in power, then attacks on party offices, vandalisation of former chief minister Dasarath Deb’s statue and other (incidents of) violence would not have happened.Apart from the BJP, the Left Front now has another contender, Trinamool Congress. Is there any possibility of forging an alliance with TMC or any other regional party for 2023 polls? The Left Front came into existence through ceaseless struggle on the basis of common people’s livelihood issues. So, from where does the question of poll alliance comes? The Trinamool Congress has not come to Tripura for the first time. They have been coming here since formation of their party here. We are expressing ourselves and they are also doing the same. People will decide which one is right and which one is not. So far, the Left Front is not thinking about electoral alliance with any party. Our daily activities are different from electoral politics. We don’t do politics only for the votes. So, question of political alliance doesn’t arise with any other party. If there is no chance of a pre-poll alliance with TMC, will the resultant division of votes help the BJP gain majority in the elections? How can you say who is helping whom in what ways? (smiles) How confident is the Left Front of winning Assembly polls in 2023? We are not thinking about this now. We are working to ensure food and shelter for the people and to restore democracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rule-of-law-is-replaced-by-rule-of-jungle-says-tripura-opposition-leader-manik-sarkar-101632167771929.html
21-09-2021||India||Supreme Court seeks report over Aravalli encroachments||The Supreme Court on Monday said that unauthorised properties on forest land cannot be granted any protection, as it sought a report from the municipal body of Faridabad, within a week, on illegal structures located in the Aravalli forest and reasons for not demolishing them.The court has scheduled a hearing in this regard on September 27 and directed the commissioner of the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) to present a chart of illegal properties. The court will also hear a clutch of petitions against the alternative housing scheme of the Haryana government for people evicted from Khori Gaon, an unauthorised settlement that encroached on 150 acres of the Aravalli forest.A bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari said, “We direct the commissioner, MCF, to submit an area-wise chart disclosing the structures standing on forest land not demolished, along with justification for not demolishing the unauthorised structure, by the next date of hearing.”Senior advocate Arun Bhardwaj, appearing for the MCF, informed the court that its orders will be complied with. The MCF has, so far, identified 140 illegal structures, including farmhouses, of which only 10 have been demolished.Owners of farmhouses and banquet halls in Faridabad, who were issued show cause notices for demolition by MCF, also approached the top court with petitions against the MCF’s actions. The bench agreed to deal with these petitions on October 4. The owners were served notices under Section 4 of the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA), 1900.The owners sought protection till then as their representations had been dismissed by a common order passed by the deputy conservator of forests, Faridabad, last week. The bench remarked, “We cannot protect you. We will not interfere if you are an unauthorised structure or situated on forest land. On both criteria, the corporation must proceed against such structures.”Senior advocate PS Patwalia, appearing for a few owners of the affected structures, said that in 2019, the state government amended the PLPA, by which the land on which these structures were raised have been exempted from the applicability of Section 4 of PLPA. But this amendment has not been put into effect due to a March 1, 2019 order of the Supreme Court in the MC Mehta case, which states, “State government not to act without permission of the court under the Amendment Act.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-seeks-report-over-aravalli-encroachments-101632167448082.html
21-09-2021||India||India jumps to 46th spot in 2021 Global Innovation Index||India has improved its ranking in the latest Global Innovation Index (GII), moving up two positions to 46, the 2021 report released Monday showed. India has seen a rising trajectory over the past several years, improving its rank significantly from 81 in 2015. “The consistent improvement in the GII ranking is owing to the immense knowledge capital, the vibrant start-up ecosystem, and the amazing work done by the public and the private research organizations,” Niti Aayog, the government’s think tank, said in a statement. Switzerland topped the league table, followed by Sweden, the US and the UK, said the report by the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). Among Asian economies, South Korea jumped to the fifth position, up from 10 last year. China was in the 12th position. India attributed its improved performance due to the pivotal role played by the Department of Atomic Energy, the Department of Science and Technology, the Department of Biotechnology and the Department of Space.Niti Aayog, in partnership with lobby group Confederation of Indian Industries and the World Intellectual Property Organisation, will virtually host the India launch of the GII and the Global Innovation Conclave on September 21-22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-jumps-to-46th-spot-in-2021-global-innovation-index-101632167227888.html
21-09-2021||India||Supreme Court rejects Class XII student’s plea seeking resumption of schools, says cannot take over governance||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain a plea filed by a Class XII student from Delhi seeking directions for the resumption of in-person classes in schools across the country, observing that the court “cannot take over governance” nor can it “issue a judicial diktat for sending all children to schools, oblivious of dangers it may pose”. A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna said the reopening of schools was dependent on several factors peculiar to each state that only governments could factor in before making a decision. “The governments are answerable to people and they are also conscious that children will have to be ultimately sent to schools. We cannot by judicial diktat say you shall send all children to schools, oblivious of the danger that may be there. The complexities of governance immediately make this a matter where the court should not start issuing directions,” the bench told advocate Ravi Prakash Mehrotra appearing for the student, Amar Prem Prakash.The court emphasised leaving “something to the democratic way of life that people have chosen for themselves”. “Sending children to schools is the most fundamental duty of the local authorities and they are very well aware of it. Let us leave something to the government. The Supreme Court cannot take over governance. Let the government make these decisions,” the bench said. Prakash filed his petition claiming that deprivation of regular schooling was affecting the psyche of the student community leading to depression and social reclusiveness. His plea also mentioned the difficulties faced by underprivileged children, many of whom were unable to join virtual classes due to their weaker financial situation. But the bench said right at the outset that the Constitution puts education in the concurrent list that empowers both the Centre and states to regulate it. “You ask this child to focus on his education and not involve himself in seeking constitutional remedies. How can we ask all states to reopen schools? See how misplaced this petition is. Imagine the situation in Kerala, Maharashtra. Do you think the situation in Kerala is the same as it is in Delhi? We have just about come out of the second wave (of Covid-19). The third wave is still looming. We aren’t saying it will come and fortunately there are reports saying the situation will by and large remain under control but we will have to keep our guards on,” remarked the bench. It added: “Schools are reopening in different states in a phased manner. Many states have already opened schools for children between Class 8 and 10. Things are moving in the right direction...Vaccination is progressing apace. This court will not issue such orders.” At this point, Mehrotra argued that this petition was filed last month when several states remained indecisive about reopening schools. But the bench remained unimpressed: “The governments are ultimately answerable! They are also conscious of the need for children to gradually go back to school...Let the states find out where the spike is taking place, which are those areas within the state. There are states with 75 districts; some have 52 districts; there are states with high density of population in some districts and other districts with less density...these are matters which we should leave to the government.” Pointing out that states like Karnataka and Delhi have already decided to reopen schools gradually, the court said that these are issues that require balancing of interests of children who are home — how they are being affected physically, psychologically, and mentally — with the dangers they might find themselves in if they mix in school. “Can we divorce this issue from the policy decisions of vaccinating children which the government will decide in due course? This (subject) is too sensitive in terms of social policy, scientific data and available means to vaccinate children and school staff. For courts to issue such directions will not be proper,” underlined the bench. “We cannot pick up children in the first standard and combine them with these children who are making their foray into higher education...We cannot put our little children in any kind of danger. The government themselves have to tread with the greatest care when it comes to sending children to schools. When the governments are treading with so much caution, a constitutional court has to be more cautious and circumspect,” it said. Mehrotra, on his part, argued that the petition was not asking for an omnibus direction to reopen schools but was trying to highlight certain issues that were bothering the student community who wanted their redressal.But the bench retorted: “We are not saying this petition is only for publicity but these are areas fraught with dangers and we cannot venture into it. A child files a petition and we have an omnibus statement that children should go to schools. There is no scientific data provided. Of course, children should go to schools. School is the essence of childhood but how can we pass a judicial order to say irrespective of anything else, they shall be sent to school? We don’t need to queer the pitch today.” It added that the court was aware of certain incidents that happened in several other countries after schools reopened. “We are conscious of what is happening across the world. We will have to be very careful. This is a sensitive issue of social policy. Children are to be vaccinated, also relevant are the available means of vaccinating children, teachers, staff etc. You may withdraw this and pursue your remedies with the Delhi government. Let us not enter into a fraught area,” the bench told Mehrotra. Mehrotra opted to withdraw the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-rejects-class-xii-student-s-plea-seeking-resumption-of-schools-says-cannot-take-over-governance-101632166927825.html
21-09-2021||India||Top seer Narendra Giri found dead in Prayagraj, disciple detained||PRAYAGRAJ President of the Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad and Mahant of Bade Hanuman temple of Prayagraj Narendra Giri was found dead inside his room at Baghambari Gaddi Math on Monday, police said. Giri was found hanging from a ceiling fan by a rope, officials said. SP (City) Dinesh Kumar Singh said a police team reached Baghambari Gaddi Math in the evening on receiving the information and found Giri hanging; forensic field units are carrying out an investigation and people in the Math were being questioned in this connection. A purported suicide note was found from the room and it named his disciple, Anand Giri, and two others as responsible for the extreme step, police said. “Based on the suicide note, we detained Anand Giri in Haridwar with help of Uttarakhand police. Anand Giri is being brought to UP for further questioning,” said Prashant Kumar, ADG (law and order), UP.Senior police officials including IG Prayagraj Range KP Singh and SSP Sarvshrestha Tripathi also reached the spot. Inspector General of Police KP Singh said police received a call from the Ashram at around 5.25pm informing them that Giri was found hanging in his room at the guest house of Baghambari Gaddi Math. Prima facie, it appeared that Giri committed suicide by hanging himself. His disciples at the math informed that the room was bolted from inside, said IG (Prayagraj range). “The eight-page suicide note mentions that Mahant Narendra Giri took the extreme step as he was not happy with some of his disciples. The suicide note also mentions his will about the ashram. The suicide note also mentions names of many disciples. Giri in the note said he wanted to live with dignity but was unhappy due to some reasons . His disciples have confirmed that the handwriting was of Mahant Narendra Giri but anything concrete could be said only after proper investigations,” the IG said. A heavy crowd of devotees assembled outside Baghambari Gaddi Math as news of his death spread in Prayagraj. PM Narendra Modi and UP CM Yogi Adityanath condoled the death. The PM expressed sorrow on his death and hailed him for playing a vital role in uniting saints of different streams while remaining true to spiritual traditions. Adityanath termed the death a huge loss to the spiritual world and prayed that God give strength to his disciples and followers to bear the loss. Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya had met the 62-year-old Giri on Sunday. “I am unable to believe that Mahant Narendra Giri could have committed suicide. I am shocked, pained and at a loss of words. I knew him since childhood and he was always very brave. I had sought his blessings on the morning of September 19. He was very normal then…,” Maurya said in a tweet in Hindi. Meanwhile, AAP MP Sanjay Singh in a tweet expressed pain at the death of Giri under suspicious circumstances and demanded a CBI inquiry, claiming that neither the common man nor saints were safe under the present government. Deputy CM Dinesh Sharma while expressing sadness over the death said the state government would get the death investigated. Giri hailed from the trans-Ganga area of Prayagraj. He belonged to Shri Panchayati Akhara Niranjani, one of the ancient monastic orders of the country and of which he was the serving secretary as well. Giri was elected president of the all-powerful Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, the apex decision-making body of the 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders of the country in 2014 for five years. He was re-elected to the post at a meeting of the Akhara Parishad held in Haridwar in October 2019. In May 2021, Giri had a fallout with his disciple and noted yoga guru and the then “Chote Mahant” of Bade Hanuman temple Swami Anand Giri, following which Anand Giri was expelled from Baghambari Math and Niranjani Akhara. Anand Giri had been accused of continuing to have connections with his family in violation of the set norms of conduct for sanyasis. He was also accused of financial irregularities associated with the temple fund, a fact that was confirmed at the time by secretary of the Akhara, Mahant Swami Ravindra Puri. The action against Anand Giri had followed a complaint against him in this regard by Narendra Giri. However, within a few days, Anand Giri had formally sought forgiveness from Narendra Giri and the Panch Parmeshwar of the Shri Panchayati Akhara Niranjani. Narendra Giri had then forgiven him and lifted the ban on Anand Giri from entering Bade Hanuman temple and the Baghambari Math that had been imposed on him at the time of expulsion.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918, Roshni Foundation (Secundrabad) Contact Nos: 040-66202001, 040-66202000, ONE LIFE: Contact No: 78930 78930, SEVA: Contact No: 09441778290||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narendra-giri-president-of-akhil-bharatiya-akhara-parishad-found-dead-in-prayagraj-police-suspect-suicide-101632166567857.html
21-09-2021||India||Supreme Court rejects plea seeking resumption of schools||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain a plea filed by a Class XII student from Delhi seeking directions for the resumption of in-person classes in schools across the country, observing that the court “cannot take over governance” nor can it “issue a judicial diktat for sending all children to schools, oblivious of dangers it may pose”.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna said the reopening of schools depended on several factors peculiar to each state that only governments could factor in before making a decision. “The governments are answerable to people and they are also conscious that children will have to be ultimately sent to schools. We cannot by judicial diktat say you shall send all children to schools, oblivious of the danger that may be there. The complexities of governance immediately make this a matter where the court should not start issuing directions,” the bench told advocate Ravi Prakash Mehrotra appearing for the student, Amar Prem Prakash.“Sending children to schools is the most fundamental duty of the local authorities and they are very well aware of it. Let us leave something to the government. The Supreme Court cannot take over governance...,” the court said.Prakash in his plea claimed that deprivation of regular schooling was affecting the psyche of student community leading to depression and social reclusiveness.The bench said the Constitution puts education in the concurrent list that empowers both the Centre and states to regulate it. “You ask this child to focus on his education and not involve himself in seeking constitutional remedies...,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-rejects-plea-seeking-resumption-of-schools-101632166240768.html
21-09-2021||India||Opposition terms Channi appointment ‘electoral gimmick’||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday termed the appointment of Dalit leader Charanjit Singh Channi as the new chief minister of poll-bound Punjab an “electoral gimmick”, and cautioned Dalits against the Congress’s “double standards”. The 117-member Punjab assembly is set to go to the polls early next year.Channi (58), the first Dalit chief minister of Punjab, was sworn in on Monday, a day after he was unanimously elected as the leader of the Congress Legislature Party of Punjab. The development comes two days after Amarinder Singh’s sudden exit from the state’s top post, after months of infighting between him and Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.BSP chief Mayawati, former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and currently an ally of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in Punjab, welcomed Channi’s appointment but said, “Making a person belonging to Dalit caste as the chief minister of Punjab is nothing but an election stunt. I have come to know through the media today that assembly elections in Punjab will be fought under a non-Dalit leader and not under Channi.”“The reality is that Congress and other political parties think of Dalits only in times of crisis.”The Congress’s decision to name Channi, who belongs to the Ramdasia Sikh community, assumes significance as poll-bound Punjab has a population of nearly 31.9% from the community.The BJP, too, alleged that Congress picked Channi merely to grab Dalit votes. “This is an old habit of the Congress. It believes that it can capture the Dalit vote bank by making a Dalit chief minister for a few months. A conspiracy is being hatched in Punjab to grab Dalit vote bank,” said party general secretary and state in-charge, Dushyant Kumar Gautam.He noted that the Congress made Dalit leader Sushil Kumar Shinde Maharashtra chief minister in 2003, but replaced him with Vilasrao Deshmukh when it won the 2004 assembly elections. “The Congress has humiliated Dalits innumerable times.”Hitting back, the Congress accused opposition parties for “insulting” a Dalit chief minister.“I want to tell all our friends in the media, please, you also do not grudge the young Dalit leader and the role assigned him as chief minister of Punjab. He will be our face (in the upcoming state elections) along with Navjot Singh Sidhu which is natural,” said Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala.Alleging that the BJP, SAD, Aam Aadmi Party and BSP have “unwarrantedly, shamelessly and regrettably” attacked the candidature of Channi, he added: “We would urge Narendra Modi ji, J P Nadda, Sukhbir Singh Badal, Arvind Kejriwal and Mayawati ji to not grudge the rightful due of a Dalit’s son who is today the CM of Punjab, and instead of shamelessly criticising him, they should hail his elevation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-terms-channi-appointment-electoral-gimmick-101632165854644.html
21-09-2021||India||Happy to see economic recovery: Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman||Days after announcing the mechanics of the bad bank that will remove ₹2 lakh crore of bad debt from the books of banks, and weeks after announcing a framework that will make more people eligible for loans and scrapping the retrograde retrospective tax, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman discussed these, and the state of the economy, in an extensive interview with Hindustan Times. Edited excerpts:You announced on Thursday that the government will provide ₹30,600 crore in guarantees to the National Asset Reconstruction Company Ltd to buy ₹2 lakh crore of bad loans from banks. This will be in a 15:85 split, with NARCL offering banks cash for 15% of the value of the assets and issuing security receipts for the rest (partly guaranteed by the government), which the banks can sell in the market. Do you think there will be appetite for these securities?Yes. That these assets have been sitting without resolution need not give us the impression that they have no value. The resolution formula is the one that will be given priority. Not liquidation. When you look at resolution – there is an implicit message being given that these are workable assets, and that with some doing they will be valuable. There will definitely be interest in the market.I lay a lot of emphasis on the professionals (managing the assets), which is why, along with NARCL, we have set up India Debt Resolution Company Ltd. It will have panels of experts; panels because the assets belong to various categories. These panels will deal with assets in domains in which they have expertise. With that kind of specialised application of mind on each of these assets, we think they will be made up in such a way, and valued in such a way, that the market will find it interesting. Bank officials do not have that kind of specialisation.IDRCL is key to this, right?IDRCL is 49% owned by the banks themselves; the Indian Banks Association will have to drive the process as these assets belong to the banks; IBA will have greater oversight on this. It is in their interest to have these run efficiently.There’s also a fee (against the guarantee) that NARCL will have to pay (to the government); the fee becomes higher with time; so the sooner you sell an asset, the better it is.Are you confident this will work?Yes, because this entire mechanism was driven by the banks; many of these big-ticket exposures are through consortia; unless all banks agree, no resolution is possible. Now because it’s through IBA, it’s for them to constantly keep moving towards better resolution, towards consensus.So something we have all been talking about for ages -- a bad bank -- is finally here.In a slightly different formation which will be a lot more transparent and owned by the banks themselves. In a country like the US, 99% of the banks are private. In India you have the public sector holding a big share. Is this a transient mechanism?At this stage, we are not describing what happens after five years. ₹2 lakh crore will have to be cleared in five years. Beyond that I envisage that the banks themselves will be professional enough to figure out how they are going to handle their non-performing assets. If at that time -- small asset reconstruction companies are not able to handle assets over ₹500 crore, and that is why we said this mechanism is for assets of ₹500 crore and above -- there is a need to continue with this for larger assets, they will continue.The misuse of a section of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), where creditors agree to take huge haircuts, sometimes in excess of 90% on even good underlying assets, has resulted in demands for strengthening the law. Do you agree?Yes and no. Where the haircuts are so significant, I think some banks have also been sitting up and saying we can’t accept this. In one recent case that resulted in a 98% haircut, I was glad that two banks voiced dissent, and they also probably went to the court and sought a stay. Such course corrections highlight that the weakness is not IBC itself but in the way the issues are being resolved. So I would look for a solution to that rather than tinkering with the act itself. Where amendments are required to strengthen the act, I am in favour of them. But in practice, if there are ways in which people are either gaming it or conveniently giving an inference that is, in spirit, not in line with the law, I think other ways of legal redressal are required. It is not a weakness in IBC but in how people are gaming it. So we will have to see both – I am happy to strengthen IBC because it is one of the better ways of resolving; it focuses on resolution of a going concern rather than liquidation.India recently announced the launch of Account Aggregators (AAs allow individuals and enterprises to share credit and financial information relating to their accounts or transactions with one financial or service entity with others, with their explicit permission, so as to prove their credit worthiness) which could broaden the credit base even as it makes it easier for financial institutions to lend. How do you see the acceptance of these?The small and medium enterprises and the middle class will benefit from this. We are all worried about data privacy, and while there is a data privacy law that will come, taking this avenue to provide comfort to borrowers has been received well. I think the fact that people have grasped the details of AA shows that people are willing to see how it helps optimise the system.Are nudges required? AAs will become stronger only if more organisations with which people have dealings, telecom companies for instance, become part of the network.Nudges are required for many things the government is doing – even small digital adaptations that people have to do. A lot of small nudges have been happening in the past year, and that is evident in the way UPI (United Payments Interface) has been growing – we are extending it to overseas Indians now. The AA framework also needs a nudge. This is a great leap forward.But like you said, a privacy law and a data protection framework are needed.Necessary consultations will have to happen. They can’t be bypassed. If the stakeholders are brought on board; [if] their inputs are used to strengthen the law – then there is greater acceptability when it is passed. I don’t think there will be a delay; the more the consultation, the better it is. That process will be done.India has been ahead of the curve on many things – UPI, for instance, and AAs, but seems to be lagging behind on adopting cryptocurrencies.It may not be the best example, but take El Salvador. The way in which they went ahead to accept it (Bitcoin) as a currency. You’d think common people don’t care about digital currency; but the public took to the streets against the move. It’s not a question of literacy or understanding – it’s also a question of to what extent this is a transparent currency; is it going to be a currency available for everyone? El Savador may be an exceptional place where they tried some experimentation. There are other countries that are talking about the central bank having a legitimate cryptocurrency. That could be a possibility.A lot of consultation took place; RBI’s views were also taken; now we have to formulate this in the form of a Cabinet note on the balance we can strike. This is not an era where you can say I don’t care about what’s happening, or we don’t want to do anything. At the same time, are we yet ready to go the El Salvador way? We have to be sure that a futuristic thing can’t be shut out.I remember one edit writer for Mint suggesting four-five years ago that we should have our own Bharatcoin.We have to evolve something suitable for our systems. India has the strength of the technology; fintech gives us the command over the instrumentalities with which you can play; our economy is full of possibilities. So we have to be cautious; but we have to think it through.You recently scrapped the controversial retrospective tax and also offered a resolution for companies slapped with this tax. What has been the response, especially from companies such as Cairn and Vodafone?It’s been positive. We have had a round of discussions and haven’t heard any voices of discord. One of them had paid, and the government will have to pay them back but that should close the chapter, we shall not pay interest, etc. And they should end all litigation. Those details are being worked out.Vodafone is also a shareholder in Vodafone Idea, which is a beneficiary of the telecom package your government announced recently. Do you think enough has been done for the sector?Definitely. The way in which the package has come – it also brings in reforms. It removes a lot of anomalies, and constraints. Business has been given space to breathe. Government wants that sector to be run in a free manner and also have more than two or three players. For free and fair competition, markets should be given play; and customers will benefit.But with companies being allowed to pay some of the amounts being deferred under a moratorium through equity, the government could end up owing chunks of Indian telecom.I think it will be a special undertaking (a company set up for that purpose), not the government.Are you happy with the pace of economic recovery?I’m happy to see recovery; at this stage we want to have very positive signs from all segments so that mutually they create this thing called sentiment. If sentiment becomes positive, it creates a multiplier effect.What is your take on the growth vs inflation debate?I don’t think they are mutually exclusive. It is possible to have some level of inflation without affecting consumers. And growth need not be curbed because of inflation. Our push for growth will continue.At last week’s GST Council meeting, it was decided the timing for moving fuel under GST was not appropriate. When will it be?To a large extent, that depends on states feeling comfortable. States feel that they have very few items on which they can have a consideration to increase or decrease tax. Tax on fuel, liquor are in their hands. They feel that at this time they need to have revenues, and reach a level where they can let it go. I wouldn’t want to push states at a time like this. A post-Corona situation is not the kind of circumstance in which any state will have a comfort level (with doing this). At this stage, I am also not holding back any money that is due to them; and we are also ensuring they can borrow more.You have extended the cess but states have been asking for an extension on compensation, which under the GST Act ends next year.In the 43rd council meeting in October 2020 it was decided that the borrowing undertaken to meet the compensation can only be paid from cess, so it needs to be extended. Those amounts borrowed last year, and the amount we have to borrow this year despite higher revenues and paying up the dues -- just to pay back the borrowed amount, we need to continue cess till March 2026. By law, compensation can be paid from cess at 14% for five years. This is being duly complied with. Beyond 2022, compensation need not be given, but cess has already been extended for paying the loan already taken till 2026. Where is the possibility of extending compensation?So, there will be a shortfall in compensation this year also?There will be a little shortfall in compensation, and this year also we will have to borrow.Will you follow the same formula as last year?Yes, we will.Coming to the issue of excise on fuel, would the government consider cutting excise to bring down prices?The only very strong case for me to put forward – excise levied by the Centre is not value added; it is fixed. If it were value added, each time the price increases, it goes up. And prices are going up. So, I have to balance this with what’s happening in the states (Editor’s Note: Tax on fuel levied by the state is value added). It’s also a question of time. I won’t be able to comment on it beyond that.Do you worry about a possible taper tantrum and money exiting Indian markets if interest rates overseas are raised?There’s no point worrying; it’s more for the government and RBI to keep watch and smoothen any impact here; you can sense it in time if you keep a watch. There is a conscious effort to do this by RBI and the government. We are keeping a watch.There’s been a push by some countries to have India agree to net zero commitment on emissions. This could have an economic impact. What are your thoughts on this issue?The principle that the defaulter should pay holds good. The legacy units we may have are still not of that volume as that, which ages ago, the developed world benefited from; today, they can say these are environmentally unfriendly. If countries like us have to meet our development requirements, you’d still have to have some thermal units; coal dependence will be there to some extent. We are committed to closing legacy thermal units that are inefficient, coal guzzlers which have poor productivity levels, but completely removing thermal is impossible. Our economy has different regions at differing levels of development. We still have active mines. India speaking on this should be taken seriously because the PM has invested and is committed in renewable energy. Till now, what we have achieved in terms of our commitment in COP 21 have all been achieved with India’s own funds. That $100 billion supposed to be given to developing countries (by developed countries) has not even materialised. We have completely fulfilled our commitment in COP 21 but I don’t think we can rush into net zero.Last question. Are you satisfied with where India is now?I feel reassured. Indians have faced it all (because of Covid), have suffered, and have shown grit to come out of it. How much ever you do — and our government tried doing as much as it could – will not be enough. This is the kind of pandemic the world has not seen before, so I am willing to hear everything people say of what we could have done [better] and so on. But I am immensely grateful to the people of India. And looking at the way the vaccination drive is progressing, I feel we will come through it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/happy-to-see-economic-recovery-finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman-101632165549044.html
21-09-2021||India||Patil: 99% of speed breakers on Karnataka highways unscientific||Karnataka public works minister C C Patil on Monday admitted that 99% of speed breakers on the state’s highways and roads are “unscientific”.The minister said this in the assembly while responding to a question raised by senior Congress MLA K R Ramesh Kumar during question hour, seeking details on authorized roads humps or speed breakers on the 52-km Hoskote-Madikere Cross road and 82-km national highway 234 connecting Mulbagal and Chikkaballapura.Patil, in his written reply, said the 52-km road has 33 authorized ‘raised pedestrian crossings’ and that 70 out of 84 road humps on NH 234 are unscientific.Unhappy with the answer, Kumar asked, “Are there any procedures for this? Is there anything-why it should be put and by whom? If there are so many unscientific humps, are there no officials? Why do you lay the roads spending crores?”Questioning whether officers don’t conduct inspections, he demanded that the minister suspend the engineers concerned. “If you suspend officials, then such speed humps will go....if there are some protests by locals, humps are put...to whom have you given this state to?”Conceding that road humps have become a menace, Patil said suspending officials was not the solution and that unscientific road humps come up at the behest of locals and at several instances, they get it installed by getting the contractor, in the absence of officials.“I agree that of all speed breakers, 99 per cent won’t be scientific...with the help of district Deputy Commissioners and Police, we will make all honest efforts to remove unscientific road humps,” he said, adding that this problem was not created overnight.Further, Kumar questioned Patil as to why he was “not applying his mind” with regard to the road leading to the Kempegowda International Airport.“You have the police to check speeding. You also allow tempos, auto rickshaws and scooters on the same road. People wanting to catch their flights on time get late,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patil99-of-speed-breakers-on-karnataka-highways-unscientific-101632165430487.html
21-09-2021||India||Congress turns heat on BJP over petrol and diesel prices, demands tax cuts||The Congress in Karnataka on Monday protested against rise in prices of petrol and diesel by riding bicycles as the party continued to criticise the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the Centre and in the state for piling on the burden on common people.“The prices have increased drastically after Narendra Modi became Prime Minister. Both Central and state BJP governments are looting common man. Diesel price was just ₹47 and Petrol was just ₹75 when crude oil price had crossed more than $120 during Shri Manmohan Singh tenure,” Siddaramaiah, the leader of the opposition and former chief minister, said .The protest is part of the Congress’s ongoing campaign to pressure the Basavaraj Bommai-led Karnataka government to reduce the taxes on fuels and other essential commodities that have added to the burden of the state’s population who are severely impacted due to the Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdowns.Siddaramaiah said that even BS Yediyurappa cannot save the BJP in the upcoming 2023 assembly elections.The Congress is trying to tear into the BJP which appears to be on the back foot with its internal political rumblings over issues like the caste census, reservation row, mishandling of Covid and its unwillingness to reduce the duty on fuel and other essential commodities.“People are frustrated with the steep increase in petrol and other essential commodity prices, and waiting for this government to end the term. People fear about cases being slapped on them if they voice their frustration against the government. People will teach BJP a great lesson in the upcoming elections and will send their leaders back to home,” the former chief minister said.The Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S), the two main opposition parties in the state, are trying to push the Bommai government to a corner in the ongoing monsoon session of the Karnataka legislature.Siddaramaiah has been a vocal critic of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the “Modi wave” that has helped the BJP win elections in Karnataka and other parts of the country.“Narendra Modi government has increased excise duty of diesel from ₹3.45 to ₹31.84 and excise duty of petrol is increased from ₹9.21 to ₹32.98. Let him reduce excise duty by 50%. Narendra Modi government has collected about ₹23 lakh crore as excise duty in last 7 years,” Siddaramaiah said.The Congress has travelled to the opening day of the monsoon session on bullock carts to mark their protests on September 13.DK Shivakumar, the president of the Karnataka Congress, said that the increase of prices of energy and other essential commodities was the doing of the BJP which was “pickpocketing” the state’s population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-turns-heat-on-bjp-over-petrol-and-diesel-prices-demands-tax-cuts-101632165429436.html
21-09-2021||India||Bill tabled by Karnataka government to protect religious structures from demolition||The Basavaraj Bommai-led BJP government in Karnataka on Monday tabled a bill in the assembly to protect religious structures from being demolished, a move seen as a way to circumvent court orders.The government tabled the Karnataka Religious Structures (Protection) Bill, 2021 and is scheduled to take it up for discussion on Tuesday.The bills “empowers the state government to make rules regarding the manner and conditions subject to which religious structures existing on the date of commencement of this act shall be protected.”The move comes at a time when the BJP has been at the receiving end of criticism from right-wing and other groups over a video of a temple torn down in Nanjangud by Mysuru district authorities. While the bill is scheduled to be taken up for discussion in the lower house on Tuesday, there remains questions if all religious structures that have been constructed on encroached land will be protected. The bill is also likely to set a precedent on how the government views encroached property and how such matters will be addressed.The Bommai government is moving quickly to pass a bill which will not only minimise the backlash but also has the potential to pander to religious groups ahead of the yet-to-be announced zilla panchayat elections, and 2023 assembly polls.“Provision empowers the state government to make rules regarding the circumstances in which protection to religious structures in respect of which any case relating to the removal is pending in any court of law,” the bill states.The Bommai government discussed the plan to bring such a bill at a cabinet meeting on Monday, a senior minister said, requesting not to be named due to the ongoing monsoon session.The developments come after a video of a temple in Nanjangud being torn down by an earth mover on September 12 had gone viral on social media with Mysuru-Kodagu member of Parliament Prathap Simha raising the issue to target authorities who were carrying out the drive with no consultations. The BJP has seen a backlash even from its own support base which, the party feared, would dent its prospects in the yet-to-be announced zilla and taluka panchayat polls as well as 2023 assembly polls. The demolition drive also brought together voices from various political parties with the likes of Siddaramaiah, the Congress’ leader of the opposition, and GT Deve Gowda, a senior JD(S) legislator, also voicing their anger against the driveChief minister Bommai had ordered authorities across the state to halt any such plans to demolish religious structures in the state. Speaking at the state working committee meeting in Davangere on Sunday, former chief minister and senior BJP leader BS Yediyurappa assured the cadre of bringing about a bill to save temples. Bommai had assured to discuss the matter in detail and discuss the same in the cabinet meeting on September 14, Hindustan Times reported. The Karnataka high court had pulled up authorities for failing to take action against illegal structures built on government land, prompting the Mysuru district administration to act. On August 12, the HC said the Supreme Court has stated that all illegal religious structures that were built after September 29, 2009 shall not be tolerated. The HC is hearing a petition to ensure compliance with the Supreme Court order on the matter. “It is considered necessary to provide protection of religious constructions on public places constructed before the date of commencement of this act, in order to protect communal harmony and not hurt the religious sentiments of the public,” the bill states in its objects and reasons. The bill further states that the provisions “empowers the state government to make rules regarding the circumstances in which protection to religious structures in respect of which any case relating to the removal is pending in any court of law.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-tabled-by-karnataka-government-to-protect-religious-structures-from-demolition-101632165368312.html
21-09-2021||India||Rajasthan man arrested by Bengaluru police on charges of spying||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) in Bengaluru on Monday said it had arrested one person in connection with espionage activities in which this individual is suspected to have taken pictures of sensitive installations and shared them with foreign agencies.“On information of military intelligence, CCB traced and arrested one accused who took photos of vital installations, defence establishments and shared them with foreign agencies,” Joint Commissioner of Police (CCB) Sandeep Patil said in a statement on Monday.The accused is a native of Rajasthan and a case has been filed under the Official Secrets Act and Indian Penal Code, the official said.The photos were allegedly taken in other states and not Karnataka. Though the modus operandi of the accused remains unclear or the location from where the photos were taken, a city like Bengaluru has several defence establishments.Patil, addressing reporters in Bengaluru, said that the person was suspected to have taken pictures of certain defence establishments.“The suspect was taking certain photographs and other details of certain defence establishments and allegedly sharing with certain foreign entities. So in this regard an FIR has been registered and investigation has been taken up by Bengaluru police,” Patil said.The suspect was also in possession of a military uniform which he was not authorised to have.“The matter has been taken seriously and a very detailed investigation will be conducted in this regard,” Patil said.Bengaluru is home to Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, labs of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), National Aerospace Laboratories and even the headquarters of Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), among other public and private establishments. Patil refused to divulge more details of the suspect or the complete nature of the offence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-man-arrested-by-bengaluru-police-on-charges-of-spying-101632165307997.html
21-09-2021||India||Karnataka: BJP banks on booths to make inroads into JD(S) bastion Mandya||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been busy trying to mobilise support in Karnataka’s Mandya district, about 100 kms from Bengaluru, keeping zilla and taluka panchayat elections in mind though poll dates are yet to be announced.District leaders of the BJP said the party is making efforts to make inroads in Mandya, known as the ‘sugar city’. “Till now we never went directly to people but are now attempting to reach every booth, creating awareness on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s development programmes as well as the state government’s,” said KJ Vijay Kumar, BJP’s Mandya district president. “There are 1,794 booths in Mandya and we have almost touched 1,400 till now,” Though analysts, political leaders and locals say the BJP has little chance to wrest the district from the JD(S), they do acknowledge the slow-yet-steady rise of the saffron party in Mandya, which could help it reap benefits in the future. Mandya and its Vokkaliga-dominated electorate mostly support the Janata Dal (Secular) and its supremo, HD Deve Gowda. However, the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, fought not entirely on the basis of caste, showed that the JD(S) can be defeated after Gowda’s grandson and then sitting chief minister HD Kumaraswamy’s son, Nikhil, lost by a huge margin to BJP-backed independent, Sumalatha. The JD(S) won all seven seats in the district in 2018 assembly polls as the Vokkaligas, who nursed a feeling of neglect under Siddaramaiah’s reign between 2013-18, stood behind Deve Gowda-led JD(S). The BJP is eyeing a bigger piece of this region (Old Mysuru) to help it return to power on its own in 2023, analysts say. At the heart of BJPs campaign, at least in Srirangapatna taluk of the district, is a mosque which, the right-wing groups believe, is a temple that was converted by Tipu Sultan. The BJP is sparing no opportunity to use the alleged forced conversion history of Tipu Sultan, the 17th century ruler of Mysuru, to mobilise the Hindu support base. A difficult proposition, analysts said, since Hindus are not a cohesive support base and are fragmented based on caste and sub-castes. NS Rame Gowda, former vice-chancellor of the Karnataka State Open University, said the BJP’s sphere of influence is not high in the district considering the caste factor but acknowledged the waning strength of the Congress in Mandya. The Congress and JD(S) share a bitter rivalry in Mandya and other parts of the state and disenchanted workers from both parties have preferred to move to the BJP. “The JD(S) and Congress will fight it out with either party getting slight edge. But there is no room for the BJP in the upcoming zilla and taluka panchayat elections nor any other polls,” a Congress leader said, requesting not to be named. The BJP won its first-ever seat in the district in the December 2019 bypolls when KC Narayana Gowda, who defected from the JD(S), won the seat and was made a cabinet minister for his role in helping BS Yediyurappa come back to power. “JD(S) is weakening not just in Mandya but other parts of the state as well,” said Professor Chambi Puranik, a political analyst.The JD(S) has often teamed up with the BJP to either lend support or get backing to defeat the Congress, which is considered the common enemy. Sumalatha, the sitting MP from the district and the only Independent to have ever won from the state in a general election, said that far too much importance has been given to caste in the political discourse and most of the elections fought now are “issue-based”.“I feel the BJP will have to work very hard to gain dominance in Mandya and I hope they do because we need to have a third party there,” Sumalatha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnatakabjp-banks-on-booths-to-make-inroads-into-jd-s-bastion-mandya-101632165248960.html
21-09-2021||India||Farmers’ stir around Delhi sponsored: Karnataka chief minister Bommai||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai’s remarks, terming the farmers’ protests around Delhi as ‘sponsored’ during his reply in the assembly on Monday over the issue of price rise, saw heated exchanges between the ruling BJP and opposition Congress. “It (farmers’ protest) is sponsored by you (Congress) in Delhi. Farmers’ protest happened around Delhi. It did not happen anywhere else in the country because it is sponsored,”Bommai said.Congress leaders and legislators took strong exception to this, with party state president D K Shivakumar even terming the statement as an “insult” to the farmers and demanded that he apologise to them.Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah too termed it as the “most irresponsible” remark.Bommai’s “sponsored protest” comments led to a heated exchange between ruling BJP and opposition Congress legislators, throwing the House into chaos for some time.The CM, however, stood by his comments, saying the protest by farmers, who claim to be from Punjab and Haryana, was sponsored. “It has a political background, it has your sponsorship. It is for the sake of MSP (Minimum Support Price) politics,” he said.Alleging that commission agents at the markets were also behind the protest as they are worried by the new farm laws, he asked Congress not to ‘mislead’ the people of the country.Countering senior Congress MLA Ramesh Kumar’s query to spell out whether the protest was sponsored by ‘foreign hands’ and who was behind it, Bommai pointed that during Indira Gandhi’s tenure in 1972-75 these forces were blamed for every protest in the country, whether it was farmers or labourers.“But we are not saying foreign hands, as foreign agents have already been close to the administration....foreign agents and commission agents who want to control APMCs are sponsoring this protest,” he added.Rebuking Siddaramaiah for his recent comments, accusing BJP governments in the state and Centre of “criminal loot”, Bommai, while initiating the debate, asked “does this mean governments of all parties in the past that increased prices have indulged in criminal loot?” In reply, the LoP said the CM, by this statement, has admitted that criminal loot has taken place and pointed out that he had borrowed these words from former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who had used it when he was Jana Sangh MP in 1973 and Indira Gandhi was Prime Minister, in protest against the seven paise increase in fuel prices. To Bommai’s query on why he was in “pain” hearing his reply, Siddaramaiah said “why should I be in pain? Narendra Modi and you should be pained as you people have indulged in criminal loot,” resulting in heated exchanges between treasury and opposition benches.Continuing his attack on Congress, Bommai said, “during our time there has been 30 per cent rise (in petrol price)...they (Congress or UPA) had raised 60 per cent during their time.””If you are upset with the word criminal loot,lets call it Congress loot...there is no issue.”This irked Congress members and Siddaramaiah raised slogans like “BJP loot”, “BJP is indulging in criminal loot”, “Narendra Modi government is looting the country”.Bommai, reacting to it said, “what Congress and Siddaramaiah is doing is nothing but scriptures in the devil’s mouth. With what authority are they saying such things at us? What moral right do you have after looting the country for so long?” Both party members then shouted slogans, accusing each other of looting the country.Noting that the price rise issue has been discussed several times in the assembly, irrespective of which party was in power or in the opposition, Bommai said rise in prices of petroleum products began in the 1960s-70s and there were various reasons for it.“India is an importer and consumer of crude oil and not the producer.. 85 per cent we import, so price fluctuation in the international market will have its impact on consumer countries like ours,” he said.Pointing out that during the discussion, opposition MLAs targeted only the Narendra Modi government on the issue of price rise, the CM listed out the petrol price rise from 1973, which varied from 60 to 150 per cent.“From 2014-2021 the price has risen from about ₹77 to 100, almost 30 per cent. Whichever party is in power the prices have consistently risen.. so blaming the current party in power is not right,” he said.Bommai said out of ₹36 lakh crore revenue gained from 2014-21 from petroleum products, the Centre has given almost 40 per cent of it to states.He also said that procurement of paddy and what has exponentially increased during the NDA rule compared to UPA. Also, MSP for various crops have been increased and the benefits have been transferred to farmers.The CM also charged the Congress with increasing excise duty over the years.Stating that monetisation does not mean sale, he hit back at Congress’ opposition to National Monetisation Pipeline, saying it was also done during UPA rule. He cited the amount of ₹80,000 crore raised by monetising Bombay-Pune highway. Bommai also hit out at Siddaramaiah and Congress on the issue of sales tax and said they do not have any moral right to question the government as it was they who raised it and did not slash it, despite demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-stir-around-delhi-sponsored-karnataka-chief-minister-bommai-101632165247824.html
21-09-2021||India||Top religious leaders seek restraint, peace in Kerala over ‘narcotic jihad’ row||Top religious leaders in Kerala called for peace and restraint in remarks after a meeting convened by Cardinal Mar Baselios Cleemis, the head of Syro-Malankara Catholic church in the state capital in the wake of Pala Bishop’s ‘narcotic jihad’ jibe recently.After the meeting, the Cardinal said the meeting was not called either, to support or criticise anyone, rather remind and request that all religious leaders are duty-bound to maintain peace and harmony in the state. “We have to maintain utmost peace. Our words and deeds should not provoke anyone,” he said, adding such meetings will continue in future, which will help iron out differences if any. To a question, the Cardinal said narcotic is narcotic, and no prefix or suffix is needed on this. Representative of Thangal family (Muslim League supremo) Munavarali Shihab Thangal, Palayam Imam Suhaib Moulavi and Swami Jnana Thapaswi of Santhigiri Ashram participated in the meeting. “Our words should not hurt anyone. Kerala is known for its harmony and peace. We will have to work together for the prosperity of our state,” said Suhaib Moulavi. When asked, the leaders said if the government is calling an all-party meeting they will welcome it but can’t direct it to call a meeting. Though a section of religious leaders participated in the meeting, another section kept away from it. The majority section of the Catholic Syro-Malabar church did not participate. Pala Diocese is part of this sect. Similarly, Jamat-e-Islami and Samastha did not attend. On September 9, while addressing a religious congregation in one of the churches in Kottayam Pala Bishop Mar Joseph Kallaranghatt said Catholic girls and youth are becoming victims of “narcotic jihad” and decried authorities for turning a blind eye towards it. The Bishop’s controversial statement triggered war words between different communities and political parties and provocative rallies were held at some places. Despite mounting criticism, he is yet to dilute his position. Opposition Congress and BJP have been asking the government to call an all-party meeting for some time but the government is yet to respond. “It seems the government is waiting to vitiate atmosphere more,” said opposition leader V D Satheesan. In the wake of the controversy, party leaders had called on many religious heads. Meanwhile, SNDP (Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana Yogam), a socio-cultural body of Ezhavas, general secretary Vellapally Natesan criticised the Bishop, saying cassock is not a licence to say anything and create a rift in the society. “I personally feel maximum conversions are carried out by Christian missionaries. Even if “love jihad” takes place only a few women are converted but missionaries convert whole families and at times an area exploiting backwardness of people,” he said in Alapuzha, adding the Bishop’s statement was inappropriate and uncalled for.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-religious-leaders-seek-restraint-peace-in-kerala-over-narcotic-jihad-row-101632165189620.html
21-09-2021||India||NEET adversely impacts government school students: Tamil Nadu panel report||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday finally made the justice A K Rajan committee report on the impact of NEET on medical admission in the state public, which highlighted that if the centralised NEET continues for medical college admission, Tamil Nadu may go back to the pre-independence days of barefoot doctors.Much of the reports’ findings cement the state’s arguments against the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), which the state government feels favours the privileged, and is against social justice. NEET became a reality in the state in 2017, following a Supreme Court order asking Tamil Nadu to follow the rest of the country. Data from the report shows that the state board students achieved the majority seats in the pre-NEET period, and compared to English medium students, the Tamil medium students obtained at least some share. “Similarly, the government students achieved a small number of seats. However, in the post-NEET period, that little share, too, was lost, resulting in further disproportionate seat sharing,” the report found. The seat shares for CBSE students increased ‘exponentially’, while English medium students grew to become the largest seat holders in the post-NEET period from the status of second largest in the pre-NEET era, the report stated.The reports also showed that the average of government school students enrolled in MBBS courses went from 14.44% in the pre-NEET period to a negligible 1.7% in 2020- 21 post-NEET. The report finds a trend where post-NEET, the student size fell by 18.5% and 14.1% in government-aided schools, concurring that they would have migrated to the CBSE to have an edge in the exam. The report criticised the single window exam system for the entire country stating that it promotes coaching rather than learning, which puts repeaters in an advantageous position. “The coaching Centres make the students as ‘marks scoring machines’, as learning is discouraged in favour of coaching,” the report said. NEET is successful mainly for the repeaters (71 per cent in 2021), and those students who have gone through coaching (99% in 2020), data from the report shows. The report shows also said that Tamil-medium students getting into government and private medical colleges have fallen drastically. The percentage of Tamil-medium students who got into medical colleges came down to 1.6% in 2017 from 19.79% in 2010. In contrast, the number of students from English-medium, who secured admission in medical colleges, went up to 98.41% in 2017 from 80% in 2010. The previous AIADMK regime’s bid to get an exemption – similar to what the DMK has done now bypassing a Bill – was unsuccessful as the President didn’t give assent to the legislation, which was originally passed as parliamentary law. So, in 2020, the AIADMK introduced a 7.5% internal reservation for government school students to be admitted to medical colleges. “Until the 7.5% reservation was introduced, in 2020-21, the government students were the worst affected lot by the NEET,” the report said. The DMK, after coming to power in May, with one of its poll promises being the scrapping of NEET, formed the justice AK Rajan committee comprising nine members, including the state Health Secretary, Director of Medical Education. The committee had worked for a month to examine the impact of NEET on social and economically backward students. Three medical students in Tamil Nadu died by suicide out of fear just last week that they cannot clear NEET which was held last on September 12. It takes a toll since NEET got introduced in 2017 to more than 14 students’ deaths.Their 165-page report concludes that if NEET continues for a few more years, the healthcare system of Tamil Nadu will be “very badly affected”. The committee, which received more than 86,000 comments from stakeholders, including political parties, non-political organisations, NGOs, educationists, public authorities, and social organisations, with a majority who were against the conduct of NEET.It warns that there may not be enough doctors posted at the various Primary Health Centres and in Government Hospitals. “Further, the rural and urban poor may not be able to join the medical courses,” the report states. “Ultimately, Tamil Nadu may go back to pre-independence days, wherein small towns and in villages only ‘bare-foot’ doctors catering for the needs were available. Tamil Nadu as a state would go down in the rank among States, in the Medical and Healthcare system.”The report has come up with seven recommendations for the state. It includes eliminating NEET through legal and legislative procedures. Medical education comes under the state list of the constitution, whereas standards to higher education come under the union list in which the state may not have powers over legislation. Alternatively, it suggests the state pass a bill that requires the assent of the President and to use class 12 board exam marks as sole criteria for admission--both of which is what the state did a week ago in the assembly. “This will ensure social justice and protect all vulnerable student communities from being discriminated against in admission to medical education programmes,” the report states. The report also makes a crucial recommendation for the reformation of school education so that learning is fostered through changes in curriculum, teaching methods to assessment-based board examination. This would empower students with subject knowledge, skills such as reasoning, decision making, and social disposition. “Especially, the rote form of learning assessment that leads to coaching shall be eliminated and that the acquired knowledge and skills shall be focussed,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neet-adversely-impacts-government-school-students-tamil-nadu-panel-report-101632165130083.html
21-09-2021||India||Periyar: A social justice champion and beyond||Periyar was one of the most underrated social revolutionaries and political philosophers of twentieth century. Indian political system and its north centric obsession placed him at the periphery more as a dissent than as an untiring crusader for social justice. This prejudice is due to the nature of political discourse revolving around the great divide based on Aryan-Dravidian identity, language, socio-religious and cultural ethos. Periyar challenged the foundations of Indian philosophy with its roots in the Brahmanical Hindu worldview of caste and karma. Periyar remains hugely influential and relevant to the politics in Tamil Nadu because of his stance on caste, social justice and rationalist worldview of religion. One need not be an atheist to understand and appreciate Periyar. He continues to be the chief patriarch of Dravidian movement and parties committed to social justice. It is important to cite here “Article (15) (4) : Nothing in this Article or in clause (2) of Article 29 shall prevent the State from making any special provision for the advancement of any socially and educationally backward classes of citizens or for the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe”. It is this amendment which enabled the appointment of the Mandal Commission whose recommendations mark a watershed in the social history of India. First Amendment to the Constitution of India was made on the appeal and initiatives undertaken by Periyar to defend reservations. It is therefore necessary to acknowledge that his birthday being declared as the “Social Justice Day”, by the Government of Tamil Nadu recently is a message in the right direction. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) underestimates the social impact and political influence of Periyar. He remains the chief patriarch of the Dravidian movement in the twentieth century and continues to inspire the youth in Tamil Nadu. The dynamics of Dravidian movement is still tractable and remains a livewire despite the decline in ideological commitment among major Dravidian parties like the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK). Given the massive erosion and capitulation of AIADMK to the manuvres of BJP, DMK appears like the main rival of BJP. Periyarism continues to be the real challenger for its entry and growth in the state. It is the social ideology of the Dravidian movement and struggle spearheaded by Periyar stands as the great barrier between the BJP and its claim to power in a state like Tamil Nadu.It is important to observe that DMK has been on a steady decline since 2009 surrounded by mega corruption cases, political scams and succession dilemmas. DMK has virtually been revived by the challenges thrown up by the BJP because of the social and ideological foundations of the Dravidian movement. This has been demonstrated by the 2019 general elections as well as state assembly elections in May 2021. Today, Periyar remains the heart of battle between forces of Dravidian social ideology and Hindutva of the BJP more than ever before. DMK understands this reality more than ever before and therefore wants to consolidate the course and direction of politics in Tamil Nadu. In choosing to attack, humiliate and damage Periyar, BJP is hugely underestimating the social consolidation and political mobilisation that has been taking place in Tamil political society for over centuries in relation to caste, religion, language and identity. Periyar deserves to be placed beyond the north – south divide due to his lifelong struggle against the caste system in India and even dared to challenge Gandhi over his compromises. His leaving the Congress in 1927 was a momentous decision based on his political and ideological convictions rather than quest for power and personal glory. His heroic leadership and battle at Vaikom temple entry movement in 1924 and the lifelong resistance against caste based social order are distinct metaphors of his specific action and integral philosophy of his life. His departure from the Congress marked the beginning of the self-respect movement both as an inward journey and the course of politics in the Madras Presidency and later in Tamil Nadu. Periyar’s reasoning and rationalism sprinkled with brutal arguments were based on scientific knowledge and lifelong quest for justice. Though Periyar’s political journey and personal life was subject to a public scrutiny due to his marriage to a much younger woman known as Maniyammai many years after the passing away of his first wife, he remained an ardent defender and advocate of women’s rights over education, marriage, childbirth and property rights. He was first among those who wanted the women to join police and military services. His materialistic understanding of history, socialistic orientation and his attempts to integrate co-operative movement within the self respect movement has not received sufficient attention even among his followers.Periyar’s discourse on non-party politics and his debate with his chief disciple C.N.Annadurai (Anna) are among the finest revelations of the contradictions and dilemmas of power politics. He was stunned by the dynamics of power politics when Anna and others chose to move away to form DMK in 1949 and again overwhelmed at the success of DMK in 1967. During this period of nearly two decades neither Periyar lost his influence nor DMK failed to pay its emotional tributes to the chief patriarch of the movement. DMK has since then both lost its way and made an impressive comeback because Periyar remains as the touchstone of politics in Tamil Nadu. Prof.Ramu Manivannan is a scholar-social activist in areas of education, human rights and sustainable development through an initiative “Multiversity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/periyara-social-justice-champion-and-beyond-101632165068079.html
21-09-2021||India||Madras high court orders eviction of illegal occupants of TN’s temples||The Madras high court has directed the Tamil Nadu government to immediately evict all those who are occupying the properties of a temple in the city as tenants/lease holders illegally and recover the revenue loss from officials of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department and the temple, who had colluded with the tenants/lease holders.Justice S M Subramaniam gave the direction while disposing of a writ petition from K Senthilkumar last week.The petitioner submitted that land measuring 3,227 square feet on MTH Road, belonging to Sri Agatheeswarar Swamy temple in Villivakkam was assigned to his ancestor, who had put up a superstructure some 30 years ago. In 2011, the petitioner acquired the property registered in his name by the Sub-Registrar. As the temple initiated eviction proceedings, he moved the high court with the present petition.Disposing of the same, the judge directed the Tourism, Culture and Endowment department and the HR&CE to complete the eviction proceedings in all aspects and take over possession of the properties and deal with the same in accordance with the provisions of the HR&CE Act and more specifically, for the benefit of the temple administration, immediately.They shall conduct an enquiry to assess the financial loss occurred to the temple and initiate all appropriate actions against the persons concerned for the recovery of the financial loss caused to the temple.They shall also look into the active or passive collusion on the part of the authorities in dealing with the temple properties in such a manner and initiate appropriate action against those who had contributed for the maladministration of the temple properties, the judge said.The judge observed that fraudulent and illegal encroachments of temple properties is a crime against society at large. Misappropriation of the funds of the temple is undoubtedly an offence and all such offences are to be registered and the offenders are liable to be prosecuted by the State as it is the controller of these shrines and the offences are also committed against the government, he said.Temple properties are allowed to be looted by few greedy men and by few professional criminals and land grabbers. Active or passive contribution and collusion by the officials of the HR&CE department cannot be overruled. These lapses, negligence, dereliction of duty on the part of such public officials are also to be viewed seriously and all appropriate actions in this regard are highly warranted, the judge added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-high-court-orders-eviction-of-illegal-occupants-of-tn-s-temples-101632164952204.html
21-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu to sponsor professional education of government school students: CM Stalin||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin on Monday announced that the state government would cover the full cost of professional education of students from government schools securing admission under the newly created 7.5% quota. “The government would take care of tuition, college, and counselling fees,” Stalin said, after handing over allotment letters for the first batch of students. Stalin issued admission letters to 50 students who would be admitted to the premier Anna University in Chennai under the 7.5% quota. The newly carved out reservation will ensure that at least 10,000 students would be able to get into engineering colleges and 350 students would join other professional courses, Stalin added. “This will ensure that the families of students, their hometowns and the state are taking the path to development,” he said.The chief minister likened this to a rural development scheme and the move comes ahead of rural local body polls scheduled for October in nine reconstituted districts. He recalled how, in 2016, the state had abolished the common entrance exam for professional courses as it put rural and poor students at a disadvantage. He added that the state has initiated a legal battle to abolish the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for undergraduates the same way. Three medical students in Tamil Nadu died by suicide fearing failure to crack NEET last week, taking the toll to more than 14 students deaths since the examination was introduced in the state in 2017. Last year, the AIADMK, during its regime, introduced a 7.5% horizontal reservation to government school students, who cleared the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admissions into undergraduate medical colleges. A day after that the DMK, which was in opposition then, promised it would sponsor the tuition fee for government students in private colleges. Hours later, Palaniswami announced that they would come up with a revolving fund to pay the fees. In August, Tamil Nadu passed a Bill in the assembly to provide 7.5% reservation to students who have studied from class 6 to 12 in state government schools for admissions into professional courses. These include engineering, law, veterinary, fisheries and agricultural courses in universities, private colleges, government, and government-aided colleges. The Bill stated that the government had decided to take affirmative action so as to bring about real equality between government school students and private school students by setting apart a certain percentage of seats on a preferential basis. The decision was based on the recommendation of the justice (retired) D Murugesan committee, which was constituted by the DMK soon after it formed the government to address the issue of fewer government students getting into professional courses. The commission recommended not less than 10% of seats be set apart for government students to enter professional courses without affecting the existing reservation of the state. Students from government schools who got admission in government engineering colleges are 6.31% while it is just 0.44% in government-aided colleges, Stalin had said in the assembly in August. Only 3% of those who joined veterinary courses and 4.89 % who joined agriculture courses had been from government schools. The Bill was passed unanimously with the support of all parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-to-sponsor-professional-education-of-government-school-students-cm-stalin-101632164951042.html
21-09-2021||India||Canada resumes flights to India after four months||Canada’s largest airline, Air Canada, has resumed operations in India after a four-month-long suspension due to the COVID-19 pandemic.Responding to a passenger’s query on resumption of flights to India, Air Canada on Twitter said it is resuming flight to Delhi.”Yes, the route is resuming,” Air Canada replied to a Twitter user.The airline said that the passengers who plan to travel to Canada (Toronto) must carry an RT-PCR test or Rapid PCR test taken not more than 18 hours before departure.“The only accepted COVID-19 tests are an RT-PCR test or a rapid PCR test that must be taken no more than 18 hours before your departing Air Canada flight to Canada from the COVID-19 Testing Centre & Lounge across from Terminal 3 at Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi,” the airline said.“Air Canada requires either of these specific tests. No other test from any other clinic within India will be accepted, even if you are connecting from a different city,” it added.The airline suspended India operation since April this year due to the sudden surge in COVID cases.According to flight radar, Air Canada AC-42 is currently en route to Delhi from Toronto and it is expected to land tonight.In addition, Air Canada has also confirmed to the passengers that a passenger “may also be able to travel if you provide proof of a certified positive PCR test result taken between 14 and 180 days before your scheduled departure flight to Canada,” Air Canada Covid testing requirements guidelines read.Air Canada flight operation to India is taking place under the Air Bubble agreement between 28 countries which includes Canada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/canada-resumes-flights-to-india-after-four-months-101632164650814.html
21-09-2021||India||Afghanistan crisis, China border row major security challenges for India: Shringla||The situation in Afghanistan and the border standoff with China are among the security challenges confronting India, which is concerned about the recent changes in Kabul and their implications for the region, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Monday. While India’s immediate focus has been on evacuating its nationals from Afghanistan, the country has backed efforts to ensure that Afghan soil isn’t used for sheltering terrorists or planning terror attacks, Shringla said while addressing JP Morgan’s India Investor Summit. Speaking on the theme “India’s foreign policy and its strategic imperative: The way forward”, he said New Delhi has told Beijing that peace in the border areas is essential for developing bilateral ties in the wake of Chinese attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) over the past year. Shringla said India is “naturally concerned about the recent changes within Afghanistan and their implications for us and the region”. He noted the recent UN Security Council resolution 2593 demands that Afghan territory should not be used for “sheltering, training, planning or financing terrorist acts”, and specifically refers to terrorist proscribed by the UN, including those from Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM). Most Indians were able to leave Kabul in August, and a number of Afghans, including minorities, who wanted to travel to India, have also been able to do so. “However, this process could not be completed due to the security situation at the airport. Resumption of flights from Kabul airport is, therefore, a priority,” he added. India is also monitoring developments related to the humanitarian needs of Afghanistan. “In UNDP’s assessment, there is an imminent threat of poverty levels rising in Afghanistan. There is also a threat of an imminent drought and a food security crisis. It is important for the humanitarian assistance providers to be given unrestricted and direct access to Afghanistan,” Shringla said. The distribution of humanitarian assistance has to be done in a non-discriminatory manner to all sections of Afghan society, and India’s approach to Afghanistan is guided by the civilisational relationship with the Afghan people, he said. He recalled India’s development aid worth $3 billion and more than 500 projects spread across all 34 provinces of Afghanistan, and said these initiatives had earned the country tremendous goodwill. Shringla listed the standoff with China and the situation in Afghanistan among the geopolitical challenges in India’s immediate neighbourhood. These situations were a reminder that traditional security challenges remain even while new realities are making themselves felt. “Chinese attempts over the last year to unilaterally alter the status quo in Ladakh have seriously disturbed peace and tranquillity in the border areas. These acts are in violation of our bilateral agreements and have inevitably impacted other aspects of the bilateral relationship,” he said. “We have made it clear to the Chinese side that peace and tranquillity in border areas is essential for development of our relationship. Development of India-China relationship can only be based on ‘three mutuals’ – mutual respect, mutual sensitivity and mutual interests,” he added. Shringla reiterated India’s stated position that the largely positive trajectory of India-China ties in the past 40 years was largely due to the agreement between the two sides to ensure peace and tranquillity in the border areas. India has insisted that the overall normalisation of relations with China is linked to disengagement and de-escalation at friction points on the LAC. On the other hand, Beijing has said New Delhi should take forward relations in other areas while dealing with the border standoff separately. Shringla listed several “megatrends” the country is contending with, including a rebalancing in which global activity is moving towards Asia, the rise of China, the pressure on international systems, the vulnerability of global supply and value chains, emerging technologies, and “a battle between schools of thought”. “The pandemic and its fallout pose the most serious challenge to policymakers in a generation and more. Governance structures, national and international, have been and are being subjected to unprecedented stresses,” he said. India is seeking strategic autonomy, but this does not mean “seeking self-centred arrangements or turning the country inwards”, and the country will work for a less skewed distribution of economic activity by “making Indian businesses and the Indian economy more globalised”, he pointed out. Shringla said India is set to participate in the first in-person Quad Summit in the US next week and the four members of the grouping are engaged on issues of connectivity, infrastructure, emerging technologies, climate action, education and Covid-19 responses, including vaccine collaboration and resilient supply chains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghanistan-crisis-china-border-row-major-security-challenges-for-india-shringla-101632164467848.html
21-09-2021||India||Bengal BJP will not contest Rajya Sabha bypoll: Suvendu Adhikari||Kolkata: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in West Bengal on Monday decided not to contest the Rajya Sabha bypoll on October 4, a development that will pave the way for election of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) nominee unopposed.Last week, the TMC had named Sushmita Dev, who recently joined the party after quitting the Congress, as its candidate for the bypoll. The bypoll was necessitated after TMC leader Manas Bhunia vacated the Rajya Sabha seat following his victory in the assembly election from Sabang in West Midnapore district. “BJP will not nominate any candidate for Rajya Sabha bypoll due in West Bengal. Outcome is predetermined. Our focus is to make sure unelected CM to be unelected once again. Jai Ma Kali,” Suvendu Adhikari, leader of opposition in West Bengal assembly, tweeted. Adhikari, who defeated chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram during the April assembly elections, was referring to her contesting bypoll from Bhabanipur seat in Kolkata. Banerjee has to win the bypoll to become a member of the assembly in order to continue in the chair. Reacting to the BJP’s decision, TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said: “At least 24 BJP legislators are opposing the leader of the opposition (in the state legislative assembly). The party would get less votes than what they have calculated. Many would not even go to vote and give multiple excuses. That’s why they are not naming any candidate for the Rajya Sabha bypoll. As days go by, the number of BJP legislators are going to drop and the number of TMC legislators are going to increase. Jai Ma Durga.” Earlier too on August 9, the BJPs unit in the state had not fielded its nominee for by-election for a Rajya Sabha seat, paving the way for TMC nominee Jawhar Sircar to be elected unopposed. The TMC controls 11 out of 16 Rajya Sabha seats, while the Congress has two and CPI(M) one. Last week, TMC leader Arpita Ghosh had resigned from the Upper House on instructions of the party high command. The seat is now vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-bjp-will-not-contest-rajya-sabha-bypoll-suvendu-adhikari-101632164289071.html
21-09-2021||India||Naga peace talks resume after 2 years||Kohima Former special director of Intelligence Bureau (IB) AK Mishra on Monday held talks with Isak-Muivah faction of National Socialist Council of Nagalim (NSCN-IM) to revive the Naga peace process that was stuck since October 2019 over the rebel group’s insistence on a separate Naga flag and constitution, people familiar with the developments said. During the two-hour long meeting, the NSCN-IM stressed on the need to follow the 2015 Framework Agreement in letter and in spirit while a member of the outfit’s collective leadership Rh. Raising said that any solution without recognising the Naga flag and constitution would be unacceptable to both the rebel group and the Naga people, the people cited above added. The former IB official and top NSCN(IM) leaders, led by the group’s general secretary Thuingaleng Muivah, arrived in Dimapur on Saturday to resume the peace talks which got delayed following a fallout between interlocutor RN Ravi and the NSCN (IM) in 2019. It is learnt that around 25 top NSCN (IM) leaders sat with Mishra for the meeting on Monday.The Centre has also directed Assam chief minister and North East Democratic Alliance convener Himanta Biswa Sarma to meet the negotiating parties. Sarma, who was earlier tasked by Union home minister Amit Shah to act as go-between along with Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio when the relationship between Ravi and NSCN (IM) soured, is expected to arrive in Dimapur on Tuesday.Rio already left for the Nagaland city from the state capital on Monday. According to Raising, the NSCN (IM) has not held talks with politicians or political leaders but was ready to sit with them if they were assigned by the Centre.On whether the NSCN (IM) was ready to sit across the table with other Naga insurgent groups for deliberation of a final settlement, the NSCN leader said there would be only “one solution” which would be inclusive and they could be a part of it.On September 18, all lawmakers in Nagaland under chief minister Rio agreed to form an opposition-less government, the ‘United Democratic Alliance’, to facilitate a final solution to the Indo-Naga political issue, one that is “inclusive, honourable and acceptable” to all. The move compounded expectations of an early solution to the issue. However, NSCN (IM) leaders believe that sealing the final peace deal would depend on the sincerity and commitment of both the Centre and Naga leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naga-peace-talks-resume-after-2-years-101632164169690.html
21-09-2021||India||At meeting convened by the UN, Bhupender Yadav seeks transparency on climate finance||New Delhi: Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav raised the issue of transparency on climate finance and technology transfer from developed countries to developing nations at an informal, closed-door roundtable of heads of states convened by the UN secretary general, Antonio Guterres and UK Prime Minister, Boris Johnson on the 1.5 degree C climate goal, on Monday.Yadav told the participants (mostly heads of states. A list will be released by UN) that in light of the recent findings from Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s report and the latest NDC Synthesis report (released by United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change) that the developed countries have collectively emitted more than their estimated emission allowances in 2008-2020 period hence they should take greater action on mitigation and provide financial support to developing countries.“Yadav stressed that even at the UNFCCC there is a very urgent need for giving due importance to adaptation and discuss whether the scale of resources is commensurate with the scale of the needs of developing countries… he called upon the developed countries to fulfil their promise of the USD 100 billion per year goal made in 2009. COP26 should focus on climate finance in scope, scale and speed and transfer of green technologies at low cost,” a statement from MoEFCC said on Monday.Officials familiar with the meeting said India hasn’t made any commitment to enhance its nationally determined contribution (NDC) yet because it will be decided at the highest level of the government.“We have however made it clear that we are on track to meet our NDC and have a very ambitious renewable energy goal which surpasses the NDC. We will be part of the solution and not problem creators. Transparency on climate finance and technology transfer is what we have asked for ahead of COP 26 because that will be key in determining actions of developing countries,” the official said. He added that “the commitment to enhance NDC can be taken only at the highest levels which has not yet taken place. India at the moment doesn’t plan to announce a net zero emissions target,”Immediately after the meeting, UN secretary general Antonio Guterres held a short media stakeout where he said there is a high chance that the upcoming UN climate change negotiations (COP 26) in November will fail. “We still dramatic improvements in NDCs for mitigation of emissions. I understand the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities (CBDR) but it is also essential that emerging economies go the extra mile in mitigating emissions. All G20 members should come on board because they represent 80% of emissions,” he said adding that the world needs decisive action now and commitments for net zero emissions by 2050 from all countries.He also explained why he thought that COP 26 could end in failure. Though some countries have made encouraging statements on Monday about delivering on the 100 billion a year climate fund commitment from developed nations, it is yet to be delivered on and remains open as to how developed world will build trust on delivering that money. There is also this sense that developed countries that have announced net zero commitments are passing the buck to emerging economies saying its their turn to take emission cuts while the developing nations are arguing that developed countries have historical responsibility to take larger emission cuts and earlier than the developing countries. “We need solidarity otherwise we are headed for catastrophe,” added Guterres saying that it was still possible keep global warming under 1.5 degree over pre-industrial levels.The meeting took place days after the UNFCCC released its NDC synthesis report which said that present NDCs and the increase in global emissions may lead to a temperature rise of about 2.7C by the end of the century compared to pre-industrial levels. The available NDCs of all 191 Parties taken together implies an increase in global greenhouse gas emissions of 16% in 2030 compared to 2010. Around 113 Parties have submitted new or updated NDCs as on July 30, 2021. This would lead to a decrease in greenhouse gas emissions by 12% in 2030 compared to 2010. Out of the 113 parties, 70 countries indicated carbon neutrality goals around the middle of the century. This goal could lead to even greater emissions reductions of about 26% by 2030 compared to 2010, the UNFCCC said on September 17.The Informal Climate Leaders Roundtable on Climate Action follows the recent report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and comes less than six weeks before the COP26.PCC’s report last month flagged that the world may have lost the opportunity to keep global warming under 1.5 degree C over pre-industrial levels. The 1.5 degree C global warming threshold is likely to be breached in the next 10 to 20 years by 2040 even if carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions decline rapidly to net zero around 2050, it said.Some experts said it was time for India to enhance its NDC with certain programmes it was already working on like the commitment to increase renewable energy by 450 GW by 2030. These enhancements to NDC can be conditional to delivery of climate finance from developed countries. “India’s domestic plans on renewable energy, electric mobility, green hydrogen, and net zero railways are very ambitious. These could also be announced as updates to its NDC, perhaps conditional on low-cost climate finance. On their part, rich countries with a large historical climate footprint need to respond to the palpable frustration among developing countries over the persistent lack of climate finance,” said Ulka Kelkar, director-climate program, World Resources Institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-meeting-convened-by-the-un-bhupender-yadav-seeks-transparency-on-climate-finance-101632164168245.html
21-09-2021||India||Kerala auto driver hits ₹12 crore jackpot||The day-long suspense over the winner of the ₹12 crore Onam bumper lottery came to an end after K Jayapalan, a native of Kochi and an auto-driver by profession, submitted the winning ticket in a bank negating the claim of another fortune hunter. The result was announced on Sunday and lottery ticket No TE 645465 got the first prize of ₹12 crore. Soon after the results got public, the process of lottery draw was live on many channels, a native of Wayanad who is working in Dubai as a cook claimed himself to be the winner. He said that he transferred money for two lottery tickets ( ₹600) to a friend and one of them fetched the bumper prize. However, his claim was found to be a farce after the real winner emerged.“I regularly take lottery tickets from my meagre income. This time along with Onam bumper, priced ₹300, I bought 10 daily tickets also priced at ₹40 each. I came to know about the prize only in the morning and deposited the winning ticket in my bank,” said Jayapalan. He said he was staying in a rented house with his family and he was also looking after two of his sisters. He said his first priority is owning a house. He said he had purchased the winning ticket on September 10 after he got some good income on that day.The lottery department said after deducting the agent’s commission and tax the recipient will be getting ₹7.39 crore. The department earned ₹127 crore through the sale of the lottery and the net profit from this particular ticket was ₹30.55 crore. Lottery tickets and liquor are major non-tax revenue earners for the state. On average 90 lakh tickets are sold daily and at least one lakh vendors are there. For a normal ticket priced at ₹40, a seller gets a commission of ₹seven per ticket. It provides succour to many differently-abled and economically weaker sections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-auto-driver-hits-rs-12-crore-jackpot-101632164111043.html
21-09-2021||India||Dilip Ghosh replaced as BJP’s Bengal chief, Sukanta Majumdar takes over||New Delhi/Kolkata: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday replaced Dilip Ghosh with Balurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar as the party’s West Bengal unit chief , months after a bruising poll loss and amid a stream of high-profile defections to the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the state. Ghosh, the firebrand Medinipur MP who served as the state unit chief for six years, was named national vice-president of the BJP. Former Uttarakhand governor Baby Rani Maurya, who stepped down earlier this month, was also appointed national vice-president of the party. “The BJP is a big family and there can be some differences among its members. I am confident that those who in the BJP for ideological reasons will not leave. I apologise to our workers who might have felt neglected,” said Majumdar shortly after the announcement. The reshuffle -- which come into effect immediately -- end months of speculations fuelled by Ghosh’s differences with several state BJP leaders, including youth wing president Saumitra Khan, who even threatened to quit last year after Ghosh withheld appointments made by him. “The central leadership did what it thought was right. I had a long discussion with J P Nadda over several issues. As a worker of the party I will follow the new state president,” said Ghosh.The change in leadership in Bengal comes when the party is wrangling with infighting in the state unit and embarrassment at the defection of senior leaders to the TMC, including former party vice-president Mukul Roy and Asansol MP Babul Supriyo. The move also underlines the BJP’s continued focus on north Bengal, a region it dominates and won 30 of the 54 assembly seats in the April-May state polls. Majumdar was one of the party’s seven MPs from the region who won in 2019 and is considered a non-controversial, soft-spoken leader.Ghosh and Majumdar were both longtime members of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, Majumdar holds a doctoral degree in botany from the North Bengal University and is a first-time MP. State leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari congratulated both Ghosh and Majumdar. “…I wish them very best and believe that both would give their best to strengthen the party,” he tweeted. Ghosh was appointed party unit chief in December 2015, replacing Rahul Sinha. In 2020, he was named president for a second term despite resistance from party cadre.Many found his style abrasive. “Ever since Ghosh was appointed there were many complaints about how he functioned with the party workers. Some found his working style autocratic. Post the assembly election, complaints about his working style were conveyed to the national leadership. The change in the state leadership has been exacerbated by the most recent development of BJP leaders joining the TMC,” said a state functionary on condition of anonymity. During Ghosh’s tenure, the BJP grew from a side player to the main opposition party in Bengal, winning an unprecedented 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019 – its best-ever performance. The party hoped to topple the TMC from power in assembly elections earlier this year, and mounted a spirited campaign, but ultimately was roundly defeated, winning just 77 seats to the TMC’s 213.Since then, the party has lost several senior leaders to the TMC and its strength in the assembly is down to 71. Still, many credit him for having expanded the party’s base, especially in rural areas, in a state the BJP has traditionally little electoral traction.“People blame him for taking a hardline stance but it is also relevant to see that he was trying to create space for the party in a state where the TMC indulged in political violence,” a second functionary said on condition of anonymity. Ghosh frequently made news for controversial statements that left the party leadership embarrassed. In 2019, he said Indian cow’s milk contained gold, and in September that year, called students of Jadavpur university “anti national”. His comments during the election campaign on chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s clothes also rakes up a controversy.But his characteristic style also helped him garner popularity. “Maybe Ghosh is a bit rustic but he became a darling of the crowds,” said a BJP leader close to Ghosh.Ghosh won the Kharagpur assembly seat in 2016 -- one of only three seats the party won in that election -- but the party lost it to the TMC in the 2019 bypolls. The BJP won the assembly seat again in the recent polls. Supriyo, who joined the TMC on September 18, was known as a staunch critic of Ghosh. “I do not want to comment on organizational changes in the BJP. However, I hope Ghosh changes the language in his social media messages,” Supriyo said. Maurya’s appointment in the party ranks came months ahead of scheduled assembly elections in her home state of Uttar Pradesh. The senior Dalit leader’s resignation from the governor’s position had triggered speculation that she could return to electoral politics in UP next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dilip-ghosh-replaced-as-bjp-s-bengal-chief-sukanta-majumdar-takes-over-101632163927705.html
21-09-2021||India||Patna court orders FIR against RJD, Cong leaders over ‘bribe’||Patna: A Patna court has ordered registration of a first information report (FIR) against six people, including Rashtriya Janata Party (RJD) leaders Tejashwi Yadav and Misa Bharti, and Congress state chief Madan Mohan Jha, for allegedly taking ₹5 crore from a man on the pretext of giving him a party ticket from Bhagalpur constituency during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, people familiar with the developments said. The Congress had fought the polls in alliance with the RJD and three other regional parties united under the banner of Grand Alliance that year.Patna chief judicial magistrate (CJM) Vijay Kishore Singh passed the order on Saturday on the basis of a complaint filed by Supreme Court lawyer and Congress leader Sanjeev Kumar Singh on August 10 this year.In his petition, Sanjeev alleged that he was promised a Congress ticket from Bhagalpur parliamentary seat on January 15, 2019, by Tejashwi, Misa, Madan Mohan, Congress spokesperson Rajesh Rathore, former speaker Sadanand Singh and his son Subhanand Mukesh. He added that he also paid ₹5 crore to Tejashwi and Jha at the RJD office in Patna a few days later.“When I did not get the ticket and asked them to refund the money, they assured to provide me with one from Gopalpur (Bhagalpur) and my brother from Rupauli (Purnia) constituencies. We did not get any tickets,” the petitioner said. Sanjeev also accused Misa, Sadanand, Subhanand and Rathore of threatening to kill him and said they eventually refused to return the money on February 10 this year.The CJM’s order has been sent to Patna’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) to lodge an FIR against the named accused, Sanjeev told reporters on Monday. Sunil Kumar Singh, station house officer of Kotwali police station, told HT they were yet to receive the court’s order.RJD MLA Bhai Birendra dismissed all allegations against Tejaswi and Misa. “This is a baseless allegation. Produce proof before levelling such allegations,” he said.BJP Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi said distributing election tickets in exchange for money was not unusual for the RJD. “Giving tickets in lieu of money and making ministers has been part of the RJD culture. Now Tejashwi is following Lalu Prasad,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patna-court-orders-fir-against-rjd-cong-leaders-over-bribe-101632163872385.html
21-09-2021||India||NDA to welcome its first-ever batch of women cadets in January 2023, Centre tells Supreme Court||New Delhi: The National Defence Academy (NDA) will be ready to welcome its first-ever batch of women cadets in January 2023 after they sit for the entrance exam in May next year, the Union government informed the Supreme Court on Monday. “Entrance examination for entry into NDA is held twice in a year and the government proposes to have the necessary mechanism in place by May 2022, i.e. the time by which the UPSC (Union Public Service Commission) is required to publish the first notification of the Year 2022 for entrance examination for entry to NDA,” stated the government’s affidavit submitted before a bench, led by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul. The government highlighted that a study group has been constituted by the defence services, comprising of the experts to expeditiously formulate the comprehensive curriculum for women cadets at the joint defence service training institute of the Indian armed forces and a Board of Officers (a team of senior officers) has been convened to give a holistic and futuristic proposal for training of women cadets at NDA. The affidavit, however, has not clarified how many women cadets will be trained in the first batch, saying that the intake will depend on a mix of factors, including the cadre ratio and the desired cadre structure, capability of the specific service academy to absorb the intake, and the envisaged requirement and employment by the respective defence services. The development came after the top court on August 18 directed that women can also sit for the upcoming NDA examination while holding that the policy that restricts their entry into the elite institution is based on “gender discrimination”. Following this interim directive, the Union government on September 8 conceded that it has taken an in-principle decision to throw open the doors of the NDA to women cadets, but wanted an exemption for this year’s admission, exams for which are to be held in November. To this, the bench, which also included justice MM Sundresh, called for an affidavit to place the developments along with the future plans and fixed the matter for a hearing on September 22. The order was passed on a petition filed by Kush Kalra for equal opportunity for women at NDA and the Indian Naval Academy. Appearing for the petitioner, senior counsel Chinmoy Pradip Sharma and advocate Mohit Paul contended that the categorical exclusion of eligible female candidates from NDA was unconstitutional and done entirely on the basis of their sex. Under the current eligibility criteria, only male candidates who have cleared Class 12 level or its equivalent, and are in the age group of 16-and-a-half and 19 are eligible to apply. Those who clear the NDA exam are called for interview by the Service Selection Board (SSB), and following a medical exam, candidates are recruited in the army, navy, and air force wings of NDA, and for the INA course for pre-commission training. NDA was commissioned in 1955. The affidavit, filed on Monday, began by putting on record the decision: “The Government of India, in line with its commitment, hereby place on record its clear and categorical stand that the women candidates shall be considered for entry in the three defence services, in the existing streams, through the NDA.” It added: “It is needless to add that any dilution of physical training and service subjects like parameters of firing, endurance training, field craft and living off the land kind of aspects for the defence services women candidates or officers would invariably impact the battle worthiness of the armed forces adversely.” The affidavit also emphasised that the execution of the decision will require deliberate planning and meticulous preparation to ensure smooth induction and seamless training of such women candidates. “While medical standards for male candidates are in place, appropriate medical standards for women candidates are in the process of formulation. The same needs to be done before they join the academy,” stated the government. It added that the Directorate General Armed Forces Medical Services and the body of experts shall be undertaking the required exercise for the three defence services will determine and formulate the medical standards taking into account various aspects like their young age, nature of training to be undergone as also functional and operational requirements of the army, navy and air force. The affidavit further said that various amenities pertaining to accommodation, training capacity, security and privacy arrangements, physical segregation of living quarters, associated physical and electronic surveillance measures, additional administrative and miscellaneous requirements in terms of gender specific getting ancillary requirements etc. will have to be worked out. It stated that one of the key facets of accommodation of women candidates have to be a robust physical separation between male and female residential areas.“All the changes that are highlighted above and which are required to be put into place to induct women candidates through NDA in compliance of the Supreme Court order shall necessarily entail reasonable time,” pleaded the government. The government has also requested the bench to wrap up Kalra’s petition after taking on record its “affirmative stand” to open the entry of women candidates for entry in all the three defence services in the existing streams through NDA, and the commitment to publish the notification in May 2022 for entrance examination permitting women candidates to apply. Breaking the glass ceiling that endured for 65 years, the top court on August 18 rejected the government’s argument that the restriction against women from training at the Pune-based NDA was a policy decision while issuing the interim order to let them sit for the upcoming exam in November. It had also implored the government to “take a more constructive view of the matter”. After the nudge, the government, through additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati, informed the bench on September 8 that the decision to allow women in NDA has been made in consultation with the three chiefs of the armed forces and the competent authority in the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nda-to-welcome-its-first-ever-batch-of-women-cadets-in-january-2023-centre-tells-supreme-court-101632163811627.html
21-09-2021||India||UK in talks with India to recognise Covid vaccination certificate for travel: Envoy||The UK on Monday said it is working with India on the recognition of Covid-19 vaccine certificate issued by the latter, following criticism of new British travel rules that considered travellers who have received even the AstraZeneca jab to be unvaccinated. The latest changes in the UK government’s travel restrictions had upset the Indian side as travellers who have got both doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine would have to undergo 10 days of quarantine. “We are engaging with the government of India to explore how we could expand UK recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India,” a British high commission spokesperson said. The UK is committed to opening up international travel “as soon as is practicable” and the new rules were a “further step to enable people to travel more freely again, in a safe and sustainable way, while protecting public health”. The new rules, which were unveiled by Britain on Friday and become effective from October 4, were described by the UK as an effort to change the current “red, amber, green traffic light system” to a single red list of countries and “simplified travel measures” for arrivals from around the world. However, under the rules, only people who have got both shots of a double dose vaccine such as AstraZeneca, Pfizer or Moderna or the single shot Janssen vaccine “under an approved vaccination program in the UK, Europe, US or UK vaccine programme overseas” will be considered fully vaccinated. People who have received jabs under public health bodies in Australia, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Bahrain, Brunei, Canada, Dominica, Israel, Japan, Kuwait, Malaysia, New Zealand, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea or Taiwan would also be considered fully vaccinated. The rules provoked consternation in India as people who have received both doses of Covishield, the local version of AstraZeneca and one of the two main jabs used for the domestic immunisation programme, would be considered unvaccinated. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that the UK has constantly reviewed visa rules throughout the pandemic to keep borders open while gradually and safely restarting travel. The UK will continue to review scientific evidence on other vaccines and keep health measures under regular review, the people said.Visa applications for all categories from Indian nationals continue to be processed and people do not need to be vaccinated to travel to the UK, they added. Regardless of an Indian national’s vaccination status, the person must take a pre-departure test, and a Covid-19 test on or before day two of the visit, and on or after day eight, and self-isolate for 10 days. Travellers can opt to shorten their home quarantine to around five days under the UK’s “Test to Release” service. The Indian side was especially upset by the new rules as vaccination-related travel restrictions had been repeatedly taken up with the UK at the highest levels, including by foreign secretary Harsh Shringla and external affairs minister S Jaishankar. Shringla had, during his visit to the UK in July, called for early removal of travel restrictions for Indians and the mutual recognition of Covid-19 vaccination certificates. He had pointed out that France was clearing travellers from India without quarantine if they were fully vaccinated and had a negative test. The new UK rules are expected to mostly affect students, who are now returning in large numbers to British universities. The change will mean they will have to pay extra for more tests and to quarantine. India has been pushing for mutual recognition of Covid-19 vaccination certificates in negotiations with countries around the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-in-talks-with-india-to-recognise-covid-vaccination-certificate-for-travel-envoy-101632163627757.html
21-09-2021||India||BSP, BJP term appointment of Dalit leader Charanjit Singh Channi as Punjab CM an ‘electoral gimmick’||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday termed the appointment of Dalit leader Charanjit Singh Channi as the new chief minister of poll-bound Punjab an “electoral gimmick”, and cautioned Dalits against the Congress’s “double standards”. The 117-member Punjab assembly is set to go to the polls early next year.Channi (58), the first Dalit chief minister of Punjab, was sworn in on Monday, a day after he was unanimously elected as the leader of the Congress Legislature Party of Punjab. The development comes two days after Amarinder Singh’s sudden exit from the state’s top post, after months of infighting between him and Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu.Mayawati, former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and currently an ally of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in Punjab, welcomed Channi’s appointment but said, “Making a person belonging to Dalit caste as the chief minister of Punjab is nothing but an election stunt. I have come to know through the media today that assembly elections in Punjab will be fought under a non-Dalit leader and not under Channi.”“The reality is that Congress and other political parties think of Dalits only in times of crisis,” she added.The Congress’s decision to name Channi, who belongs to the Ramdasia Sikh community, assumes significance as poll-bound Punjab has a population of nearly 31.9% from the community.The BJP, too, alleged that Congress picked Channi merely to grab Dalit votes. “This is an old habit of the Congress. It believes that it can capture the Dalit vote bank by making a Dalit chief minister for a few months. A conspiracy is being hatched in Punjab to grab Dalit vote bank,” said party general secretary and state in-charge, Dushyant Kumar Gautam.He noted that the Congress made Dalit leader Sushil Kumar Shinde Maharashtra chief minister in 2003, but replaced him with Vilasrao Deshmukh when it won the 2004 assembly elections. Similarly, he said, Jagannath Pahadia was picked as Rajasthan’s chief minister in 1980, but removed within a year. “The Congress has humiliated Dalits innumerable times,” he added. Hitting back, the Congress on Monday attacked the opposition parties for “insulting” a Dalit chief minister.“I want to tell all our friends in the media, please, you also do not grudge the young Dalit leader and the role assigned him as chief minister of Punjab. He will be our face (in the upcoming state elections) along with Navjot Singh Sidhu which is natural,” said Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala.Alleging that the BJP, SAD, Aam Aadmi Party and BSP have “unwarrantedly, shamelessly and regrettably” attacked the candidature of Channi, he added: “We would urge Narendra Modi ji, J P Nadda, Sukhbir Singh Badal, Arvind Kejriwal and Mayawati ji to not grudge the rightful due of a Dalit’s son who is today the chief minister of Punjab, and instead of shamelessly criticising him, they should hail his elevation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsp-bjp-term-appointment-of-dalit-leader-charanjit-singh-channi-as-punjab-cm-an-electoral-gimmick-101632163508225.html
21-09-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi, Sachin Pilot held marathon meet amid Rajasthan political rumblings||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot had a marathon meeting on September 17 in which they discussed the Rajasthan situation and the larger goals of the party for the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, people aware of the development said.Incidentally, the meeting — the first exclusive between the two leaders this year — was held a day before Captain Amarinder Singh was asked to resign as Punjab chief minister by the Congress high command.Pilot was the deputy chief minister and Rajasthan Congress president till July 2020 but lost both posts after he rebelled against chief minister Ashok Gehlot.According to party functionaries, the issue of Pilot’s reinstatement in Rajasthan was one of the key issues that were discussed “at length” during the meeting. “But no major change in the Rajasthan government can be expected now. The party is now fully focused on the forthcoming elections in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Uttarakhand,” said a senior leader on condition of anonymity.These elections are due in the first half of 2022.While Pilot and Gandhi remained unreachable for comments, two senior leaders maintained that the Congress will look at the 2024 objectives while it shuffles state units and governments.“In Rahul Gandhi’s scheme of things, reshuffles in states will be done primarily to meet larger objectives in the 2024 elections. So, if any change happens and Pilot returns to the Rajasthan government, it has to be seen in the context of the Congress’ preparations for the next general election,” said another senior leader.Rajasthan, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh are the only states where Congress is in a direct contest against the BJP in a largely bipolar political order. The party needs to maximise its seats in these states to be in a position to defeat the Modi government as well as retain the leadership role in 2024.“In this context”, a senior Congress functionary said, “Pilot has explained in the meeting why he needs to go back to Rajasthan. The two leaders also discussed that more than a year would be required for Pilot to work to prepare for the 2024 elections in the state.”While Congress has replaced Captain Amarinder Singh with Charanjit Singh Channi as chief minister in Punjab, the ground situation in Rajasthan is different as Gehlot still has control over the party. It was evident when Pilot rebelled but Gehlot was able to save the government.“Gehlot enjoys the support of more than 100 MLAs in the state,” said a state cabinet minister considered close to Gehlot.(With inputs from Sachin Saini)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-sachin-pilot-held-marathon-meeting-amid-rajasthan-political-rumblings-101632163269663.html
21-09-2021||India||58% of accused named in post-poll violence cases held, Bengal tells SC||The West Bengal government has informed the Supreme Court that it arrested around 58% of the total accused named in connection to the post-poll violence cases, while claiming that the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) acted with bias in alleging that only a handful of arrests were made.In its written submission submitted before a bench led by justice Vineet Saran, the state government attacked NHRC, stating that the report submitted by the commission’s panel before the Calcutta high court made “incorrect and misleading statements” in observing that merely 3% arrests were made in the total cases.“With respect to 1,429 cases initiated by (West Bengal police), it will show that there are total 8,852 accused. Number of arrests/ persons surrendered/ enlarged on bail is 5,154. Notices served under Section 41A CrPC are 2,989. Hence, the percentages of arrests/ persons surrendered/ enlarged on bail comes to approximately 58% and not less than 3% as contended by the committee,” stated the note.Notices under Section 41 Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) are issued in cases where reasonable information exists about involvement of a person in a cognisable offence.The state has submitted its note in its appeal against August 19 order of a five-judge bench of the Calcutta high court transferring probe to the Central Bureau of Information (CBI) into murder and rape cases in the state following declaration of assembly election results on May 2 this year.Among other things, the high court also relied on data submitted to it by the NHRC-appointed committee in ordering the probe by CBI into allegations of serious offences such as rape and murder while minor incidents of violence were directed to be inquired into by a special investigation team (SIT). The SIT was set up by the state government on September 2.The matter came up for hearing before the top court on Monday but it was adjourned to September 28 for detailed arguments. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal appeared for the state government. Senior counsel Harish Salve, Mahesh Jethmalani, advocates Priyanka Tibrewal, J Sai Deepak and Suvidutt MS appeared for some of the petitioners before the Calcutta high court. Tibrewal, who will contest against West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee in the by-election to the Bhabanipur seat on September 30, is also a petitioner in the case.Meanwhile, the state government told the court that the police has so far examined 2,877 complaints relating to post-poll violence. Out of this, the note added, 1,356 complaints have been found to be not true while FIRs have been lodged in 651 cases and 405 non-cognisable reports have been submitted in trial courts.The state pointed out that the law-and-order machinery, including both Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) and the state police, were under the superintendence of the Election Commission of India (ECI) and the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) remained in force till May 3, and hence, ECI was responsible for the law-and-order situation till May 3.“The special bench (of the Calcutta high court) had ignored the established fact that the law-and-order situation in the state was effectively brought under control by the proactive and timely intervention of the state authorities, especially post May 5, after the Hon’ble chief minister of the state (Mamata Banerjee) was sworn-in and the law-and-order machinery of the state was revamped by replacing the DGP and other supervisory officers including the ADG (law and order), SPs and Police Commissioners, who were appointed by the ECI,” emphasised the note.Referring to the seven-member committee constituted by NHRC to gather facts about the post-poll violence incidents, the state government contended that the panel comprised at least three persons who are currently associated with the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP). The state named committee members Rajiv Jain, Atif Rasheed and Rajulben Desai as having links to the BJP, adding their inclusion gave rise to reasonable likelihood of bias and vitiated the independence of the entire committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/58-of-accused-named-in-post-poll-violence-cases-held-bengal-tells-sc-101632163152107.html
21-09-2021||India||Muzaffarnagar riots case: UP court acquits 20||A local Uttar Pradesh court on Monday acquitted 20 people due to lack of evidence in connection with a 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots case. Additional district sessions judge Baburam acquitted the people after all witnesses turned hostile during the hearing, people familiar with the matter said. Special counsel for riots Narendra Sharma said the case was in connection with the violence in Kutbi village during the riots. A special investigation team (SIT) probing the riots cases had filed a chargesheet against the accused under sections 392, 436, 295, 147, 148 and 149 of Indian Penal Code for allegedly setting ablaze and looting several houses on September 8, 2013. Sharma said the hearing of cases related to the riots is underway in the court of ADG.Months before the 2014 general elections, the riots in August and September of 2013 between Jat and Muslim communities in Muzaffarnagar killed at least 60 people and displaced another 50,000.Police had registered 510 cases and arrested 1,480 people in connection with the riots.After investigation, the SIT filed charge sheets in 175 cases.Till now, local courts have decided 98 cases and acquitted 1,137 people due to lack of evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muzaffarnagar-riots-case-up-court-acquits-20-101632163149348.html
21-09-2021||India||Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, OP Soni take oath as deputies to Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi||Chandigarh Punjab Congress leaders Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and O P Soni were sworn in as two deputies to Charanjit Singh Channi, who took oath as chief minister, at Raj Bhawan on Monday. Son of former Congress president Santokh Singh and a resident of Dharowali village in Gurdaspur, Randhawa is a three-time legislator who currently represents Dera Baba Nanak assembly constituency in the district. The 62-year-old had led the tirade against former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and sought his ouster over unfulfilled poll promises, particularly action against those who were involved in incidents of desecration of Guru Granth Sahib as well as police firing on those protesting the same in 2015 when the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) - Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) combine was in power.Randhawa had also raised the issue of bureaucrats’ dominance in the Amarinder-led government and sought a better representation of elected representatives in running of the state’s affairs.He was also a part of the section of Congress leaders that facilitated the elevation of Navjot Singh Sidhu, a bitter critic of Singh, as state Congress chief. However, when Randhawa’s name was floated for the post of CM, Sidhu opposed it, and put his weight behind Channi. The Congress leader from Majha heartland was in fact among four frontrunners for the top job in the state after Singh stepped down from the post on Saturday. He, however, had to settle for the deputy chief minister’s role after Channi was selected for the top post. Randhawa was first elected as an MLA from Fatehgarh Churian in 2002 when he fought against SAD’s Nirmal Singh Kahlon. He was, however, defeated by Kahlon in 2007. He shifted to Dera Baba Nanak constituency from where he registered consecutive wins in 2012 and 2017.Besides Randhawa, the party high command picked five-time Amritsar MLA Soni as the second deputy to the chief minister. One of the tallest Hindu leaders who rose from the ranks, Soni was the first mayor of the holy city. The 64-year-old was first elected as MLA in 1997 and always emerged victorious in the assembly elections. The only time he lost was in the 2009 Lok Sabha elections, by a narrow margin, to then BJP leader Sidhu. A staunch Amarinder loyalist, Soni, however, was upset with the former chief minister when he was not given a berth in his (Singh) first cabinet in March 2017. A year later, he was given the environment and education portfolios but in 2018, he was divested of the environment department. In the last reshuffle of the Singh’s cabinet, Soni was given a low profile department of medical education to which he had shown great resentment. He is quite a popular leader in Amritsar due to his polite and friendly nature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sukhjinder-singh-randhawa-op-soni-take-oath-as-deputies-to-punjab-chief-minister-charanjit-singh-channi-101632163092644.html
21-09-2021||India||Congress leader Sunil Jakhar hits out at Harish Rawat over Sidhu remark, Congress in damage control||Congress leader Sunil Jakhar criticised party general secretary Harish Rawat on Monday for saying the upcoming elections will be fought under Punjab unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, forcing the party to go into damage control mode barely a day after naming a new chief minister to stem infighting.The party on Sunday named three-time lawmaker Charanjit Singh Channi as Punjab’s first Dalit chief minister, hoping to end months of squabbling between Sidhu and former CM Amarinder Singh for control of the party. But hours later, Rawat, who is the party’s Punjab incharge, said that the party will go into the polls, scheduled early next year, with Sidhu as its face.“Mr Rawat’s statement that “elections will be fought under Sidhu”, is baffling. It’s likely to undermine CM’s authority but also negate the very ‘raison d’etre’ of his selection for this position,” tweeted Jakhar, who was replaced as party unit chief in July 2021, to make way for Sidhu.Party leaders later said that both Channi and Sidhu will be the face of the party’s election campaign. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the next elections will be fought under the leadership of both Channi and Sidhu and attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party, Akali Dal, Bahujan Samaj Party and Aam Aadmi Party for insulting a Dalit chief minister.“Our faces will be Charanjit Singh Channi and Navjot Singh Sidhu as also ordinary Congress workers and leaders who will be supporting them. If anybody says one or the other will be the face, intentionally or otherwise, it is being misinterpreted by the media,” he told reporters.On Sunday, Punjab Congress in charge Harish Rawat said that the upcoming state assembly elections will be fought under the leadership of party’s state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. “It (Congress face for upcoming state assembly polls) will be decided by the Congress president, but given the circumstances, elections will be fought under Sidhu, who is very popular,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. He alleged the BJP, SAD, AAP and BSP had “unwarrantedly, shamelessly and regrettably” attacked the candidature of Channi.“We would urge Narendra Modi ji, JP Nadda, Sukhbir Singh Badal, Arvind Kejriwal and Mayawati ji to not grudge the rightful due of a Dalit’s son who is today the chief minister of Punjab, and instead of shamelessly criticising him, they should hail his elevation,” the Congress leader said.BSP chief and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mayawati accused the Congress of tokenism. “I also came to know from the media that the next assembly polls in Punjab would be contested under leadership of a non-Dalit. This means that the Congress still does not fully trust Dalits,” she saidJakhar, a Hindu face, was a frontrunner for the chief minister’s post after Amarinder Singh resigned on September 18, following months of internal strife that left the state unit divided months before polls. The 67-year-old leader is the son of former Union minister Balram Jakhar and helmed the Punjab unit of the Congress between 2017 and 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-sunil-jakhar-hits-out-at-harish-rawat-over-sidhu-remark-congress-in-damage-control-101632162912114.html
21-09-2021||India||India to resume export of Covid vaccines from October||India will resume export of surplus coronavirus vaccines, prioritising dispatches to the global vaccine sharing initiative Covax and other countries to “fulfil its commitment towards the world” from the quarter beginning in October, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya announced on Monday.India, the world’s largest vaccine maker, stopped exports in April this year to accelerate the domestic inoculation drive at a time the second wave of Covid-19 infections exploded in the country. The exports will be facilitated under the government’s “Vaccine Maitri” initiative, through which India sent out a little over 66 million doses as grants or part of commercial commitments, including to Covax. “India will be resuming export of vaccines under Vaccine Maitri in order to fulfil the commitment of India towards COVAX, and other countries, in line with our motto Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam (sanskrit for “the world is one family”). The surplus supply of vaccines that we expect to produce in the last quarter will be used to fulfil our commitment towards the world for the collective fight against Covid-19,” Mandaviya said at a briefing in New Delhi. Monday’s announcement is timely. This week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Washington, where vaccines are likely to be discussed at a summit of the leaders of the Quad countries -- the United States, India, Japan and Australia.There have also been calls to restart exports as supply constraints have been minimised. Since April, monthly vaccine output in India has more than doubled and is set to quadruple to over 300 million doses by October, Mandaviya said. In September, 235 million shots -- 200 million of the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine and the remaining of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin -- will be available, government officials said last week. Another 10 million may be in the offing with the Zydus Cadila vaccine expected by the end of this month or early October, according to a person aware of the matter. The overall production is expected to hit 1 billion doses by the end of 2021, the minister said, adding that only the excess supplies will be exported.The AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, called Covishield, forms the backbone of India’s vaccination drive.It is also one of the pillars of Covax -- a partnership of vaccine developers and countries set up by Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, the Coalition of Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (Cepi), and World Health Organization.Early into the pandemic, Covax bet on Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), which manufactures Covishield in India, for a major chunk of vaccine supplies. Gavi provided an initial $150 million funding to SII as part to an agreement to guarantee half of the company’s production for Covax. The April move to halt exports, which were never officially banned by the government, severely hit Covax donations and exacerbated vaccine inequities between the richer global north and poorer global south. According to Our World in Data, just 1.9% of the population in low-income countries has received at least one dose. In high-income countries, this proportion is 66.5%.Data by the United Nations till September 15 shows around 113 million shots have been donated to Covax -- of which US-made Moderna jab makes up 45%, and AstraZeneca shot 29%. The United States has donated the most vaccines under the facility, followed by Japan and the UK. India’s vaccination drive, marred by supply issues in the first few months, has picked up pace in recent weeks. On average, the country is inoculating around 7.5 million people a day for the last two weeks. The government aims to vaccinate all of its adult population of around 944 million by December, and has administered at least one shot to 64% of them. Mandaviya on Monday also appreciated the leaps made by Indian scientists in vaccine research and development. “Earlier, vaccines were produced in other countries first and India would get vaccine doses 5-10 years later. This time, India produced the vaccine against Covid-19 around the same time when other countries produced it. Our rate of vaccination is also increasing…” said Mandaviya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-resume-export-of-covid-vaccines-from-october-101632162847674.html
21-09-2021||India||Kerala high court pulls up Kerala for not handing over churches to Orthodox faction||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM The Kerala high court on Monday pulled up the state government over inaction to implement the Supreme Court verdict on the tussle between two warring church denominations and subsequent custody of six churches in the state. While questioning the delay in handing over these churches to the Orthodox faction, Justice Devan Ramachandran said the government can’t simply cite the law and order problem and delay the takeover. These churches are under the control of Jacobite believers, and they fiercely resist the move of handing them over to the rival faction, as per the situation on ground.The high court said the SC, in its final verdict in 2017, gave the right to administer 1000-odd churches and parishes to the Orthodox faction and the Jacobites have no ground to occupy these churches. The government again pleaded its helplessness and cited a law and order problem in implementing it. The court observed that it was duty-bound to obey the order of the judiciary. The court said the government’s continued silence and helplessness are frightening. It reminded the government that it can’t absolve its duty by simply citing law and order. It asked the government to file a detailed reply and posted the plea for further hearing on Sept 29. A non-Catholic community, the Malankara Syrian Orthodox church has two factions, Orthodox and Jacobites, fighting against each other ever since the split in 1912 across the country. After several rounds of legal battles, the Supreme Court gave a final verdict in favour of the Orthodox faction in 2017. Since then, the Jacobite faction that controlled some of these churches is not ready to give up and still controls 25 churches, while building several new ones to keep its flock together.Earlier, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan tried to broker peace between the two factions but failed to make much headway as both sides stuck to their positions. Later, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also intervened at the behest of Goa Governor PS Sreedharan Pillai but failed to break the ice. “We will go by the law of the land. How can anyone resist the verdict of the highest court citing muscle power?” asked the Orthodox churches spokesman Biju Oommen. “We were denied justice. We still hope we will get justice,” said a Jacobite church trustee Joseph Mar Gregorios.POSSIBLE GRAPHICWhat is the tussle? The Malankara Christian church split into two groups in 1912 - Jacobite and Orthodox. After many years of differences, both reunited in 1959, but the truce lasted till 1972. Since then, both factions have been flexing muscle, which often spilt over to streets. The fight is over the control of 2000-odd churches and the huge wealth in the treasury. The Orthodox Church is headquartered in Kottayam, and Jacobites, who consider the Patriarch of Antioch, based in Beirut, as their supreme leader. Both factions differ in their leadership but they share the same rites of worship. Usually, they won’t encourage marriage between feuding community members and refuse to bury in their cemeteries. What does the Supreme Court judgment say? The Supreme Court in 2017 upheld the 1934 constitution of the Malankara church and gave Orthodox group control over more than 1000 parishes and churches in Kerala. Orthodox is an indigenous group, but the Jacobites faction has more followers and a majority of churches are under their control. Out of 1064 churches, whose ownership rights are under dispute, 16 have remained closed for years without any worship.Why is the government delaying the implementation of the SC order?Believers, mainly Jacobites, threatened suicide if force was applied to evict them. At several places, street battles ensued. Fearing bloodshed, the government was forced to go slow, which angered different courts. In 2018, the Supreme Court summoned the then chief secretary Tom Jose and threatened to send him to jail if the verdict in the Piravam church case was not implemented. Later, it was forcibly evicted and given to the Orthodox faction. Some of the churches, like Mulanthuruthy in Ernakulam, are very old, believed to be built in AD 1200.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-slams-govt-s-delay-in-handing-over-6-churches-to-orthodox-faction-101632134468145.html
