22-09-2021||India||Vaccine ingredient supply lines must stay open: PM Modi||The supply chains for Covid-19 vaccine raw materials must be kept open so that India can increase production and resume vaccine supplies to other countries, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told a virtual Covid summit on Wednesday.At the same time, international travel should become easier through mutual recognition of vaccine certificates so that the world can cope with the pandemic’s economic impacts, Modi said while addressing the summit called by US President Joe Biden.Earlier on Wednesday, before he left for the US, Modi said the visit was an opportunity to strengthen the bilateral and global strategic partnerships and consolidate ties with key partners, Japan and Australia. He will be in the US during September 22-25, and will have separate meetings with US President Joe Biden, vice president Kamala Harris, Australia’s Scott Morrison and Japan’s Yoshihide Suga, and hold talks with leading American businesspeople in Washington. He will travel to New York to address the UN General Assembly session on September 25.“During my visit, I will review the India-US Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership with President Biden and exchange views on regional and global issues of mutual interest,” Modi said.In his remarks at the opening of the summit convened on the margins of the UN General Assembly, Biden announced the donation of another 500 million doses of the Pfizer vaccine to low and middle income countries, taking total US commitments to more than 1.1 billion shots.Modi noted the pandemic has resulted in “unprecedented disruption and it is not yet over”. Biden’s initiative is timely and welcome as much of the world is yet to be vaccinated, he said.“As newer Indian vaccines get developed, we are also ramping up production capacity of existing vaccines. As our production increases, we will be able to resume vaccine supply to others too. For this, the supply chains of raw materials must be kept open,” he said.India is working with partners in the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue to leverage the country’s manufacturing strengths to produce vaccines for the Indo-Pacific region. India and the South Africa have proposed a waiver of the WTO Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) for Covid-19 vaccines, diagnostics and medicines to scale up the fight against the pandemic, Modi said. “We also need to focus on addressing the pandemic’s economic effects. To that end, international travel should be made easier, through mutual recognition of vaccine certificates,” he said. Modi recalled India’s role in helping other nations tackle the pandemic by producing cost-effective diagnostic kits, drugs, medical devices and PPE kits, and sharing medical supplies with more than 150 countries. “Earlier this year, we shared our vaccine production with 95 other countries and with UN peacekeepers. And like a family, the world also stood with India when we were going through a second wave,” he said. India is now running the world’s largest immunisation campaign, and had vaccinated 25 million people on a single day. More than 200 million Indians were fully vaccinated, and India is willing to share its digital platform CoWIN and other digital solutions freely as open source software, he said. Biden too highlighted the US partnership with Quad members India, Japan and Australia to help produce one billion vaccine doses in India to boost global supplies by the end of 2022. “The US is buying another half billion doses of Pfizer to donate to low and middle income countries around the world,” he said. “This is another half billion doses that will all be shipped by this time next year. And it brings our total commitment of donated vaccines to over 1.1 billion vaccines.”He added, “Put another way, for every one shot we’ve administered to date in America, we have now committed to do three shots to the rest of the world.” Biden announced the launching of the European Union-US partnership to expand global vaccinations, and said the US will provide an additional $370 million to support administering and delivery of vaccines worldwide. More than $380 million will be provided to GAVI to facilitate distribution of vaccines in regions with the greatest need, he said. The summit, Biden said, was focused on “supercharging efforts” in 3 key areas: vaccinating the world by ramping up production, donations and delivery of doses, addressing the oxygen crisis in hospitals around the world and making other treatments more accessible, and building better so that global healthinfrastructure becomes more resilient. He said US secretary of state Antony Blinken will convene a meeting of foreign ministers later this year to check collective progress, and proposed a second virtual Covid summit in the first quarter of 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-ingredient-supply-lines-must-stay-open-pmmodi-101632335077948.html
22-09-2021||India||UK recognises Covishield, but still no green light for Indians||The UK government on Wednesday added Covishield as one of the vaccines it will recognise when allowing international travellers to skip quarantine on arrival, but has not yet included India in the list of countries from where people will be eligible for this new rule. The move comes a day after India warned of reciprocal measures as the controversy around UK’s new travel rules, which come into force on October 4, sparked allegations of racism. UK high commissioner Alex Ellis attributed the issue to a significant shift in his country’s travel policy that was announced only on September 17 and made it clear Covishield is “not a problem”. He declined to set a deadline for resolving the matter and said things are moving “at a rapid pace” on recognising India’s vaccine certification. National Health Authority chairman RS Sharma, who supervises functioning of the CoWIN platform, said officials from both sides had two meetings this month to discuss the technical aspects of each other’s certification systems, and the discussions were now closed. “In the first [meeting], the British high commissioner met me on September 2, and the second one was yesterday (September 21) between the technical teams. We made them understand how our system worked and they explained the functioning of their system to us. Both these meetings were quite fruitful,” said Sharma. People familiar with developments, who asked not to be named, said the discussions focused on certification done through the CoWIN app, the security of the system, data sharing between the two sides, and reconciling the CoWIN system with the NHS Covid Pass developed by Britain’s National Health Service (NHS). There were also some concerns about the security of the certification system, the people said without going into details. Ellis confirmed the NHS was in talks with officials managing CoWIN. The UK has to have confidence in the Indian app as the movement of people from both countries could affect public health, he said. “We have been having detailed technical discussions regarding certification, with the builders of the CoWIN app and the NHS app, about both apps. They’re happening at a rapid pace, to ensure that both countries mutually recognise the vaccine certificates issued by each other,” Ellis said in a statement. “We’re clear Covishield is not a problem. The UK is open to travel and we’re already seeing a lot of people going from India to the UK, be it tourists, businesspeople or students. Over 62,500 student visas have been issued in the year ending June 2021, which is an increase of almost 30% as compared to the previous year. We want to make the process of travelling as easy as possible,” he added. According to Sharma, a communiqué from the UK on Wednesday said there was no need for further discussions on the issue. “They said there was no need for a third discussion as they were good. Now a decision will be taken at the diplomatic and policy level. No concern has been raised to us regarding certification issues. A decision is yet to be taken on this,” he said. “Therefore, the reports doing rounds on our certification having been found faulty are all fake. Our system is a very safe system and the vaccination certificates that we issue are very much digitally verifiable,” he added. On Tuesday, India had urged the UK to change its policy requiring visiting Indian nationals to quarantine even if they are fully vaccinated, describing it as discriminatory, and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla warned New Delhi could impose “reciprocal measures” against countries that don’t accept Indian vaccine certification. The issue was also raised by external affairs minister S Jaishankar at a meeting with his British counterpart Liz Truss on the margins of the UN General Assembly in New York on Monday. The new UK rules introduced last week were described by Britain as an effort to change the current “red, amber, green traffic light system” to a single red list of countries and “simplified travel measures” for arrivals from around the world. Under the rules, only people who have got both shots of a double-dose vaccine such as Oxford-AstraZeneca, Pfizer or Moderna, or the single-shot Janssen vaccine “under an approved vaccination program in the UK, Europe, US”, or UK vaccine programme overseas will be considered fully vaccinated. Additionally, people who have received these jabs in Australia, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Bahrain, Brunei, Canada, Dominica, Israel, Japan, Kuwait, Malaysia, New Zealand, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Korea or Taiwan will also be considered fully vaccinated. Early on Wednesday, the UK updated the guidance to include formulations of the four vaccines, including Covishield, in the list of approved doses. A large part of the issue for India, until Wednesday’s update, was that the UK did not recognise Covishield, the brand name for the version of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine made by Serum Institute of India (SII). Earlier, UK authorities only recognised AstraZeneca’s version of the vaccine, which is sold as Vaxzevria. Recognising one but not the other had led to allegations of racism since the bio-equivalence between both doses has now been established in scientific studies.Covishield has been recognised by the World Health Organization as well but not by several other prominent regulators, such as European Union’s European Medicines Agency (EMA), which too has recognised Vaxzevria. To remedy this, AstraZeneca has applied to EMA for SII to be recognised as an alternative manufacturer. “The company is tracking acceptances and currently there are 23 European countries accepting Covishield without restrictive measures such as quarantine,” said a person familiar with the developments, on condition of anonymity. The 23 European countries with no restrictions are Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Latvia, Liechtenstein, The Netherlands, Norway, Romania, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-recognises-covishield-but-still-no-green-light-for-indians-101632334959253.html
22-09-2021||India||Women’s entry to NDA will not be delayed: Supreme Court||New Delhi The Supreme Court on Wednesday stressed that it “cannot belie the aspirations of young girls” as it rejected the Union government’s request to delay the first-ever examination for women candidates for their entry into the National Defence Academy (NDA), and directed that they shall be allowed to sit for the upcoming exam on November 14. “We will not put this train in reverse gear... we will not set the clock back. A beginning has to be made now. Having given some hope to women that they can take exams in November, we don’t want to belie that hope by saying they will have to wait for one more year and then something may happen. Exam cannot be postponed,” a bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and BR Gavai said. While seeking the exemption for this year’s admission, the government on Mondaysaid that women can sit for the entrance exam in April-May next year and join the academy in January 2023. But the court was emphatic that there cannot be a request from the authorities to make the aspiring women skip the upcoming exam in November. The bench accepted submissions by senior counsel Chinmoy Pradip Sharma and advocate Mohit Paul, who appeared for the petitioner in the case, that the Centre’s latest affidavit, filed on September 20, was effectively asking to wipe out the court’s interim order of August 18 that permitted women to take the exam this year. “What would effectively mean by the submission of the armed forces is – No jam today, jam tomorrow! It will be difficult for us to accept that position, the aspirations of women having been arisen in view of the order, albeit subject to the final outcome of the petition. We would thus not like to effectively vacate the order passed,” said the bench in its order. The order added: “The armed forces having dealt with very difficult situations admirably, both at the borders and inside the country, to deal with emergencies is a part of their training. We are sure they can deal with this ‘emergency’, if it is so perceived.”The bench directed the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) to issue a revised notification for the entrance exam for NDA after consultation with the ministry of defence (MoD), which will indicate tentative requirements for the women candidates if the standards cannot not be finalised by the time of issuance of the notification. It fixed the petition filed by Kush Kalra in the third week of January, noting the court will pass further orders emerging from the situation that emerges later. Under the current eligibility criteria, only male candidates who have cleared Class 12 level or its equivalent, and are in the age group of 16-and-a-half and 19 are eligible to apply. Those who clear the NDA exam are called for interview by the Service Selection Board (SSB), and following a medical exam, candidates are recruited in the army, navy, and air force wings of NDA, and for the INA course for pre-commission training. NDA was commissioned in 1955. Representing the Centre, additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati tried to persuade the bench that women candidates will have to skip the exam in November in view of the sweeping changes that have to be brought about before women cadets are inducted and start their training at the joint defence service training institute of the Indian armed forces. “There is a study group in place to examine all the requirements relating to curriculum, medical standards, accommodation, training needs, etc. We will be in a very difficult and tight situation if we are not ready for the women who clear the exam this year,” said Bhati. The bench retorted: “Armed forces have been in far more difficult and tight situations... It is not very easy but it is not that complex as it is being projected. Armed forces deal with all kinds of emergency situations and they are the best people to handle such situations. What answers do we have for women who are now ready to take exams? Will we say you try your luck sometime in future? No, you work out something this year only.” The bench further told the ASG: “It has to begin this year. We appreciate all your problems but I am sure you people are capable of making arrangements. You proceed with the exam and let us see how many women sit this year. There may not be many candidates this year. We appreciate your efforts in areas where you will have to make changes such as curriculum, fitness, accommodation, etc. But the exam cannot be postponed.” It remained firm that instead of waiting for a perfect model to come up, the process must commence immediately while the other nuances of their absorption and training, depending on the number of women who sat for the exam and those who clear it, can be dealt with at a later stage. At this point, Paul, appearing for Kalra, requested the bench to issue appropriate directions to ensure women candidates get sufficient time to prepare for the exam. The bench, however, refrained from passing any order. “Let us accept that there may not be the best result this time. The idea is to begin the process. You will get a better process next time. This is a big step and we appreciate that the armed forces have taken this decision. It will not send the right signal to postpone it but we also don’t want to push the agenda too much. Everything takes some time,” it told Paul. Turning to Bhati, the bench pointed out that the court was not dealing with a field where women are not absorbed at all since the armed forces do absorb women in various roles at a later stage. “We are therefore talking about the feeding channel only. We appreciate that the mental block seems to have been removed and that the process may take a little time but let’s make a beginning. Certainly, aspirations having been raised, we are not willing to whittle down their aspirations. We are only helping you to iron out the creases but the clock won’t be set back,” it told the ASG. Bhati, on her part, said that the Centre will come back if there is any difficulty in implementing the orders. The bench also heard another petition for admission of girls into the Dehradun-based Rashtriya Indian Military College (RIMC) and asked Bhati why is taking it long for the Centre to come clear on the issue when a decision has already been taken for NDA. Bhati replied that “RIMC will have to follow the suit now that NDA is opening up” and a study group has been set up separately to examine the issues relating to admission of women in RIMC. She added that a decision will have to be made whether girls will be admitted in the same institution or a separate institution only for girls will be created. “We don’t have problems with whatever you decide. But now that a course has been charted for the NDA, a similar chart will have to be there for RIMC. The issue will have to be addressed immediately and cannot be postponed,” said the bench, giving the Centre two weeks to submit its response on an affidavit. The court took note of the fact that October 31 is the last date of filing applications and the exam for RIMC is scheduled for December 18.On August 18, the top court directed that women can also sit for the upcoming NDA exam while holding that the policy that restricts their entry into the elite institution is based on “gender discrimination”. Following this interim directive, the government on September 8 conceded that it had taken an in-principle decision to throw open the doors of NDA to women cadets, but wanted an exemption for this year’s admission. To this, the court called for an affidavit to place the developments along with the future plans. Submitting its affidavit on September 20, the government said it proposes to have the necessary mechanism in place by May 2022 -- the time by which UPSC is required to publish the first notification of the Year 2022 for entrance examination for entry to NDA. It added that a study group has been constituted by the defence services, comprising of the experts to expeditiously formulate the comprehensive curriculum for women cadets at NDA and a Board of Officers (a team of senior officers) has been convened to give a holistic and futuristic proposal for training of women cadets at NDA. The affidavit further said that various amenities pertaining to accommodation, training capacity, security and privacy arrangements, physical segregation of living quarters, associated physical and electronic surveillance measures, additional administrative and miscellaneous requirements in terms of gender specific getting ancillary requirements, etc, will have to be worked out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/womens-entry-to-nda-will-not-be-delayed-supreme-court-101632334898566.html
22-09-2021||India||₹50,000 ex gratia for Covid deaths, declares Centre||States will pay an ex gratia amount of ₹50,000 to the families of those whose deaths have been certified as Covid-19 fatalities, the Union government has informed the Supreme Court through an affidavit. The Centre added that the scheme framed by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) lays down that ex gratia compensation is also applicable to those involved in relief operations or those associated with preparedness activities, and that the states will disburse the money from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). The assistance will be continued for any Covid-19 deaths that may occur in the future, added the affidavit submitted on Wednesday.The Union government contributes 75% of SDRF allocation for general category states and Union Territories and 90% for special category states and UTs such as the North-East states, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, and Jammu & Kashmir. The compensation scheme has been put in place after Supreme Court’s direction on June 30 in a petition filed by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal. Underlining that NDMA “failed to perform its statutory duty” by not envisaging a compensation scheme, the court ordered uniform guidelines on ex gratia payments to the families of those who died of Covid-19. At the same time, the court had clarified that the amount of ex gratia cannot be fixed by the court, and that the Centre and NDMA should determine the quantum after taking into account their policies and other relief and mitigation measures already put in place. For the pandemic, NDMA had so farsaid that there was no scheme for payment of ex gratia for Covid-19 deaths due to absence of such provision under the “minimum standards of relief”. State governments were also asked by the Centre not to use the disaster relief funds in case they wish to pay compensation to the next of kin of those who died of Covid-19. Some states, such as Bihar, Karnataka and Delhi, have been paying compensation on account of Covid-19 deaths from their chief minister relief funds. After the Supreme Court sought response on compliance of its June judgment, the Centre filed an affidavit on Wednesday, stating that on September 11, NDMA decided to provide an ex gratia assistance of ₹50,000 per deceased person under Section 12(iii) of the 2005 Act which talks about “minimum standards of relief”. On the same date, NDMA wrote to all the states and UTs apprising them of the new scheme, the Centre said. The affidavit, attached with a NMDA notification, said: “The Authority recommends an amount of ₹50,000 per deceased person including those involved in relief operations or associated in preparedness activities, subject to cause of death being certified as Covid-19.” The matter is listed for hearing before the Supreme Court on Thursday, whena bench of justices MR Shah and AS Bopanna will examine the government’s compliance. The ex gratia assistance announced by the Centre has not been limited to the Covid-19 deaths that took place in the first and second waves of the pandemic. “The ex gratia assistance to families affected by Covid-19 deaths will continue to be provided for deaths that may occur in future phases of the Covid-19 pandemic as well, or until further notification,” NDMA said in the notification. To apply for ex gratia compensation, the next of kin of the deceased will be required to submit claims through a form issued by the state authority, along with specified documents including a death certificate that certifies the cause of death to be Covid-19. The Centre has already issued guidelines with regard to the issue of death certificates where it said that any death within 30 days of a positive Covid test would be considered a Covid death, irrespective of whether this happened at home or a hospital. Deaths occurring due to poisoning, suicide, homicide, or accident were excluded from the category of Covid deaths, although the top court expressed its reservation on excluding suicide deaths from the scope of Covid death categorisation. The guidelines also stated that the deaths of Covid patients who spent more than 30 days in hospital will also be treated as Covid deaths. These guidelines were also issued only after the Supreme Court, in its June 30 order, directed the Union government to come out with uniform and simplified norms for granting certificates stating the exact cause of death as “Death due to Covid-19”. Such guidelines, according to the court, were also to consider people who died within two to three months of being diagnosed with Covid-19. The court further directed the Centre to provide a mechanism for the families of those whose death certificates had already been issued to get the same corrected. India’s official death count stands due to Covid-19 stands at446,107. To be sure, this number may rise in terms of the compensation due under the expanded parameters.“DDMA will ensure that the verification, sanction and disbursement process is done through a robust, yet simple and people-friendly procedure,” the notification said, adding that all claims must be settled within 30 days of submission of required documents. The final disbursement will be through Aadhaar-linked Direct Benefit Transfer procedures, it added. The NDMAsaid that the ex gratia assistance will follow these guidelines to identify Covid-19 deaths, and any dispute will be addressed by a district-level committee with designated officers.Before arriving at the figure of ₹50,000, the NDMA saidthe stakeholders considered a host of reasons -- primary among them being the uncertainty about future Covid deaths, the possibility of further waves of pandemic due to new variants of virus, sparing funds for mitigating other natural disasters, and the payouts made to vulnerable sections of population under various welfare schemes of the Centre and states.“There is uncertainty about new variants of the virus and likely future waves. It is not possible to ascertain the total final financial burden emanating from ex gratia assistance. Financial prudence demands that we plan in a manner that assistance can be provided to larger number of people should the number of deaths rise,” the Centre stated.It also considered the financial and material assistance provided under SDRF, the money spent by central government for the nationwide vaccination drive, and relief under central welfare schemes such as PM-CARES for Covid orphans and PM Garib Kalyan Yojana package. “While Covid is an unprecedented disaster, other natural disasters that occur more frequently have not abated. It is important that sufficient funds are available under SDRF to provide a timely and effective response to other disasters as well,” the notification said. The June 30 direction by the Court on ex gratia assistance came on public interest litigations filed by advocates Gaurav Kumar Bansal and Reepak Kansal. Besides ordering compensation, the court passed directions on evolving guidelines to identify Covid deaths and to evolve a national insurance scheme for disaster deaths as per the recommendations of 15th Finance Commission. On framing a national insurance scheme for Covid-19 deaths, the Centre told the Court that it is a time-consuming process as the groundwork has to be done, insurance mechanisms analysed and the same introduced with due diligence in partnership with insurance companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/50000-ex-gratia-for-covid-deaths-declares-centre-101632334897992.html
22-09-2021||India||J&K sacks 6 govt employees for ‘terror links’||Srinagar: Six government employees, including two police constables, were dismissed from their services for “anti-national activities” in Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, taking the total sackings to over a dozen since April this year. The six separate dismissal orders were issued by commissioner secretary, General Administration Department, on behalf of J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha. The orders were cleared after a designated committee in the Union territory, formed in April this year to scrutinise and recommend cases under Article 311(2)(c) of the Constitution of India, recommended their removal from government services over their alleged links with terrorists. “The lieutenant governor is satisfied under sub clause c of the proviso of clause 2 of Article 311 of the constitution of India that in the interest of the security of the state, it is not expedient to hold an inquiry in the case of Mr Showkat Ahmad Khan, constable in IRP 12th Bn, Narbal, District Budgam. Accordingly, the LG hereby dismisses Khan from service with immediate effect,” an order issued against one of the employees said. Those dismissed include, Abdul Hamid Wani, a resident of Bijbehara in Anantnag, who worked as a government teacher; police constable Jaffer Hussain Butt, a resident of Kishtwar; Mohd Rafi Butt, also a resident of Kishtwar, who was posted as a junior assistant in road & building department; Liyaqat Ali Kakroo, a school teacher and resident of Baramulla; Tariq Mehmood Kohli, a resident of Poonch, who was posted as a range officer in the forest department; and police constable Showkat Ahmad Khan, a resident of Budgam. Police have not yet released any details of the charges against these employees.After the dismissals of these employees, the government said their activities “tantamount to posing a threat to the country’s security” or they were involved in “anti-national activities”. The dismissals, however, attracted sharp reactions from various mainstream political parties and employees’ unions, who claimed the sackings were done on “flimsy grounds”. The dismissals, however, attracted sharp reactions from various mainstream political parties and employees’ unions, who claimed the sackings were done on “flimsy grounds”.Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti earlier had lashed out at the Centre for dismissing government employees in Kashmir on what she said were “flimsy grounds”.“In the middle of a pandemic, GOI should focus on saving lives instead of firing government employees on flimsy grounds in Kashmir,” she had said in a tweet.National Conference has termed the dismissal orders arbitrary. “Notwithstanding anything, most of the employees who are being shown the door at the drop of a hat were inducted into government service by former Jammu and Kashmir Governor,” an NC spokesman said. “Now, after decades, the employees are being shown the door regardless of their length of service and the resulting impact on their families. Such arbitrary action has created a fear psychosis among the employees and impaired the work culture in government departments,” he said.Former employees’ union leader and chairman of Jammu and Kashmir Civil Society Forum, Abdul Qayoom Wani, expressed resentment over the dismissals, calling it a “jab on the employees’ integrity”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-sacks-6-govt-employees-for-terror-links-101632334719466.html
22-09-2021||India||Centre can’t say it has no role in ex-gratia disbursal to Covid-19 victims: Kerala CM||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said that the payment of ex-gratia to the kin of those who lost their lives to Covid-19 could not be left entirely to states. Further, Vijayan also said that the Centre cannot say that it has no role in awarding the compensation to the victims of Covid-19.Vijayan’s remarks came after the Centre, earlier in the day, told the Supreme Court that an ex-gratia of ₹50,000, from the state disaster response fund, would be provided to the families of those who lost their lives to the pandemic. The ex-gratia would also be given to the families of victims who were involved in relief operations or activities associated with the preparedness for dealing with the pandemic, the Centre told the top court.Also read | States to provide ₹50,000 as ex gratia for deaths due to Covid: Centre tells SCMeanwhile, responding to a query regarding this submission by the Centre, Vijayan said that while the states cannot entirely distance themselves from providing the assistance, a major share of it should also come from the Centre, news agency PTI reported. He further said that the Centre has said it has no role in providing the assistance but it should be ready to provide the necessary help in providing the ex-gratia to Covid-19 victims.Earlier, the Centre said that the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has recommended that a sum of ₹50,000 be given to the kin of Covid victims. It also said that NDMA issued the guidelines previously on September 11 following the directions of the Supreme Court, which on June 30 had directed the authority to recommend guidelines for providing ex-gratia assistance.The assistance would be provided to not only the families of victims who have lost their lives so far but also in the future, the Centre said. It also said that the claims regarding Covid-related deaths should be settled within 30 days of submitting all required documents and the amount would be disbursed through Aadhar-linked direct benefit transfer procedures.India has so far reported 445,768 deaths due to the Covid-19 pandemic and according to Kerala government’s latest data, the state has reported 24,039 fatalities as of Wednesday.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-says-centre-can-t-say-it-has-no-role-in-ex-gratia-disbursal-to-covid-19-victims-101632331961170.html
22-09-2021||India||PM Modi-Biden meeting will be continuation of earlier interactions: Indian envoy||US President Joe Biden has taken initiative to invite Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a bilateral meeting even as both countries are still under pressure of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Indian ambassador to the United States said on Wednesday. In 2014, Biden had hosted PM Modi for lunch when the former was the deputy of then-President Barack Obama. The two leaders also met in 2016 when the prime minister addressed the US Congress which was presided over by Biden.“You'll recall that there have been 3 direct phone calls between 2 of them, there are 2 major summits,” ANI quoted Ambassador Taranjit Singh Sandhu as saying. “So, it's a continuation of that interaction.”The Indian envoy said that the two countries were frequently interacting during Biden’s first 100 days of presidency despite the pandemic and other limitations. He also pointed to the US visit by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and foreign secretary to highlight the intense interactions between the two countries over the months.“So, the intensity of interaction has increased as also the content,” Sandhu added.On Wednesday, PM Modi departed from New Delhi for his much-awaited visit to the US that will have six broad elements, including bilateral meeting with Biden, in-person Quad Summit, and United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) address. He is expected to hold separate meetings with industry leaders including CEOs of Qualcomm, Adobe, First Solar, General Atomics and Blackstone."My visit to US would be an occasion to strengthen the Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership with US, consolidate relations with our strategic partners - Japan and Australia - and take forward our collaboration on important global issues," the prime minister said before leaving for the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-biden-meeting-will-be-continuation-of-earlier-interactions-indian-envoy-101632329092664.html
22-09-2021||India||No all-party meet to discuss Bishop’s statement, says Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||The Kerala government has no plans of calling an all-party meeting to discuss the situation arising out of the controversial statement of Pala Bishop Joseph Kallarangatt on “love jihad” and “narcotic jihad,” said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday. The chief minister said the religious leader’s statement was “unfortunate and uncalled for” and both (love jihad and narcotic jihad) were not based on any statistics or fact. The Bishop’s statement had triggered a war of words between different communities and opposition parties urged the government to call an all-party meeting. “How can we call an all-party meeting on such non-issues? Both are non-existent. We don’t want to call a meeting on non-existent issues. Some people are trying to exploit the situation by whipping them up and we have to isolate them first,” the CM said reeling out statistics. He said the government has information that about 100 people joined the Islamic State (IS) till 2019. Out of these 72 slipped out from countries (mainly middle-east) where they were working. This is the first time the government is admitting that 100 people from the state joined the IS. “Out of 72, 71 are Muslims. And some of the people who went to IS-held areas from north Kerala were converted much earlier. There are no complaints that some women were converted and forcibly taken to war-torn areas,” he said. Even the Union government and many courts had made it clear that such a practice never existed. He said after 21 people left from north Kerala in 2016 the special branch of police started several re-radicalisation camps to bring youngsters who were attracted to extremist forces back to the mainstream. He reiterated that social evils like narcotics have no religion and it is highly improper to put into the account of a particular religion. He said in 2020 around 4941 cases were registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and 5422 people were arrested in connection with them. “Out of these Hindus were 2700 (49.80%), Muslims 1869 (34.47%) and 853 (15. 73%) belonged to Christianity. It shows offenders belonged to all religions. Such crimes are not based on religions. There are no unusual numbers from any particular community either,” the CM said adding that some forces were trying to fish in troubled waters and their attempts would be stopped. He said strict action will be taken against those who vitiate the communal fabric of the state. When asked whether any action will be taken against the Bishop he said he had already made it clear no case will be registered against him. He criticised the opposition Congress and BJP for exploiting the issue for political gains. Opposition leaders are yet to react to the CM’s statement. Addressing a church ceremony in Kottayam on September 9, the Bishop came out against a particular community saying that Catholic girls and youth were targeted by it. “Wherever arms are not used, narcotic drugs are being used and Catholic girls turn victims. Some groups are functioning in the state to support them. To understand this, one needs to analyse how women from other religions landed in the Islamic State camps,” he said. He was referring to the trip of 21 people, including five converts to Islam, from north Kerala to Afghanistan in 2016. Muslim leaders request Bishop to withdraw statement A delegation of Muslim leaders in Kozhikode (north Kerala) on Wednesday requested Pala Bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt to withdraw his controversial statement. Many leaders said his statement had led to a polarisation and it was ideal for the religious leader to withdraw his statement that squarely blamed a particular community. “We request the Bishop to withdraw his statement. It will help pacify frayed tempers. We all are duty bound to keep amity and brotherhood for which the state is known. We also request the government to call an all-party meeting,” said Muslim League leader Sadiq Ali Shahib Ali Thangal. He said it was not ideal for a religious head to criticise another community citing a social evil and he said Muslim leaders had kept calm amid the row.. On Monday, Cardinal Mar Baselios Cleemis, head of the Syro-Malankara Catholic church, had also convened a meeting of religious leaders. After the meeting, the Cardinal said it was called neither to neither support nor criticise anyone but just to remind and request all to maintain peace and harmony in the state. The Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Conference, the highest body of Catholics, has called a meeting on Friday to discuss the issue. CM welcomes Covid-19 relief The CM welcomed the decision to pay compensation to Covid19 victims but he said it is quite unfair that states will have to take the whole responsibility. “We all know the poor economic condition of states after the Covid-19 pandemic set in. We hope the Centre will adequately compensate states,” he said adding virus cases were dipping slowly. Kerala reported 19,675 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday with a test positivity rate of 16.45% after 1,19, 594 tests. It also reported 142 deaths while the death toll crossed 24,000 (24,039).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-all-party-meet-to-discuss-bishop-s-statement-says-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-101632329919514.html
22-09-2021||India||‘India has always seen humanity as one family’: Modi at Global Covid Summit||Addressing the virtual Covid-19 summit in the United States, ahead of his meeting with President Joe Biden, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has been an unprecedented disruption and it is not yet over. “India’s pharmaceutical industry has produced cost-effective diagnostic kits, drugs, medical devices, and PPE kits. These are providing affordable options to many developing countries,” the Prime Minister said.Modi hailed US President Joe Biden’s announcement to half a million doses of Pfizer’s Covid-19 shots to distribution among low and lower-middle-income countries. “Much of the world is still to be vaccinated. That is why this initiative by President Biden is timely and welcome,” Modi said during his speech.India has always seen humanity as one family, the Prime Minister highlighted, while thanking the countries for standing with New Delhi during the deadly second wave of the pandemic. “Earlier this year, we shared our vaccine production with 95 other countries and with UN peacekeepers. Like a family, the world also stood with India when we were going through a second wave. For the solidarity and support extended to India, I thank you all,” Modi said.He informed the global forum that two indigenously developed vaccines received Emergency Use Authorisation in India, including the world’s first DNA-based vaccine, ZyCoV-D. “Several Indian companies are also involved in the licensed production of various vaccines,” Modi added.Talking about India's Covid-19 vaccination programme  — which he said is the world’s largest inoculation campaign — Modi said, “Recently, we vaccinated about 25 million people on a single day. Our grassroots-level healthcare system has delivered over 800 million vaccine doses so far. Over 200 million Indians are now fully vaccinated."India has inoculated the highest number of beneficiaries with their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the world.Modi said this feat was possible through India's use of “innovative digital platform CoWin.”“As newer Indian vaccines get developed, we are also ramping up production capacity of existing vaccines. As our production increases, we will be able to resume vaccine supplies to others too. For this, the supply chains of raw materials must be kept open,” Modi said. ALSO READ | India to resume export of surplus Covid-19 vaccines next month: MandaviyaThe Prime Minister said that India is leveraging its manufacturing strength to produce vaccines for the Indo-Pacific region with the help of Quad partners. “India and South Africa have proposed a TRIPS waiver at the WTO vaccine, diagnostics and medicines. This will enable rapid scaling of the fight against the pandemic,” Modi said.He also expressed his concern on pandemic’s economic effects and called for mutual recognition of Covid-19 vaccine certificates and urged the countries to enable easier international travel.Modi left for the United States on Wednesday morning. He will hold several bilateral meetings, including with Biden, besides attending the Quad leaders summit and addressing United Nations General Assembly session during the visit which will conclude on September 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-always-seen-humanity-as-one-family-modi-at-global-covid-summit-101632329060687.html
22-09-2021||India||SC directs Allahabad HC, UP govt to find common formula for bail for convicts languishing in jail||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Uttar Pradesh government and the Allahabad High Court to come out with mutually acceptable suggestions in two weeks that could enable life convicts languishing across the jails in the state to get bail pending the hearing on their criminal appeals.The order by the Court came on a bunch of 18 petitions filed by life convicts who have been languishing behind bars for over a decade awaiting hearing on their criminal appeals. The state government had informed the Court last month that there are 1.83 lakh criminal appeals pending in the Allahabad High Court and the Lucknow Bench of the High Court.Finding this figure “astronomical”, the Court had asked the Allahabad High Court on August 25 to consider the suggestions given by the state government and evolve commonly accepted standards for granting bail to such convicts.On Wednesday, the bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and BR Gavai felt that its order had not been properly understood by the High Court as the latter filed additional suggestions to those given by the state.To resolve the issue, the bench asked Additional Advocate General Garima Prashad appearing for UP government and advocate Yashvardhan for the High Court to sit together and devise a common solution to the problem.The bench said that the purpose of the order was “to work out the agreed directions which they seek from this Court” on which the Court can then give its imprimatur and remit the 18 petitions before it back to the High Court. The bench further stated that it will be open to the High Court to itself deal with the issue by passing appropriate directions to meet the problem at hand. The Court posted the matter for further hearing on October 5.The petitions filed by the 18 life convicts had sought broad parameters to expedite hearing of bail in cases where the appeals are pending for long duration. During the earlier hearing, Court had observed, “People can’t be in jail for such a long time” and said that before sending the matter to the High Court, some issues needed to be ironed out. The Court wanted the state to come out with a benchmark, such as those who had spent 10 years in prison, for release on bail. The state informed the Court that nearly 7,214 convicts across various jails in the state have crossed 10 years in jail and this category included hardened criminals, rapists, repeat offenders, kidnappers, massacre, more than three murders, habitual criminals who who do not deserve to be released on bail. The High Court in its suggestions said that period spent by the convict in jail cannot be the sole criteria for releasing them as each case should be decided on its own merits. However, it supported the suggestion of the state to consider granting bail to such convicts whose appeals were pending in High Court for more than seven years. In addition, the High Court said that rights of the victims and their families should also be considered before grant of bail to the accused in serious and grave offences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-directs-allahabad-hc-up-govt-to-find-common-formula-for-bail-for-convicts-languishing-in-jail-101632327758123.html
22-09-2021||India||Why do farm concerns not get as much political attention as they should?||An analysis of the report of the latest Situation Assessment Survey (SAS), the findings of which were first reported on September 11 by HT, offers an insight into the reasons for the problems in the agriculture sector not finding a resonance in politics.A large majority of the population at the bottom of the social hierarchy in India does not have significant stakes in agriculture. The social groups, who are still invested in farming, are also the ones who are more successful in getting out of villages. This creates a political vacuum for a social-economic class that can build pressure for an effective policy framework to rescue Indian agriculture from its current crisis. Even those who are left in villages are sidetracked by other issues and unlikely to make efforts to develop a genuine farmers’ solidarity.Here are four charts that explain this argument in detail.The socially downtrodden are over-represented in rural IndiaBR Ambedkar, India’s most important social reformer and also the father of the Indian Constitution, wanted Dalits or the Scheduled Castes (SC) to get out of villages. “The love of the intellectual Indian for the village community is of course infinite, if not pathetic... What is a village but a sink of localism, a den of ignorance, narrow-mindedness and communalism?” Ambedkar wrote.Ambedkar’s was not a subjective rant against village life, something Mahatma Gandhi, the tallest leader of the Indian freedom movement always eulogised. Dalits hardly owned any land in the village and during Ambedkar’s time, they were mostly bonded labourers for the upper caste “oppressors”. Ironical as it is, it is the upper castes which took Ambedkar’s lesson seriously and started moving out of villages. A comparison of estimated population shares of SC, scheduled tribes (ST), other backward classes (OBC), and others, shows that SCs and STs are significantly over-represented in India’s villages.Even today, a rural Dalit is more likely to be a labourer than a farmerWhat makes SAS unique among many surveys which are conducted in rural India is the fact that it separates those who are significantly invested in agriculture. To be sure, this criterion is pretty inclusive.SAS defines an agricultural household as one that has at least one member self-employed in agriculture and that produced agricultural products worth at least ₹4,000 in the 365 days preceding the survey.Among the four broad social groups in India, SCs are the only ones where the majority of rural households are non-agricultural households. More than anything else, this is a reflection of poor landownership among SCs. SCs account for 21.6% of all rural households in India, but they own just 10.2% of total land.The social asymmetry in agrarian stakes kills any potential farmer solidarityBecause SCs do not own any land, and are therefore not invested in agriculture, they end up being the biggest source of cheap and often heavily exploited labour in India’s villages, including farms.The numbers speak for themselves. SC households have a share of 21.6% in rural India, but their share among the casual work-dependent is 32.8%. In relative terms, SC households have the largest share among casual work-dependent in rural India. It is important to note that casual work-dependent households are not just those who belong to the non-agricultural household category. Even agricultural households might be dependent on casual work for their main income (so long as they produce the ₹4,000 quota from agriculture). As is to be expected, SC households have the largest relative share among casual work-dependent both among agricultural as well as non-agricultural households.Given the deeply entrenched discriminatory practices in India’s villages, an SC worker is likely to suffer more exploitation than his upper caste, even OBC peers. In fact, a 2016 Economic and Political Weekly paper by Amrita Datta at the Institute for Human Development (IHD) shows that migration might be helping those at the bottom of the socioeconomic ladder — the most being in Bihar. For Dalits, Ambedkar’s advice of getting out of the village is still relevant. This also means that more than one-fifth of the rural population has no material interest in fighting for policies to address agrarian distress.The Mandal rhetoric against upper caste feudalism is not true anymoreSocial justice politics in India has moved far beyond the trajectory of annihilation of caste which Ambedkar and his comrades wanted it to take. The real political game changer in social justice politics was not the rise of Dalits but that of OBCs. The OBC resurgence in politics drew a lot of initial legitimacy by claiming to challenge oppressive feudal hierarchies dominated by a handful of upper castes.While this rhetoric still continues, facts have changed dramatically on the ground. OBC landlords – if one uses the term for those who own more than 10 hectares of land – outnumber their upper-caste counterparts by a ratio of 2:1. This is most likely the result of upper castes selling their land to OBCs (the only social group which had the means to buy it) to migrate out of villages. To be sure, OBC households in general are twice the number of upper caste households in rural India. It is the fact that this ratio is maintained even among the biggest landowners is the sign of land transfer from upper castes to OBCs.These facts outline the difficulty of forming a social alliance to generate political pressure for rescuing agriculture.SCs are still the poorest and most exploited community in Indian villages, making them adversaries of the “farmers”. Anecdotal accounts do not offer any evidence that OBCs are any less oppressive in dealing with the SC worker than upper castes.Upper castes and OBCs could make a case for supporting agriculture, and they have a rich farmer class which can take a lead in this cause. But they do not see eye to eye on other political issues, especially reservations.The challenges facing political mobilisation to rescue Indian agriculture from its current crisis are partly a result of India’s feudal past. The socially downtrodden never had enough land, and hence stakes in agriculture. A democratic revolution sans redistributive reforms – land reforms were a stillborn project in most parts of India – has only complicated these problems further, where political parties find it easier to ignore the agrarian crisis and exploit other avenues for mobilising votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-do-farm-concerns-not-get-as-much-political-attention-as-they-should-101632326197324.html
22-09-2021||India||HT This Day: Sept 24, 1975 — Attempt to kill Ford foiled: President unhurt; woman held for firing shot||A 45-year-old woman fired a shot in the direction of President Gerald Ford as he left a downtown hotel yesterday, but her gun was deflected by an alert policeman just as it went off, a San Francisco policeman said. Mr. Ford was not hurt.San Francisco Police Lt. Frank Jordan said the Secret Service had taken a woman into custody identified as Sarah Moore.“She was standing 35-to-40 feet away from the President,” Lt. Jordan said. “She produced a 38-calibre revolver and fired one shot, fortunately striking no one.”Capt. William Conroy of the San Francisco police said the Secret Service had checked on the woman on Sunday night because she was on a list of potential threats to the President.“The Secret Service examined her and passed her,” Capt. Conroy said He said she was a known activist who had been involved in the massive food giveaway organized last year as an effort to free kidnapped heiress Patricia Hearst.San Francisco policeman John Gleason said he was standing by as part of the Presidential Guard detail when he saw Mr. Ford walk up to the Limousine and wave to a small crowd across the street.“At that time somebody shot a gun in the direction of the President and I looked over across the street to see a chrome revolver pointed at the President.” Mr. Gleason said.Mr. Ken lacavoni, special agent in-charge of the San Francisco Secret Service office, later identified the woman as Sarah Jean Moore, 45.There was no immediate address on the woman.Mr. lacavoni also said police had recovered a 38-caliber handgun from her.He placed the time of the shooting at 3-30 p.m. (local time) and said only one shot had been fired and that nobody hit.The Presidential jet, Air Force I, left San Francisco International air- port about 20 minutes after the shot rang out.The President had arrived at the airport after a high-speed race from the city’s downtown section.Mark Knight, 22, a free-lance photographer, who was perched In a bush across the street from Mr. Ford’s car, said he was watching the President emerge from the St. Francis Hotel when he heard the shot and saw the woman.“The shot rang out, and all the attention went to her,” Mr. Knight said. “The Secret Service men were on her in a second and the crowd moved away from her. It was a women, wearing a blue pant suit and Secret Service men got on top of the President, almost, and pushed him into the car. Then they took off.”Miss Moore, who claimed to be a one-time FBI informer until a year ago, was one of the first volunteers to join the million-dollar “People in Need” food ransom programme established by kidnapped Patricia Hearst’s parents last year in an attempt to win her release from the Symbionese Liberation Army.The suspect, also known as “Sarah Jane Aalberg,” who has a 9-year-old son, also has written articles for the underground newspaper. “Berkelley Barb.” reports UPI. When she was arrested on Sunday, she was carrying 13 live rounds in her purse and police found about 100 bullets in her car.She was held on $1 million bail on a federal charge of attempted murder of the President. US Attorney James Browning said he would ask that she be examined by a psychiatrist. The man who saved the President’s life by hitting her arm to deflect the gun was identified by police as Oliver Sipple, 33, an exMarine on 100 per cent disability. Then police officer Tim Hettrien, 26, immediately put his hand around the cyclinder of the revolver to keep it from firing again, and Officer Joseph Currie, 20, put his hand on top of Hettrich’s. Earlier, police said Currie had deflected the gun.The bullet ricocheted, and, nearly spent, struck a bystander who was treated for a minor injury.Earlier in the day, police arrested a 24 year-old man, Ronald Carlo, on suspicion of wanting to kill Mr Ford. Carlo had handed a threat pning letter to a St. Francis Hotel cashier.’ A few minutes later, he began denouncing Mr Ford to a hotel porter, who called the police.According to Reuter, despite advice from his close aides and the Secret Service, the President refused to let the earlier incident upset his usual free-wheeling style of campaigning and plunging into crowds. Richard Krohm, a San Francisco businessman, who saw the second emoting incident, said he was standing about 16 metres from the President when the shot rang out. “He (Mr Ford) appeared to be gunned but no shot,” Mr Krahm said. He was crouching in the back seat of his car as it raced away,” he added.As the Presidential motorcade drove off at high speed, a young buy picked up what was believed to be the spent bullet and gave it to a policeman.Yesterday’s incident occurred just 17 days after a woman member of the Charles Manson murder cult family Lynette (Squeaky) Fromme, brandished a loaded 45 pistol in Mr Ford’s face as he walked through a crowd in Sacramento, California.No shot was fired and she was seized by Secret Service agents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-sept-24-1975-attempt-to-kill-ford-foiled-president-unhurt-woman-held-for-firing-shot-101632326138361.html
22-09-2021||India||DRI sleuths seize over 3,000kg of heroin at Mundra port; 8 held during raid||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) detained two containers on Septmeber 13 that had arrived at Mundra Port from Kandahar, Afghanistan via Bandar Abbas, Iran for examination. The containers were declared to contain semi-processed talc stones. However, upon detailed examination of the containers the DRI officials seized 2,988kg of heroin from the two containers on September 17 and 19.Officials familiar with the development said the heroin was concealed in jumbo bags said to contain unprocessed talc powder. The heroin was placed in the lower layers of the bags. “The heroin was then topped with talc stones to avoid detection. The heroin had to be painstakingly separated from the talc stones,” the DRI official said.ALSO READ | ED to probe money laundering in 3,000 kg of Afghan heroin detected at Mundra PortFollowing the drug seizure, raids were carried out in New Delhi, Noida, Chennai, Coimbatore, Ahmedabad, Mandvi, Gandhidham and Vijaywada. This led to recovery of 16.1kg of heroin from a godown in Delhi, 10.2kg powder suspected to be cocaine and 11kg of substance suspected to be heroin from a residential place in Noida.At least eight people, including four Afghan nationals, one Uzbek citizens and three Indians have been arrested so far. The arrested Indian nationals include the holder of the Import Export Code (IEC), which was used to import the consignment. He was arrested from Chennai. A probe in underway.Officials have said the substance is “very high quality” heroin originated in Afghanistan and it is worth ₹7 crore per kg in the international market, which makes it the largest seizure in India ever.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dri-sleuths-seize-over-3-000kg-of-heroin-at-mundra-port-8-held-during-raid-101632323813146.html
22-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: RN Ravi resigns as interlocutor for Naga peace talks and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.RN Ravi resigns as Naga peace talks interlocutorThe Centre’s interlocutor for Naga peace talks since 2014 – R N Ravi, with whom Naga groups had refused to hold any discussions, on Wednesday stepped down from the post. Read more'Rahul, Priyanka are like my children': Amarinder Singh says he won't let Navjot Sidhu become CMFormer Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said he will never allow Navjot Singh Sidhu to become the chief minister of Punjab as Charanjit Singh Channi's appointment as the chief minister has only widened the road for Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu to become the CM face in the upcoming election. Read more‘Looking at it urgently,’ says UK envoy on vaccine certification for IndiaThe British government on Wednesday included India’s Covishield in a list of approved Covid-19 jabs though the two sides are yet to reach common ground on certification so that fully vaccinated Indian travellers to the UK can avoid quarantine. Read moreStates will provide ₹50,000 as ex gratia for deaths due to Covid-19: Centre tells SCThe Central government on Wednesday informed the Supreme Court that families of those who died of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will receive an ex gratia of ₹50,000 from the state disaster response fund (SDRF). Read more'It's quite a big thing being demoted from captaincy': Pietersen, Gavaskar on whether Warner, Williamson have 'issues'David Warner was axed as captain of Sunrisers Hyderabad during the first-half of IPL 2021 following a dismal show by the team back in April-May. With SRH losing five games out their first six, Warner was replaced by Kane Williamson as captain of the side. Read moreRicha Chadha furious at restaurant for not letting woman wearing saree in, calls it 'residue of post-colonial trauma'Delhi restaurant Aquila is under fire from social media after they refused to let a woman wearing a saree in. In a viral video, a woman asked a member of the restaurant staff why she is not being let in. Read moreChhattisgarh to launch tourism circuit based on Lord Ram’s stay in the state during his exile from AyodhyaWhen it comes to places of religious significance and those finding mention in mythological stories, the state of Chhattisgarh has a long list to offer to tourists. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-amarinder-singh-says-he-won-t-allow-navjot-singh-sidhu-become-punjab-cm-and-all-the-latest-news-101632323522262.html
22-09-2021||India||R N Ravi resigns as Naga peace talks interlocutor||The Centre’s interlocutor for Naga peace talks since 2014 – R N Ravi, with whom Naga groups had refused to hold any discussions, on Wednesday stepped down from the post. A ministry of home affairs spokesperson said Ravi’s resignation had been accepted with immediate effect. The development comes days after Ravi was moved as Governor of Tamil Nadu from Nagaland, where he held the post of Governor as well. Isak-Muivah led National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN-IM), while seeking his ouster, had claimed last year that Ravi misinterpreted the 2015 Framework Agreement between the Naga groups and the Centre and tried to manipulate it. In a statement issued in August last year, NSCN-IM said that R N Ravi was creating hurdles in the final settlement of the Naga political issue. His removal on September 9 from Nagaland is being seen as a positive step towards finalising the peace deal, especially at a time when all the members of the Nagaland Legislative Assembly have agreed to come together to push for settlement and pave the way for it. “The trust deficit between Ravi and Naga groups had deepened so much in the last two years that talks had not moved at all. The process has begun again,” said a government official. The biggest and oldest of the Naga rebel outfits, NSCN-IM had been in peace talks with the Central government since 1997 and signed a Framework Agreement (FA) on August 3, 2015, in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which was to be the basis for a final deal on the long pending Naga issue. Though peace talks with NSCN-IM and other pro-talks rebel outfits (Naga National Political Groups-NNPGs) concluded In October, 2019 a formal deal to end the decades old Naga political problem is still awaited. Former Intelligence Bureau special director – Akshay Mishra is currently handling the peace talks “unofficially” but government officials familiar with the development said Mishra’s name as interlocutor will be made formal soon through a notification. Mishra has already been advising the Centre on the matters of north-east since his retirement in June this year. There are also indications that IB chief Aravind Kumar may join as an additional interlocutor for the Naga peace talks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/r-n-ravi-resigns-as-naga-peace-talks-interlocutor-101632322898168.html
22-09-2021||India||‘Looking at it urgently,’ says UK envoy on vaccine certification for India||The British government on Wednesday included India’s Covishield in a list of approved Covid-19 jabs though the two sides are yet to reach common ground on certification so that fully vaccinated Indian travellers to the UK can avoid quarantine. The two countries are locked in a vaccine row as Indian nationals who have received both doses of Covishield, the local variant of Britain’s AstraZeneca vaccine, will be considered as unvaccinated and have to quarantine for 10 days under new British travel rules that come into force on October 4. UK high commissioner Alex Ellis attributed the matter to a significant shift in his country’s travel policy that was announced only on September 17 and made it clear that “Covishield is not the issue”. Talking to NDTV news channel, he declined to set a deadline for resolving the issue but said Britain is “looking at it urgently”. Early on Wednesday, the UK updated its travel guidance to include Covishield among the list of approved vaccines, along with the AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson jabs and their formulations. A spokesperson for the UK mission reiterated that Britain is engaging with India to expand British recognition of Indian vaccine certification. India and the UK have held several meetings and discussions between technical experts since the beginning of this month, the latest being on Tuesday, to bridge differences over vaccine certification, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. These discussions focused on certification done through India’s CoWIN app, the security of the system, data sharing between the two sides, and reconciling the CoWIN system with the NHS Covid Pass developed by Britain’s National Health Service, the people said. There were also some concerns about the security of the certification system, the people said without going into details. Ellis said the UK was shifting its travel policy from being country-focused with red, amber and green lists to a single list that combines incidents of Covid-19 and vaccination. India was on the amber list of countries. Over the last couple of weeks, there were detailed conversations between builders of the Indian and UK apps that covered their working and security protocols, he said. The UK has to “have confidence” in the Indian app as the movement of people from both countries could affect public health, he said. “It’s not a question of doubt, it’s a question of the normal processes which technical experts go through in order to [have] the assurances on both sides about how our certification works,” Ellis said. “We are moving at great speed to try and resolve any outstanding questions with India so we can give the best possible advice for ministers to take a decision, and which they will want to do quickly,” he added. National Health Authority CEO RS Sharma, whose organisation operates the CoWIN app, told CNBC-News18 that technical discussions between the two sides were closed, and the Indian side had “not encountered any concerns” during talks. Sharma said he had met the British envoy on September 2 to discuss the matter. India’s vaccine certificate is digitally verifiable as it contains an encrypted QR code with the private key of the department. Any QR code reader with the Indian key will be able to establish the authenticity of the certificate, Sharma said. CoWIN uses established global encryption standards that satisfy the World Health Organization’s standards, he said. On Tuesday, India urged the UK to change its policy requiring visiting Indian nationals to quarantine even if they are fully vaccinated, describing it as discriminatory, and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla warned New Delhi could impose “reciprocal measures” against countries that don’t accept Indian vaccine certification. The issue was also raised by external affairs minister S Jaishankar at a meeting with his British counterpart Liz Truss on the margins of the UN General Assembly in New York on Monday. However, Ellis played down the prospect of the issue affecting bilateral ties and said the matter had emerged because of the large number of people travelling to the UK. He noted Britain had issued 65,000 student visas this year, up 30% from last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/looking-at-it-urgently-says-uk-envoy-on-vaccine-certification-for-india-101632321397622.html
22-09-2021||India||States will provide ₹50,000 as ex gratia for deaths due to Covid-19: Centre tells SC||The Central government on Wednesday informed the Supreme Court that families of those who died of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) will receive an ex gratia of ₹50,000 from the state disaster response fund (SDRF). The ex gratia will also be given to kin of Covid-19 victims who were involved in relief operations or associated with “preparedness activities”, the court was told.The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) issued guidelines on ex gratia for Covid-related deaths after the apex court directed the Centre in June entitling kins of Covid victims to an ex gratia amount under the Disaster Management Act 2005. The court had then granted Centre six weeks to fix the amount of ex gratia and extended the deadline multiple times.“By the time you will take steps, even the third wave (of Covid pandemic) will be over. Our orders directing correction of death certificates was passed long back. You had agreed to file a response on our directions by today. We will now grant you a last opportunity,” the bench of justices MR Shah and Aniruddha Bose said after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta had sought another extension.The compensation will be paid for future Covid-related deaths as well, the government told the court. The cause of death will need to be certified as Covid-19 in accordance with the health ministry guidelines to claim the compensation. In the affidavit submitted to the top court, the government said that all claims related to Covid deaths must be settled within 30 days of submission of the required documents, adding that the amount should be disbursed through the Aadhaar-linked direct benefit transfer procedures.India has reported more than 4,45,000 virus-related deaths so far, of which the majority were reported during the disastrous second wave of the Covid pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-will-provide-50-000-as-ex-gratia-for-deaths-due-to-covid-19-centre-tells-sc-101632317085203.html
22-09-2021||India||Tripura reports four positive cases of African swine fever||Four cases of African swine fever have been detected in pigs at the Exotic Pig Breeding Farm in Kanchanpur sub division of Tripura’s North district, an official said on Wednesday. This is the first time that the disease has been reported in the state. The disease was initially detected in Assam last year and later followed by cases in Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram. A total of 87 samples were sent to the Guwahati-based North East Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory and ADMAC Core Lab on August 26 after officials observed a series of deaths of pigs since mid-August earlier this year. Tripura has till date recorded nearly 160 deaths of pigs.“Out of 87 samples, they confirmed four samples had African Swine Fever DNA virus. We got the reports on September 15 and later started following guidelines as laid down by the Central government in this case,” said Tripura nodal officer of Disease Investigation Laboratory Dr. Mrinal Datta. He, however, ruled out chances of human beings getting affected by the virus if they consumed pork. “People do not stand a chance of getting infected with the virus,” said Dr. Datta. He is also the deputy director of the Animal Resources Development department. The Animal Resources Development department has categorised an area within one kilometre radius from the epicentre as an infected zone and another 10 kilometres as the surveillance zone. “Culling has started within the one kilometre radius since September 18. So far, 28 pigs have been culled. The number is expected to increase today,” said the official. The population of pigs in Tripura was estimated at 3.58 lakh as per the latest animal census report published in 2020.The state has a total of 16 pig breeding farms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-reports-four-positive-cases-of-african-swine-fever-101632316957328.html
22-09-2021||India||'Rahul, Priyanka are like my children': Amarinder Singh says he won't let Navjot Sidhu become CM||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said he will never allow Navjot Singh Sidhu to become the chief minister of Punjab as Charanjit Singh Channi's appointment as the chief minister has only widened the road for Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu to become the CM face in the upcoming election. The senior Congress leader said he will pit a strong candidate against Sidhu so that he can't become the chief minister, triggering speculation over Captain's further political plans. As Amarinder Singh resigned on Saturday amid the ongoing party infighting, he revealed how humiliated he felt because of the latest development in the party. He felt hurt that the party high command started losing trust in him. The Congress Legislature Party meeting was called on Sunday to decide on Amarinder Singh's replacement without his knowledge. Before the meeting, Amarinder Singh went to teh Governor's House and resigned. He said he had informed his decision to party president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday morning.On Wednesday, two days after Charanjit Singh Channi took oath as the new chief minister of the poll-bound state, Amarinder Singh said that he had offered to resign three weeks ago. But at that time, he was asked to continue. "If she had called me and asked me to step down, I'd have. As a soldier, I know how to do my task and leave once called back," Singh said.Also Read | How Amarinder Singh resignation as Punjab CM unfolded: A timeline"Priyanka and Rahul are like my children. This should not have ended like this. I am hurt," Singh, who was a friend of the late Rajiv Gandhi, said adding that they have been clearly misguided by their advisors. The dramatic development in Punjab and the way Amarinder Singh's long chief ministership was put to a drastic end was unexpected given Amarinder Singh's close relationship with the Gandhi family. Amarinder Singh, himself, said he did not understand why the party replaced him so close to the polls when people, as Singh claimed, were happy with his government. The conflict between Amarinder Singh and Navjot Sidhu was going on when Sidhu was elevated to the post of the Punjab Congress president despite Amarinder's objection. Amarinder Singh restrained Sidhu's advisors from commenting on general issues after their comments drew flak. As the clash was going on, Amarinder lost the support of around 60 MLAs which eventually led to the overnight shuffle in Punjab.Referring to Sidhu's hug to Pakistan Army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa during the Kartapur event, Amarinder Singh had earlier said that he will oppose if Sidhu is picked up as the CM. Calling Sidhu "anti-national, dangerous, unstable, incompetent," Amarinder Singh said that Sidhu as CM of the border state will be a threat to national security.Charanjit Singh Channi was announced the chief minister on Sunday, a day after Captain's resignation. But Congress leader Harish Rawat clarified that Punjab will go to the polls under the leadership of Sidhu. The comment even left Congress leaders baffled.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-priyanka-like-my-children-amarinder-singh-says-he-won-t-let-navjot-sidhu-become-cm-101632316389803.html
22-09-2021||India||BJP, Congress no longer ignore AAP as it makes attractive poll promises||With Uttarakhand in poll mode ahead of the next assembly elections in 2022, both the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Opposition Congress are no longer ignoring the new entrant Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). As it is making poll-centric promises related to key issues such as electricity and employment, the BJP and Congress have been attacking the AAP.Union minister Prahlad Joshi, who is the BJP’s in-charge of the elections, attacked Delhi’s chief minister and AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal for making “false” promises. He accused him of doing “nothing for development in Delhi” and accused him of trying to “befool people of Uttarakhand on same lines.”Former chief minister Harish Rawat, who heads Congress’s election campaign committee, has also lashed out at the AAP.Experts say the chances of AAP forming the government in 2022 seem to be almost nil, but the party has managed to mark its presence in the state and made the polls a tripartite contest. “The AAP was not considered a serious contender in 2022 till last year. But it has gathered steam with the recent announcements made by Kejriwal during his visits... both the BJP and Congress are wary,” said political commentator Jai Singh Rawat.Also Read | Uttarakhand Cong writes to Speaker to disqualify MLA who defected to BJPKejriwal on Sunday announced if AAP is voted to power in Uttarakhand, it will give employment to a member of every household. He also promised ₹5,000 stipend till unemployed people get jobs. Kejriwal has announced AAP will provide 100,000 government jobs within six months of coming to power. He earlier promised 80% reservation for the people of Uttarakhand in jobs. On August 17, Kejriwal announced AAP will make Uttarakhand the spiritual capital for the Hindus. He promised in July 300 units of free electricity if AAP is voted to power.Rawat said the announcements are well thought out. “They know that what will make them the talk of the town in the election year...they have succeeded. Now, whether they actually win the elections in 2022 to fulfil the promises is a different matter...but they have got the attention of the people...”Another political analyst SMA Kazmi said Kejriwal’s announcements have made the people think because when it comes to providing free electricity, he has done that in Delhi.The leadership of BJP and Congress claim in the public that AAP will fail “to get votes on false promises” but privately they acknowledge it cannot be taken lightly.“We are taking it very seriously... At a recent core group meeting of the party chaired by ...Joshi, AAP was part of the agenda...,” said a BJP leader on the condition of anonymity.A Congress leader said the AAP poses a challenge for the party. “With its entry in the polls, it is the Congress which will be impacted the most because the voters will have now a second significant option against the BJP. So, it is the Congress which will face a divide in its vote bank.”BJP state president Madan Kaushik questioned AAP’s promises for jobs and free power and asked whether it has managed to do the same in Delhi. “No. In Delhi, where it is in power, it has made many areas electricity-free under the promise of free electricity. It will not be able to play the same card here because the people are smart.”Congress state president Ganesh Godiyal accused the AAP of spreading lies and making unrealistic promises. “People of Uttarakhand are not going to fall for their lies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-congress-no-longer-ignore-aap-as-it-makes-attractive-poll-promises-101632315157459.html
22-09-2021||India||After attack on Covid warrior in Kerala, HC tells cops to ‘pull up their socks’||The Kerala high court on Wednesday ordered the state police to pull up their socks to protect the lives of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) warriors from 'unscrupulous elements', two days after a woman health worker was attacked by two bike-borne assailants in Alappuzha.The incident on Monday night occurred when the health worker, who is a nursing assistant, was returning home from the hospital where she works, the police said on Tuesday, adding the assailants had an intention of robbing her, but they tried to abduct her as she did not have any valuables.Also Read| 84-day gap between Covishield doses provides best protection: Govt to Kerala HCThe Station house officer (SHO) of Thrikkunnapuzha police station told news agency PTI that the assailants gave chase when the nursing assistant resisted their attempts and fled from the spot when they saw a police patrol approaching. The SHO said the victim did not suffer any major physical injuries but she was traumatised.On Wednesday, a bench of justices Devan Ramachandran and Kauser Edappagath said, “We are not taking it as a solitary issue. We are taking note of it as the issue will have larger ramifications for the future. Time has come to put a stop to it.”During the hearing, government pleader S Kannan told the Kerala HC bench that a first information report (FIR) was lodged and the police were trying to identify the culprits. Kannan said it was a solitary incident.The bench, however, disagreed with the above submission and highlighted that it is a law and order issue. And since a Covid-19 warrior was attacked, the bench was going to consider the matter as a part of its proceedings in relation to the recent attacks on health care workers and doctors in hospitals, PTI further reported.The bench said that where Covid-19 warriors and their services are concerned, society has to ensure that they are protected and not harmed.Also Read| Kerala, Karnataka mull restrictions in theatres as daily Covid-19 cases decreaseSince the Covid-19 pandemic struck India last year, the country has witnessed several incidents of doctors and other health care workers being assaulted by the family members and relatives of patients.In June, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking his personal intervention on the assault on medical professionals. “In the midst of this pandemic, we are deeply hurt to see the increasing incidents of physical violence against the doctors and the health care professionals in this country,” the IMA had said in its letter addressed to Modi on June 7.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-attack-on-covid-warrior-in-kerala-hc-tells-cops-to-pull-up-their-socks-101632312349187.html
22-09-2021||India||Five Delhi tourists rescued from swollen river in Goa after vehicle stops midstream||Five tourists from Delhi needed to be rescued from their vehicle after they overestimated the wading capacity of the Mahindra Thar vehicle they were driving and attempted to cross a fast-flowing stream on their way to Goa’s Dudhsagar waterfalls. The five tourists were rescued by lifeguards posted at the waterfall after being stranded.“The group of five were travelling to Dudhsagar along the rocky terrain when they decided to drive across a swelling river. On reaching the halfway mark, the vehicle stalled and refused to budge. The swelling waters gushed into the vehicle making it unstable. The men tried to escape but were unable to do so due to the force of the water,” Drishti, the lifeguarding agency, said in a statement. “The men were secured and brought back to safety. The vehicle was marooned in the river and backup was called to assist with its recovery,” the statement added. The Dudhsagar waterfalls --- a world-famous attraction lies in the heart of the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary in Mollem along Goa’s border with Karnataka. The access to the waterfall is via a mud road that is unusable during the monsoons owing to the fast flowing swollen Dudhsagar River making it dangerous to cross. A recent move by the Goa government to build an all-weather road leading to the falls was grounded by the Bombay High Court which asked the Goa government to first obtain a clearance from the National Wildlife Board before any work can start.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-delhi-tourists-rescued-from-swollen-river-in-goa-after-vehicle-stops-midstream-101632312337053.html
22-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Govt reshuffles top bureaucrats and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Govt reshuffles top bureaucrats, makes 13 secretary-level appointmentsDevendra Kumar Singh was on Wednesday named as the first secretary of the newly created corporation ministry. A 1989 batch Kerala cadre Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer, Singh earlier served as the additional micro, small and medium enterprises secretary and development commissioner. Read more.'What is the problem if a poor man takes a jet ride?': Channi after backlashA day after the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party slammed Punjab's new chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi for taking a chartered flight to Delhi on Tuesday, the chief minister on Wednesday said he fails to understand what the controversy is. "What is the problem with everyone if a gareeb (poor man) takes a jet ride?" he said, dodging the question of who will pay the bill for the ride, reports said. On Wednesday, he was visiting Dera Sachkhand Ballan in Amritsar, when he was asked this question. Read more.'Can't generalise': Puri reacts to Mufti's ‘Sardars are now Khalistani’ remarkUnion minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday said no Sikh should be called “anti-national” or “Khalistani” after the former chief minister of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, Mehbooba Mufti, accused the Central government of labelling those opposed to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Read more.IPL 2021: T Natarajan tests positive for Covid-19, six others isolated but DC vs SRH match to go aheadSunrisers Hyderabad (SRH) player T Natarajan tested positive for Covid-19 hours before their IPL 2021 match against the Delhi Capitals on Wednesday. Six other members of the SRH squad identified as his close contacts have been isolated. BCCI, however, said the DC vs SRH match will go an as per schedule in Dubai as the rest of the SRH squad members tested negative. Read more.Flipkart Big Billion Days Sale 2021 date revealed: Get big discounts on mobiles and moreThe Flipkart Big Billion Days Sale 2021 in India will begin on October 7 and remain live until October 12. Read more.Hero MotoCorp achieves its second Guinness World Records titleHero MotoCorp has announced that it has achieved the Guinness World Records title for creating the ‘Largest Online Photo Album of People Planting Plants’. Under its ‘Hero Green Drive’ initiative, images of 132,775 people planting plants were received that made the new record. Read more.Amitabh Bachchan calls KBC 13 contestant beautiful, compliments her saree; she says ‘patidev toh nahi bolte’. WatchNamrata Shah, a Kathak teacher from Gujarat, will be seen as a contestant on Kaun Banega Crorepati 13. In a new promo shared online by Sony TV, host Amitabh Bachchan showered her with compliments. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-govt-reshuffles-top-bureaucrats-and-all-the-latest-news-101632309582718.html
22-09-2021||India||Uttarakhand Cong writes to Speaker to disqualify MLA who defected to BJP||Uttarakhand Congress president Ganesh Godiyal has written to the assembly Speaker demanding disqualification of MLA from Purola constituency, Rajkumar, who defected to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) about a week ago. In his letter to Speaker Premchand Aggarwal on Tuesday, Godiyal cited the anti-defection law for his demand. “We have urged the Speaker to end Rajkumar’s assembly membership because he joined the BJP without resigning from his membership of both the Congress and the assembly...this disqualifies him from the latter as per the anti-defection law in Constitution,” said Godiyal about his letter. The ruling BJP however, said they will “accept whatever decision is taken by the Speaker.” Party state general secretary Kuldeep Kumar said, “BJP has no involvement in the matter and can’t say anything because it is a constitutional matter on which the Speaker has to take the decision.” Also Read | Uttarakhand forest dept catches wildlife smuggler with 33 turtles, bookedWhile legal experts seem to agree with the Congress, they have questioned the delay in reaching out to the Speaker. Senior advocate of Uttarakhand high court Kartikeya Gupta said, “As per the anti-defection law, MLA Rajkumar gets disqualified from his membership of state assembly...However, it depends on the Speaker.”Political analyst Jai Singh Rawat questioned the “delay” in lodging a complaint against the defection by Congress leadership. “Rajkumar switched sides on September 12 and Godiyal wrote to the Speaker on September 21. It should have been done the same day or the next day. Why was there so much delay? Also, it should have been done by the leader of Opposition but this doesn’t show there is no coordination between him and the party state president,” said Rawat. Rajkumar joined the ruling BJP in its party headquarters in Delhi on September 12 in the presence of Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan, chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, party state president Madan Kaushik and party Rajya Sabha member Anil Baluni. Rajkumar, who was a BJP MLA from 2007-2012 from Sahaspur constituency of Dehradun, fought independently from Purola in 2012 and lost. He then joined Congress for 2017 elections and won from Purola. Despite several attempts, he couldn’t be contacted. Interestingly Arvind Kejriwal, Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party national convener during his Kumaon visit on Sunday also said his party welcomed all the good people in the BJP and the Congress. The anti-defection law was added to the Constitution as the tenth schedule by the 52nd amendment during Rajiv Gandhi’s tenure as the Prime Minister in 1985 according to which a member can be disqualified in two circumstances -- if they “voluntarily give up membership of a party” of they are disqualified for voting (or abstaining from voting) contrary to the directive issued by the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cong-writes-to-speaker-to-disqualify-mla-who-defected-to-bjp-101632309396645.html
22-09-2021||India||'What is the problem if a poor man takes a jet ride?': Charanjit Channi after backlash||A day after the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party slammed Punjab's new chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi for taking a chartered flight to Delhi on Tuesday, the chief minister on Wednesday said he fails to understand what the controversy is. "What is the problem with everyone if a gareeb (poor man) takes a jet ride?" he said, dodging the question of who will pay the bill for the ride, reports said. On Wednesday, he was visiting Dera Sachkhand Ballan in Amritsar, when he was asked this question.Charanjit Channi, deputy chief ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, OP Soni and Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu flew to Delhi on a chartered flight which drew flak as it is just a distance of 250 km. The emergency meeting was to discuss Cabinet formation, reports said."After saying that they stand with the common man, INC leaders take private jets to travel just 250 KMs from Chandigarh to Delhi. Are there no normal flights or cars that can be used? Or is this chest-thumping aimed at the propagation of Gandhi family's Delhi Darbar culture?" the Shiromani Akali Dal tweeted.AAP Punjab leader Harpal Singh Cheema said this is the original face of the new Punjab Cabinet. No one becomes a common man by saying it, only his deeds reveal the truth of his personality. The real faces of Channi, Sidhu and Randhawa, who were calling themselves poor common men a day before, have been exposed," Cheema said.Former chief minister Amarinder Singh's media advisor Raveen Thukral said that the 16-seater- jet was absolutely unnecessary as a five-seater official chopper was available. "I am now beginning to feel I sleepwalked through the last 4 & a half years, believing Punjab to be in a fiscal mess. My bad!" Thukral tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-the-problem-if-a-poor-man-takes-a-jet-ride-channi-after-backlash-101632308593632.html
22-09-2021||India||Anurag Thakur to inaugurate Himalayan Film Festival on Friday||Union minister for information and broadcasting Anurag Thakur will inaugurate the first Himalayan Film Festival on Friday, 24 September. The festival spanning five days is being held at Leh, Ladakh from 24th to 28th September.“The Himalayan region of India attracts filmmakers from all around the globe due to its unique scenic endowment. The unique geography of the region is widely documented along with its indigenous people, traditional skills, and occupations. Film festival in this context presents an opportunity for the local filmmakers to narrate their stories to a wider audience,” the government said in a statement on Wednesday.It further said that the Himalayan Film festival also envisions institutionalising a Himalayan film fraternity which will have productive repercussions for filmmaking in the Himalayan parts of India.According to the statement, the makers and cast of the super hit movie Shershah, including director Vishnuvardhan and the lead actor Siddharth Malhotra will be present at the inauguration.The five-day festival will include the screening of a “package of contemporary National awards and Indian panorama selected films”.Along with the screening of popular films, the festival is also set to have a diverse set of workshops and master classes will be organised wherein filmmakers, critics, technicians from the Himalayan region shall be invited to impart knowledge and skill to local film enthusiasts.Short films and short documentaries have also been invited to the competition section. The awards are for Best Film, to be given to director and producer, Best Cinematography, Best Editor & Best Story.The five-day festival will also see a food and music festival, along with cultural shows, which are held in collaboration with the department of culture to showcase the rich cultural diversity of Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anurag-thakur-to-inaugurate-himalayan-film-festival-on-friday-101632307416531.html
22-09-2021||India||‘Hope to get more vaccines’: Nepal envoy on India's export resumption plan||Nepal's envoy to India Nilambar Acharya on Wednesday lauded India's decision to resume export of vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from October onward. Acharya said India sent around 1 million Covid-19 vaccines to Nepal as grants while it purchased close to 2 million Covishield vaccines from Pune-based Serum Institute of India. “We hope that with start of Vaccine Maitri and supply of vaccines from Oct, we'll be able to get more vaccines,” Acharya was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Union health and family welfare minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday said India will resume export of Covid-19 vaccines under its ‘Vaccine Maitri’ initiative to fulfil the country's commitmment towards COVAX.COVAX is co-led by Gavi, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations and World Health Organisation (WHO), and aims at equitable distribution of Covid-19 vaccines, particularly focusing on the low and middle income countries.Soon after the announcement, Gavi expressed its willingness to engage with the Indian government and Pune-based Serum Institute of India. “Our priority right now is to engage with the government of India and Serum Institute of India to understand the impact this will have on our supply schedule, as we race to protect as many vulnerable people as we can from Covid-19,” a Gavi spokesperson said on Tuesday.India exported around 66.4 million doses of Covishield and Covaxin to 95 countries till April this year, including Nepal, until after the deadly second wave of Covid-19 disease wreaked havoc in the country and almost destabilised its healthcare system. The Indian vaccine supplies included grants, commercial export and doses for the COVAX facility.India halted its vaccine export in April as it faced severe shortage of vaccines amid a deadly second wave of Covid-19 infection. "We expect the vaccine supply to resume, including the one million doses. We have also received assistance for Oxygen plant setup and medicine in the fight against Covi-19," Acharya was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hope-to-get-more-vaccines-nepal-envoy-on-india-s-export-resumption-plan-101632304246784.html
22-09-2021||India||Govt reshuffles top bureaucrats, makes 13 secretary-level appointments||New Delhi In a major top-level bureaucratic reshuffle, the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet on Wednesday appointed 13 new secretaries in Union government against posts that were vacant for the past few months, including the first secretary for the newly-formed ministry of cooperation.Air India chairman and managing director Rajiv Bansal, a 1988-batch Nagaland cadre officer of the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), was appointed as secretary of ministry of civil aviation, as per a personnel ministry order. Bansal will replace Pradeep Singh Kharola upon his retirement on September 30. Bansal will be tasked with overseeing key changes in Air India, for which the government invited financial bids last week. The government is selling its entire 100% stake in Air India that has been in losses ever since its merger with domestic operator Indian Airlines in 2007.K. Rajaraman, a 1989-batch IAS officer of Tamil Nadu cadre, who was additional secretary at department of economic affairs, ministry of finance, was appointed as secretary at department of telecommunications. Rajaraman will take over the role from Anshu Prakash who is due to superannuate on September 30.Similarly, K. Sanjay Murthy, a 1989-batch IAS officer of Himachal Pradesh cadre who served as chief executive officer and managing director at National Industrial Corridor Development Corporation Limited, will replace Amit Khare as secretary of department of higher education. Khare is due to retire at the end of the month.Both Khare and Prakash have been instrumental in formulating several new policies that have shaped the government’s plans for their respective portfolios during their term.Khare was one of the architects of the New Education Policy 2020 which aims to make vocational learning a part of the main curriculum and access to education easier. The policy was approved by the Union cabinet in July 2020, replacing the 1986 one. He was earlier appointed as secretary of the ministry of information and broadcasting, a role he was only recently divested of, during the Covid-19 pandemic. He had helped streamline the government’s efforts in management of the Covid-19 pandemic and draft the new OTT and digital news media guidelines among others. Prakash played a pivotal role in the creation of the telecom relief package which was announced last Wednesday. The government has taken several steps to offer relief to telecom companies burdened by large regulatory dues and attract foreign capital into the sector.Devendra Kumar Singh, who was working as additional secretary and development commissioner, ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises, was appointed as secretary of ministry of cooperation headed by Union home minister Amit Shah. Pradip Kumar Tripathi, who was serving as secretary of ministry of steel, will head the department of personnel and training, the additional charge of which was earlier vested with home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla.Vice chairman of Delhi Development Authority Anuraj Jain will be secretary of department for promotion of industry and internal trade. Sunil Barthwal will be secretary, ministry of labour & employment whileGovind Mohan will take over as secretary of ministry of culture.Rajesh Aggarwal, who serves as additional secretary and financial adviser, ministry of petroleum & natural gas, was appointed as secretary of ministry of skill development and entrepreneurship.Lok Ranjan and Sujata Chaturvedi, both working as additional secretaries in department of personnel and training, will be secretary of ministry of development of north eastern region and department of sports, respectively.The government has also elevated a number of additional secretaries to the rank of special secretaries within their own departments, including, S. Kishore who was additional secretary, department of commerce, ministry of commerce and industry, V. Srinivas, presently additional secretary, department of administrative reforms and public grievances, and Manoj Joshi who is additional secretary, ministry of food processing industries. Katikithala Srinivas, former DoPT establishment officer, will now head the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration in the rank and pay of secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-reshuffles-top-bureaucrats-makes-13-secretary-level-appointments-101632305977281.html
22-09-2021||India||J&K govt sacks 6 employees over ‘terror links’, 2 cops among those dismissed||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Wednesday sacked six of its employees for allegedly having terror links and working as over ground workers. Among those dismissed were two police constables.According to available reports, the government initiated the steps after a designated committee in the Union territory mandated to scrutinise cases under Article 311(2)(c) of the Constitution recommended the removal of the six employees from government service over terror links. This provision gives the government the power to sack employees without an inquiry if "the President or the Governor, as the case may be, is satisfied that in the interest of the security of the State, it is not expedient to hold such inquiry". The order came days after the UT administration issued instructions on periodic character and antecedents verification of government employees. According to instructions issued by the general administration department of J&K, every government employee is mandatorily required to maintain absolute integrity, honesty and allegiance to the Union of India and its Constitution and not do anything that is unbecoming of a government servant. Last week, the UT administration also said government employees would not be issued a passport unless they got a vigilance clearance from their respective departments.In July this year, the government had dismissed 11 of its employees, including sons of Hizbul Mujahideen chief Syed Salahuddin and two from the police department, for allegedly working as overground workers for terrorist organisations, officials said on Saturday.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-govt-sacks-6-employees-over-terror-links-2-cops-among-those-dismissed-101632303394713.html
22-09-2021||India||‘Nagar Yatra’ of Mahant Narendra Giri’s mortal remains taken out in Prayagraj||The funeral procession of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri president began from Prayagraj’s Bagambari Gaddi Mutt ashram on Wednesday. Giri’s body was handed over to the office-bearers of the Shri Panchayati Akhara Niranjani, one of the ancient monastic orders of which Giri was also the secretary, after his post-mortem was conducted at the SRN Hospital. It was kept in an open vehicle, decorated with flowers. The Nagar Yatra (procession) was taken to Sangam, the holy confluence of the Ganga, Yamuna, and the mythical Saraswati. Political leaders such as Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya were part of the procession. Giri’s body was dipped in the holy waters of Ganga before it was taken to his mutt. On the way, the procession halted at Bade Hanuman Temple, where Giri served as the chief mahant up to his death.Also Read | Akhara head’s disciple held for suicide abetment, UP forms SITGiri would be given Bhoo-Samadhi near a lemon tree at a garden of the Math in accordance with his wishes mentioned in his purported suicide note. Sadhus and saints from across the country have arrived in Prayagraj for Giri’s funeral. They include monks, sannyasis, and Mahamandaleshwars (high priests) of the 13 ancient akharas (Hindu monastic orders). Schools up to class 12 were closed in Prayagraj on Wednesday in view of the huge turnout of locals for the funeral.Panchayati Akhara Shri Niranjani secretary Shri Mahant Ravindra Puri said, “A saint can be given Samadhi by two forms, either Jal (water) Samadhi or Bhoo (land) Samadhi. Narendra Giri ji would be given Bhoo Samadhi. The body would be kept in sitting posture as if he is meditating and all the offerings, including gems, flowers, honey, milk, Sugar, Salt, etc. would be offered to the body before the same would be covered with earth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/funeral-procession-of-mahant-narendra-giri-begins-101632302916437.html
22-09-2021||India||Travelling to UK? Know latest rules on Covishield, quarantine||The United Kingdon on Wednesday recognised Covishield, a formulation of Oxford's AstraZeneca vaccine, as a recognised vaccine in the country. However, there is no clarity yet on whether people fully vaccinated with Covishield will be exempt from the mandatory quarantine period or not as the revised UK travel guideline is silent on India's vaccine certificate and earlier the UK raised some issues with the Co-Win certification.  The new rules are applicable from 4am on October 4.Here is all you need to know about the ongoing controversy:Is Covishield, Covaxin recognised by the UK?The UK government has recently recognised Covishield, as it is a formulation of AstraZeneca. Covaxin is not recognised in the United Kingdom.Will Indian travellers fully vaccinated with Covishield be exempt from mandatory quarantine?If a particular vaccine is approved, it means travellers who have been inoculated with the vaccine will not have to undergo quarantine there. But according to reports, the UK government is yet to recognise the Co-Win certificate. So, as of now, there is no clarity on whether Indians vaccinated with both doses of Covishield will be exempt from quarantine or not.Can unvaccinated Indians travel to the UK?Yes. Unvaccinated travellers can travel to the United Kingdom, provided they take a pre-departure Covid-19 test, book and pay for day 2 and day 8 tests to be taken after the arrival in England and complete a passenger locator form anytime in the 48 hours before arriving in England.If the UK government does not recognise Co-Win certificate, there will effectively be no difference between vaccinated or unvaccinated Indians as everyone will have to undergo the mandatory quarantine period. Since there is still time for the new vaccine rules to become effective, it is expected that both governments will work out a solution where people fully vaccinated with Covishield will be exempt from quarantine. What is UK's problem with the Co-Win certificate?Co-Win is the one-stop-shop software for India's all vaccine-related issues. It generates the certificate which according to top government officials is of international standard. Initially, the UK government did not even keep India on the list of countries whose vaccines are recognised in the UK. After it mentioned Covishield following India's nudge as India told that a similar action might be taken against people travelling to India from the UK, the government included Covishield and clarified that they do not have a problem with the vaccine, but they have some doubts regarding the vaccine certificate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/travelling-to-uk-know-latest-rules-on-covishield-quarantine-101632301880170.html
22-09-2021||India||Ex-Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh summoned again in corruption case||The Maharashtra government-appointed Chandiwal judicial commission on Wednesday served a fresh summons on former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh and asked him to appear before the panel by October 6Singh was yet to appear before the commission, formed to investigate allegations of corruption levelled by him against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh, despite multiples summons being issued over the past few months, the panel’s advocate was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Earlier this month, the commission issued a bailable warrant against Singh in connection with an alleged corruption case of ₹100 crore.Singh has claimed Deshmukh had indulged in "malpractices" and asked suspended Mumbai Police officer Sachin Waze to collect ₹100 crore every month.Last week, the Bombay high court dismissed a petition filed by the former Mumbai police commissioner for quashing of the two preliminary inquiries against him by the Maharashtra government.On Wednesday, the Uddhav Thackarey government gave its go-ahead to the state Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) for another inquiry against Singh.The ACB is conducting a separate probe against Singh on a complaint of police inspector Anup Dange, who has alleged that Singh demanded ₹2 crore for reinstating him through a relative when he was under suspension last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-summons-issued-on-former-mumbai-top-cop-param-bir-singh-in-corruption-case-101632302108265.html
22-09-2021||India||SC paves way for audit of Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple Trust||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said its order directing an audit of Kerala’s centuries-old Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple will include that of the shrine’s trust as well. It ordered the Administrative Committee entrusted with the audit to complete the exercise preferably within three months.A bench of Justices UU Lalit, S Ravindra Bhat, and Bela M Trivedi passed the order on an application of the panel.Thiruvananthapuram district judge heads the committee, which has been entrusted with the interim charge of running the temple following a July 2020 Supreme Court order.The committee sought to audit the temple trust, run by the erstwhile Travancore royal family, citing serious financial difficulties in running the shrine’s affairs. According to the committee, the monthly expenses of the temple are about ₹1.25 crore, but it hardly manages to get ₹60-70 lakh. When it sought details of accounts from the trust, the latter moved the top court seeking clarification.Also Read | SC dismisses C’garh govt plea in toolkit case against ex-CM Raman Singh, PatraThe bench said, “We have held that the order passed by this court on July 13, 2020, was not confined to the temple but also the trust in light of the report submitted by the amicus curiae and the submissions made on behalf of the trust.”The Supreme Court in July 2020 set aside a Kerala high court order in 2011 allowing the state to take over the temple. It held the temple will be managed by the erstwhile royal family and will enjoy the rights of carrying out puja and other rituals. As an interim arrangement, the top court directed the constitution of the committee to manage the temple’s affairs. Senior advocate Gopal Subramaniam, the amicus curiae, recommended the audit covering 25 years and the top court allowed it.The committee interpreted this to mean audit of the temple and the trust. A private firm engaged by the committee for carrying out the audit asked the trust to submit income and expenditure details.Senior advocate Arvind Datar, who represented the trust, told the Supreme Court the direction for audit concerned only the temple. The committee cited the amicus curiae’s report and added it said both the trust and the temple have to be audited. It added the trust had cash reserves of ₹2.8 crore and assets worth about ₹2 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-paves-way-for-audit-of-sree-padmanabha-swamy-temple-trust-101632299795966.html
22-09-2021||India||Bengal residents get vaccinated in Bihar to escape paying ‘illegal commission’||30-year-old Wasim, a resident of Bhaluka village of West Bengal’s Malda district says he saved ₹500 and a lot of time and energy by opting to receive the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine at a public health centre in Bihar’s Katihar district, instead of Bengal.“In Bengal, we have to pay ₹600, even ₹800, but in Bihar, health officials have charged just ₹100,” he said, suggesting there was a huge difference in the alleged illegal commission one was required to pay in the two states to get vaccinated. He is not the only one to make such a claim, another resident from West Bengal’s Malda district, 35–year-old Mohammad Saifuddin too got vaccinated at Amdabad public health centre (PHC) in Katihar last Saturday. He said his experience wasn’t any different. “We are happy paying ₹100 as against the ₹600 one has to pay in our state” he alleged “There is complete chaos in West Bengal in administering jabs,” he added. Some other Bengal residents said they preferred Bihar’s PHCs for vaccination as they were nearer. “In Bengal, we have to walk about 10 kms to get vaccinated, but Amdabad PHC is just 2km from our village,” said Mohammad Munna, resident of Harischandrapur area of Malda district.These cross-border trips and allegations of illegal commission sought for vaccines that are meant to be given free of cost at government health centres came to light on Monday after a few men from Bengal posted video clips on social media narrating their experiences of vaccination centres in their state of residence and neighbouring Bihar.Taking a strong view of the allegations made in the video clips, Katihar district magistrate (DM) Udyan Mishra asked Katihar civil surgeon DN Pandey and Manihari sub divisional officer (SDO) Kumar Siddharth to probe if officials at the PHC in Bihar were charging ₹100 as ‘convenience’ fee for vaccinating beneficiaries.“It is totally wrong to charge money for free vaccines” the Katihar DM said, and added, “Manihari SDO and Katihar civil surgeon have been asked to probe the matter.”Mishra said the veracity of the video clips will be examined first, however, he agreed that a large number of residents from neighbouring Bengal were regularly visiting health centres in Bihar to get vaccinated. Amdabad PHC officials, however, denied the allegations of charging a fee for vaccination and suggested that the video posts could have been aimed to “defame” the health system in Bihar.A senior Katihar district administrative officer claimed that the vaccination drive in Bengal was not as smooth as Bihar. However, a senior health department official from West Bengal said they had not received any such complaints and would act if they received one in future. Katihar created a record by administering 86,081 doses on September 17 against the target of 80,000. In Bihar, over 50 million people have been given at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-residents-get-vaccinated-in-bihar-to-escape-paying-illegal-commission-101632299015562.html
22-09-2021||India||'Modi govt unleashing its agencies to defame, trouble us': AAP on ED summons||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday hit out at the Narendra Modi-led Union government over the recent summons issued by the Enforcement Directorate (ED).Addressing a press conference outside the ED headquarters in New Delhi, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha said, “The Modi government is so spooked by the increasing popularity of the AAP and its leader Arvind Kejriwal, that it has started unleashing its agencies to defame and trouble the AAP and also waste our time.”Also Read| ED issues summons to AAP secretary in money laundering probe against Punjab MLAChadha alleged that the Enforcement Directorate is one of the dearest agencies of the Modi government, adding that the government unleashes it on every political opponent.The central agency on September 13 issued summons to AAP national general secretary Pankaj Gupta in connection with its investigation against Punjab Congress legislator Sukhpal Singh Khaira, who is under investigation in at least two money laundering cases.मोदी जी, हम आपके 2 कौड़ी के Notice से नहीं डरते!अगर मुकाबला करना ही है तो केजरीवाल जी की 'काम की राजनीति' से करो।- @raghav_chadha on ED summon to AAP #ModiFearsKejriwal pic.twitter.com/f1WsoPnVCBGupta was asked to appear before the ED on September 22. Officials aware of the developments told Hindustan Times that Gupta was summoned to seek some clarifications in the probe against Khaira, who is an MLA from the Bholath constituency and was a former leader of the AAP.AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha said during Wednesday's press conference that for the past seven years, no leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) received a notice from the ED.“Since the time AAP has been formed, we have received income tax notices in every assessment year. Fake lawsuits were issued against 21 of our MLAs. Raids were conducted at our chief minister's office and the home of our deputy chief minister and health minister” Chadha also said.Also Read| After Amarinder Singh’s resignation, AAP fires ‘Game of Thrones’ jibe at CongHe added that if the BJP wants to fight the AAP, it should do so with Arvind Kejriwal's "politics of work".When summons were issued to AAP general secretary Pankaj Gupta, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who is also the party's national convener, said on September 13 that these tactics of the BJP will not succeed and would only make his party stronger.“In Delhi, they tried to defeat us with IT Dept, CBI, Delhi Police - but we won 62 seats. As we grow in Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand, Guj - we get an ED notice! The people of India want honest politics.” Kejriwal tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-govt-unleashing-its-agencies-to-defame-trouble-us-aap-on-ed-summons-101632295218741.html
22-09-2021||India||Biggest stockpile of rhino horns consigned to flames in Assam on World Rhino Day||Nearly 2,500 rhino horns, claimed to be the world’s largest such stockpile, were consigned to flames at Bokakhat in Assam on the World Rhino Day on Wednesday amid chanting of hymns and blowing of conches with the aim to dispel myths associated with hunting for rhino horns.Total of 2,479 horns were burnt in six large iron pyres, specially made for the event, at a stadium located 240 km east of Guwahati. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, accompanied by several cabinet colleagues, lit the pyres remotely through drones. “Through this event, we want to convey to the world that rhino horns are just a mass of compacted hair and there is no medicinal value to them. We want to urge people not to kill these rare animals or buy their horns based on superstitions or myths. We should allow rhinos to live and grow naturally,” Sarma said. “Some are saying that instead of destroying the horns we should have sold them. But like the way we can’t sell seized drugs to earn revenue, the same way a government can’t earn money by selling rhino horns. In Africa, they have burned seized rhino horns, but the quantity is not that large. I think today we are setting a world record,” he added. Sarma said from now on, all rhino horns recovered from animals dying naturally or during disasters and accidents will be burned every year and won’t be stored for long. The burnt horns had been seized from poachers and traders of animal parts or recovered from dead rhinos in the state’s national parks and wildlife sanctuaries since 1979 and were stored in 12 district treasuries. While 2,479 of these were destroyed on Wednesday, 50 horns associated with pending court cases will be kept in treasuries and 94 others will be preserved for exhibition or educational purposes. The state government said it will set up a natural history museum near the Kaziranga national park to keep the preserved pieces. Before destroying them, experts had verified the horns using scientific methods at the treasuries where they were kept. Each horn was cleaned, weighed, photographed, labeled with a unique barcode, DNA samples extracted and packed and sealed again in presence of several people. “This is a rare event and since there’s god present in each being, we decided to consign the rhino horns to flames with Vedic rituals. The horns were verified in a very transparent manner before destroying them. We also want to convey a stern message to poachers not to dare target another rhino in Assam,” forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya said. Of the total 2,623 horns kept in treasuries, 15 were of African rhinos (which have two horns) and 21 were found to be fakes. The longest horn measured 57 cm and the heaviest weighed 3 kilos. The average height and weight of the horns were 13.77 cm and 560 gm respectively. The total weight of the horns destroyed on Wednesday was 1,305 kilos. Though there is no scientific basis, rhino horns form part of traditional medicine in some Asian countries including China and Vietnam. Each horn, which is made up of keratin (found in hair, nails), is valued over thousands of US dollars, leading to rampant killing of rhinos in Asia and Africa. “Scientifically, rhino horns don’t have any value, but they have a price in some markets based on superstitions about its medicinal properties. If we preserve them, it will convey the message that we believe in such superstitions. It’s good that the horns stored in Assam are being destroyed,” Rathin Barman, joint director, Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) said. “I congratulate the Assam government on the decision to burn the rhino horns and send the message that they don’t have any medicinal value. The horn looks best on a living animal and is not suited for any other purpose,” said Bibhab Talukdar, chief executive officer (CEO) of Aaranyak, a wildlife non-governmental organisation (NGO). Assam is home to the world’s largest population of one-horned rhinos. According to a 2018 census, there are nearly 2,650 rhinos in the state with around 2,400 of them concentrated in Kaziranga National Park. Rhinos are listed in Schedule 1 of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 as an endangered animal and there is an international ban on trade of rhino horns under CITES (Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna). The Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 allows for destruction of wildlife parts (including rhino horn) under Section 39 (3). On September 16, the Assam cabinet had approved destruction of the horns kept in treasuries. In recent years, in a bid to save rhinos from poaching, the state government has taken measures like arming forest personnel with sophisticated weapons and increased surveillance using drones. The measures have helped one-horned rhinos move up from ‘endangered’ to ‘vulnerable’ category in IUCN’s red list of threatened species.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biggest-stockpile-of-rhino-horns-consigned-to-flames-in-assam-on-world-rhino-day-101632298475581.html
22-09-2021||India||UK lists Covishield as ‘approved’ Covid-19 vaccine in revised travel advisory||The United Kingdom revised its travel advisory on Wednesday in which it said that Covishield, the coronavirus disease vaccine jointly developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University and manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) – will qualify as an approved vaccine for travellers visiting Britain from any part of the world from October 4 onwards. However, Indians vaccinated with both doses of Covishield will still need to quarantine in the UK due to an issue over ‘vaccine certification’, even though the country has been added to the ‘amber list’ according to the latest travel rules.The guidelines provided in the latest advisory suggest that Britain has no problems with the formulation of the Covishield vaccine, but with the vaccine certification provided by India. Notably, India had earlier protested the UK's non-recognition of the Covishield vaccine and warned of “reciprocal measures” if the “discriminatory policy” was not amended.Also Read | Working with India, says UK on recognising Covishield vaccine certificateIn its new advisory, the UK said that a traveller will be considered fully vaccinated if they are inoculated with a full dose of the Oxford-AstraZeneca, Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, or Janssen vaccines from a relevant public health body in select countries. The advisory further said that along with Covishield, other formulations of the four aforementioned vaccines – as AstraZeneca Vaxzevria or Moderna Takeda – shall also qualify as approved vaccines.COVID19 | In its revised travel advisory, the UK government says Covishield qualifies as an approved vaccine pic.twitter.com/B5R52cDu6vThe new travel advisory issued by the UK said that travellers must have had a complete course of an approved vaccine at least 14 days before arriving in England.The UK had in its travel rules said that Indian travellers who received both doses of the Covishield vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India will be considered unvaccinated and will have to undergo self-isolation for 10 days. Reacting to the development, external affairs minister S Jaishankar strongly took up the issue of Covishield-vaccinated travellers being required to quarantine in the UK with newly-appointed British foreign secretary Elizabeth Truss at a meeting in New York.At a media briefing on Tuesday, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla had also called the UK's travel rules ‘discriminatory’ and said that India is well within its rights to initiate reciprocal measures if the UK does not address the concerns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-lists-covishield-as-approved-covid-19-vaccine-in-revised-travel-advisory-101632296392358.html
22-09-2021||India||Maulana Kaleem Siddiqui, one of Uttar Pradesh's prominent clerics, arrested by ATS||The Anti-Terror Squad (ATS) of Uttar Pradesh Police arrested Maulana Kaleem Siddiqui late on Tuesday night on charges of religious conversion, news agency ANI reported. Siddiqui is one of the biggest clerics from western Uttar Pradesh.Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, Uttar Pradesh ADG (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar said that the cleric had direct links with mass unlawful conversion racket."Mulana Kaleem had direct links with mass unlawful conversion racket which was busted by ATS earlier this year. Kaleem not only funded and oversaw conversion activities but also used his trust to fund madrasas involved in unlawful conversion," said Kumar. He added that Siddiqui's trust trust received huge amounts of foreign funds."Investigation shows that Maulana Kaleem Siddiqui's trust received ₹3 crore in foreign funding including ₹1.5 from crore Bahrain," said Kumar, adding that six teams of ATS have been formed to investigate the case.In a statement, the ATS said that Siddiqui runs Jamia Imam Waliullah trust that funds several madrassas for which he received huge foreign funding, according to ANI.The Maulana was taken into custody while he was returning to his home at village Fulat in Muzaffarnagar after attending a programme in Meerut on Tuesday night. Angry locals immediately launched a protest outside Lisari Gate police station to know the whereabouts of the Maulana.Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP) Amanatullah Khan, the chairman of Delhi Waqf Board, slammed the arrest, calling it “atrocity on Muslims”. Khan was at the centre of the storm during the Shaheen Bagh protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maulana-kaleem-siddiqui-one-of-up-s-prominent-clerics-arrested-by-ats-101632296445185.html
22-09-2021||India||India may allow smaller gap between 2 doses of Covishield vaccine||India is likely to allow a smaller gap between Covishield, the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, doses for inoculations being carried out privately, in line with a court order, two sources told Reuters.Private hospitals and clinics will give their paying patients the option to receive their second dose of the vaccine four weeks after the first, down from between 12 and 16 weeks currently, they said.Earlier this month, the high court in the southern state of Kerala ordered changes in the health ministry's vaccine-booking platform to give people paying for vaccination this choice, which is already being offered to those flying abroad."Since the high court has given a judgment, it will have to be done," said one of the sources. "For the government's programme, the ideal gap remains 12 weeks."India doubled the gap between the AstraZeneca vaccine's two doses in May to make sure more people were inoculated with at least one dose when supplies were scarce at the height of the country's outbreak this year.AstraZeneca recommends the second dose of its Covid-19 vaccine be taken four weeks after the first shot, but says on its website there is a "trend of increased efficacy with a longer than 4-week dosing interval". The World Health Organization recommends an interval of eight to 12 weeks.The sources, who declined to be named because they were not authorised to speak to the media, could not say when the changes will be implemented.The health ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment.India's total vaccine output has trebled since May to 300 million doses a month. Less than a quarter of the production is sold by private hospitals while the rest is provided by the government free of cost.India has administered at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in 65% of its 944 million adults and two doses in 22% of adults.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-may-allow-smaller-gap-between-2-doses-of-covishield-vaccine-101632295918768.html
22-09-2021||India||PM Modi congratulates Canada’s Justin Trudeau for election win||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday congratulated his Canadian counterpart Justin Trudeau on his victory in the general election, saying he looked forward to strengthening bilateral relations. “Congratulations Prime Minister @JustinTrudeau on your victory in the elections! I look forward to continue working with you to further strengthen India-Canada relations, as well as our cooperation on global and multilateral issues,” Modi tweeted as he embarked on a visit to the US. Trudeau, who has been in power since 2015, and his Liberal Party are set to win the most seats in Canada’s Parliament but are expected to fall short of the 170-seat threshold for a majority. US President Joe Biden and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson are also among world leaders who have congratulated Trudeau, who has been governing with a minority in the House of Commons since 2019. Also Read | Visit an opportunity to consolidate ties, says PM Modi before leaving for USRelations between India and Canada have been strained in recent years over a range of issues. Ties nosedived during a disastrous visit to India by Trudeau in 2018 and have never really recovered since then. At the time, the Indian side was upset by perceived links between members of Trudeau’s cabinet and pro-Khalistan elements in Canada. New Delhi also believed these members of the Canadian cabinet had interfered in the Indian government’s outreach to pro-Khalistan elements. More recently, Trudeau had angered the Indian side when he said in December 2020 that his government had conveyed its concerns over a protest by Indian farmers against new farm laws to New Delhi. He had said that Canada will “always stand up for the right for peaceful protest and for human rights around the world”. The external affairs ministry had dismissed Trudeau’s remarks as “unwarranted”. The ministry also summoned Canadian envoy Nadir Patel and told him the remarks on the farmers’ protest had the potential to “seriously” damage bilateral ties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmmodi-congratulates-canada-s-justin-trudeau-for-election-win-101632296075310.html
22-09-2021||India||SC dismisses C’garh govt plea in toolkit case against ex-CM Raman Singh, Patra||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to interfere with a Chhattisgarh high court order staying probe against former chief minister Raman Singh and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sambit Patra over their comments related to the alleged toolkit, or a social media campaign playbook, that their party in May said was prepared by the Congress to defame Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It said observation in the order terming the First Information Report (FIR) filed in the case as politically motivated will not come in the way of the high court in finally deciding the matter.The Chhattisgarh government approached the Supreme Court against the high court’s June 14 interim order. A single judge of the high court passed the order saying there was no case against Singh and Patra. The two were accused of spreading fake news and promoting enmity between classes through their tweets related to the alleged toolkit.Also Read | Can’t deny them their right: SC on Centre’s plea to defer NDA exams for womenThe BJP has alleged the toolkit was prepared to build a biased narrative over the government’s handling of the second wave of the Covid-19, and the Central Vista Project. The Congress has dismissed the allegations.The high court issued a notice on the basis of Singh and Patra’s pleas against the FIR and sought a response from the state government. It said the averments in the FIR reflected that by the tweets, Congressmen “are aggravated which clearly indicated that no public peace or tranquillity is being adversely affected”. The court linked the allegations in the FIR to political rivalry between two parties.Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who appeared for the state government, cited the high court’s observations, and asked: “What is left for me to go back for?”A bench of Chief Justice of India NV Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli was not inclined to entertain the petition. “There are a large number of cases alleging politically motivated FIRs across courts in this country. This court cannot be dealing with all such cases. Why should we give any preference to you?”Singhvi said the least the state government expected was a fair hearing before the Supreme Court and this was not possible with the high court’s observations.The bench told Singhvi, “Do not waste your energy. We are not interfering with the HC (high court) order. Let the high court decide the matter finally. The state would also have the opportunity to challenge the final order before this court.” Dismissing the appeal, the bench said, “...we request the high court to dispose of the petition expeditiously.”Singh and Patra were booked on May 19 on the complaint by Akash Sharma, the Chhattisgarh chief of ruling Congress’s students’ wing. The two moved the high court for quashing the FIR against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-dismisses-c-garh-govt-plea-in-toolkit-case-against-ex-cm-raman-singh-patra-101632295595115.html
22-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Dengue cases in Sept lower than previous yrs, says Delhi minister Jain and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Dengue cases in Delhi in Sept lower than previous years’: Health minister JainDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Wednesday that fewer cases of viral disease dengue have been reported in the national capital in September this year as compared to 2020, when 188 people were infected during the month. Jain added that dengue cases in September are also lower than the previous years of this month. Read moreSC rejects Shree Padmanabhaswamy Temple trust's plea for audit exemptionThe Supreme Court on Wednesday rejected an appeal of the Shree Padmanabhaswamy Temple Trust seeking exemption of its audit for 25 years as ordered by the apex court last year. Read moreCops assaulted in road rage incident at Goregaon, 3 arrestedThree men were arrested for assaulting cops and a city resident in an incident of road rage at Mumbai’s Goregaon West during early hours on Monday, police said. Accused Kiran Kasbe (25), Mala Chinras (25), and Prakash Singh (26) were arrested by Bangur Nagar police station personnel following the assault. Read moreCanada elections: Jagmeet Singh’s NDP wins 25 seats, well short of expectationsPrime Minister Justin Trudeau’s clarion call to voters to avoid opting for smaller parties in the 2021 Canada elections - in what is called split-voting - seems to have dealt Jagmeet Singh’s New Democratic Party (NDP) a blow. Read moreAudi launches its most powerful EV in India. Check features, range and priceAudi e-tron GT and RS GT were officially launched in the Indian car market on Wednesday at a starting price of ₹1.79 crore (ex showroom). Audi India may have come to the electric party a little late - the e-tron and e-tron Sportback was launched in July - but now boasts of the widest range among luxury as well as non-luxury brand of vehicles here. Read moreSonam Kapoor in bright red dress proves exaggerated sleeves can elevate a look instantlyBollywood actor Sonam Kapoor Ahuja is one of the few celebrities in the film industry who know how to carry exaggerated style statements. The star is known for creating head-turning larger-than-life voguish sartorial moments in high-end couture looks. Read moreHonsla Rakh producer shares update on Shehnaaz Gill resuming shoot after Sidharth Shukla’s deathShehnaaz Gill, who is mourning the loss of her rumoured boyfriend Sidharth Shukla, has stayed away from the public eye after his death. She was supposed to shoot for a promotional song for her Punjabi film, Honsla Rakh, on September 15 but the producers pushed it due to the tragedy. Read moreWatch| Pakistan isolated after SAARC nations reject Taliban request, cancel meet in New York||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-dengue-cases-in-sept-lower-than-previous-yrs-says-jain-101632294236379.html
22-09-2021||India||Can't deny them their right: SC on Centre's plea to defer NDA exams for women||The Supreme Court on Wednesday told the Centre it would not vacate its interim order allowing women aspirants to take the entrance examination of the National Defence Academy (NDA) slated to be held in November this year.The court said, "This won't send the right signal to women after having given them the aspiration.. Let's begin from this year."Stating the armed forces were best suited to deal with “emergencies”, the apex court said, “We don't want women to be denied their right. Needful be done by the defence department in collaboration with UPSC.”A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy directed the Union Public Services Commission (UPSC) to give wide publicity to the new admission policy through advertisements so that the order is translated into effect and more women are encouraged to apply.On Monday, the Union government informed the Supreme Court the NDA will be ready to welcome the first-ever batch of women cadets in January 2023 after they sit for the entrance exam in May next year.“Entrance examination for entry into NDA is held twice in a year and the government proposes to have the necessary mechanism in place by May 2022, i.e. the time by which the UPSC (Union Public Service Commission) is required to publish the first notification of the Year 2022 for entrance examination for entry to NDA,” read the government’s affidavit submitted before the bench.The Centre’s response was made on the basis of a judgement passed by the Supreme Court on August 18 which held the policy that restricted entry of women in the NDA was based on “gender discrimination”. The court allowed women to sit for the upcoming entrance examination in November this year, breaking a glass ceiling that has held women back for 65 years.With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-deny-them-their-right-sc-on-centre-s-plea-to-defer-nda-exams-for-women-101632292908502.html
22-09-2021||India||Visit an opportunity to consolidate ties, says PM Modi before leaving for US||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday his visit to the US is an opportunity to strengthen the bilateral comprehensive global strategic partnership and to consolidate ties with two strategic partners, Japan and Australia. In a statement issued to coincide with his departure for Washington, Modi said he will review the India-US partnership with President Joe Biden and participate in the maiden in-person Quad Leaders’ Summit with Biden, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga. Modi, who will be in the US during September 22-25, will have separate meetings with US vice president Kamala Harris, Morrison and Suga, and hold talks with leading American businesspeople in Washington. He will travel to New York to address the UN General Assembly session on September 25. Also Read | AUKUS won’t impact Quad agenda: Harsh ShringlaThis is Modi’s first foreign visit beyond the immediate neighbourhood since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic last year. He made his first foreign visit this year to Bangladesh in March. He will be joined in the US by a high-level delegation that includes external affairs minister S Jaishankar, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla. “During my visit, I will review the India-US Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership with President Biden and exchange views on regional and global issues of mutual interest,” Modi said in the statement. “My visit to the US would be an occasion to strengthen the Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership with USA, consolidate relations with our strategic partners – Japan and Australia – and to take forward our collaboration on important global issues,” he said. The Quad Summit will be an opportunity to “take stock of the outcomes of our virtual summit in March...and identify priorities for future engagements based on our shared vision for the Indo-Pacific region”, he added. Modi said he was looking forward to meeting Harris to explore opportunities for bilateral cooperation, particularly in science and technology. He noted that his address at the UN General Assembly will focus on pressing global challenges, including the pandemic, the need to combat terrorism and climate change. The situation in Afghanistan and its impact on extremism and terrorism, China’s assertive actions across the region and ways to enhance India-US cooperation in areas such as defence, trade and energy are expected to figure in the prime minister’s interactions in the US. New Delhi is looking forward to substantial outcomes from the Quad Summit because India currently has strong strategic partnerships with all the three other members of the grouping, especially the relationship with Australia, which has been upgraded with the forging of a comprehensive strategic partnership and the holding of the maiden 2+2 dialogue of defence and foreign ministers. Besides taking forward the vaccine partnership unveiled at the first virtual Quad Summit, the Indian side is expecting progress on collaboration in new and emerging technologies, including the setting of standards and norms, and measures to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific against the backdrop of China’s aggressive actions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/visit-an-opportunity-to-consolidate-ties-says-pm-modi-before-leaving-for-us-101632292114922.html
22-09-2021||India||SC rejects Shree Padmanabhaswamy Temple trust's plea for audit exemption||The Supreme Court on Wednesday rejected an appeal of the Shree Padmanabhaswamy Temple Trust seeking exemption of its audit for 25 years as ordered by the apex court last year. The court said the audit order did not confine to the temple, but the trust as well, adding the process should be completed as early as possible, preferably within three months.Also read | Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple closed after priest, 10 others test Covid positiveA bench, headed by Justice UU Lalit and comprising Justices S Ravindra Bhat and Bela M Trivedi, said, "It is clear that the audit contemplated was not intended to be confined to the temple only but with respect to the trust. This direction has to be seen in light of the reports of the amicus curiae in the case as recorded in order dated 2015."Also read | Padmanabha Swamy Temple to be managed by ex-royal family, rules Supreme CourtOn September 19, the Administrative Committee of the Shree Padmanabhaswamy Temple in Kerala had told the court it was facing major financial issues and offerings were not sufficient to meet the expenses, while seeking an audit of the temple-related trust run by the Travancore royal family.“All temples in Kerala are closed and while this temple's monthly expenses are ₹1.25 crore, we are hardly able to get ₹60-70 lakh. Therefore, we have sought certain directions," senior advocate R Basant, appearing for the committee, had said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rejects-shree-padmanabhaswamy-temple-trust-s-plea-for-audit-exemption-101632290367621.html
22-09-2021||India||PM Modi's departure statement ahead of US visit 2021: Full text||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is visiting the United States on Wednesday on a three-day tour, which will have him interact with US president Joe Biden, Vice-President Kamala Harris, before meeting other foreign leaders at the first in-person Quad summit. In a statement before leaving for US, Prime Minister said that his upcoming meetings will provide an occasion for India to strengthen the comprehensive global strategic partnership with the US, consolidate relations with India's strategic partners - Japan and Australia - and take forward bilateral collaborations on important global issues.Also Read | PM Modi to leave for US shortly, says visit an occasion to strengthen strategic ties“At the invitation of @POTUS @JoeBiden, I am visiting USA to continue our dialogue, and exchange views on areas of mutual interest,” Prime Minister Modi tweeted ahead of leaving for the US on Wednesday. “Also looking forward to meet @VP @KamalaHarris to discuss global issues and explore ideas for cooperation between India and US.”“Will also participate in the Quad with President @JoeBiden, PM @ScottMorrisonMP and PM @sugawitter,” he added. “We will take stock of outcomes of Summit in March. I will also address UNGA focusing on the global challenges.”Will also participate in the Quad with President @JoeBiden, PM @ScottMorrisonMP and PM @sugawitter. We will take stock of outcomes of Summit in March. I will also address UNGA focusing on the global challenges. https://t.co/FcuhlJbeSlRead the full text of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's departure statement ahead of US visit:"I will be visiting USA from 22-25 September, 2021 at the invitation of His Excellency President Joe Biden of the United States of AmericaDuring my visit, I will review the India-U.S. Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership with President Biden and exchange views on regional and global issues of mutual interest. I am also looking forward to meeting Vice President Kamala Harris to explore opportunities for cooperation between our two nations particularly in the area of science and technology.I will participate in the first in-person Quad Leaders’ Summit along with President Biden, Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia and Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga of Japan. The Summit provides an opportunity to take stock of the outcomes of our Virtual Summit in March this year and identify priorities for future engagements based on our shared vision for the Indo-Pacific region.I will also meet Prime Minister Morrison of Australia and Prime Minister Suga of Japan to take stock of the strong bilateral relations with their respective countries and continue our useful exchanges on regional and global issues.I will conclude my visit with an Address at the United Nations General Assembly focusing on the pressing global challenges including the Covid-19 pandemic, the need to combat terrorism, climate change and other important issues.My visit to the US would be an occasion to strengthen the Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership with USA, consolidate relations with our strategic partners – Japan and Australia - and to take forward our collaboration on important global issues."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-departure-statement-ahead-of-us-visit-2021-full-text-101632288241572.html
22-09-2021||India||Manipur ranks third in food safety index among small states||Manipur ranked third among India’s small states behind Goa and Meghalaya in this year’s State Food Safety Index (SFSI), released by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) under the Union health ministry, data shows.Gujarat topped the ranking among the large states with 72 points followed by Kerala (70) and Tamil Nadu (64) in the second and third place respectively.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday released the report for 2020-21. The SFSI ranking is an effort to measure food safety standards across the nation. According to FSSAI, the SFSI Index is prepared for three categories - large states, small states and Union Territories to ensure comparability among similar entities.The minister felicitated nine leading states and Union Territories (UTs) based on the 2020-21 ranking. Human resources and institutional data, compliance, food testing- infrastructure and surveillance, training and capacity building, consumer empowerment are the criteria on which states’ performances are weighed for the ranking.The minister also flagged off 19 mobile food testing vans to supplement the food safety ecosystem across the country. The total number of such mobile testing vans has now reached 109, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-ranks-third-in-food-safety-index-among-small-states-101632289354550.html
22-09-2021||India||In Amritsar, Punjab CM makes a brief stopover at tea stall, recites poetry||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi paid obeisance at the Golden Temple in Amritsar on Wednesday morning. He was accompanied by state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, and deputy chief ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa and OP Soni.They also participated in the morning ritual of the departure of Guru Granth Sahib from the Akal Takht to the sanctum sanctorum of the Golden Temple, also known as Harmandir Sahib. They also visited the Durgiana temple.Later, in a brief statement to the reporters, Channi said he will ensure justice to Panth in case of Guru Granth Sahib sacrilege.The chief minister's cavalcade later stopped at Amritsar's famous Giani tea stall, where Channi, Sidhu and other leaders were surrounded by locals.The video of the chief minister's brief stoppage was posted live on Sidhu's Facebook page, where the chief minister engaged in casual talk with his colleagues and even recited a poetry which sitting on a wooden stool and sipping tea after pouring it in a small bowl."Chalte firte hue mehtab dikhaenge tumhen, humse milna kabhi, ye Punjab dikhaenge tumhen. Chand har chhat pe hai, suraj hai har aangan me, neend se jaago, naye khwab dikhaenge tumhen (Come, I will show you moonlight walking around, will show you the real Punjab. Here, there is moon at every terrace and sun in every patio; wake up, will show you new dreams)," Channi said.
22-09-2021||India||WHO chief thanks Mansukh Mandaviya for resuming vaccine exports to COVAX pool||World Health Organisation (WHO) director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has thanked Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya for resuming shipments of vaccines against the coronavirus disease to the global platform COVAX from October.Sharing a tweet, Ghebreyesus wrote, “Thank you Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya for announcing India will resume crucial Covid vaccine shipments to COVAX in October.”Calling it an “important development”, the WHO chief further said India’s contribution will help all COVAX-supported countries reach the 40 per cent vaccination target rate by the end of the year.On Monday, India, the world’s biggest vaccine manufacturer, said exports of Covid-19 vaccines to the global vaccine alliance Covax will resume in October. Mandaviya said only excess supplies would qualify for export. "We will help other countries and also fulfil our responsibility towards COVAX," he told reporters.India had put a pause on exporting the doses in April after infections skyrocketed during the second wave of Covid-19 and the government was subjected to intense criticism by the opposition parties for a low rate of inoculation. Before the export ban came into force, India had either sold or donated 66 million doses to nearly 100 countries.Mandaviya said donations can now be resumed since total productions have more than doubled since April and is set to quadruple to over 300 million doses next month. There was also a possibility of the total vaccine production topping 1 million in the last three months of the year as new vaccines from companies such as Biological E may receive approval soon, the health minister said.The Union government’s resumption of vaccine donations to global alliance COVAX came days before Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s official visit to Washington where US President Joe Biden will be pushing for wider access to vaccines for bringing an end to the ongoing pandemic by 2022.India has inoculated at least 820 million beneficiaries against Covid-19 till Tuesday, official records showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-chief-thanks-mansukh-mandaviya-for-resuming-vaccine-exports-to-covax-pool-101632288080158.html
22-09-2021||India||PM Modi leaves for US, will meet President Biden, address UN general assembly||Prime Minister Narendra Modi departed for his much-awaited visit to the United States on Wednesday morning. He will hold several bilateral meetings besides attending the Quad leaders summit and addressing United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) debate during his September 22-25 visit.Track Live Updates of PM Modi's visit to United StatesPM Modi's aircraft departed from Delhi after 11am; he will reach Washington at 6pm local time (3.30am IST)."My visit to US would be an occasion to strengthen the Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership with US, consolidate relations with our strategic partners - Japan and Australia - and take forward our collaboration on important global issues," the Prime Minister said before leaving for US.Read full text of PM Modi's pre-departure statementHe also said that the Quad summit will provide an opportunity to identify priorities for future engagements "based on our shared vision for Indo-Pacific region".PM Modi is scheduled to meet US President Joe Biden on September 24. The two leaders will discuss the current regional security situation following the recent developments in Afghanistan."The two leaders are expected to discuss, how to bolster bilateral trade and investment ties, strengthen security collaboration, boost the strategic clean energy partnership. Explore new avenues in emerging technologies, through R&D innovation and industry linkages," foreign secretary Harsh V Shringla said on Tuesday.A day before that, PM Modi is expected to meet US vice president Kamala Harris and hold bilateral meetings with Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga - the members of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue - before a Quad summit.This will be his first meeting with Biden after the latter became US President and his first ever in-person meeting with Harris.PM Modi will also hold a meeting with top American business leaders the same day in order to drum up trade and investments as part of India's post-Covid recovery efforts.The theme of this year's debate at UNGA is "Building resilience through hope to recover from Covid-19, rebuild sustainably, respond to planet's needs, respect people's rights and revitalise UN".According to Shringla, PM Modi will speak on various important issues including cross-border terrorism, regional situation and United Nations Security Council (UNSC) reforms on September 25. "India's Amrit Mahotsav and the 75th-anniversary of the UN are coinciding. And on this occasion, the prime minister during his address, will definitely speak on UN reforms, about why it is needed and how it can be achieved," he said at a press conference on Tuesday. PM Modi last addressed UNGA in-person 2019.Top leaders from across the world have already started converging in New York for UNGA high-level debate week. The UNGA meeting this year is being held in a hybrid format.PM Modi will be accompanied by a high-level delegation consisting of external affairs minister S Jaishankar, National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval and other senior officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-leave-for-us-shortly-says-visit-an-occasion-to-strengthen-strategic-ties-101632287787012.html
22-09-2021||India||Covid-19: New infection tally rises, but active case count lowest in 186 days||India on Wednesday registered a minor rise in fresh Covid-19 cases with 26,964 samples testing positive for the virus. On Tuesday, this figure was 26,115. The active case count at 0.90 per cent is the lowest since March 2020, while the total number of active cases currently stood at 3,01,989 -- a low of 186 days.This was a reduction of 7,586 cases in the active caseload in a span of 24 hours. A nationwide recovery rate of 97.77 per cent was also the highest since March 2020. As many as 34,167 patients were declared cured from the disease in the last 24 hours, taking the overall recoveries to 3,27,83,741.Also read | Seventh sero survey likely to begin in the Capital this weekThe cumulative fatality count was pushed to 4,45,768 with 383 people losing their lives to the virus during the same period.The weekly positivity rate (2.08 per cent) has remained below three per cent for 89 days now, while the daily positivity rate that stood at 1.69 per cent has also been less than three per cent since the last 23 days.The Indian Council of Medical Research said 15,92,395 samples were tested for the virus on Tuesday which pushed the overall count to 55,67,54,282.Also read | Bharat Biotech completes phase 2/3 trials of Covaxin in childrenThe government said 75,57529 doses of vaccine against the virus were administered during the day, taking the total number of inoculations since the nationwide drive was launched earlier this year to 86,65,15,754.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-new-infection-tally-rises-but-active-case-count-lowest-in-186-days-101632286116876.html
22-09-2021||India||TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee to visit Tripura today||Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Abhishek Banerjee will arrive in Agartala on Wednesday a day after the Tripura high court rejected a plea for allowing him to hold a rally here. Banerjee is expected to preside over a meeting of the state TMC leaders. The decision on a new state committee is likely to be taken at the meeting, people aware of the matter said.Also Read | Delhi HC declines to stay ED summons to TMC leaderTMC had scheduled a rally for Banerjee on Wednesday in Agartala. The state police earlier denied it permission for holding rallies for him on September 15 and 16.The state government has also imposed prohibitory orders in Agartala and restricted political events from September 21 till November 4 citing law and order issues.The TMC is trying to make inroads into Tripura ahead of the 2023 elections in the state. TMC leaders such as Kunal Ghosh and Shantanu Sen have been visiting the state to expand the party’s base.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abhishek-banerjee-to-visit-tripura-today-101632284853948.html
22-09-2021||India||PM Modi congratulates Canada's Justin Trudeau for victory in polls||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday congratulated his Canadian counterpart Justin Trudeau for his victory in the elections and said he is looking forward to further strengthen India-Canada relations.“Congratulations Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on your victory in the elections! I look forward to continue working with you to further strengthen India-Canada relations, as well as our cooperation on global and multilateral issues,” tweeted Prime Minister Modi.Congratulations Prime Minister @JustinTrudeau on your victory in the elections! I look forward to continue working with you to further strengthen India-Canada relations, as well as our cooperation on global and multilateral issues.Justin Trudeau is poised for a third term as Canada's Prime Minister reported Canadian broadcasters who projected a win for his Liberal Party in Monday's elections.Also Read | Jagmeet, 15 other Punjab-origin candidates win Canada electionsTrudeau, who is in power since 2015 has now won three general elections in less than six years. Trudeau, 49, won Papineau, Quebec, according to state broadcaster CBC. The Conservatives, led by Erin O'Toole, are projected to be the main opposition party.The Liberal party leader Trudeau had called for a snap election last month in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic assuming that his handling of the pandemic would help his government win a majority. However, even as that bet seems to have backfired the poll win puts the 49-year-old back in a position he has held since the 2015 federal election, which saw the Liberals win a 184-seat majority.WATCH: Justin Trudeau wins historic third term but fails to get majority | Canada pollsNotably, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on February 15 had assured his Canadian counterpart that India will support the Canadian Covid-19 vaccination programme. Trudeau had made a telephone call to PM Modi and asked for his support.Earlier, the relationship between the two countries had entered rough weather when Trudeau expressed concern over the ongoing farmers' protests against Central agri laws in India. The ministry of external affairs (MEA) in a statement termed his comments “unwarranted”.Later, however, Trudeau changed his stance and commended India for holding dialogue with farmers' leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-congratulates-canada-s-justin-trudeau-for-victory-in-polls-101632284014404.html
22-09-2021||India||Heavy rain likely in some parts of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal today||Widespread and heavy rain is likely over Punjab,Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand today, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).The monsoon trough is lying to the south of its normal position and likely to remain so during the next five days. A low pressure area is lying over southeast Jharkhand and neighbourhood. It is likely to weaken gradually during the next 24 hours and move west-northwestwards as a cyclonic circulation across north Odisha, north Chhattisgarh and north Madhya Pradesh during the subsequent 2-3 days. Also Read | Light to moderate rainfall in Delhi-NCR today: IMDA cyclonic circulation is lying over east Rajasthan. Isolated heavy rain is likely over Gangetic West Bengal and north Odisha today. Widespread rainfall with Isolated heavy rain is likely over East Rajasthan and Gujarat region till September 25 and over West Rajasthan today. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rain is likely over Uttarakhand till September 25 and over Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana today. Heavy rain is likely over east Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh till September 24 and decrease thereafter. A cyclonic circulation is likely to develop over east central and adjoining northeast Bay of Bengal around September 25. It is likely to move west-northwestwards and reach Odisha coast during the subsequent 48 hours. Under its influence; a fresh spell of heavy rainfall likely over Odisha and adjoining areas from September 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-likely-in-some-parts-of-punjab-haryana-himachal-today-101632284374824.html
22-09-2021||India||India has administered at least 820 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 820 million Covid vaccine doses by Tuesday, September 21. Official data showed that at least 210,000 people were vaccinated against in Delhi on Monday, and over 111,000 of them got the first dose.The capital city has given at least 164 million doses since the inoculation exercise started on January 16, the government data showed.
22-09-2021||India||CBI arrests two foreigners in Chennai Port Trust bank fraud case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday arrested two foreigners in connection with fraudulent foreclosure of Chennai Port Trust’s fixed deposits. It has earlier arrested nine people in the case.The two, Boussiomo Steve Bertrand Yannick and Musasa Ilunga Lucien, are from Cameroon and Congo. The CBI has found they were living in India on student visas and did not possess their original passports. During the searches, the CBI found documents related to Kamarajar Port Trust, Chennai Port Trust (CPT), Bank Fixed Deposits, etc.The CBI in July last year registered the bank fraud case against public servants and private individuals based on a complaint from Indian Bank in Chennai over alleged fraud, and impersonation to cheat the bank of roughly ₹100.57 crore.Also Read | Couple held in Afghan heroin seizure at Mundra Port got ₹10-12 lakh: ProbeThe bank reported a loss of around ₹45.4 crore due to the foreclosing of several fixed deposits and withdrawal of the amount through several accounts. These deposits had been created in the name of CPT.In a statement, the CBI said the accused opened term deposits in the Koyambedu Branch, Indian Bank, and accordingly, 45 fixed deposits were created between March 2020 and May 2020. One of the accused allegedly impersonated himself as deputy director (finance) of CPT and opened a fake current account.After the receipt of investment from the CPT every time, the bank created term deposit receipts or bonds against the investment. The bonds were received by the accused from the bank directly. “Instead of delivering the original bonds to CPT, the accused made duplicate bonds and submitted the forged bonds to CPT,” said the statement.Having the original bonds, the accused presented them before the bank and pre-closed the term deposits one after another within a few days of their creation. The money received from the pre-closure of term deposits was allegedly credited into the fake current account created in the name of CPT by the accused and subsequently transferred to 34 different accounts.This money was withdrawn by the 27 account holders and handed over to the accused persons. CPT was continuously investing in term deposits and the same was allegedly pre-closed by the accused one after another after the bonds were created.Around ₹100.57 crore was transferred from CPT in five investments against which 45 term deposits of different amounts were created. Out of the amount invested, ₹55.19 crore could be frozen, and the remaining ₹45.40 crore has been swindled by the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-arrests-two-foreigners-in-chennai-port-trust-bank-fraud-case-101632281433460.html
22-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Bengal could see more rainfall ahead of festivals and all the latest news||More rainfall in West Bengal ahead of Durga Puja? Here's what IMD saysWest Bengal has been experiencing heavy rainfall since the beginning of the week; however, the MeT department in its latest forecasts indicated that a respite from the downpour may not be on its way anytime soon. Read MoreAfrican swine fever detected in Tripura, culling of pigs begin around epicentreTripura is the latest state to register an outbreak of African swine fever in pigs with three of 87 samples testing positive for the virus in Kanchanpur sub-division under North Tripura district. Read MoreJoe Biden to hold virtual Covid summit today, push for ending pandemic 'together'US President Joe Biden will convene a virtual Covid-19 summit on Wednesday on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA), the White House said in a press release. Read More'It's a tough one to swallow': KL Rahul reacts after Punjab Kings fail to score 4 runs in final over with 8 wickets leftKL Rahul shook his head in disbelief as Punjab Kings failed to knock off four runs in the final over of Match 32 of the IPL 2021 against Rajasthan Royals in Dubai on Tuesday and lost the match by two runs. Read MoreKBC 13: Influencer asks Amitabh Bachchan where he bought his outfit from; he credits Abhishek Bachchan, AaradhyaAmitabh Bachchan, in a new promo for Kaun Banega Crorepati 13 revealed that a particularly colourful sweatshirt and a pair of flashy sunglasses were gifted to him by his son Abhishek Bachchan and granddaughter Aaradhya. Read MoreAnkita Konwar talks about healing and self-love in new video, Milind Soman reactsMilind Soman's wife Ankita Konwar believes that healing is a process, and we need to embrace it to understand the journey our body and mind takes. Read MoreIs Deepika set to play Sindhu in biopic? Actor posts pics from badminton sessionDeepika Padukone shared a new post on Instagram featuring ace shuttler PV Sindhu. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bengal-could-see-more-rainfall-ahead-of-festivals-and-all-the-latest-news-101632279513390.html
22-09-2021||India||Gadkari seeks policy for sleep detection sensors on commercial vehicles||Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday directed officials to work on a policy for having sleep detection sensors on commercial vehicles at par with the European standards.Speaking at a National Road Safety Council (NRSC) meeting, Gadkari underlined the need for fixed driving hours for truck drivers similar to pilots to reduce fatigue-induced road accidents. He asked the NRSC members to work in diversified areas of road safety so that more lives can be saved.As of 2020, there were nine million truckers and transporters involved in carrying freight across India. About a quarter of the truck drivers, who participated in a 2018 study conducted by automotive lubricant maker Castrol, complained of sleep deprivation. Up to 53% reported fatigue, insomnia, obesity, backache, joint and neck pain, poor vision, breathlessness, stress, and loneliness.The European Union’s System for Effective Assessment of Driver Vigilance and Warning According to Traffic Risk Estimation (AWAKE) project has developed guidelines for fatigue warning systems. AWAKE employs both driver state measures and traffic risk measures to conclude the need for warning drivers and the type of warning called for. The driver state measures include eyelid movement, changes in steering grip and driver behaviour (including lane tracking), use of accelerator and brake, and steering position. The system determines if and what information or warning messages need to be communicated to drivers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gadkari-seeks-policy-for-sleep-detection-sensors-on-commercial-vehicles-101632280653511.html
22-09-2021||India||African swine fever detected in Tripura, culling of pigs begins around epicentre||Tripura is the latest state to register an outbreak of African swine fever in pigs with three of 87 samples testing positive for the virus in Kanchanpur sub-division under North Tripura district.The director of the animal resource development department K Shashi Kumar told reporters on Wednesday all pigs within 1km radius of the epicentre will be culled and a 10-km zone will be under surveillance.“Three of 87 samples of pigs tested positive for African swine fever. We'll cull all pigs within 1km from epicentre and declare the 10km area as a surveillance zone. We've issued notification and begun the culling process,” he told news agency ANI.On Monday, the authorities had declared the exotic pig breeding farm in Kanchanpur the epicentre of the infection. “To control the disease and prevent infection, the exotic pig breeding farm in Kanchanpur has been declared as the epicentre of the disease under the Prevention and Control of Infectious and Contagious Diseases in Animal Act,” an official from the department said.According to experts, African Swine fever does not infect or spread to humans even though it is deadly and highly contagious for pigs.The department had also announced a compensation ranging from ₹2,200 to ₹15,000 for private farm owners for culling their source of income. As per established protocol, the caracas will be buried deep inside the ground after the process of culling concludes.Last month, this highly contagious viral infection had afflicted pigs in Mizoram, claiming the lives of over 25,000 pigs in five months since late March, and leading to substantial losses of more than ₹121 crore. Aizawl was the worst impacted district in the state where more than 11,000 pigs died after being infected with African swine fever.With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/african-swine-fever-detected-in-tripura-culling-of-pigs-begin-around-epicentre-101632280141841.html
22-09-2021||India||Odisha shopkeepers throw community feast for 500 people in memory of mongrel||Dozens of shopkeepers in coastal Odisha district of Bhadrak hosted a community feast on Monday as is done after the death of a family member. However, on this occasion, the feast was organised in honour of a dead dog they loved dearly. The dog had been raised by one of the shopkeepers, who said he loved the mongrel as if she was his daughter.Most of these shopkeepers of Bhadrak town run fast-food stalls. Dearly attached to the bitch named Champi for the last 13 years, when it was first handed over to Sushant Biswal, the group invited over 500 people to a meal on the 11th day of its death, which took place on September 10.“It was like no other dog in the area. I got it from a man 13 years ago. I treated the mongrel as my daughter. It never mingled with other dogs and would prowl around my shop most of the time. At night, it slept inside my shop. It was like part of my family,” said Sushant Biswal, a fast food stall owner, who has now put up a framed photograph of Champi in front of his shop. A couple of shopkeepers in the area got their heads tonsured on the occasion.Biswal said the mongrel would not eat food that was thrown on the ground. “We would give it biryani, rasagola, roti or rice on a plate. Even if someone gave it a biscuit, it would be put on a plate or else the dog would not touch it,” he said.Last month, officials of a police station in Odisha cremated a monkey in accordance with Hindu rituals. The officials of Balichandrapur police station in Jajpur district had formed a close bond with the animal.In May this year, a dog owner in Bihar’s Samastipur region carried out a funeral procession for his pet dog that died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-shopkeepers-throw-community-feast-for-500-people-in-memory-of-mongrel-101632279693255.html
22-09-2021||India||TMC postpones Tripura events as Biplab govt imposes prohibitory orders||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) has postponed all its scheduled programmes in Tripura, including a mega rally, after an order from the high court. It announced on Twitter late on Tuesday night that the Biplab Deb government has imposed Section 144 in the entire state, which bars any gathering of more than two people."As per due process of law we have sought permission from the @BJP4Tripura Govt for all our events, only for them to be denied repeatedly. This time they did not even respond to our applications and we had to approach the HC to know that S.144 was being imposed in the state," TMC said on Twitter.As per due process of law we have sought permission from the @BJP4Tripura Govt for all our events, only for them to be denied repeatedly.This time they did not even respond to our applications and we had to approach the HC to know that S.144 was being imposed in the state (1/2)"In line with the HC's decision not to interfere in policy decisions, we are postponing our scheduled events in Tripura. We will seek further clarity from the court on the limits to such arbitrary use of executive power," it said in a subsequent tweet.
22-09-2021||India||Two more beaches in India awarded prestigious ‘Blue Flag’ tag, details here||Two more beaches in India have been awarded “Blue Flag” certification, an international eco-level tag, taking the total number of such beaches in the country to 10, the Environment Ministry said on Tuesday.The two beaches to receive the certification this year are Kovalam in Kerala and Eden in Puducherry, it said.The Foundation for Environment Education (FEE), Denmark, which accords the Blue Flag certification, has also given re-certification for eight nominated beaches - Shivrajpur-Gujarat, Ghoghla-Diu, Kasarkod and Padubidri-Karnataka, Kappad-Kerala, Rushikonda- Andhra Pradesh, Golden-Odisha and Radhanagar- Andaman and Nicobar, which were awarded the Blue Flag certificate last year, the ministry said.These eight beaches got the Blue Flag certification on October 6, 2020.Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav expressed happiness over the development and said it is another milestone in India's journey towards a clean and green India led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi."Happy to announce India now has 10 International Blue Flag beaches with the addition of Kovalam & Eden beaches this year and recertification for 8 beaches which got the tag in 2020. Another milestone in our journey towards a clean and green India led by PM Shri @NarendraModi Ji," Yadav tweeted.Blue Flag certification is a globally recognised eco-label accorded on the basis of 33 stringent criteria in four major heads which are environmental education and information, bathing water quality, environmental management and conservation and safety and services in the beaches.The Blue Flag beach is an eco-tourism model endeavouring to provide the tourists/beachgoers clean and hygienic bathing water, facilities, a safe and healthy environment and sustainable development of the area.The recommendations are done by an independent national jury composed of eminent environmentalists and scientists.Blue Flag beaches are considered the cleanest beaches of the world, according to the ministry.The Blue Flag label is accorded by the international jury composed of eminent members - United Nations Environment Programme(UNEP), United Nations World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO), Denmark-based NGO Foundation for Environmental Education (FEE) and International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN).A waving Blue Flag is an indication of 100 per cent compliance to the 33 stringent criteria and sound health of the beach, the ministry had earlier said.India had started its journey of sustainable development of coastal regions on World Environment Day in June 2018 by launching its beach cleaning campaign – I-AM- SAVING-MY-BEACH simultaneously at 13 coastal states and thereafter implementing the ministry's coveted programme Beach Environment and Aesthetics Management Services (BEAMS).“The Ministry of Environment, in its pursuit of sustainable development of the coastal regions of India, embarked upon a highly acclaimed and flagship programme BEAMS, which is one of the initiatives under its integrated coastal zone management (ICZM) approach that the ministry has undertaken for the sustainable development of coastal regions of India, with a prime objective to protect and conserve the pristine coastal and marine ecosystems through holistic management of the resources,” the ministry said in a statement issued here on Tuesday.The objective of the BEAMS programme is to abate pollution in coastal waters, promote sustainable development of beach facilities, protect and conserve coastal ecosystems and natural resources, and seriously challenge local authorities and stakeholders to strive and maintain high standards of cleanliness, hygiene and safety for beachgoers in accordance with coastal environment and regulations.“In the last three years or so, our ministry has achieved commendable results in the environmental management of these 10 beaches which include sand dune restoration and nourishment of 95,000 sqm (approx.) with native plantation; reduction in marine litter by 85 per cent and marine plastic by 78 per cent in the last three years; scientific and responsible disposal of 750 tonnes of marine litter; improvement in cleanliness level from ‘C’ (poor) to ‘A’ (outstanding) through scientific measurement system,” the statement said.The Environment Ministry said it has also saved 1,100 ml/year of municipal water through recycling; educated around 1,25,000 beachgoers about responsible behaviour at the beaches; provided alternate livelihood opportunities to 500 fishermen families through pollution abatement, safety and services and has also increased footfall for recreation activities at the beaches by approximately 80 per cent leading to economic development.The ministry said it is committed to developing and deliver 100 more beaches under its ICZM initiative in the ensuing five years.In December last year, the ministry had virtually hoisted the international Blue Flags in eight beaches across the country. The flags were also simultaneously hoisted on these beaches physically by state ministers and senior officials of the respective state and Union territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-more-beaches-in-india-awarded-prestigious-blue-flag-tag-details-here-101632270649443.html
22-09-2021||India||Karnataka records 818 new Covid cases, 21 deaths||Karnataka logged 818 new Covid-19 cases and 21 deaths on Tuesday, taking the total number of infections to 2,969,361 and the toll to 37,648, according a state health department bulletin.The day also saw 1,414 discharges, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 2,917,944.Out of the total number of new cases reported, 359 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 381 discharges and eight deaths.The total number of active cases in the state was 13,741.While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.80%, the case fatality rate (CFR) was 2.56%. Belagavi followed Bengaluru Urban in the number of deaths (3), Dakshina Kannada and Mysuru had two each, followed by others. Among the districts where new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 359, Dakshina Kannada 114, Udupi 73, Mysuru 71, Kodagu 25, followed by others.Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 1,244,052, followed by Mysuru 1,77,400 and Tumakuru 119,961.Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 1,220,659, followed by Mysuru 174,460 and Tumakuru 118,431.Cumulatively a total of 4,6,486,898 samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 101,549 were on Tuesday alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-records-818-new-covid-cases-21-deaths-101632258015866.html
22-09-2021||India||Bill for setting up of university on land acquired for industries gets Karnataka assembly nod||The BJP-led state government in Karnataka on Tuesday passed a bill to allocate the setting up of a private university on land acquired for industries at one-third of the cost of acquisition.The bill was brought in the ongoing monsoon session of the state assembly in which Dr Ashwath Narayan, Karnataka’s minister for Higher education, tabled the bill to allow Chanakya university to be set up in 116 acres in the Aerospace Park near Devanahalli, on the outskirts of Bengaluru.The Congress took serious objection to this as it was brought up for discussion after 8 pm on Tuesday which they called a “scam”.Siddaramaiah said that there was no provision to give the land for setting up for a university when it was acquired by the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) for the sole purposes of giving it to industries.“Around 116 acres of land was acquired at a cost of ₹1.5 crore per acre. The cost of acquisition itself is around ₹170 crore and you are giving it at ₹50 crore,” he said.The former chief minister also said that the land was developed further and the total cost to the government was in excess of ₹300 crore and it was “loot” that the government was giving it to a private university for ₹50 crore.Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said that it was a not-for-profit model and had a comprehensive multi-subject curriculum. “When there is a big reform, there is apprehension,” Bommai said.The chief minister also justified the allocation since similar concessions are given to industries to create jobs and the government will continue to dole out concessions to organisations who come in “good faith” and give their children education with the future in mind.The contentious bill was passed amid chaos and even speaker Visweswara Heggade Kageri too weighed in his favour to give such universities an opportunity.“We should give more encouragement to institutions that promote Indian cultural values. Today’s education has been westernised,” he said.He added that the intent to give encouragement to such universities is to ensure that future generations do not become more westernised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-for-setting-up-of-university-on-land-acquired-for-industries-gets-karnataka-assembly-nod-101632257775490.html
22-09-2021||India||Two die in Bengaluru apartment fire||At least two people lost their lives after a gas pipeline leak caused a major fire in an apartment complex in Bengaluru.“The incident of fire was reported between 4.35 and 4.40 at our control log,” Dr. Amar Kumar Pandey​, Director General of Police & Director General (fire) told reporters on Tuesday evening.He said that the two casualties are suspected to be women.The video of a woman in her balcony engulfed in fire went viral on social media as the flames and smokes spread for a significant time in the complex in Devarachikkanahalli in southern Bengaluru.The grill on the balcony appeared to prevent her from jumping down as her clothes caught on fire until she collapsed. The identities of the victims are yet to be determined.Pandey said that the preliminary information indicates that it was due to a domestic gas explosion and that the search was on for any other fires or survivors. He said that several persons in adjacent flats were evacuated.“Until now, two persons have died. Now we are making an effort to take the body out,” he said.The fire department has also deployed the aerial ladder platform, a new machinery that can elevate to a height of 54 meters, to check for any other fires in any other part of the building.Joshi Srinath Mahadev, deputy commissioner of police (south-east) said that all evacuation was complete and people residing in adjacent flats were all moved out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-die-in-bengaluru-apartment-fire-101632257415659.html
22-09-2021||India||Bill to protect religious structures passed in Karnataka assembly||The Basavaraj Bommai-led BJP government on Tuesday managed the passage of the Karnataka Religious Structures (Protection) Bill, 2021 just one day after it was proposed and then tabled in the lower house of the ongoing monsoon session of the state assembly.The bill, which will now be tabled in the upper house, was passed even as legislators across the aisle, including of the BJP, sought to get clarifications on the scope of the bill and its intent to protect religious structures from being demolished as per the 2009 Supreme Court order.The bill primarily provided protection to all religious structures that came up on public land before the law comes into force. It means that the authorities would not be able to demolish religious structures on public land unless there is a specific court order for demolition of a religious structure, reading of the bill shows.JC Madhuswamy, Karnataka’s minister for minor irrigation, law and parliamentary affairs, said that structures of all religions will come under the ambit of this new bill.“There was lacuna and to fill it up we have brought this (bill),” Madhuswamy said, reacting to allegations over the government’s inability to stop the demolition of a temple in Nanjangud of Mysuru district on September 12.The bill comes days after a video of a temple in Nanjangud being torn down by an earth mover went viral on social media with Mysuru-Kodagu member of Parliament Prathap Simha raising the issue to target authorities who were carrying out the drive with no consultations. The demolition also saw right-wing groups attack the BJP over the move, even as the Basavaraj Bommai government claimed that it did not have any prior information.Siddaramaiah, the Congress’ leader of the opposition and former chief minister, questioned how the temple was demolished without the government’s knowledge and sought to know why no action was taken against the district officials for carrying out the act.“You are saying that from now on no temple should be demolished but what about the ones (demolished) earlier? You are bringing this bill because the Hindu Jagrana Vedike and Hindu Mahasabha pressurised you and the government got scared,” he said.The regularisation of illegal encroachments for religious purposes not just circumvents the court orders but is also likely to set a precedent in the state where a significant chunk of government land, lakes, forests and other places are lost to land sharks and others.“I have an apprehension that government land that is set aside for various purposes, if temples are built there and in deemed forests and in such zones, will this law be applicable there?” Krishna Reddy, the Janata Dal (Secular) legislator from Chintamani questioned.The Bommai government is moving quickly to pass a bill which will not just minimise the backlash but also has the potential to pander to religious groups ahead of the yet-to-be announced zilla panchayat elections as well as the 2023 assembly polls.“Provision empowers the state government to make rules regarding the circumstances in which protection to religious structures in respect of which any case relating to the removal is pending in any court of law,” the bill states.The Karnataka high court had pulled up authorities for failing to take action against illegal structures built on government land, prompting the Mysuru district administration to act. On August 12, the HC said the Supreme Court has stated that all illegal religious structures that were built after September 29, 2009 shall not be tolerated. The HC is hearing a petition to ensure compliance with the Supreme Court order on the matter. “It is considered necessary to provide protection of religious constructions on public places constructed before the date of commencement of this act, in order to protect communal harmony and not hurt the religious sentiments of the public,” the bill states in its objects and reasons.The bill further states that the provisions “empower the state government to make rules regarding the circumstances in which protection to religious structures in respect of which any case relating to the removal is pending in any court of law.”Several BJP legislators too sought to know the wordings of the bill which stated that no action can be taken against an official if the demolition was done in “good faith”.Bommai clarified that no action can be taken against the district officials since they were following court orders.Madhuswamy said that the demolition was done due to “over enthusiasm” of the district officials and to avoid a repeat of the incident, the bill was introduced.The chief minister said that there were 315 illegal structures of temples, mosques and churches in Mysuru district and of this 161 were demolished between 2010-2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-to-protect-religious-structures-passed-in-karnataka-assembly-101632257296572.html
22-09-2021||India||Law against involuntary religious conversions on anvil: BJP minister in Karnataka assembly||The Karnataka government on Tuesday said it is deliberating on introducing a law to “check involuntary religious conversions”, after a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator raised the issue in the state assemblyearlier in the day, claiming his mother was “brainwashed” into converting to a different religion. Gulihatti D Shekar, the legislator, said there has been “heightened activity” around conversions. “In Chitradurga district and my constituency (Hosadurga), around 15,000-20,000 people have already been converted,” he said.Shekar said his mother was taken to a church by some people from the missionary and asked not to apply vermillion (sindoor) on her forehead, remove all photos of Hindu gods and puja items from the house. He claimed his mother was also asked to listen only to “Christian songs” and has even changed her ringtone, which has become an embarrassment within the family. “Dalits, backward classes, and even Muslims are converted,” he said.Shekar said those who resist are slapped with false cases of atrocities and even rape, among other charges. “If some want to convert, it is their wish, but they should leave all the benefits of the faith or group they were entitled to and include themselves in the one they are joining,” he said.Araga Jnanendra, the state home minister, said the government is aware of these developments and deliberating on the law and other measures at the earliest. He sought details of organisations slapping false charges. Jnanendra said the state would investigate the charges and take action against such people or missionaries. Other legislators supported the proposal for a law against conversations, which they said was disturbing the peace of society.Assembly speaker Visweswara Heggade Kageri said he had spoken about the issue in detail between 1999 and 2001 during the SM Krishna-led Congress government in the state. “There are many other states that have this law, and it would be useful if we too bring in something,” said Kageri.Devanand Fulsasingh Chavan, a Janata Dal (Secular) legislator, alleged Christian missionaries were targeting the vulnerable Banjara community in his constituency of Nathan in the Vijayapura district. He added entire settlements of these communities got converted in recent years.BJP-ruled states such as Madhya Pradesh have criminalised what they call forced religious conversion, including interfaith marriages. Critics of the legislation say they are misused to target minorities.There have also been allegations, especially against Christian missionaries, that they lure weak and oppressed people and convert them by promising monetary and other rewards.“For adult baptism, we ask the concerned party to go to the court to make an affidavit or a notary. In that we record that it is not out of force and out of voluntary commitment to come to the church for baptism,” Rev PK Samuel, the Bishop of the Church of South India (CSI) told Hindustan Times on Tuesday.The Reverend said that the CSI is a mainline church and does not use forceful methods. “Unless there is a court affidavit or notary, we do not allow baptism in our church. All the priests have this instruction. The pattern has not been there now but for the last 20-25 years,” he said. There are 125 churches in the Diocese. “We allow children because the parents belong to the church,” the Reverend added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/law-against-involuntary-religious-conversions-on-anvil-bjp-minister-in-karnataka-assembly-101632257055414.html
22-09-2021||India||9 Indore civic body employees booked for disrespecting Ganesh idols: Madhya Pradesh police||Bhopal: Nine contractual employees of Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) were booked on Tuesday for allegedly disrespecting Ganesh idols collected from people by throwing them into a pond for immersion, Madhya Pradesh police said.IMC commissioner Prathiba Pal terminated all nine employees, including two supervisors -- Avinash Deshmukh and Chandra Shekhar Yadav -- from the services. The programme officer Shailendra Pataudi and zonal officer Brijmohan Bhadoriya were also suspended. An inquiry has also been ordered in this regard, Pal said.“The incident of throwing idols in a pond has hurt the religious sentiments of people,” Pal said.Based on a complaint lodged by an employee of the IMC, an FIR under section 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) was registered against nine civic employees, an official from Chandan Nagar police station said.The video of the incident has gone viral on social media, in which IMC employees can be seen throwing the Ganesh idols in a hurried manner, even as enraged citizens were heard saying that their religious sentiments were being hurt and strongly criticising the civic administration.Congress MLA Sanjay Shukla with other party leaders staged a protest in Indore demanding action against senior officers.Shukla said, “It was the responsibility of senior officers of IMC to hold the immersion of idols collected from different parts of the city but they deputed the work to contractual employees. The action and FIR on contractual employees are not enough. The state government should take strict against IMC officers for hurting the religious sentiments.”BJP leaders said it is a serious issue and all the people at fault will be punished. BJP MP from Indore, Shankar Lalwani, said, “The conduct of employees is unacceptable and they have already been punished for that. An FIR has been registered against them. The inquiry is being held by IMC and further action will be taken on the basis of findings of reports.”(With inputs from Neha Jain in Indore)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/9-indore-civic-body-employees-booked-for-disrespecting-ganesh-idols-madhya-pradesh-police-101632256695597.html
22-09-2021||India||Couple held in Afghan heroin seizure at Mundra Port got ₹10-12 lakh: Probe||New Delhi: Initial investigations into the seizure of the largest ever single cache of Afghan heroin from Mundra port last week have so far revealed that a Chennai couple whose import firm received the drugs in the garb of talc powder received a commission of ₹10-12 lakh for the job, officials familiar with the probe said on Tuesday.The couple – Govindaraju Durga Purna Vaishali and her husband Machavaram Sudhakar – are being interrogated about the “bigger players” behind smuggling of such a huge consignment. They were arrested last week after 3,000kg high-quality heroin worth ₹21,000 crore in the international market was seized by the Directorate of Revenue and Intelligence (DRI) from two containers shipped from Kandahar and imported via Iran’s Bandar Abbas port by their Vijaywada-registered firm – Aashi Trading Company.An official dealing with narco-terrorism said they have information that Vaishali and Sudhakar were taking instructions from some people based in Afghanistan and Iran. “Their role in smuggling drugs previously in the garb of imports is being investigated but they appear to be small players as their commission was very low”.Meanwhile, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has jumped to probe a money laundering angle in the recovery as it wants to unearth the international syndicate behind it and seize their assets.“With possible Taliban-Pakistan-Afghanistan link emerging in the high-quality heroin consignment smuggled through a shell company, it is a fit case to be probed under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and to seize the assets of conspirators,” said an ED officer, asking not to be named.HT reported about the largest-ever heroin consignment seizure on Monday.The Congress tried to corner the government and Adani Group, which runs the Mundra port in Gujarat, over the seizure. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said: “The drugs sent from Afghanistan to India via Iran port were found on Mundra port of Gujarat. It is a serious issue for India when you have a look at its price and amount. It is a conspiracy to throw our youth into drug addiction. The money made through the sales of these drugs in India is used to fuel terrorism against our nation. This issue is serious and raises a lot of questions.”He asked why the Centre did not appointed a regular director-general of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for the past 18 months. The Adani Group said in a statement that it has no policing authority of ports. “The law empowers the government of India’s competent authorities such as the Customs and the DRI to open, examine and seize unlawful cargo. No port operator across the country can examine a container. Their role is limited to running the port. We sincerely hope that this statement will put to rest the motivated, malicious and false propaganda being run on social media against the Adani Group. APSEZ is a port operator providing services to shipping lines, We have no policing authority over the containers or the millions of tonnes of cargo that pass through the terminals in Mundra or any of our ports”, said a spokesperson of Adani Ports and SEZ Ltd (APSEZ).” Apart from the Chennai couple, DRI has arrested four Afghan nationals and an Indian citizen from Delhi-National Capital Region in last two days while several places have been raided, during which additional 20kg heroin and 8kg cocaine were seized.The Vijaywada Police said in a statement on Tuesday that the drugs consignment has no link with the city except that an address linked to the Chennai couple is from there. “It is learnt that Durga Purna Vaishali, resident of Chennai has taken GST registration in August 2020 on the address at Satyanarayana Puram, Gadiyaramvari Street, Vijaywada. Sudhakar, a resident of Chennai, is the husband of Vaishali. The above address building is owned by Govindaraju Taraka who happened to be the mother of Vaishali,” said the Vijaywada Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/couple-held-in-afghan-heroin-seizure-at-mundra-port-got-10-12-lakh-probe-101632255915335.html
22-09-2021||India||NIA questions 10 individuals linked to JeI, Jammu and Kashmir in terror-funding case||New Delhi: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has questioned 10 individuals associated with banned Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI), Jammu and Kashmir in connection with a terror funding case, people familiar with the matter said on Monday.The questioning comes weeks after NIA on August 8 carried out raids at 56 locations linked to the group in Jammu and Kashmir. In all, 10 individuals linked to JEI, most of them senior office-bearers, have been questioned in national capital Delhi during the past week about the source of funds, utilization of funds, key players in India and links with Pakistan, a person aware of the matter said on condition of anonymity.According to NIA, JeI’s Kashmir chapter raised donations in India and abroad, ostensibly for charity, but diverted the funds raised to finance violence and secessionist activities.In a statement issued after the raids in August, NIA said the funds raised by the group “are also being channelised to proscribed terrorist organisations such as Hizb-ul-Mujahideen (HM), Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and others through well organised networks of JeI cadres”.People aware of the details said more Jamaat functionaries will be called for questioning in the coming days as NIA looks to unearth the entire terror-funding network, links with separatist leaders, madrasas run by the organisation and foreign trips by its office-bearers.The Jamaat-e-Islami came into existence in 1941, spearheaded by Moulana Abul Alla Madoodi and with its headquarters at Lahore. After Partition, JeI Hindi separated from this body and established its headquarters in Rampur, Uttar Pradesh. Its Kashmir chapter, established in 1945, started following directions from Pakistan’s JeI after Jammu and Kashmir’s accession to India.JEI, J&K, was banned in February 2019 after the Pulwama terror attack in 2019, in which 40 Indian troopers were killed and which brought India and Pakistan to the brink of war. The ban was upheld in September 2019 by a tribunal set up to review the decision under the anti-terror law, which noted that 179 criminal cases were filed against individuals linked to the group including 10 cases being probed by NIA.Over 100 JeI members, including its chief Abdul Hameed Fayaz were arrested by the J&K Police after the group was banned. Fayaz continues to be behind bars.A senior official said JeI, J&K is intrinsically linked with the United Jehad Council based in Pakistan, which is the “umbrella organisation” of all major terrorist outfits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-questions-10-individuals-linked-to-jei-jammu-and-kashmir-in-terror-funding-case-101632255557180.html
22-09-2021||India||BJP may drop 50% of MLAs for 2022 assembly polls to blunt anti-incumbency||NEW DELHI: After changing chief ministers in Gujarat and Uttarakhand, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is looking to drop as many as half of the sitting legislators to blunt anti-incumbency in the states going to polls in 2022, said party functionaries aware of the details. In the previous assembly elections, the party had dropped 15-20% of the sitting MLAs, but the figure could be much higher this time given public dissatisfaction over a host of governance issues, said a senior party functionary. Assembly elections will be held in Punjab, Manipur, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh in 2022. “In several states, the party has carried out ground surveys to assess the mood. MLAs were also asked to submit their report cards of the work done in the last five years, which were tallied with the party’s own findings. Those whose performance has not been up to the mark will not be repeated,” the functionary said, requesting anonymity. The legislators are being assessed on parameters such as the spending of local area development funds, projects done to empower the marginalised, and their contribution to the big-ticket Seva Hi Sangathan programme — the party’s welfare programme launched during the pandemic. Surveys were done across constituencies where people’s feedback on the government’s performance was sought. “The Covid-19 pandemic came with an unprecedented challenge. While the government did its bit by ramping up the health infrastructure, ensuring vaccination and scaling up medical supplies, the party also did its bit by organising relief work. The party president (JP Nadda) had asked each state unit to carry out campaigns to feed the needy, assist those who lost their jobs and ensure 100% vaccination in their respective booths under the Seva Hi Sangathan campaign. The work done by the MLAs on the seva front will also be counted,” said the functionary. Countering anti-incumbency has been a key concern for the party. It is for this reason that the central leadership decided to replace Vijay Rupani as the CM of Gujarat. An all-new cabinet was also sworn in to help reinvigorate the party cadre in the state that will go to the polls towards the end of 2022. “It is not unusual for the party to deny sitting legislators tickets based on various reasons. For instance, in Rajasthan in 2018, the BJP dropped 43 sitting MLAs, including four ministers. In Jharkhand, too, over a dozen sitting MLAs were dropped for younger and newer faces representing women and SC/ST communities,” he said. Performance isn’t the only factor that will determine ticket distribution. According to a second functionary, given the growing clamour for a caste-based census, BJP will also have to pick faces that will strengthen its outreach among castes that it courts for favourable electoral outcomes. The BJP has been eyeing a coalition of non-dominant castes to build its support base. In states such as Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, it had invested in the non-dominant castes, but with a change in political discourse following the demand for a caste census, the party has had to revisit its policy. Subsequently, it has appointed a Patidar CM in Gujarat and a Thakur CM in Uttarakhand. “The caste of a candidate has always been a key factor in deciding tickets. The party does not believe in appeasement of any caste and has ensured that government’s policies at the Centre and in the states benefit people across castes and classes,” said the second functionary based in Uttar Pradesh. The issue of giving tickets to turncoats will also feature prominently. In the past few years, the BJP leadership has been accused of overlooking the party cadre for those who come from other political parties. “In many instances, the turncoats did not win. Take the case of Gujarat. In the 2017 polls, 81 BJP MLAs were repeated, while the rest were fresh faces or those who had contested in elections before 2012. Four of the six Congress turncoats who were given tickets lost. Similarly, in West Bengal recently, there was a lot of resentment in the party cadre for giving Trinamool Congress turncoats tickets and party positions,” said the first functionary. Dropping sitting MLAs serves the twin purpose of diverting public attention and mitigating public anger, said professor M M Semwal, head of the political science department at the HNB Garhwal Central University in Uttarakhand. “When governments fail to deliver on their promises, they pass the buck. Instead of taking collective responsibility, the government will blame the individual legislators, so when elections come and people ask questions they react by such posturing,” he said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-may-drop-50-of-mlas-for-2022-assembly-polls-to-blunt-antiincumbency-101632255195211.html
22-09-2021||India||Education ministry forms panel to draft new national curriculum framework in line with NEP||New Delhi: The Union education ministry on Tuesday constituted a 12-member national steering committee to develop the new national curriculum framework (NCF) in line with the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. The committee will be headed by K Kasturirangan, who had also led the NEP 2020 drafting committee. The national curriculum framework serves as a guideline for syllabus, textbooks, teaching and learning practices in the country. India is currently following its fourth national curriculum framework that was published by the NCERT in 2005. Officials at the education ministry said the timeline for the development of new framework is three years. According to a statement issued by the Union education ministry, the committee will develop four curriculum frameworks -- national curriculum framework for school education; national curriculum for early childhood care and education; national curriculum framework for teacher education; and national curriculum framework for adult Education. “The Committee will discuss different aspects of these four areas keeping in focus all the recommendations of NEP 2020 for proposing curriculum reforms… All the national curriculum frameworks would also reflect upon the implications of situations such as COVID-19 pandemic on respective areas for future,” the statement said.The committee included Mahesh Chandra Pant, Chancellor of the National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration; Govind Prasad Sharma, chairman of the National Book Trust; Najma Akhtar, Vice Chancellor of Jamia Millia Islamia; TV Kattimani, Vice-Chancellor of Central Tribal University of Andhra Pradesh; Jagbir Singh, Chancellor of the Central University of Punjab; and MK Sridhar, who was a member of the NEP 2020 drafting committee, among others.While the tenure of the committee is three years, its term may be expanded as per the requirement, the statement added.A senior official said a tech platform will be set up to receive inputs from the states after wider consultation at district and block level. “The consultation will be completely digital. The committee will take these inputs in consideration while drafting the framework. The committee will be free to invite subject experts, scholars, educationists, etc. as and when required and deliberate and decide upon the course of actions with the objective to meet the timelines of the strategy for the development of the NCF,” the official said.The committee will only finalise the framework after incorporating suggestions received from various stakeholders including states and Union Territories, Executive Committee (EC) and General Body (GB) of the NCERT and Central Advisory Board on Education (CABE). The Director of NCERT will assist the committee to complete its module.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/education-ministry-forms-panel-to-draft-new-national-curriculum-framework-in-line-with-nep-101632254355197.html
22-09-2021||India||BJP may drop 50% of MLAs for ’22 state polls to blunt anti-incumbency||After changing chief ministers in Gujarat and Uttarakhand, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is looking to drop as many as half of the sitting legislators to blunt anti-incumbency in the states going to polls in 2022, said party functionaries aware of the details.In the previous assembly elections, the party had dropped 15-20% of the sitting MLAs, but the figure could be much higher this time given public dissatisfaction over a host of governance issues, said a senior party functionary.Assembly polls will be held in Punjab, Manipur, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh in 2022.“In several states, the party has carried out ground surveys to assess the mood. MLAs were also asked to submit their report cards of the work done in the last five years, which were tallied with the party’s own findings. Those whose performance has not been up to the mark will not be repeated,” the functionary said, requesting anonymity.The legislators are being assessed on parameters such as the spending of local area development funds, projects done to empower the marginalised, and their contribution to the big-ticket Seva Hi Sangathan programme — the party’s welfare programme launched during the pandemic. Surveys were done across constituencies where people’s feedback on the government’s performance was sought.“The Covid-19 pandemic came with an unprecedented challenge. While the government did its bit by ramping up the health infrastructure, ensuring vaccination and scaling up medical supplies, the party also did its bit by organising relief work. The party president (JP Nadda) had asked each state unit to carry out campaigns to feed the needy, assist those who lost their jobs and ensure 100% vaccination in their respective booths under the Seva Hi Sangathan campaign. The work done by the MLAs on the seva front will also be counted,” said the functionary.Countering anti-incumbency has been a key concern for the party. It is for this reason that the central leadership decided to replace Vijay Rupani as the CM of Gujarat. An all-new cabinet was also sworn in to help reinvigorate the party cadre in the state that will go to the polls towards the end of 2022.“It is not unusual for the party to deny sitting legislators tickets based on various reasons. For instance, in Rajasthan in 2018, the BJP dropped 43 sitting MLAs, including four ministers. In Jharkhand, too, over a dozen sitting MLAs were dropped for younger and newer faces representing women and SC/ST communities,” he said.Performance isn’t the only factor that will determine ticket distribution. According to a second functionary, given the growing clamour for a caste-based census, BJP will also have to pick faces that will strengthen its outreach among castes that it courts for favourable electoral outcomes.The BJP has been eyeing a coalition of non-dominant castes to build its support base. In states such as Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, it had invested in the non-dominant castes, but with a change in political discourse following the demand for a caste census, the party has had to revisit its policy. Subsequently, it has appointed a Patidar CM in Gujarat and a Thakur CM in Uttarakhand.“The caste of a candidate has always been a key factor in deciding tickets. The party does not believe in appeasement of any caste and has ensured that government’s policies at the Centre and in the states benefit people across castes and classes,” said the second functionary based in Uttar Pradesh.Dropping sitting MLAs serves the twin purpose of diverting public attention and mitigating public anger, said professor M M Semwal, head of the political science department at the HNB Garhwal Central University in Uttarakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-may-drop-50-of-mlas-for-22-state-polls-to-blunt-antiincumbency-101632253964477.html
22-09-2021||India||Delhi HC declines to stay ED summons to TMC leader||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday refused to grant any interim relief to Trinamool Congress national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and his wife seeking quashing of summons issued by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a money laundering case linked to an alleged coal scam in West Bengal.Justice Yogesh Khanna issued a notice and directed the agency to respond within three days, and posted the next hearing for September 27.“Let me be very clear. I am not granting any stay. I am issuing notice, you file your reply. Then only I can pass an order,” the judge said.Abhishek and Rujira, who were asked by the agency to personally appear before it in Delhi today, have contended that they are residents of Kolkata and should not be compelled to join the probe in the national capital.Opposing the plea, the ED said that the money laundering case has national and trans-national ramifications and its investigation is not restricted to any police station or area.Appearing for the couple, senior advocate Kapil Sibal said the ED had no jurisdiction to call his clients to Delhi for probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-declines-to-stay-ed-summons-to-tmc-leader-101632253746850.html
22-09-2021||India||Couple held in Afghan heroin seizure case got ₹10-12L: Probe||Initial investigations into the seizure of the largest ever single cache of Afghan heroin from Mundra port last week have so far revealed that a Chennai couple whose import firm received the drugs in the garb of talc powder received a commission of ₹10-12 lakh for the job, officials familiar with the probe said on Tuesday.The couple – Govindaraju Durga Purna Vaishali and her husband Machavaram Sudhakar – are being interrogated about the “bigger players” behind smuggling of such a huge consignment. They were arrested last week after 3,000kg high-quality heroin worth ₹21,000 crore in the international market was seized by the Directorate of Revenue and Intelligence (DRI) from two containers shipped from Kandahar and imported via Iran’s Bandar Abbas port by their Vijaywada-registered firm – Aashi Trading Company.An official dealing with narco-terrorism said they have information that Vaishali and Sudhakar were taking instructions from some people based in Afghanistan and Iran. “Their role in smuggling drugs previously in the garb of imports is being investigated but they appear to be small players as their commission was very low,” the official said.Meanwhile, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has jumped to probe a money laundering angle in the recovery as it wants to unearth the international syndicate behind it and seize their assets.“With possible Taliban-Pakistan-Afghanistan link emerging in the high-quality heroin consignment smuggled through a shell company, it is a fit case to be probed under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and to seize the assets of conspirators,” said an ED officer, asking not to be named.HT reported about the largest-ever heroin consignment seizure on Monday.The Congress tried to corner the government and Adani Group, which runs the Mundra port in Gujarat, over the seizure. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said: “The drugs sent from Afghanistan to India via Iran port were found on Mundra port of Gujarat. It is a serious issue for India when you have a look at its price and amount. It is a conspiracy to throw our youth into drug addiction. The money made through the sales of these drugs in India is used to fuel terrorism against our nation. This issue is serious and raises a lot of questions.”He asked why the Centre did not appointed a regular director-general of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for the past 18 months.The Adani Group said in a statement that it has no policing authority of ports. “The law empowers the government of India’s competent authorities such as the Customs and the DRI to open, examine and seize unlawful cargo. No port operator across the country can examine a container. Their role is limited to running the port. We sincerely hope that this statement will put to rest the motivated, malicious and false propaganda being run on social media against the Adani Group. APSEZ is a port operator providing services to shipping lines, We have no policing authority over the containers or the millions of tonnes of cargo that pass through the terminals in Mundra or any of our ports”, said a spokesperson of Adani Ports and SEZ Ltd (APSEZ).”Apart from the Chennai couple, DRI has arrested four Afghan nationals and an Indian citizen from Delhi-National Capital Region in last two days while several places have been raided, during which additional 20kg heroin and 8kg cocaine were seized.The Vijaywada Police said in a statement on Tuesday that the drugs consignment has no link with the city except that an address linked to the Chennai couple is from there. “It is learnt that Durga Purna Vaishali, resident of Chennai has taken GST registration in August 2020 on the address at Satyanarayana Puram, Gadiyaramvari Street, Vijaywada. Sudhakar, a resident of Chennai, is the husband of Vaishali. The above address building is owned by Govindaraju Taraka who happened to be the mother of Vaishali,” said the Vijaywada Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/couple-held-in-afghan-heroin-seizure-case-got-10-12l-probe-101632253510408.html
22-09-2021||India||NIA quizzes 10 linked to JeI in terror-funding case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has questioned 10 individuals associated with banned Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI), Jammu and Kashmir in connection with a terror funding case, people familiar with the matter said on Monday.The questioning comes weeks after NIA on August 8 carried out raids at 56 locations linked to the group in Jammu and Kashmir. In all, 10 individuals linked to JEI, most of them senior office-bearers, have been questioned in national capital Delhi during the past week about the source of funds, utilization of funds, key players in India and links with Pakistan, a person aware of the matter said on condition of anonymity.According to NIA, JeI’s Kashmir chapter raised donations in India and abroad, ostensibly for charity, but diverted the funds raised to finance violence and secessionist activities.In a statement issued after the raids in August, NIA said the funds raised by the group “are also being channelised to proscribed terrorist organisations such as Hizb-ul-Mujahideen (HM), Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and others through well organised networks of JeI cadres”.People aware of the details said more Jamaat functionaries will be called for questioning in the coming days as NIA looks to unearth the terror-funding network, links with separatist leaders, madrasas run by the organisation and foreign trips by its office-bearers.The Jamaat-e-Islami came into existence in 1941, spearheaded by Moulana Abul Alla Madoodi and with its headquarters at Lahore. After Partition, JeI Hindi separated from this body and established its headquarters in Rampur, Uttar Pradesh. Its Kashmir chapter, established in 1945, started following directions from Pakistan’s JeI after J&K’s accession to India.JEI, J&K, was banned in February 2019 after the Pulwama terror attack in 2019, in which 40 Indian troopers were killed and which brought India and Pakistan to the brink of war. The ban was upheld in September 2019 by a tribunal set up to review the decision under the anti-terror law, which noted that 179 criminal cases were filed against individuals linked to the group including 10 cases being probed by NIA.Over 100 JeI members, including its chief Abdul Hameed Fayaz were arrested by the J&K Police after the group was banned. Fayaz continues to be behind bars.A senior official said JeI, J&K is intrinsically linked with the United Jehad Council based in Pakistan, which is the “umbrella organisation” of all major terrorist outfits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-quizzes-10-linked-to-jei-in-terror-funding-case-101632253321985.html
22-09-2021||India||Delhi HC overrules LG’s objection to govt’s Covid deaths panel||The Delhi high court on Tuesday overruled the objections of the Lieutenant Governor (LG) against the constitution of a high powered committee (HPC) by the Delhi government to ascertain causes of death, including those due to alleged shortage of oxygen, during the brutal national second wave of Covid-19 in April-May this year.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said that it does not see any difficulty in the constitution of the committee, which, besides finding the reasons for the death, will recommend the compensation amount for the families of those deceased.The court said that the committee will pass a reasoned order without importing the liability on the hospital, and specified that the HPC will be permitted to go ahead if the Delhi government clarifies that any compensation will be paid and absorbed by it alone.“The issue here is a legal issue. Can you determine a fault-based liability by a committee (and) fix liability on a third party, which not only puts financial liability but tarnishes professional reputation?” the court said. “...you say you will fix liability, you are entering into the domain of judiciary and medical council. You can’t do it.”The bench said that HPC will not overlap with the areas already being looked into by the subcommittees constituted by the apex court, adding that the Supreme Court-appointed committee was seized of issues at the “macro level” while the HPC proposed to look at “micro situations”.“[The] Supreme Court [order] is on logistics and not specifics... We take it that there should be over overlap,” the court stated.The ruling came on a plea by Riti Singh Verma, who sought that all Covid-19 deaths be probed by the expert committee after her 34-year-old husband died of Covid-19 at the Jaipur Golden Hospital in Rohini, on May 14 during the second wave.In a statement on Tuesday, the Delhi government said, “We respect the court’s direction and are grateful for the same. The Delhi government has been serious about the deaths in the capital due to lack of oxygen during the corona pandemic. The Delhi government wants the truth to come out...Finally, today the court has upheld the stance of the Delhi government.”On May 27, the Delhi government constituted a committee to probe the causes of death during the second wave and grant ex-gratia payments to the victims.However, the LG had put it in abeyance on June 8, saying that the matter was pending before the Supreme Court and that the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) was yet to come out with uniform compensation guidelines.Between June and August, the Delhi government and the LG’s office have gone back and forth over the matter. The AAP government in June proposed a new committee to look into cause of death, a request that was turned down by the LG, who holds a veto over most administrative matters. The government reiterated at the request, which too was rejected. In both cases, the LG’s office cited the Supreme Court-appointed panel’s probe, according to people who asked not to be named.At its peak, Delhi recorded around 28,300 cases in a day and a positivity rate exceeding 36% on April 20 and 22 respectively. Around that time, at least 31 people are believed to have died because of oxygen shortage in two separate incidents in two separate hospitals – Jaipur Golden and Batra hospitals. The Union government told parliament in July that no state has reported deaths due to oxygen shortage during the April-May wave of infections, a position that was the trigger for Delhi government to reiterate its request for a probe panel in August.On Tuesday, the court noted the submission of the Delhi government that the criteria for determining compensation will be open to scrutiny and that the task of the committee will not overlap with that of a subgroup constituted by the Supreme Court on allocation and utilisation of oxygen.Appearing for the Delhi government, senior advocate Rahul Mehra told the court that the HPC was only a “fact-finding committee” which would not attribute any fault or negligence to a hospital and “compensation was purely going from the government”.He told the court that compensation of up to ₹5 lakh would be calculated by the HPC on the basis of an objective criteria decided by it, which would be open to a challenge by any party.Mehra told the court that the scope of work of the HPC would be different from the committee constituted by the Supreme Court, and it would be different from the ₹50,000 ex gratia being offered by the state government.Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain, for the LG, requested the court to defer passing any order and wait for the guidelines of the NDMA on uniform compensation in accordance with the order of the SC.However, the court said that there was no reason to wait for the findings of the committee constituted after the orders of the apex court.Earlier, the Delhi government had told the court that the LG was behaving in an “obstructionist manner” and his decision to put the proposal for the committee in abeyance is “misconceived”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-overrules-lg-s-objection-to-govt-s-covid-deaths-panel-101632252873355.html
22-09-2021||India||Supertech MD faces jail if no refund in a week||The national consumer commission has sent a strong message by sentencing the managing director (MD) of Supertech to three years in jail for not refunding a homebuyer after its failure to hand over possession of his house in Uttar Pradesh’s Yamuma Expressway Industrial Development Area (YEIDA) for several years.The commission on Monday issued an arrest warrant against Supertech MD Mohit Arora, while directing that its order shall come into effect after seven days if the builder fails to deposit around ₹1.79 crore by then.The money is to be paid to Brigadier Kanwal Batra (retired) and his daughter Aakriti Batra, who jointly purchased a villa in Supertech’s Upcountry project, offered by the builder in December 2013 at a cost of approximately ₹1.03 crore, which the builder promised to deliver in August 2014. Supertech could not give possession of the villa for want of clearances, nor did it comply with the commission’s 2019 judgment to refund the money with interest despite undertakings.The development comes days after the Supreme Court ordered the demolition of two 40-storey residential towers of Supertech’s Emerald Court project in Noida over grave violation of building norms, which, the court said, was a result of “nefarious complicity” between the Noida authority and the builder.“We know how you (Supertech) will pay,” remarked the bench, which comprised presiding member C Vishwanath and justice Ram Surat Ram Maurya, while issuing the order which could set the benchmark for action against real estate developers that flout the consumer court orders.The commission, in its order, said that in view of non-compliance and dishonouring of his commitment, Arora was being sentenced to three years in jail under Section 27 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 and a warrant of arrest was being issued.This warrant, the commission said, shall not be executed if Supertech deposits the money before it within a week.It underlined that Supertech was “evading the implementation of the decree passed by the Commission” in April 2019, obligating the builder to refund the money to Brigadier (retired) Kanwal Batra, along with an interest of 10% per annum from the date of each payment made by the home buyer to Supertech.Section 27 of the 1986 Act clothes a consumer forum with the powers of a judicial magistrate, having an authority to order arrest and impose a jail term up to a maximum of three years over non-compliance with its orders.When contacted, Batra told HT: “I booked this villa in 2013 and Supertech had promised me to hand over the possession in August 2014. Seven years on, the builder has failed to get the approvals which activated the 2019 judgment to refund my money with an interest. They did not comply with even this order despite repeated promises made. There was grave misconduct on the part of the Supertech MD which has led to this order.”Advocate Vrinda Kapoor, who represented Batra before the commission, said: “This is a eureka moment not only for my client but also for all other similarly situated home buyers, who are made to run from pillar to post, first for their houses and then for refunds. The commission has sent out a very strong message to all the builders that you cannot bail out after making promises.”During the proceedings on Monday, the consumer commission took strong exception to the fact that Supertech had neither refunded the amount it had received from Batra as consideration of the house along with compensation, nor had Arora cared to show up despite the commission’s previous directive.Mohit Arora, Supertech MD, told HT: “We have the highest respect for the commission. We will comply with the commission’s order by Thursday. Supertech will initiate the process on Wednesday and will complete compliance by depositing the money by Thursday.”On July 20, Arora remained present before the commission after a bailable warrant was issued against him. This warrant was cancelled on his assurance that Supertech will make all payments to Batra within 60 days. While fixing September 20 as the next date of hearing, the commission then directed that Arora “shall be present on each day of hearing”.However, Supertech moved another application in the meantime, asking for 12 months to clear the dues. This plea was rejected by the commission on September 13, pointing out that the bailable warrant issued against Arora was cancelled only on his undertaking to pay within 60 days.When the hearing commenced on Monday, the counsel appearing for Supertech said that the amount was yet to be paid to Batra. Arora was conspicuous by his absence, annoying the commission further.Meanwhile, Supertech also moved the Delhi high court against the commission’s order of September 13. The hearing in this matter also came up before the high court on Monday, where Supertech’s lawyer conceded that the commission already issued an arrest warrant against Arora earlier in the day.In view of the panel’s latest order, Supertech had to withdraw its petition from the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supertech-md-faces-jail-if-no-refund-in-a-week-101632252631575.html
22-09-2021||India||Accused in Dalit girl case tried to destroy proof: Cops||A priest accused of raping and killing a nine-year-old Dalit girl near Delhi cantonment on August 1 tried to destroy evidence by throwing his phone and the victim’s footwear and bedding into the pyre built to forcibly cremate her, said Delhi Police in its charge sheet.The main accused and his three alleged accomplices also tried to bribe the victim’s mother and father and offered them ₹20,000 to stifle the charges, the police charge sheet added, quoting statements from the victim’s parents.“….all four accused threatened the parents of the deceased and by taking advantage of their poverty, illiteracy and their affiliation to an oppressed section of society, they managed to oppress their thought process and forcefully cremated the deceased,” read the charge sheet, filed by police on August 28. HT has seen the document.The Dalit girl was found dead in a crematorium near Purani Nangal village on August 1, sparking protests by activists and politicians. Days later, police arrested the main accused, 55-year-old Radhey Shyam and his three associates, Kuldeep Singh, Salim Ahmed and Laxmi Narayan.“Accused Radhey Shyam threw his own mobile phone (that also had porn content), bedding of the takht (Where he and Kuldeep raped deceased) and foot wear of the deceased in the burning pyre of the deceased. The traces of the mobile phone have been found in the ash lifted by the forensic team from the pyre of the deceased,” the police said in its charge sheet.The charge sheet accuses the four people of rape, wrongful confinement, murder, destruction of evidence, and under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Prevention of Atrocities Act.On September 9, a local Delhi court took cognisance of the charge sheet, summoning the accused on September 29.In its charge sheet, the police, quoting the statement of the mother given to the magistrate, said that an alleged middleman, identified as Naresh, offered the victim’s family a bribe of ₹20,000 and also threatened them. The document also said the victim’s parents were confined to the crematorium and not allowed to go anywhere, and also threatened.The police, quoting the mother’s initial statement to the police, said that Shyam used to take massages from the girl and give her ₹10 in exchange.According to the document, the mother also alleged that she was called by Shyam through an e-rickshaw driver on August 1 and when she went to the crematorium, she found the accused cooking non-vegetarian food and drinking alcohol in the hall with iron shutters. The footwear (chappal) of her daughter was also lying in the hall, the mother’s statement said.Police said the mother alleged that she wanted to touch and check the body of her daughter but Shyam did not let her. Shyam told her that the girl has to be cremated else it would become a police case and doctors would take out all her organs, according to the mother’s statement.The police said the accused tried to stage the death as electrocution and threw water on the clothes of the child.The accused say the girl died of electrocution while fetching water from a cooler. The girl’s family alleged that the suspects hurriedly cremated the body after raping her. The police also maintained that the death did not take place due to electrocution and instead the girl child was suffocated by Shyam to death during the sexual assault.Advocate LK Verma, who represents Shyam, called the police’s investigation “tainted” and said that the probe has not been done in a proper manner.On September 17, HT reported that police told a city court that the girl died due to “suffocation” during the sexual assault, citing disclosure statements of two accused -- Ahmed and Narayan -- in the case.To be sure, a confession or disclosure statement of any person made before a police officer is not admissible as evidence before a court unless it is backed by other evidence.Only a confession before a judge is admissible as evidence against an accused.However, documents reviewed by HT revealed that the disclosure statements of Ahmed and Narayan were corroborated by the Forensic Science Lab (FSL) and post mortem (PM) reports, which also ruled out death due to electrocution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/accused-in-dalit-girl-case-tried-to-destroy-proof-cops-101632252338958.html
22-09-2021||India||NIA raids 8 locations in J&K after IED recovery||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday conducted searches at eight locations across Jammu and Kashmir in connection with the recovery of a 5.5kg improvised explosive device (IED) which was dropped using a drone in Jammu on June 27.On the same day, two drones had also targeted an Indian Air Force facility in Jammu with explosives, leading investigators to suspect the role of Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba terror group and its newly-created arm in the Valley -- The Resistance Front -- behind the aerial attack.The searches in Doda and Kishtwar districts of Jammu province and Anantnag, Baramulla, Kulgam and Srinagar in Kashmir Valley on Tuesday were held following inputs suggesting the involvement of a few people from these areas in the IED recovery case.“Investigation revealed that Pakistan-based handlers of proscribed terror outfit LeT and their associates based in J&K are planning terrorist activities in J&K using the pseudo-acronym TRF (The Resistance Front) so as to maintain plausible deniability,” a NIA spokesperson said in a statement. “The conspiracy by LeT was aimed at causing (an) explosion in Jammu using the IED. NIA re-registered the case on July 19. NIA had earlier arrested three persons in this case,” the spokesperson added.The raids were conducted with the assistance of J&K Police and the Central Reserve Police Force. Several digital devices and other incriminating materials were recovered during the searches, the NIA spokesperson said. One Nadeem-ul-Haq was caught by police when he was heading towards the Valley after picking the IED in Bathindi on June 27. However, the target for the IED blast is not yet known as Haq was reportedly only directed to collect the explosive device, officials said.According to people familiar with both incidents on June 27, probe agencies suspect the drones flew in from a village across the border through technical help provided by the Pakistan Army and its Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) wing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-raids-8-locations-in-j-k-after-ied-recovery-101632251696989.html
22-09-2021||India||Allahabad high court denies bail to two Uttar Pradesh cops arrested for ‘forewarning’ Vikas Dubey||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court on Tuesday rejected the bail plea of Uttar Pradesh police officers Vinay Tiwari and K K Sharma who were arrested inJuly last year for allegedly forewarning gangster Vikas Dubey of a police raid, who then ambushed and killed eight policemen in Bikru village on July 3 last year. A single-judge bench of Justice Pradeep Kumar Srivastava said it was evident that Tiwari, who was the station officer of Chaubeypur police station, and Sharma who was a sub-inspector, had prior information about the police raid and revealed it to the gangster. Commenting on the trend of police personnel hobnobbing with gangsters, the court said it couldn’t figure out why a small number of people in uniform “show their loyalty more to such gangsters than to their department”. “The prevalent conditions in which the police has to perform the complicated and difficult job of ensuring law and order, maintaining security and peace, preventing crime and taking action against offenders... These all require home work and team work and if any member of police force starts giving clues about and leak the police strategy, the strategies are bound to fail and shall certainly result sometimes, particularly when police is confronting against organised crime and criminals, in disastrous situation as has resulted in this case,” the court said. “In such situation, policing such police personnel is a big task and it requires early identification of such black sheep, monitoring of their conduct, isolating them and taking immediate strict disciplinary action against them,” the court added.Dubey was later nabbed from Madhya Pradesh on July 9, 2020 and was gunned down while trying to escape from custody on July 10 while being brought back to Uttar Pradesh.The counsel of Tiwari, submitted that there was no direct or indirect evidence against him and it was a police raid that was resisted Dubey that led to the death of eight policemen. He also said that the evidence against Tiwari and Sharma was “scattered”. But Additional Advocate General, Manish Goyal, submitted that Sharma’s role was evident because he was regularly in touch with Dubey and his gang, and through him, Tiwari also maintained links with the gang. Both policemen turned a blind eye to Dubey’s criminal activities, submitted Goyal.The Allahabad high court expressed sympathy with the police who it said face “real difficulty” in combating organised crime. “The police personnel are mostly not provided with sophisticated arms which are available in plenty to the gangsters. The police stations are mostly under-manned and the strength of the police force is remarkably less in comparison to the population,” the order said.The court also expressed concern about the trend of political parties welcoming gangsters and criminals to their fold, often projecting them as Robinhood-like figures. “They are given tickets to contest elections, and sometimes they win as well. This trend needs to be stopped as soon as possible,” the court said, adding that all political parties should unanimously decide not to give such people tickets in elections. The court added that such an approach would not only undermine the rule of law but also damage the democratic setup of the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allahabad-high-court-denies-bail-to-two-uttar-pradesh-cops-arrested-for-forewarning-vikas-dubey-101632251776506.html
22-09-2021||India||NIA arrests DJ Halli riots case accused absconding for a year||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday said it has arrested one person in connection with the Devarajeevanahalli or DJ Halli riots case.“Yesterday (20.09.2021), NIA in a joint operation along with State Police arrested charge-sheeted absconding accused Tabrez S/o Shaikh Mahaboob, Age 35yrs, R/o 13th Cross, Old Bengaluru Layout, Bengaluru City, Karnataka,” the NIA said in a statement on Tuesday.The NIA said the investigation revealed that Tabrez is a member of Sagayapuram ward of the SDPI and was involved in hatching the conspiracy to attack the DJ Halli PS and had instigated many others on WhatsApp groups. He was also found involved in burning vehicles and damaging public/ private property, the NIA said. The agency said that further investigation is on.The arrest comes a year after the riots that engulfed the eastern parts of Bengaluru on the night of August 11 in which at least two persons died. The NIA had taken over the case in August last year.The NIA named Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) leader Muzamil Pasha for instigating the mob and inciting violence when it started the investigation into the case.The charges levelled against Pasha was that he had earlier called a meeting and directed the members of PFI (Popular Front of India ) and SDPI to instigate the mob and incite violence.A mob had gathered outside the residence of Akhanda Srinivas Murthy, the Congress legislator from Pulekeshi Nagar after his nephew put up a derogatory Facebook post on Prophet Mohammed.Despite the attempt from police to calm tempers down, the growing mob went on a rampage across several localities in the eastern part of the city.A mob of over 1000 people had spread across eastern parts of Bengaluru, damaging public property, arson and attacking the police.They attacked D.J.Halli and K.G. Halli police stations and set fire to the building and vehicles parked outside.The incident had ignited heated exchanges between the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress, who traded charges of inciting violence to appease its respective voter base.The former Mayor of Bengaluru and Congress member of the city corporation, Sampath Raj, was also arrested in the riots case.The case was filed on August 12 after the police station and other public property during the riots and the NIA re-registered the case on September 21, 2020, and took up the investigation.“After conducting a thorough investigation, NIA had filed the charge sheet before the NIA Special Court, Bengaluru under various sections of UA(P) Act, IPC and Karnataka Prevention of Destruction and Loss of Property Act (KPDLP Act) against 109 accused persons on 05.02.2021,” the NIA said in a statement on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-dj-halli-riots-case-accused-absconding-for-a-year-101632251654710.html
22-09-2021||India||Karnataka House passes bill to protect religious structures from demolition||The Karnataka legislative assembly on Tuesday passed the Karnataka Religious Structures (Protection) Bill, which seeks to protect religious structures from demolition.The Bill, which was tabled on Monday and will now be presented in the upper house of state legislature, provides protection to all religious structures that came up on public land before commencement of the law. It means the authorities will not be able to demolish religious structures on public land unless there is a specific court order for demolition of a religious structure, reading of the Bill shows.The Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government introduced the Bill on Monday after it came under attack from within the party as well as Opposition Congress and various pro-Hindu organisations following the demolition of a temple at Nanjangud in Mysuru a few days ago.JC Madhuswamy, Karnataka’s minister for parliamentary affairs, said that structures of all religions will come under the ambit of this new Bill. “There was lacuna and to fill it up we have brought this (bill),” Madhuswamy said, reacting to allegations over the government’s inability to stop the demolition of a temple in Nanjangud of Mysuru district on September 12.The Bill comes days after a video of a temple in Nanjangud being torn down by an earth mover went viral on social media with Mysuru-Kodagu MP Prathap Simha raising the issue to target authorities who were carrying out the drive with no consultations.During the discussion, leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah questioned how the temple was demolished without the government’s knowledge and sought to know why no action would be taken against the district officials for carrying out the act.“You are saying that from now on no temple should be demolished but what about the ones (demolished) earlier? You are bringing this bill because the Hindu Jagrana Vedike and Hindu Mahasabha pressurised you and the government got scared,” he said.Chief minister Bommai clarified that the government had no role in the temple demolition in Nanjangud. “Let there be no confusion. We (government) did not order demolition,” Bommai said.Assembly passes Bill against online gamingThe Karnataka legislative assembly on Tuesday also passed the Karnataka Police (Amendment) Bill, 2021, intended to curb gaming through internet or mobile applications. Karnataka’s home minister Araga Jnanendra tabled the Bill in the assembly on Friday during the ongoing monsoon session of the state legislature. The Bill also enhances the punishment for gaming for the orderly conduct of citizens and to wean them away from the vice of gambling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-house-passes-bill-to-protect-religious-structures-from-demolition-101632251481811.html
22-09-2021||India||BJP’s new Bengal chief Sukanta Majumdar equates TMC to Taliban||Kolkata:The newly-appointed Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Bengal unit president, Sukanta Majumdar on Tuesday said that he will fight against the “Talibanisation of the state” by the ruling Trinamool Congress .Referring to the post-poll violence incidents in the state, Majumdar alleged that many BJP supporters were killed by members of a minority community. He didn’t name the community. “This was never Bengal’s culture...though political clashes are not new... With the cooperation of my predecessors and the central leadership, I will continue my fight against the talibanisation of the state” Majumdar said, addressing party leaders and the media at the BJP state office.Reacting to Majumdar’s allegation, TMC Raj Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said, “The Talibanisaton he is talking about can be seen in BJP-ruled states. Majumdar should check the facts first.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjps-new-bengal-chief-sukanta-majumdar-equates-tmc-to-taliban-101632251475674.html
22-09-2021||India||Saarc foreign ministers’ Sept 25 meet called off due to ‘lack of concurrence’||The secretariat of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) informed the grouping on Tuesday that a planned meeting of foreign ministers in New York this week has been cancelled because of “lack of concurrence” among member states.The grouping that brings together Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka has been largely moribund since its 19th annual summit, which was to be held in Islamabad in 2016, was cancelled after an attack on an Indian Army camp at Uri that was blamed on Pakistan-based terrorists.The strained relations between India and Pakistan had also affected Saarc’s functioning, which operates on the principle of consensus. India has sought to broaden regional cooperation through other groupings that exclude Pakistan.An official letter sent by the Saarc secretariat to the foreign ministries of the eight countries on Tuesday said it had received a note verbale or unsigned diplomatic correspondence from Nepal’s foreign ministry that stated the informal meeting of foreign ministers, which was to be held on the margins of the UN General Assembly in New York on September 25, “will not take place” because of the “lack of concurrence from all member states”.Besides the strained relations between India and Pakistan, there had been a question mark over the meeting because of the status of Afghanistan following the takeover of the country by the Taliban last month. The interim setup created by the Taliban in Kabul has not been formally recognised by any country, and India has questioned its legitimacy as it is not inclusive and was not formed through negotiations.In recent years, the strains in India-Pakistan relations have been reflected at the Saarc foreign ministers’ meetings in New York. In 2019, Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi had boycotted the speech of his Indian counterpart at the Saarc meet to protest changes in the special status of Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saarc-foreign-ministers-sept-25-meet-called-off-due-to-lack-of-concurrence-101632251294735.html
22-09-2021||India||Assam govt orders probe into deaths of 2 suspected terrorists in police encounter||The Assam government on Tuesday ordered an inquiry into the deaths of two suspected cadres of a newly formed militant outfit who were killed in an encounter with police on Saturday. Jayant Narlikar, Commissioner (Lower Assam Division) has been directed to enquire into the circumstances leading to the deaths of two suspected cadres of the United Liberation of Bodoland (ULB) in a police encounter in the Ultapani area of Kokrajhar district. “He will ascertain the facts and circumstances leading to the deaths…..and submit an enquiry report within fifteen days,” said the notification issued by Debaprasad Misra, secretary to the state home and political department. The government move came after public outcry and allegations from opposition parties claiming that the two youths killed in the encounter—Janak Brahma and Jawngsar Mushahary (both 23)-were not ULB cadres. The police maintain that the youths were cadres of ULB, which was formed last week with the intention of creating a separate Bodoland state, and were killed in an “exchange of fire”. Brahma and Mushahary were former terrorists belonging to National Democratic Front of Bodoland (NDFB) and had surrendered before police in January last year following a peace deal signed between the Centre and four factions of outfit. Police say both youths were involved in extortions following their surrender and were picked up by police on September 17. Based on their information about a camp of ULB located inside Ultapani reserve forest, the police planned an operation the next day. “When police party (along with the two arrested youths) reached near the camp, suddenly miscreants started firing on police party and in retaliation police party took lying position and started controlled fire towards the extremist party,” said a statement issued by Kokrajhar police after the incident. A district police official said on condition of anonymity that during the firing, which lasted nearly half an hour, the two arrested youths fled from police custody towards the ULB camp and they were killed in exchange of fire. Protests sparked in Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) areas following the incident with residents alleging the police had staged the encounter. In a video statement, the ULB too denied any association with the slain youths. On Monday, Pramod Boro, chief executive member of Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC), which administers BTR, termed the incident as unfortunate and said there would be an investigation. Boro’s party, United Peoples Party Liberal (UPPL) is part of the BJP-led coalition in Assam. Hagrama Mohilary, president of opposition Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF), appealed to Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Tuesday that “in the interest of peace and tranquillity in Bodoland region” a CBI inquiry into the encounter should be ordered. “The outfit (ULB) had given a video statement threatening to launch violence from October if a particular person wasn’t released from jail. The government can’t act under such threats and have to take action to prevent such incidents. Whether those killed are innocent or not will be revealed during inquiry,” CM Sarma said in Guwahati on Tuesday. Since May this year after formation of the second BJP-led government in the state, there has been a rise in police encounters in Assam. Chief Minister Sarma has maintained that police will shoot at those who try to flee from custody or snatch weapons from police. In the past four months, 26 people have been killed and 42 injured in such encounters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-govt-orders-probe-into-deaths-of-2-suspected-terrorists-in-police-encounter-101632251114966.html
22-09-2021||India||Gauri Lankesh case: SC indicates it may set aside part of K’taka HC order||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Tuesday reserved its judgement on a plea by slain journalist Gauri Lankesh’s sister on the Karnataka high court order quashing charges of harbouring the murder accused under the Karnataka Control of Organized Crime Act (KCOCA), 2000. A bench of justices AM Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar “tentatively” indicated that it might set aside a part of the high court order. “The high court has dealt with the matter lightly by quashing the charge sheet without analysing it. This is a serious thing. You cannot quash the charge sheet just like that,” the judges said. Gauri Lankesh was shot dead in Bengaluru in September 2017. On April 22 this year, the high court had quashed charges made by a Special Investigation Team against Mohan Nayak of providing shelter to the murder accused under KCOCA. Lankesh’s sister Kavitha Lankesh, a filmmaker, had petitioned the apex court against the high court’s order. “Tentatively, we are indicating that we will quash the last part of the high court judgment as once the charge sheet is quashed, nothing remains for the investigating agency to find out whether you are a member of the organized crime syndicate under KCOCA,” the Supreme Court bench said.The SIT had taken approval from Karnataka’s additional director general of police on August 14, 2018, to invoke sections under the KCOCA against Nayak. A probe by the agency had revealed that Nayak was in close touch with Amol Kale, the main accused in the murder. Kale is also facing a probe in connection with the murders of political activist Govind Pansare at Kolhapur in Maharashtra in February 2015, and noted Kannada writer MM Kalburgi in August 2015 in Dharwad, also in Maharashtra. The high court had said that Nayak cannot be said to be part of an organised crime syndicate as no criminal cases or charge sheets were filed against him in the past. Lawyer Huzefa Ahmadi, appearing for Kavitha Lankesh (CHK) in the Supreme Court on Tuesday, said an offence of harbouring members of an organised crime syndicate does not require the accused to be a member of the syndicate or have a criminal record.“At the stage of granting approval, there is no material to show his involvement in past crimes linked to the syndicate. The approval was granted without any application of mind. Subsequent to investigation, he can be named as an abettor but not as a member of the syndicate,” the Supreme Court said. “To this extent, the high court was correct.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gauri-lankesh-case-sc-indicates-it-may-set-aside-part-of-k-taka-hc-order-101632250994723.html
22-09-2021||India||Char Dham Yatra: 18 pilgrims with fake e-passes sent back||Dehradun:Uttarakhand Police have caught and turned back 18 pilgrims trying to undertake the Char Dham Yatra with fake passes, authorities said on Tuesday, rekindling memories of mass fake Covid-19 tests during the Kumbh Mela earlier this year that undermined efforts to control the spread of the pandemic. Police said the 18 people were caught on Monday at a check post at Sonprayag in Rudraprayag district, some 24 km from Kedarnath, one of the four shrines of Hinduism. The other three are Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri. The pilgrimage began on Saturday under strict Covid-19 restrictions, with some 42,000 people issued mandatory e-passes. The 18 people were carrying e-passes that were discovered to be fake after the authorities didn’t find their names in the list of people accredited by the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board, Rudraprayag superintendent of police Ayush Agrawal said. “The 18 people who had come from neighbouring states were caught at Sonprayag, where the pilgrimage to Kedarnath actually starts.It was the first such incident since the yatra started on Saturday,” he said. The pilgrims told police that they obtained the e-passes from a cyber cafe in their neighbouring areas. “They claimed they didn’t know that the e-passes were fake,” said Agrawal. The district top cop said police turned them back and issued directions to personnel at all six barriers in Rudraprayag to thoroughly check all required documents of the pilgrims travelling to Kedarnath. “After Monday’s incident, the administration has become more alert in the backdrop of the alleged Covid-19 test scam in Haridwar Mahakumbh,” a police officer privy to developments said. Some 100,000 fake rapid tests allegedly conducted during the Kumbh Mela in April-May sparked widespread criticism of the state administration. At the time, the Uttarakhandhigh court came down heavily on the government. “We don’t want to take any risk during the Char Dham Yatra. After Monday’s incident, police have increased the vigil to catch anyone trying to take the yatra with fake or forged documents,” said the officer, requesting anonymity. The government will “strictly implement the standard operating procedure (SOP) on Char Dham Yatra”, said Satpal Maharaj, Uttarakhand’s minister of religious affairs and culture. “We are happy that the yatra has started after the high court allowed it, though with certain conditions. However, at the same time, we will not leave any stone unturned to ensure that the SOP (standard operating procedure) is strictly implemented amid the ongoing pandemic,” said Maharaj. “Only those having the required documents will be allowed to visit the shrines.” The Char Dham Yatra, which attracts about 40 lakh pilgrims annually, was put on hold by the Uttarakhand high court on June 28, citing Covid concerns. The pilgrimage was given the go-ahead on September 16 but with several restrictionsOn September 17, the government issued the SOP for Char Dham Yatra, saying people will need to carry negative Covid reports issued not more than 72 hours earlier, or double vaccination certificate issued at least 15 days earlier, register on the state government portal and get an e-pass from the website of the Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board .Pilgrims within the state are only exempted from online portal registration with remaining conditions applicable on them too. Pilgrims from Kerala, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh were required to carry negative Covid-19 reports even if they were fully vaccinated.The daily limit of pilgrims visiting the shrines is 1,000 in Badrinath, 800 in Kedarnath, 600 in Gangotri and 400 in Yamunotri. The Char Dham shrines and their surrounding areas will be sanitised thrice a day, the government has announced.The Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board has so far issued over 42,000 e-passes. According to board officials, 1,717 people visited Kedarnath, 2,429 visited Badrinath, 833 visited Gangotri and 402 visited Yamunotri shrine till Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/char-dham-yatra-18-pilgrims-with-fake-e-passes-sent-back-101632250817702.html
22-09-2021||India||Food exports rise 21.8% in April-August: Data||India’s export of agricultural and processed-food items increased 21.8% in dollar terms between the five months of April and August 2021 compared to the corresponding year-ago period, beating pandemic-induced disruptions, official data released on Tuesday showed. “Quick estimates” of export of products monitored by the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority rose to $7,902 million in April-August 2021 from $6,485 million in April-August 2020. The jump in exports of agricultural and processed food products during the first five months of current fiscal “is in continuation of growth in exports witnessed in the financial year 2020-21”, an official statement said. Rice exports grew 13.7% from $3,359 million in April-August 2020 to $3,820 million in April-August 2021, according to the data. Export of fruits and vegetables clocked a 6.1% growth in dollar terms, while there was a 142.1% jump in export of “other cereals”. Meat, dairy and poultry products sold abroad increased 31.1% in the first five months of the current fiscal (2021-22), the data showed. Exports are key to driving farm incomes. India’s farm exports grew five times from just $8.7 billion in 2004-05 to $42.6 billion during 2013-14. They then fell sharply to $33 billion in 2016-17 and had been muted since. Trends show a reversal of stagnation of farm exports. In the financial year ended March 2021, the country exported farm produce worth nearly $42 billion, a growth of about 18%, on the back of a rise in global commodity prices, according to official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/food-exports-rise-21-8-in-april-august-data-101632250755890.html
22-09-2021||India||Maldives women requests CBI to place damages claim before Supreme Court in 1994 isro spy case||Two Maldives nationals, who were also arrested along with scientist Nambi Narayanan in the 1994 ISRO spy case, have moved the CBI requesting it to place before the Supreme Court their claim for damages of ₹2 crore from each of the 18 officers who are arrayed as accused in the conspiracy case being probed by the agency.The two women -- Mariyam Rasheeda and Fousiya Hasan -- have made the request to CBI as the agency has registered a case against the 18 officers, which includes Intelligence Bureau officials, for various offences which include criminal conspiracy and kidnapping and fabrication of evidence, under the IPC, in connection with the arrest and detention of Narayanan in the 1994 espionage case.The women have urged the agency to place their claim for damages before the apex court when it hears CBI’s appeal against a Kerala high court order granting anticipatory bail to four accused - former DGP of Gujarat, two former police officers of Kerala, and a retired intelligence official - in the conspiracy case being probed by the agency.The agency, in its appeal has sought cancellation of the anticipatory bail granted to the four accused by the high court on August 13.The high court, while granting the relief to the accused, had said,” There is not even a scintilla of evidence regarding the petitioners being influenced by any foreign power so as to induce them to hatch a conspiracy to falsely implicate the scientists of the ISRO with the intention to stall the activities of the ISRO with regard to the development of the cryogenic engine.”Advocate Prasad Gandhi, who represented the two women in their pleas before the Kerala High Court and a Sessions Court in Thiruvananthapuram, opposing grant of any relief to the accused in the conspiracy case, told PTI that they have urged the CBI to place their claim for damages before the apex court when it hears the appeal.Gandhi said that such a claim can only be raised by them through the agency and the women cannot directly approach the apex court for relief.The women are seeking the damages for the mental and physical torture as well as monetary loss suffered by them during their more than three-year long incarceration in a prison here in the espionage case.They have claimed that they were not spies and were falsely implicated in the matter after one of them -- Mariyam Rasheeda -- denied the advances of one of officers of the SIT which was investigating the espionage case back then.The Supreme Court had, on April 15, ordered that the report of the committee, appointed by it, on the role of erring police officials in the espionage case relating to Narayanan be given to the CBI and directed it to conduct further investigations into the issue.The committee was appointed by the apex court to look into the allegations against the police officers in the spying case.The espionage case pertained to allegations of transfer of certain confidential documents on the space programme of India to foreign countries by two scientists and four others, including the two Maldivians.The CBI, in its probe at that time, had held that top police officials in Kerala were responsible for Narayanan’s arrest which the agency said was illegal.The case had a political fallout too, with a section in the Congress party targeting the then Chief Minister K Karunakaran, who is now dead, over the issue that eventually led to his resignation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maldives-women-requests-cbi-to-place-damages-claim-before-supreme-court-in-1994-isro-spy-case-101632250754794.html
22-09-2021||India||Andhra reports 1,179 Covid cases, 11 new fatalities||Active coronavirus cases reduced by 483 to drop below the 14,000 mark in Andhra Pradesh as the state reported 1,651 recoveries in 24 hours ending 9 am on Tuesday while 1,179 fresh positives were added.Also, 11 Covid-19-infected persons succumbed in a day, taking the overall toll so far to 14,089, a health department bulletin said. It said the state now has 13,905 active cases. The gross positives climbed to 2,040,708 and recoveries to 2,012,714. East Godavari district reported 192 fresh cases, consequent to which its active caseload increased by 69.Chittoor added 190 new cases, but its active caseload decreased by 170. Krishna logged 167, West Godavari 161, SPS Nellore 131, Prakasam 124 and Guntur 107 new cases in 24 hours. Prakasam’s active cases fell by 208 to 2,370, the highest in the state now. In 24 hours, Visakhapatnam reported 47 cases, Kadapa 30, Srikakulam 19, Anantapuramu eight, Kurnool two and Vizianagaram, one. Chittoor reported three fresh fatalities, Krishna, SPS Nellore and Prakasam two each, and East Godavari and Guntur one each in a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-reports-1-179-covid-cases-11-new-fatalities-101632250695973.html
22-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu requests central government to postpone plan to resume vaccine exports||The Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday requested the Centre to postpone resumption of exports of Covid-19 vaccines, saying only one third of the country’s population have been fully inoculated so far and 1.15 billion vaccines are still required to give the shots to all the people.Minister for medical and family welfare Ma Subramanian put forth the request after Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday said that exports of surplus Covid-19 vaccines would resume next month under the ‘Vaccine Maitri’ programme.Talking to reporters after unveiling the simulation centre at Apollo Hospitals in Vanagaram on Tuesday, Subramanian said the global medical fraternity welcomed the vaccination programme in India, as inoculating people holds the key in the fight against the Covid-19 virus. However, shortage of vaccines had resulted in Tamil Nadu being unable to hold vaccination camps on September 20 and today, he said.The minister pointed out that the Centre had announced that 800 million people nationwide have received the jabs, of which 61 crore have received the first dose. “Considering the total population of 1.3 billion people who need to be inoculated, 70 per cent of them were identified to be above the age of 18 years, which is 97.30 crore,” he said.Subramanian said that till date 2.77 million people, or one third of the population have received the second dose. So the country still requires another 1.15 million doses to vaccinate every one, he said. The minister said he had raised with Mandaviya, the issue of vaccinating those in this age group, as was being contemplated by other countries, to which he had replied that he would inform him after holding discussions with the officials. “Considering all these (issues), the news of resuming vaccines for exports will not be right in any way.. On behalf of the people of Tamil Nadu, we request Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) and the Union Health Minister to postpone the idea to resume vaccine exports and set a target to inoculate all the people in the country”, Subramanian said.On the initiatives taken by the Tamil Nadu government to vaccinate people, he said 4.534 million people have been given the shots in 60,000 camps state-wide on September 12 and 19. The government requires 121.2 million vaccines to vaccinate people in the state, he said, adding that 60.6 million people aged above 18 years have been identified as eligible to receive the shots. “Till date we have vaccinated 4.37 crore people and still need 7.50 crore vaccines” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-requests-central-government-to-postpone-plan-to-resume-vaccine-exports-101632250694817.html
22-09-2021||India||Telangana reports 244 new Covid-19 cases, 1 death||Telangana on Tuesday logged 244 fresh Covid-19 cases, pushing the tally to 663,906, while the toll rose to 3,907 with one more fatality.The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 72, followed by Karimnagar and Nalgonda (19 each) districts, a state government bulletin said, providing details as of 5.30 pm, a health department bulletin said.Recoveries outnumbered fresh cases with 296 people recuperating from the infectious disease, taking the cumulative number till date to 655,061.The number of active cases was 4,938, the bulletin said.It said 50,505 samples were tested on Tuesday and the total number of samples tested till date was 25,947,467.The samples tested per million population was 697,137.The Case Fatality Rate in the state was 0.58 per cent, while it was 1.3 per cent at the national level, the bulletin said.The recovery rate in Telangana was 98.66 per cent, while it was 97.72 per cent in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-reports-244-new-covid-19-cases-1-death-101632250634859.html
22-09-2021||India||Should not let Narrow interests undermine unity, says Kerala CM Vijayan||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said narrow interests should not be allowed to undermine our unity as no religion or a nation is greater than man.The CM’s remarks, on his Facebook page, came on the occasion of Sree Narayana Guru’s Samadhi Day and it assumes significance in view of the ongoing controversy in the state over the ‘narcotic jihad’ remark by a Catholic Bishop. Hailing the contribution of Guru in transforming Kerala as a modern society, he said that the obstacles in the path of becoming a community as envisioned by the sage were racist ideology and the remnants of the caste system which are still strong enough to “embarrass us”.Vijayan said people ought to “proclaim out loud that a religion and a nation are not greater than man. No narrow interests can be allowed to undermine our unity”.“.. let us pledge on this day that we will stand together for the common good of the country. May that unity take our country to new heights,” he said, adding that we have to go a long way to fulfil Guru’s dream.Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan also tweeted a message on the occasion, saying “My pranams to #SreeNarayanaGuru, on his Samadhi day. #Guru placed the human being at the centre of all existence, and advocated self improvement by individuals as the only hope for the society and the world.” The CM, in his post, also said that the Guru gave priority to the essence of man above all else and was critical of brahmanism and the ideas of sectarianism, which are the basis of the caste-feudal system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/should-not-let-narrow-interests-undermine-unity-says-kerala-cmvijayan-101632250576379.html
22-09-2021||India||Kerala reports 15,768 Covid cases, 214 deaths, says government||Kerala on Tuesday reported 15,768 new Covid cases, and TPR of 14.94 per cent after 105,513 samples were tested, said the state health ministry. The state also reported 214 deaths, taking the total fatalities to 23,897. Active cases came down to 161,195 as compared to the past two weeks when active cases were above 200,000. State health minister Veena George said 90 per cent of the eligible population has got the first dose of the Covid vaccine and four districts will achieve full vaccination soon. On Tuesday, Thrissur topped the Covid-19 chart with 1,843 cases, followed by Kottayam (1,631) and Thiruvananthapuram (1,591) cases. Kasaragod and Wayanad clocked the lowest cases, 186 and 237 respectively. “During the week between Sept 12-18, average active cases were 196,657, and out of this, only 2 per cent availed oxygen beds. Now, the dependence of oxygen beds is below one per cent. It shows there is a sharp dip in active and serious cases,” said the minister. But she asked people not to lower their guard. She said the results of the sero survey conducted by the state will come by the month-end The state had started a sero prevalence survey in the first week of August to get a clear picture of the level of exposure to the virus. According to the earlier survey, conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research in July, Kerala had the lowest presence of antibodies at 44.4 per cent in comparison to Madhya Pradesh, where it stood at 75.9 per cent. Experts said the low presence of antibodies triggered mounting cases in the state. Statistics of the last two weeks indicate that the active cases and test positivity rate (TPR) in the state have started to come down. In the first week of September, the average Covid cases were between 22,000 and 25,000, but now the average has come down to 15,000-18,000. Similarly, the average TPR dipped to 15% from 20%. Experts said cases will stabilise by the end of the month. For more than three months, the state has been reporting 60-70 per cent of the total cases of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-15-768-covid-cases-214-deaths-says-government-101632250457374.html
22-09-2021||India||YSRTP chief Sharmila announces padayatra from October 20||YSR Telangana Party president YS Sharmila on Monday announced a marathon padayatra (foot march) across Telangana from October 20, following the footsteps of late father YS Rajasekhar Reddy and brother YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, who embarked on a similar journey in the past. Sharmila, who recently formed her party, said she would walk across the state, barring the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits, covering 90 of the 119 assembly constituencies in over a year.She christened her padayatra “Praja Prasthanam” (people’s journey), a name used by her father for his 1500-km long padayatra from April 9 to June 16, 2003, that catapulted him to power in the 2004 assembly elections in the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh. Sharmila also chose to start her padayatra from the Chevella assembly constituency in Ranga Reddy district, the same place from where YSR also began his padayatra in 2003.“Chevella has been sentimentally attached to my father, that is why I have chosen this place to begin my padayatra, which will also end up in the same place. I am planning to walk for 12-15 km a day, and I hope to complete my walkathon in a year,” Sharmila told reporters on Monday.She said during her padayatra, she would like to understand the people’s problems personally and highlight what they lost in seven years of Telangana Rashtra Samithi government, led by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, besides recalling the contribution made by her father YSR for the welfare and development of the people.“The TRS government has cheated all sections of people, including Dalits and the unemployed youth. Nearly 7,000 unemployed youth committed suicide during the KCR’s regime,” she said.Sharmila embarked on a similar padayatra between October 18, 2012, to August 4, 2013, where she walked around 3,000 kilometres across 14 districts of the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh in the name of “Maro Praja Prashthanam” (Another people’s journey), to sustain the YSR Congress party floated by her brother YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, who was in jail in connection with a CBI case.Interestingly, Sharmila’s padayatra did not fetch victory for the YSR Congress party in the subsequent assembly elections held in a bifurcated Andhra Pradesh in 2014. Instead, Telugu Desam Party president N Chandrababu Naidu, who also took up a 2,808-km long padayatra, which he named “Vasthunna Mee Kosam” (I am coming for you) from October 2, 2012, to April 27, 2013, across the state, emerged victoriously.The time-tested strategy of padayatra once again worked out for Sharmila’s brother Jagan Mohan Reddy, who created a history of sorts by walking for a massive distance of 3,648 km for 341 days, starting from November 6, 2017, to January 9, 2019, including a brief period wherein he was hospitalised. He named his padayatra “Praja Sankalpa Yatra” (Tour to take a resolve for people).Sharmila, who launched her regional party on July 8 this year with the slogan “Rajanna Rajyam” (Rajasekhar Reddy’s welfare state) in Telangana, has been taking up 12-hour hunger-strike every week to highlight the unemployment issue in the state for the last couple of months.On Tuesday, she attempted a hunger strike at Boduppal grounds on the outskirts of Hyderabad. But the police did not give her permission to hold the meeting. When insisted, the police arrested her and took her to Ghatkesar police station, about 20km away.The YSRTP workers staged a dharna in front of the police station, demanding her release. She continued her fasting on the police station premises till evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ysrtpchief-sharmila-announces-padayatra-from-october-20-101632250454746.html
22-09-2021||India||Civil servants can receive gifts from foreign dignitaries: Centre||The Union government on Tuesday published a gazette notification allowing All India Services (AIS) civil servants to receive and retain gifts from foreign dignitaries.“In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 3 of the All India Services Act, 1951 (61 of 1951), the Central Government, after consultation with the Governments of the State concerned, hereby makes the following rules further to amend the All India Services (Conduct) Rules, 1968,” the gazette notification published by the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) stated. “Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rules (1), (2) and (3), a member of the Service, being a member of the Indian delegation or otherwise, may receive and retain gifts from foreign dignitaries in accordance with the provisions of the Foreign Contribution (Acceptance or Retention of Gifts or Presentations) Rules, 2012, as amended from time to time,” it added.At present, under Rule 11, an AIS member may accept gifts from their relatives or friends having no official dealings with them on occasions such as wedding, anniversaries, funerals and religious functions when the gifts are in conformity with prevailing religious and social practices, but the members need to report to the government if the value of such gifts exceed ₹25,000.The AIS comprises Indian Administrative Services, Indian Police Services and Indian Forest Services.According to a former DoPT official familiar with the matter, the issue was addressed by circulars and office memoranda, but now it was incorporated into the AIS rules. Similar provisions already existed under the central civil service rules, which explicitly dealt with the receiving of the gifts, the official said.A second official said the notification did not represent a deviation from existing norms. “There is not anything that different in the notification,” the official said, adding, “It has been practised in the past.”A gift, as defined in the rule, may include free transport, free boarding, free lodging or any other service or financial advantage when provided by a person other than a relative or friend having “no official dealings” with the AIS member, but does not include “casual lift, or other social hospitality”.A sub-rule under the section states that no member of the service “shall accept any gift without the sanction of the government if its value exceeds ₹5,000”. Besides, the member “shall avoid accepting lavish hospitality or frequent hospitality from persons having official dealings with them or from industrial or commercial firms or other organisations”.The department proposed an amendment to the existing AIS conduct rules in March last year seeking members be allowed to “accept/retain” gifts from foreign dignitaries.“Presently, there are no provisions under AIS (Conduct Rules), 1968, with regard to receipt/retention of gifts from foreign dignitaries by AIS members,” the proposal said.Though the conduct rules only refer to domestic gifts, AIS members have declared receiving gifts from foreign dignitaries in the Toshakhana of the ministry of external affairs, according to reports on the DoPT website.“Notwithstanding anything contained in Rule 11, a member of the service may receive and retain gifts in accordance with the provisions of The Foreign Contribution (Acceptance or Retention of Gifts or Presentation) Rules, 2012, as amended time to time,” the proposed amendment added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/civil-servants-can-receive-gifts-from-foreign-dignitaries-centre-101632250394658.html
22-09-2021||India||Haryana: Role of Saraswati river in Mahabharata to be taught in schools||References of the Saraswati river from Vedic and pre-Vedic texts; its role in the battle of Mahabharata; medieval-era Sanskrit text Vamanapurana that explicitly mentions the history of the river and the Harappan-era archaeological site ‘Dholavira’ in Gujarat; are among the topics recommended by the Haryana’s ‘Saraswati river syllabus committee’ to be taught in the state schools. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Haryana government had last month announced to include the history of Saraswati river in the curriculum for students of classes 4th to 12th in its schools with an aim to make students aware about the mythological history of the river. The Haryana Saraswati Heritage Development Board (HSHDB), which is headed by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, constituted a 14-member ‘Saraswati river syllabus committee’ on August 26 to prepare the curriculum. Officials at the board said the committee submitted its recommendations on Monday. Dhumman Singh Kirmach, vice-chairman of HSHDB, said the recommended topics will be included in the already existing state government’s books of History and Geography. “The committee has recommended highlighting the existence of Saraswati river in Vedas and pre-Vedic scriptures. For instance, in Rigveda, the Saraswati river is mentioned as many as 72 times while there is only one reference of other popular rivers like the Yamuna. Similarly, in puranas, specifically Vamanapurana, which is one of the 18 major puranas of Hinduism, there has been extensive mention of the Saraswati. The committee has recommended including all these texts in the curriculum,” Kirmach said. The committee has also suggested including the “role of Saraswati river” wherever Mahabharata or Bhagavad Gita is mentioned in the curriculum. “The Saraswati played a major role in the selection of Kurukshetra as the place for the battle of Mahabharatha. It was chosen because it is situated on the banks of the Saraswati. The committee has suggested teaching all of this to our students. Similarly, we will also be adding shlokas from Bhagavad Gita in the curriculum. It is because Lord Krishna had given lessons to Arjuna by quoting Bhagavad Gita during the battle of Mahabharata,” Kirmach said. Pritam Singh, assistant director of Centre for Dr BR Ambedkar studies at Kurukshetra University (KU) and chairperson of the syllabus committee, said the idea is to include as many references of the Saraswati in the existing books. “For example, there is a chapter on Mahabharata in class 6th History book. We have recommended to include the importance of Saraswati river in its context there itself. Similarly, wherever there are references of rivers, the committee has suggested to include references from our ancient scriptures highlighting the importance of Saraswati river there itself,” he said. Explaining the idea behind recommending inclusion of archaeological site Dholavira, which has recently received the UNESCO world heritage site tag, Kirmach said, “Saraswati river flows up to Kutch in Gujarat and ends near this particular heritage site. That’s why it has been added to the recommendations.” The government will now review the recommendations. “We want to include it in the syllabi of some classes from this academic session itself. Otherwise, it will surely be added to the SCERT books that will be published for the next academic year. We will also be sending these recommendations to the NCERT so that it can also consider adding some of these topics in its books as well,” Kirmach said. Earlier this year, the Haryana government had sanctioned ₹800 crore for the rejuvenation of the ancient river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-role-of-saraswati-river-in-mahabharata-to-be-taught-in-schools-101632249854959.html
22-09-2021||India||Search ops on in Uri to track infiltrators, internet suspended||Srinagar: The army operation to track down a group of infiltrators, who may have sneaked into Uri in Baramulla district, entered third day on Tuesday, said the officials. Meanwhile, the mobile voice calls and internet were suspended in the area from Monday afternoon, they added.The army had inputs that a fresh group of infiltrators have sneaked into Uri via Gawahalan village taking the cover of darkness and thick foliage, people familiar with the matter said. Defence spokesperson Col Emron Masavi said that suspicious movement was detected along the LoC on the intervening night of September 18/19. “Search of the area is still under progress,” he said on Tuesday.The operation is going on and high alert has been issued around the camps located in the area, especially messages have been passed to both Rampur and Uri brigade commanders to remain on high alert, said the officials.Uri is close to the Line of Control (LoC) and shortest routes for infiltration, however there is three tier security in the area which has prevented infiltration in the past. The Army’s 15 Corps commander, Lt General DP Panday told media persons on Monday that there have been two successful attempts of infiltration in Kashmir and one group was neutralised in Bandipore and operation to track down another group is underway.This year there has been significant drop in infiltration attempts on the LoC in north Kashmir especially from Uri, Nowgam, Tanghdar, Keran, Machil and Gurez sectors, said the officials Officials said that September and October months are always crucial vis-a-vis infiltration attempts as passes and ridges generally used for the infiltration close due to heavy snowfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/search-ops-on-in-uri-to-track-infiltrators-internet-suspended-101632249795337.html
22-09-2021||India||AUKUS won’t impact Quad agenda: Harsh Shringla||New Delhi: The new security alliance between Australia, the UK and the US has no link with the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue and will have no impact on the functioning of the grouping, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Tuesday ahead of the first in-person Quad Summit.Shringla’s remarks, the first official response to AUKUS from the Indian side, came against the backdrop of widespread speculation on whether the new security alliance would dilute the Quad’s agenda or affect the working of the grouping that brings together India, Australia, Japan and the US.“Let me make it clear that the Quad and the AUKUS are not groupings of a similar nature,” Shringla told a media briefing ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the US, during which he will participate in the maiden in-person Quad Summit on September 24.The Quad is a “plurilateral grouping of countries with a shared vision of their attributes and values” and the four members have a shared vision of the Indo-Pacific as a free, open, transparent and inclusive region, he said.“On the other hand, AUKUS is a security alliance between three countries. We are not party to this alliance. From our perspective, this is neither relevant to the Quad nor will it have any impact on its functioning,” he added.The new alliance was unveiled last week by Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and US President Joe Biden against the backdrop of China’s assertive actions across the Indo-Pacific, and its first initiative is aimed at equipping Australia with nuclear-powered submarines built with technology from the US and the UK.France, a close strategic ally of India, reacted angrily to the new alliance as it resulted in Australia scrapping a nearly $90-billion deal to build 12 French-designed conventional submarines.Responding to a question on whether there are any nuclear proliferation-related concerns regarding AUKUS, Shringla said Australia had already clarified that it would be working on nuclear-propelled submarines but “it would not have any nuclear weapons and, as such, will not be in contravention with any of Australia’s or international commitments with regard to the issue of nuclear proliferation”.He said there is also no link between the Malabar naval exercise and the Quad, just “as there is no link between the AUKUS and the Quad”.The Malabar exercise is conducted by the navies of India, the US and Japan, and Australia has joined the drills for the second consecutive year in 2021.Shringla said the Quad has come a long way as a grouping, from initially holding meetings of senior officials to organising a meeting of foreign ministers in 2019, and moving to a virtual summit in March this year. “As we go along, I think we have already found a lot of common ground,” he said.The Quad has also adopted a “positive and proactive agenda” with an array of initiatives at the global level to address contemporary issues such as the Covid-19 pandemic, supply of vaccines to Indo-Pacific nations, new and emerging technologies, the climate crisis, infrastructure, maritime security, education, and humanitarian assistance and disaster relief.“The Quad will deal with all issues that would further its objectives of seeing our common vision of an Indo-Pacific region that is free, open and inclusive. From that perspective, the Quad will function and will do what it takes. The effort is to move on areas that would seek to co-opt and enable the Quad to cooperate with our Indo-Pacific partners,” Shringla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aukus-won-t-impact-quad-agenda-harsh-shringla-101632249495259.html
22-09-2021||India||Centre drops proposal for uranium mining in Telangana forests amid stir||The Union ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) has withdrawn the proposal to allow Atomic Minerals Directorate for Exploration and Research to undertake survey and exploration of Uranium ore in Nallamala forest areas, following strong protests from locals and environmentalists, besides objections from the state government, state forest department officials said on Tuesday.The decision, which came up for discussion at the meeting of Forest Advisory Committee (FAC) of the MoEF as an additional agenda item on August 16, was conveyed to the Telangana government last week, an official in the state forest department familiar with the development said.According to the official, the proposal for exploration of Uranium mining in the Nallamala forests was considered by the FAC in its earlier meetings held on May 22, 2019 and also on April 23, 2020.Subsequently, the FAC deferred the proposal seeking clarity in recommendation from the state government. The observations of the FAC were communicated to the state government, which replied that, neither the State Board of Wildlife nor the the government has recommended the proposal.“After thorough deliberation and discussions, the FAC recommends that the proposal may be closed, in absence of proper recommendation of the state government,” the FAC said.In May 2019, the Atomic Minerals Directorate for Exploration and Research (AMDER), South Central region at Hyderabad, a unit of the Department of Atomic Energy, sought permission to conduct survey and exploration for Uranium ore in the Nallamala forests and the FAC gave in-principle approval for the same in principle agreement in May.The AMDER sought to conduct the exploration of Uranium over 83 square kilometres of the area, including 76 square kilometres of area encompassing Amrabad Tiger Reserve falling in Nagarkurnool district and another seven square kilometre in Nagarjunasagar area under Nalgonda district.The AMDER sought to drill 4,000 boreholes in the tiger reserve as part of survey for Uranium deposits. The authorities began drilling exercises in a few places in Amrabad area, which triggered protests from the local tribal groups.Within no time, the environmentalists with the support of locals launched a Save Nallamala movement. About 60 different organisations, including political parties, several environment activists joined the movement and held a series of meetings to bring pressure on the government to drop the plans to take up Uranium mining in the tiger reserve.They argued that Uranium mining in the Nallamala forests would also threaten the survival and livelihoods of Chenchus, a primitive tribal group, living in Amrabad forest areas. “Modern technology like internet and social media also helped us spread our movement fast and more and more people joined the campaign,” noted environmentalist Prof K Purushottam Reddy, who led the Save Nallamala campaign, told HT.With the pressure mounting on all sides, the Telangana government reacted quickly and announced that there was no question of allowing Uranium mining in the Nallamala forests. On September 16, 2019, the Telangana Legislative Assembly passed a unanimous resolution, urging the Centre not to allow Uranium mining operations in the Nallamala forest region of the state.While chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao made a statement in the assembly, his son and municipal administration minister K T Rama Rao moved the resolution in the legislative council in this regard.KTR said the exploration of Uranium would hurt the ecological balance in Nallamala forest region, which is home for Chenchu tribes and also has rich biodiversity, including animals like tigers and Nilgai and rare varieties of plants. “It might also lead to contamination of water in Krishna river flowing through the Nallamala forest range and it would, in turn, affect the drinking water being supplied to Hyderabad,” the government resolution said.The state government conveyed the resolution to the Centre and answered a series of queries raised by the MoEF over the last two years. “It is good that the Centre has finally dropped the proposal for Uranium mining. The entire credit goes to the strong people’s movement against the proposal,” Purushottam Reddy added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-drops-proposal-for-uranium-mining-in-telangana-forests-amid-stir-101632249316297.html
22-09-2021||India||Parliamentary committees: Speaker seeks report on members’ attendance||To streamline the functioning of parliamentary committees through better participation, the office of Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla has asked for a detailed report on the attendance of members in these committees in the last financial year, according to a circular released on Monday. Birla’s office wants to know how many meetings were held by both department-related standing committees and other panels “and the number of sittings attended by each member”. It also wants to know the “total number of sittings held during the current term” of panels other than standing committees and the attendance of MPs in those meetings. The Speaker’s office wants to closely monitor the attendance of MPs as officials have been told to furnish weekly reports. This has come at a time when there is talk of shuffling the panels and a plan to shift absentee MPs to other panels.Apart from that, a committee has also been formed to look into the rules that govern the functioning of the panels “and suggest changes that are necessary in light of the developments in recent years”. Insiders feel there are other more important issues to consider, such as the overlap of subjects of different panels, quorum relaxation, and uniform rules for all panels. “Several things have happened particularly in the wake of Covid-19. Many panels couldn’t meet regularly and some MPs had demanded online meetings. But if there is any change in the House rules, it has to be done by the Rules panel,” said former secretary general of Lok Sabha, P Sreedharan. But officials ruled out online meetings. “Online meetings can compromise the non-partisan character of the panels and their secrecy,” said another senior official on condition of anonymity. Biju Janata Dal MP and chairman of the labour standing committee, Bhartruhari Mahtab said, “There are many issues that might require a relook at the rules. Most important is how long the panel proceedings will be held in-camera. There is a debate that while MPs work very hard in these panels, it is not reflected through the media. After all, the secrecy clause is usually to protect the executive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-committees-speaker-seeks-report-on-members-attendance-101632249194786.html
22-09-2021||India||150.5 million tonne kharif foodgrain output projected||New Delhi: India has projected a record foodgrain output of 150.5 million tonne from summer crops (2021-22) despite an erratic monsoon, up 4% from the previous year, official estimates on Tuesday showed.The government’s first of the four quarterly estimates of food production, a key indicator of the country’s farm sector that employs half of all Indians, pointed to plentiful harvests of rice, coarse cereals, maize, higher pulses, oilseeds, etc.Farm-produce output and agricultural gross domestic product (agri GDP) was robust in 2020-21, too, when the wider economy came to a standstill due to strict Covid-19 restrictions, pointing to resilience of the rural sector.Robust food output will likely keep a lid on food inflation. Overall inflation levels of between 4-6% offer the Reserve Bank greater flexibility in adjusting its monetary policies to keep the country’s nascent economic recovery on track. However, gluts in some items tend to send food prices crashing, which hurts farmers’ incomes.Still, these are early projections subject to revision when final production figures at the end of the harvest season become available. According to the so-called first advance estimates 2021-22, rice output is estimated to be 107.04 million tonnes, up 5 million tonne from the previous year.Coarse cereals output, such as oats and pearl millets, are set to be nearly 34 million tonne, higher by 2.11 million tonne than the five-yearly average production of 31.89 million tonne.According to Tuesday’s official data, the production of pulses is estimated to be 9.4 million tonne, largely the same as last year. Pulses are among a clutch of items that tend to stoke food prices, along with oilseeds or edible oil.Summer oilseeds are pegged at 23.39 million tonne, higher by 2.96 million tonne than the five-year average oilseeds production of 20.42 million tonne. India will still have to import edible oils, as it routinely does, to meet domestic demand.The data also estimated record sugarcane output of 419.25 million tonnes.“The estimates will undergo revision later, but they point to good harvests. However, the trends are more or less similar as earlier. Cereals tend are higher than non-cereals,” said Abhishek Agrawal of Comtrade, a commodities firm.The latest kharif output figures show India’s agriculture sector appears to have emerged unscathed during the second Covid-19 wave, just as it had during the first outbreak in 2020.In 2020, when the country faced a recession, agriculture was the only sector to record positive growth. It grew 3.4% in the June 2020 quarter, when the overall economy shrank 24.4%. When all-India growth returned to positive territory in the December 2020 quarter, expanding 0.4%, agriculture grew higher at 3.9%. Two years of back-to-back normal monsoon (2019 and 2020) was also to record farm output.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1505-million-tonne-kharif-foodgrain-output-projected-101632248955342.html
22-09-2021||India||In Firozabad outbreak, no succour at first port of call||Since the last week of August, queues outside Firozabad’s State Autonomous Medical College (SAMC) don’t seem to end. With wailing children cradled in arms, distraught parents stand patiently for hours, hoping to consult a doctor. Their descriptions of the children’s symptoms differ – fever, vomiting, chills – but their experience with rural health care is common: an overstretched, or shut, local health centre in their village forcing them to travel to the city to save their loved ones.“It has been three days since my daughter got fever. I had been running around the Humayunpur primary health centre but it cannot test blood, so I had to come to SAMC,” said Ankur Kumar, a driver.Government records say that at least 61 children have died in Firozabad since August 20. A central team has blamed a combination of dengue, scrub typhus, and leptospirosis. The crisis has put a spotlight on the condition of rural health infrastructure and its shortcomings. A spot check by HT last week found that the first port-of-call for villagers were shut or hopelessly overstretched. A health sub-centre shut for two years and functioning as the home of a nurse, a primary health centre functioning with a third of the medical staff required, a community health centre with just one doctor and an overstretched district hospital where bureaucratic tangles worsened already unsanitary conditions. Due to this, parents and children often find poor or non-existent medical care in their villages, and patients are often critical by the time they reach the district headquarters. As a result, Fizorabad, once known for its decorative glass bangles, is in the grip of a grim dengue and viral fever outbreak sweeping north India.“Out of 540, 480 beds are occupied as of now of which confirmed dengue patients are 131,” said Dr Sangeeta Aneja, principal of SAMC. Aneja said the hospital is getting 250 patients a day, and has 60 doctors working round the clock.In India, rural health infrastructure is three-tiered, a subcentre to cater to four villages or a population of 5,000, a primary health centre (PHC) for a cluster of villages and 30,000 population and a community health centre (CHC) for the block – around 120 villages or 120,000 people. Firozabad has nine blocks. The National Health Mission (NHM) guidelines say each CHC should serve as a referral centre for four PHCs. But government data shows that Firozabad has only four PHCs. Further, a PHC acts as a referral for 4-6 subcentres. An HT spot-check revealed some PHCs and subcentres were either barely functional or hopelessly overstretched. The district hospital, often the nodal institution for health care in the region, was also in bad shape.HEALTH SUBCENTRE, NAGLA PICHIYAThe health subcentre at Nagla Pichiya, a small village 5km from the district hospital and SAMC, has been shut for two years, said local villagers. Instead of functioning as the first port of health care for villagers, an auxillary nurse midwife (ANM) has been using the centre as her home, living here with her family. The premises are surrounded by narrow by-lanes covered with black slush.“I was given permission to live here by the previous CMO,” said Meenu, the ANM living at the subcentre. When asked for the reason behind this arrangement, she said, “This subcentre is used to conduct vaccination on one day of the month and sometimes health officials hold their meeting here. I take care of the subcentre in the meantime.” Just ten steps away, a barren plot is filled with stagnant water, covered with garbage, insects and mosquitoes. Every second household has at least three members suffering from fever. “We are scared for our children after we read reports of ‘mystery fever’ in the area. We do not have much income and can only afford to go to a government hospital. We rush to the district hospital even if my children develop a cough as there is no government health clinic nearby,” said Pappu Singh, a daily wager labourer who lives in front of the subcentre.The National Health Mission (NHM) guidelines say subcentres should provide services related to maternal and child health, family welfare, nutrition, immunisation, diarrhoea control and communicable disease control. Chief medical officer Dinesh Kumar Premi said, “I am aware that the sub-centre at Himayunpur is shut and one ANM is posted here. I have recently taken charge and will look into this matter”.PRIMARY HEALTH CENTRE, HUMAYUNPUR The Primary Health Centre (PHC) at Humayunpur, a small village in Firozabad, is about 5km from the district hospital. The two-bed centre is flooded with fever patients, most of whom are referred to the district hospital or medical college for blood test, as this service is not available at the PHC.“Most of the nearby villagers go to the PHC for their treatment and get medicines and other consultations for the doctor. But now as our children are getting affected with Dengue, we have to take them to SAMC,” said Inayat Khatun, a resident.NHM says a PHC is to be manned by a medical officer supported by 14 paramedical and other staff. It acts as a referral unit for six sub centres and needs 4-6 beds for patients. “Our PHC has one bed, one medical officer, one staff nurse, one lab technician and six ANMs under whom 24 ASHAs are working across the villages conducting door to door survey to gather fever data. We are getting around 100 patients in the OPD every day and the only bed is occupied by a fever patient. Our PHC caters to about one lakh population in the area,” said Dr Pallavi Yadav, medical officer at the PHC. Yadav added that the PHC did not have diagnostic services and patients had to be sent to the district hospital. PRIMARY HEALTH CENTRE, USIYANIThe one-bed facility is about 9km from the district hospital. It is surrounded by empty plots filled with stagnant water, covered with green moss and buzzing with mosquitoes and flies. The medical officer, Dr Deependra Yadav, said the PHC staff is conducting medical camps in nearby villages to screen fever patients. “We cater to a population of about 2.5 lakh people and have been conducting medical camps in nearby villages as per instructions of the health department. 800 fever patients are being screened on a daily bases. Of these, around 10 blood samples for dengue are sent to Lucknow for testing as per signs and symptoms of the patient,” said Dr Yadav. When asked about cleanliness around the PHC, he said, “The premises inside PHC are our responsibility and that area is completely clean”. Local residents said unhygienic conditions around the PHC and village have improved from two weeks ago. “The drains were overflowing with garbage at the time, now there are just filled with it. Municipal workers have been carrying out cleaning drives here one in two to three days,” said villager Shiv Kumar.The Firozabad CMO admitted that none of the health centres, CHC, PHCs or sub-centres have pediatricians on staff. “Which is why the medical officers there cannot handle fever cases among children. As a result, the patients come to SAMC. We will try to resolve the issue at the earliest,” he said. COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTRE (CHC), DEEMADAIThe 30-bed facility is 10km from the district hospital. When HT visited the centre at around 2pm, it had four-five patients. Government guidelines say a CHC needs four medical specialists -- surgeon, physician, gynecologist and pediatrician -- supported by 21 paramedical and other staff. But at Deemadai, there is only one regular physician, who also doubles up as the medical superintendent. Another doctor has been deputed at the CHC under the non-communicable diseases programme. Importantly, there is no pediatrician – crucial to catch fever cases among children. “We get about 150-200 OPD patients here on a daily basis. While we may be short staffed, but our diagnostic facilities are fully functional. This area mostly gets patients of skin diseases. Since we do not have a pediatrician, we cannot handle pediatric cases and refer them to the SAMC. For fever in adults, if the platelet count is above 20,000, we admit them and try to stabilise them but if the condition deteriorates, we have to refer them to the district hospital,” said Dr Yogendra Singh, medical superintendent. The CHC is located in Basnat Nagar village and is surrounded by open filthy drains and unsanitary conditions. Shah Alam, a villager who lives across from the CHC, said local residents usually prefer to go to the district hospital in cases of critical illnesses. “The adults of the village have been going to the CHC in case of mild fever or cough. However when it comes to our children, we do not go to the CHC as they ask us to go to SAMC. In order to save time, we straightaway take our children there without consulting the CHC,” he said.SN MEMORIAL HOSPITAL, FIROZABADThe SN Memorial Hospital, which is the district hospital of Firozabad, is located behind SAMC and caters to patients across the district. Hansraj Singh, the hospital’s chief medical superintendent, said the outpatient department (OPD) is getting at least 150 patients every day, of which 80-90 are suffering from fever. The hospital here has a total of eight doctors, of which four are appointed under SAMC but deputed at the district hospital. “There are 157 beds at the hospital, of which 154 are occupied -- 34 by Dengue patients, 95 by fever patients, and rest by other illnesses. The trauma centre at the hospital has 25 beds of which four are vacant and others are occupied with trauma patients,” said Singh. HT found OPDs swamped with patients and filthy open drains buzzing with mosquitoes and flies right outside Singh’s office. Patients crowded outside the building with white slips in their hands, waiting for hours for their turn to see a doctor. The administration blames infighting for the poor conditions. Singh said he got the hospital cleaned regularly but some areas may have been left out. “The hospital is overburdened with patients as four of my subordinates do not take my orders, being from the medical college and hence the workload is on the other four doctors here,” he added.When asked whether the crowd at the hospital will be lesser if patients first visited local health centres, Singh said, “While we do not deny treatment to any patient coming to our hospital, I cannot say why they are not going to their local health centres firs.”Firozabad chief medical officer Dinesh Kumar Premi said he was aware that four of Singh’s subordinates did not comply with his orders. “As they are appointed by the medical college, there is a conflict among the staff at the hospital. I have recently taken charge and will resolve this issue soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-firozabad-outbreak-no-succour-at-first-port-of-call-101632248594658.html
22-09-2021||India||Centre names Air Marshal VR Chaudhari as next IAF chief||New Delhi: The Union government on Tuesday announced that Air Marshal Vivek Chaudhari will take over as the next chief of the Indian Air Force (IAF) after Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria retires on September 30. Chaudhari is currently serving as IAF’s vice chief. The government has followed the seniority principle in appointing Chaudhari to the top job. He will be most senior IAF officer the day Bhadauria retires. An experienced pilot, Chaudhari has logged more than 3,800 hours of flying on a variety of fighter planes such as MiG-21, MiG-29 and Sukhoi-30. He also flew air defence missions during the 1999 Kargil war with Pakistan. He was commissioned into the air force’s fighter stream in December 1982. Before taking charge of his current appointment as vice chief, Chaudhari was the Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the operationally critical Western Air Command (WAC). He commanded WAC at a time when the IAF was inducting its new Rafale fighter jets at Ambala, and operationalising them at the earliest was a top priority amid the border row with China in the Ladakh sector. He earlier held the appointment of IAF deputy chief at the Air Headquarters in Delhi and steered a raft of key procurements to sharpen IAF’s combat edge. As deputy chief, he was closely associated with the Rafale programme -- he was the head of the bilateral high-level group monitoring the progress of the fighter jet project in France. He has commanded important fighter bases in his military career including a front-line base in Kashmir. Chaudhari will take over the top job at a critical time -- the armed forces are working out the details of the theaterisation model to best utilise the military’s resources, and he will also oversee several key projects to sharpen the IAF’s combat potential. “He has his work cut out for him and I am sure he will do a great job,” said former IAF chief Air Chief Marshal Fali Major (retd). The current theaterisation model, which has the full backing of the government, seeks to set up four new integrated commands for synergy in operations -- two land-centric theatres, the Air Defence Command, and the National Maritime Theatre Command. The air force has had some reservations about the model that came out in the open in July, when Bhadauria argued at an event that it was critical to first get the structure right. Speaking separately at the same event, chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat gave out details of the theaterisation plan and brushed aside IAF’s reservations. Asset split, leadership and dilution of the powers of the chiefs are key concerns for the IAF on the theaterisation move, as previously reported by HT. Chaudhari takes over months ahead of the scheduled induction of a key weapons system being imported from Russia to strengthen India’s air defence architecture. India is set to begin the induction of the S-400 Triumf air defence missile systems ordered from Russia for ₹39,000 crore in October 2018. India is buying five S-400 missile systems capable of destroying a variety of aerial threats, including enemy fighter jets and missiles, at a range of 400km, with the first deliveries expected by the year-end. Chaudhari’s appointment also comes at a time when the indigenous (light combat aircraft) Mk-1A jet project is set to enter a critical phase. State-run plane maker Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) has set a March 2022 deadline to carry out the first flight of the fighter jet. In February 2021, the defence ministry awarded a ₹48,000 crore contract to HAL for 83 LCA Mk-1A jets for the IAF. The first Mk-1A aircraft will be delivered to the air force by March 2024, with the rest slated to join its combat fleet by 2029. Also, the government recently cleared some key projects that are expected to make progress during Chaudhari’s term as IAF chief. Earlier this month, the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) cleared the much-delayed purchase of 56 C-295 medium transport aircraft to replace the IAF’s ageing fleet of Avro-748 planes. The C-295 project is estimated to be worth ₹22,000 crore. CCS also cleared a Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) proposal to develop new airborne early warning and control (AEW&C) aircraft for the IAF using Airbus jets bought from Air India. The project is estimated to be worth around ₹11,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-names-air-marshal-vr-chaudhari-as-next-iaf-chief-101632248357601.html
22-09-2021||India||Bengal’s Sunderbans to get women tourist guides for the first time||Born and brought up in a remote village on a Sunderban-island located opposite to the Sunderban Tiger Reserve, 34-year-old Bhaswati Kamila Sarkar has seen it all – Royal Bengal Tigers, huge estuarine crocodiles, man-animal conflict, impenetrable mangroves in the world’s largest delta and devastating cyclones like Amphan and Yaas. From October 1, she will have a daunting task of showing and explaining these things to tourists who visit the Sunderbans every year. Sarkar is one of the four women who have been selected by the state forest department to become tourist guides at the tiger reserve. “If a woman can become a pilot, drive a train why can’t I be a tourist guide in the Sunderbans? Tourists often visit my village and I get to interact with them. So when I heard that the forest department was looking for female guides I opted for it. This will also make me self-dependent and I can earn something for my family,” said Sarkar, a resident of Dayapur, who had earlier worked in a village nursery school and as a trainer in a self-help group. This is the first time that women guides will be placed on the boats that enter the tiger reserve with tourist guides. The Sunderbans, located at the southern tip of West Bengal is home to around 100 tigers. Around one million tourists visit the delta, which can be accessed only on boats, to see the tigers and crocodiles among other animals. “We have around 60 – 64 male guides. There were some vacancies. So we thought why not give an opportunity to village women and see if they want to join. A two-day guide orientation training was organised to see whether the women would be comfortable. The four women who had come forward said they can do it and so we decided to go ahead. If everything goes well we can rope in more women guides for our team in future,” said S Jones Justin, deputy field director of the STR. While the reserve has been closed because of the Covid-19 pandemic it is scheduled to reopen from October 1 ahead of the festive season. The peak tourism period in the Sunderban extends from November to February. Around 120 boats are allowed to enter the reserve every day during the peak season. If guides are available they are tagged to a boat. Sprawling over India and Bangladesh the delta consists of 10,200 sq km of mangrove forests spread. The Indian Sunderban region, which is a UNESCO World Heritage site, consists of 4,200 sq km of reserved forests. Of this the Sundarban Tiger Reserve is spread over 2585 sq. km. Here river divide the habitat of tigers and villages. The Sunderban accounts for the highest number of people killed by tigers in India. At least 62 people were killed by tigers between 2015 and 2019. “I have just passed my graduation and was looking for some job to support my family and myself. Last week when I heard that the forest department was looking for some female guides I opted for it. Even though I have been born and brought up close to the forest I would need some training to know more about the biodiversity and how to be a guide,” said 21-year-old Sumona Mondol, a resident of Bijoynaar village. While her father and mother are farmers and often need to go to other states as migrant labourers, she stays back with her younger brother in the village. Her brother is studying in class 10. “The forest department would impart them a training covering topics like the ecology and biodiversity of the Sunderbans, climate change and its impact, the importance of the mangrove and man-animal interface among others. They would also be given training on communication skills in Bengali, English and Hindi as they would have to speak with tourists not just from West Bengal but also from other states in India and many times international tourists,” said Justin. The Sunderban with its thick mangrove has often proved to be the savior of Kolkata from the wrath of severe cyclones like Aila, Yaas and Bulbul. The mangrove forest acts like a bio-shield helping to reduce the wind speed drastically when the storm moves through the delta to reduce the impact of waves and the storm surge triggered by the cyclones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengals-sunderbans-to-get-women-tourist-guides-for-the-first-time-101632227173540.html
22-09-2021||India||Signing declaration against dowry a must for Kerala university students||In the wake of several dowry-induced deaths in Kerala in four months, several universities in the state have made it mandatory for students to sign a declaration pledging that they will neither ask for nor give dowry while getting married.The idea was first mooted by governor Arif Mohammad Khan in July, and later supported by the state government. Last week, 386 students of the Kerala University for Fisheries and Ocean Studies in Kochi signed a declaration before accepting their Bachelor’s and Master’s degreesat their convocation ceremony. Now, Calicut University has also prepared a declaration and sent it to principals, officials aware of the matter said. There are 391 colleges under the university, but the total number of students is unknown. “We have made it mandatory for all students to sign it before accepting their degree or Master’s certificates. The Governor had put forward this suggestion and we accepted it immediately,” said Calicut University vice-chancellor M K Jayaraj, adding such initiatives will help raise awareness against the evil. The declaration also warned against withdrawal of degree if the person was found to have accepted or given dowry. “I aver in the full understanding that any breach of the rules or law relating to taking or abetting the taking of dowry shall render me liable for appropriate action including the cancellation of my admission to the university/not being granted degree/ withdrawal of the degree,” said the declaration, a copy of which was seen by HT.“It is a good move. But we have to ensure that offenders should be identified and their degrees cancelled without any delay,” said K Reshma, a student leader. Activists said there were laws in place to stop the practice, but implementation was lax. They called for lessons in the curriculum against such social practices, and to promote ensure gender equality and justice. “Such weird practices are embedded in our culture and society. That is why many laws remain only on papers,” said actor and psychologist Malaa Parvati. The state reported a series of dowry-related deaths in last few months. Among the prominent cases was the death by suicide in June of a 24-year-old woman, an undergraduate student of ayurveda medicine and surgery in Kollam, that trigged a statewide outcry. Another newly married woman, a nursing student, allegedly committed suicide after setting herself on fire in Thiruvananthapuram. In both cases, parents alleged that they were harassed for dowry and driven to death. After their deaths shocking details of many such cases of harassment and torture surfaced. “We have to root out such practices. All varsities will make declarations mandatory,” said state higher education minister R Bindu. She said gender justice forum will be floated in all colleges and they will start working once the campus opens. A vigorous campaign will be launched to make youngsters aware of dangers of such practices and float a consensus against it, she said. In an unusual move, the governor visited the house of the deceased student of the ayurveda medicine in Kollam to console her parents and he broke down. On July 14 he also observed a day-long fast in the state capital to protest against the social evil, a first of its sort, and many Gandhians and activists also participated in it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-varsity-makes-declaration-against-dowry-mandatory-for-students-101632217332398.html
22-09-2021||India||Army helicopter crash-lands in Udhampur, both pilots succumb to injuries||Two pilots were killed on Tuesday when an Army helicopter crash-landed on a hill in Shiv Garh Dhar area, near Patnitop tourist resort in Udhampur district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials familiar with the matter said. The incident took place at around11 am when the chopper, a Cheetah, was on a routine training sortie. The two pilots -- Major Rohit Kumar and Major Anuj Rajput -- were critically injured and rushed to the nearest medical facility where they succumbed later, the officials added. “Today, during a training sortie in Patnitop area, Indian Army’s Cheetah Helicopter crash landed in Shiv Garh Dhar area in Udhampur district. Two pilots were injured and evacuated to the hospital but they could not survive,” defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said, While Major Rohit Kumar hailed from Noida West, Major Anuj Rajput was a resident of Panchkula district.Visuals shared on social media showed the wrecked helicopter on a hill with some villagers trying to pull out the injured pilots. “The chopper crashed on a hill. Search parties were rushed to the area but dense fog and rains hampered rescue operations,” a senior J&K police officer said, preferring anonymity. Offering his condolences to families of the deceased, lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha tweeted: “I salute the courage and supreme sacrifice of our braveheart Army officers Major Rohit Kumar & Major Anuj Rajput who laid down their lives in the line of duty at Patnitop, Udhampur. My thoughts and prayers are with the bereaved families in this hour of grief.” Union minister Dr Jitendra Singh also expressed grief over the incident. “Saddened to receive the news of death of both the Pilots who were injured this morning in the Army Helicopter crash in #Patnitop region of #JammuAndKashmir. Despite prompt and best possible aid, they could not be saved. My deep condolences to the bereaved families,” he posted on the micro-blogging site. Northern Army commander Lt Gen YK Joshi was also among those who paid tributes to the deceased pilots and offered condolences to their families. On August 3, two pilots were killed after an army helicopter crashed into Ranjit Sagar Dam lake near Pathankot. The body of one fallen pilot is still missing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-helicopter-crash-lands-in-udhampur-both-pilots-injured-101632212651361.html
22-09-2021||India||Havana syndrome: CIA chief team member afflicted during India visit, says report||New Delhi: A member of CIA director Bill Burns’s delegation reported symptoms consistent with the mysterious Havana syndrome and had to receive medical attention during his visit to India this month, according to a CNN report on Tuesday. The incident set off alarm bells within the US government and left Burns “fuming”, according to one of three sources cited by CNN. This is the first media report regarding a US official being afflicted by Havana syndrome in India. Some CIA officials “viewed the chilling episode as a direct message to Burns that no one is safe, including those working directly for the nation’s top spy”, two people told CNN. Burns and his team met National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval and top members of the National Security Council Secretariat during the visit to India on September 7. From India, the delegation travelled to Pakistan, where Burns met army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa. Burns’s visit to India was kept under tight wraps and there was no official word from both sides on the trip. The CIA chief travelled to India and Pakistan to discuss the way forward in Afghanistan following the Taliban takeover of the country on August 15 and the installation of a hardline setup that includes several members of the Haqqani Network. “The situation in India could have dramatic implications: the CIA director’s schedule is tightly held and there are deep concerns among US officials about how the perpetrator would have known about the visit and been able to plan for such an aggression,” the CNN report said. The person who experienced the symptoms in India received immediate medical attention on returning to the US. A CIA spokesperson declined to comment on the incident related to Burns’ visit to India. There was no immediate response from Indian officials either. The US administration has said very little officially about the Havana syndrome, a mysterious illness that has afflicted American spies and diplomats and was first reported in Cuba in late 2016. Since then, similar cases have been reported from Russia, China, Austria, and several other countries. CNN reported that the incident in New Delhi was the second time in less than a month that cases of Havana syndrome have affected foreign trips by top US administration officials. Last month, vice president Kamala Harris’s visit to Vietnam was slightly delayed when multiple US personnel reported symptoms consistent with the syndrome just ahead of her trip. Very little has appeared in public about the illness despite the US intelligence community undertaking a wide-ranging investigation into the matter, including a 100-day probe into potential causes that began this summer. Much of the speculation has centred on the illness being possibly caused by microwaves. US officials affected by Havana syndrome have reported hearing buzzing sounds of piercing squeals that didn’t go away even when they covered their ears. Others have reported hearing a low hum and feeling intense pressure on their skulls. Those affected by the syndrome experienced dizziness and fatigue for months and some had to retire after their medical condition worsened, according to media reports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/havana-syndrome-cia-chief-team-member-afflicted-during-india-visit-says-report-101632194109845.html
22-09-2021||NA||Highlights: SAARC foreign ministers meeting stands cancelled, reports ANI||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered. Follow all the updates here:SAARC foreign ministers meeting stands cancelledSouth Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) Foreign Ministers meet stands cancelled due to the lack of concurrence from all Member States as of today: SAARC TO ANI pic.twitter.com/MmrK0dzehOThe foreign ministers meeting of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) countries stands cancelled due to lack of concurrence from all member states as of today, reports ANI. ‘Key ASEAN partner’: Jaishankar meets Indonesian foreign minister, discusses regional developmentsA good meeting with a key ASEAN partner. Discussed regional developments with FM @Menlu_RI of Indonesia. Shared interests and common perspectives drive our strong cooperation pic.twitter.com/C9iA5DQeNsExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar met with the foreign minister of Indonesia and discussed regional developments. He called it “A good meeting with a key ASEAN partner.”S Jaishankar discusses recent Indo-Pacific developments with Australian counterpartExternal Affairs Minister S Jaishankar called on Quad partner Australia's Foreign Minister Marise Payne and the two discussed recent developments in the Indo-Pacific. pic.twitter.com/Oj4pcdNjxiExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar called on Australian foreign minister Marise Payne and discussed the recent developments in the Indo-Pacific region, reports ANI. Centre forms National Steering Committee for development of national curriculum frameworksMinistry of Education forms a National Steering Committee for the Development of National Curriculum Frameworks under the Chairmanship of K Kasturirangan with 12 members (including the chairman). The tenure of the National Steering Committee will be three years.The Union ministry of education formed a National Steering Committee. for three years, for the Development of National Curriculum Frameworks under the Chairmanship of K Kasturirangan with 12 members (including the chairman), reports ANI. DoT issues orders simplifying KYC processes Department of Telecommunications, GoI, today issued a series of orders simplifying the KYC processes and thereby initiating the telecom reforms in Aadhaar based e-KYC, Self-KYC and OTP based conversion of mobile connection from Prepaid to Postpaid and vice-versa. pic.twitter.com/XsG3fbPsJFThe Department of Telecommunications issued a series of orders simplifying the KYC processes and thereby initiating the telecom reforms in Aadhaar based e-KYC, Self-KYC and OTP based conversion of mobile connection from prepaid to postpaid and vice-versa, reports ANI.India posts 22% rise in agri, processed food products exports during April - August (2021-22)India has posted 22% rise in export of agricultural and processed food products during April-August (2021-22), beating Covid-19 disruptions, according to an official statement.Congress appoints new general secretaries, treasurer for Punjab unitPargat Singh and Yoginder Pal Dhingra to be appointed as General Secretaries; Gulzar Inder Chahal as treasurer in the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee with immediate effect: KC Venugopal, AICC General Secretary pic.twitter.com/aF8y2JhykNThe Congress has appointed Pargat Singh and Yoginder Pal Dhingra as the general secretaries and Gulzar Inder Chahal as the treasurer in the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, reports ANI.Centre appoints Air Marshal VR Chaudhari as the next Chief of Air Staff as RKS Bhaduria retires on Sept 30Air Marshal VR Chaudhari, presently Vice Chief of Air Staff, to be the next Chief of Air Staff. pic.twitter.com/DoQ3W83b9QThe government of India has appointed Air Marshal VR Chaudhari, presently Vice Chief of Air Staff as the next Chief of Air Staff. Current Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria retires from Service on September 30, reports ANI.US does not seek ‘new Cold War’: Joe Biden in reference to China#BREAKING Biden says US does not seek 'new Cold War' in reference to China pic.twitter.com/0aBCM26bqeUS President Joe Biden said that the country does not seek a “new Cold War” in reference to China, reports AFP. US will continue to defend itself and its allies against terrorist threat: BidenJoe Biden said that the US will continue to defends itself and its allies against terrorist threats. US President Biden says ‘new mechanism to finance global health security’ needed for futureArms can't defend Covid -19 or future variants, collective science & political will, can. We need to act now, expand access to treatment to save lives around the world. For future, we need need to create a new mechanism to finance global health security: US Pres Joe Biden at UNGA pic.twitter.com/fcsJtCdWUhUS President Joe Biden said that a new mechanism to finance global health security is needed for the future. “We need to act now, expand access to treatment to save lives around the world,” Biden said, reports ANI. 1 civilian injured after terrorists fire upon security forces near Lassipora Khag village, Budgam: J&K PoliceTerrorists fired upon the security forces near village Lassipora Khag, Budgam, one civilian injured. Lachmanpora Beerwah is under cordon and search is going on: Jammu and Kashmir PoliceThe Jammu and Kashmir police said that one civilian has been injured after terrorists fired upon the security forces near Lassipora Khag village, Budgam. Also, Lachmanpora Beerwah is under cordon and search is going on, reports ANI. Punjab CM Channi, deputy CMs arrive at Congress leader KC Venugopal's residenceDelhi | Punjab CM Charanjit Channi, deputy CMs OP Soni and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Punjab Congress Chief Navjot Sidhu arrive at the residence of Congress leader KC Venugopal pic.twitter.com/Y1gf9e9eR6Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi and deputy CMs OP Soni and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa arrived at the residence of Congress leader KC Venugopal, reports ANI.India forecasts summer food grain output of 150.5 million tonne despite erratic weatherIndia forecasts record summer food grain output of 150.5 million tonne, despite erratic weather patterns.‘Passed the science test, but F in ethics’: Antonio GuterresOn one hand, we see COVID vaccines developed in record time, a victory of science, human ingenuity. On other hand, we see triumph undone by tragedy of lack of political will, selfishness & mistrust. We passed the science test, but we get F in ethics: UN Secretary-General at UNGA pic.twitter.com/hWdlLtP7bkUN chief Antonio Guterres said that while the world developed a vaccine for Covid-19 “in record time”, lack of political will, selfishness and mistrust have undone the gains, reports ANI. “We passed the science test, but we get F in ethics,” he said.‘Climate crisis pummeling the planet’: UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres... climate crisis is pummeling the planet and upheavals from Afghanistan to Ethiopia to Yemen. A surge of mistrust & misinformation is polarising people & paralysing societies. Human rights are under fire, science is under assault: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres (2/2)The United Nations secretary general Antonio Guterres said that the “climate crisis is pummeling the planet,” reports ANI.Kerala reports 15,768 new Covid-19 cases, 214 deathsKerala reports 15,768 fresh #COVID19 infections, 21,367 recoveries and 214 deaths today.Active cases: 1,61,195Total recoveries: 43,54,264Death toll: 23,8971,05,513 samples were tested during the last 24 hoursKerala reported 15,768 new Covid-19 cases and 214 deaths and the death toll climbed to 23,897. The state currently has 161,195 active cases of the disease, reports ANI. PM Modi, France's Macron discuss Indo-Pacific, Afghanistan on phoneThe two leaders also discussed the situation in Afghanistan and agreed to coordinate ahead of multilateral summits such as G20 and COP26. Prez Emmanuel Macron warmly welcomed India's decision to resume vaccine exports to COVAX: Emmanuel Lenain, Ambassador of France to IndiaPrime Minister Narendra Modi and French President Emmanuel Macron agreed to act jointly and with Europe in the Indo-Pacific region and also discussed the situation in Afghanistan. Macron also welcomed India's decision to resume Covid vaccine exports, reports ANI citing Emmanuel Lenain, French ambassador to India.Allahabad HC rejects bail plea of 2 police officers in connection with Bikru ambushThe Allahabad High Court rejected the bail plea of station officer Vinay Tiwari and sub-inspector KK Sharma who were arrested for allegedly leaking information about police action to gangster Vikas Dubey resulting in Bikru village ambush on July 3, 2020, in which eight policemen were gunned down by the gangster.The Court started with the famous statement made by Justice VR Krishna Iyer "Who will police the police" 40 years ago in a judgment.EAM S Jaishankar to meet with French counterpart in New York todayExternal Affairs Minister Dr S Jaishankar to hold a series of bilateral meetings starting with France; to meet his French counterpart in New York, today.(file photo) pic.twitter.com/NjDXNcNy42External affairs minister S Jaishankar is set to meet with his French counterpart today in New York, reports ANI.Former Congress MLA Mainul Haque quits party, to join TMC on Sept 23Former Congress MLA and AICC Secretary Mainul Haque resigns from his post. He will join Trinamool Congress (TMC) on September 23. pic.twitter.com/YWc7KmJohgFormer Congress MLA and AICC secretary Mainul Haque has submitted his resignation to the party and is set to join the Trinamool Congress on September 23, reports ANI. NIA arrests absconding accused from Bengaluru in connection with DJ Halli police station riot caseNIA in a joint operation along with state police arrested a charge-sheeted absconding accused Tabrez from Bengaluru City y'day in connection to DJ Halli police station rioting case. The case was originally registered on Aug 12 last year at DJ Halli police station, Bengaluru: NIA pic.twitter.com/IbZgeYJ7DwNIA along with the state police arrested arrested a charge-sheeted, absconding accused from Bengaluru City yesterday in connection to the DJ Halli police station rioting case, which was originally registered on August 12, 2020, at DJ Halli police station, Bengaluru, reports ANI. Sanjay Raut says Anant Geete's remarks on NCP not that of Shiv Sena'sI don't know what Anant Geete has said, I would only say that Sharad Pawar is a big leader, he is the main pillar of govt in Maharashtra. It may be someone's personal opinion but it is not the statement of party: Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut pic.twitter.com/OP2NBP4pLkShiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that Sharad Pawar is the main pillar of the Maharashtra government and said that the remarks by Sena leader Anant Geete is not the statement of the party, reports ANI. UK's non-recognition of Covishield ‘discriminating policy’, issue will be resolved, says Shringla The non-recogition of Covishield is a discriminating policy & impacts our citizens travelling to the UK. The EAM has raised the issue strongly with the new UK foreign secretary. I am told that certain assurances have been given that this issue will be resolved: Foreign Secy pic.twitter.com/tJCXxuvYtHForeign secretary Harsh Shringla said that the UK's non-recognition of Covishield is a ‘discriminating policy’ and also said that the issue will be resolved, reports ANI. PM Modi to leave for US on Sept 22, to participate in Covid-19 global summit by USPM Modi will participate in the COVID19 Global Summit hosted by US President Biden tomorrow: Foreign Secretary HV ShringlaPM Narendra Modi would leave to the US by September 22 and would also participate in the Covid-19 global summit hosted by US President Joe Biden, reports ANI quoting foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla.GAVI welcomes India's decision to resume Covid-19 vaccine exportsOur priority right now is to engage with Government of India & Serum Institute of India to understand the impact this will have on our supply schedule, as we race to protect as many vulnerable people as we can from COVID-19: GAVI spokespersonGAVI welcomed India's decision to resume export of Covid-19 vaccines and said that it wanted to engage with the government and the Serum Institute of India to understand the impact on their supply schedule, reports ANI. Karnataka Assembly tables Religious Structures (Protection) BillThe Karnataka Religious Structures (Protection) Bill, 2021, which aims to protect religious structures in public places, was introduced in the state Assembly on Tuesday, reported ANI. "We introduced the Bill to protect temples. We have to protect institutions of all religions,"R Ashok, Karnataka revenue minister, told reporters.Search operation for infiltration biunderway in Uri Jammu and Kashmir | Search operation is still underway in Uri: PRO Defence, SrinagarIndian Army had foiled an infiltration bid along the Line of Control in the Uri sector of Jammu and Kashmir yesterday.Taliban spokesperson names remaining cabinet members, no women's ministry announced, reports AFP#BREAKING Taliban spokesman names remaining cabinet members, no women's ministry announced pic.twitter.com/9nlEb1magwHelicopter crashes in J-K's Udhampur districtA helicopter crashed in Shiv Garh Dhar in J&K's Udhampur district on Tuesday, DIG Udhampur Reasi Range Suleman Chowdery said , adding that a police team was dispatched after receiving information on the same. Chowdhery also said that due to excess fog in the area it wasn't clear if the helicopter crashed or did a crash landing. Raj Kundra released from Mumbai's Arthur Road JailBusinessman Raj Kundra was released from Arthur Road Jail on Tuesday after he was granted bail by a Mumbai court on Monday. Kundra and his associate Ryan Thorpe were arrested in a pornography case by the Mumbai Police. Mahant Narendra Giri’s death to be probed thoroughly, culprits will be punished, says UP dy CM MauryaUP Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said on Tuesday that death of Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad chief Mahant Narendra Giri will be properly investigated and culprits will be given strictest punishment. Adding that a CBI investigation will be ordered if necessary.UP CM pays last respect to Mahant Narendra GiriUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath paid his last respects to president of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, Mahant Narendra Giri on Tuesday, at his residence in Baghambari Math. Giri was found dead in his room on Monday. Conservative Party leader Erin O’Toole concedes defeat in Canadian electionsBREAKING: Erin O'Toole, leader of Canada's opposition Conservatives, concedes defeat in election pic.twitter.com/viqsR5Jh8nFIR registered against Mahant Narendra Giri's disciple following his deathA First Information Report (FIR) was registered against Mahant Narendra Giri's disciple Anand Giri under IPC Section 306 (Abetment of suicide), following his death on Monday, reported ANI.India sees major dip in daily Covid tally with 26,115 new cases; 252 fresh fatalities reported in last 24 hoursIndia recorded 26,115 new cases on Tuesday, reporting a major dip in the daily tally of cases. A total number of 252 fatalities were also recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 445,385, according to data published by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Body of 3rd missing boy in Versova beach drowning incident recoveredThe body of the third boy who had drowned in Versova beach on Sunday night during Ganesh idol immersion has been found, reported ANI. A total of three individuals have drowned while taking part in a Ganesh Visarjan.Justin Trudeau's Liberal Party wins Canada election, says AFP#BREAKING Trudeau's Liberals win Canada election: TV projections pic.twitter.com/PbVLxPLMZqEU ministers express ‘solidarity’ with France on submarine deal#BREAKING EU ministers voice "solidarity" with France on submarine deal: Borrell pic.twitter.com/omJ2ZTu3MXS Jaishankar meets UK foreign secretary Liz TrussExternal Affairs minister S Jaishankar met UK foreign secretary Liz Truss on Tuesday to talk about the progress of Roadmap 2030, and other things. "Discussed the progress of Roadmap 2030. Appreciated her contribution on the trade side. Exchanged views on developments in Afghanistan and the Indo-Pacific. Urged early resolution of quarantine issue in mutual interest." Jaishankar tweeted after the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-live-september-21-2021-101632184888742.html
