23-09-2021||India||Ensure internet in all jails for e-bail orders: SC o states, UTs||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed all the state and Union territories to ensure the availability of internet facility with adequate speed in each and every jail of the country so that prison officials could release the inmates without delays after receiving the electronically-authenticated bail orders. “We are concerned about the plight of the jail-inmates who are not released despite the bail orders passed by this Court due to delay in communication of such orders. It is high time to utilize the information and communication technology tools for efficient transmission of Court’s orders,” said the bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana. The bench, which included justices L Nageswara Rao and Surya Kant, was considering a suo-motu (registered on court’s own motion) case initiated last month following reports that several prisoners were not released despite the grant of bail by the Supreme Court. One of the chief reasons for delay in their release was the time taken in transmitting the orders of the Supreme Court to the concerned jail. The court had then contemplated to adopt the procedure termed as “FASTER” (Fast and Secured Transmission of Electronic Records) to ensure that such situation does not arise in future. The FASTER (Fast and Secured Transmission of Electronic Records) system proposes transmission of e-authenticated copies of the orders of the Supreme Court to the duty-holders for compliance and due execution, through a secured electronic communication channel. The court, on July 16, asked its secretary general Sanjeev S Kalgaonkar to submit a proposal suggesting the modalities to implement the FASTER system, after consulting solicitor general Tushar Mehta, amicus curiae (lawyer requested to assist the court) Dushyant Dave and other stakeholders. On Thursday, the bench took up the proposal submitted by Kalgaonkar, following which it directed chief secretaries of all the states and UTs to make internet facility available in all prisons, adding wherever it is not available presently, communication shall be made through the nodal officers of the state governments under FASTER system. The bench also directed the director general, National Informatics Centre (NIC), secretary (home) of all states and UTs and their director general of prisons to ensure smooth and successful implementation of FASTER system in coordination with the registry of the Supreme Court. It further ordered that concerned rules and practice directions shall be modified suitably by all the authorities to recognize the e-authenticated copies of the orders of the apex court communicated to them through FASTER system. The court has fixed the hearing of the matter after two weeks to assess the progress made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-internet-in-all-jails-for-e-bail-orders-sc-o-states-uts-101632421620246.html
23-09-2021||India||20-yr-old woman stabbed to death by stalker in Chennai||Chennai: A 20-year-old woman was stabbed to death by her stalker at the Tambaram railway station, over 30 km from Chennai on Thursday, police said. After stabbing her in the neck, the accused attempted to kill himself by slitting his throat but survived and is being treated at a local government hospital, they added.Police said the victim was a second-year student studying a diploma course in Medical Laboratory Technology in a private college on the outskirts of Chennai. She was returning home after college and was waiting at the Tambaram railway station to go home to Chrompet. The accused, also in his 20s, who was stalking her stabbed her with a knife at the station. Eyewitnesses informed the police and stopped the accused from harming himself, police said.The victim was taken in an ambulance to the Chromepet government hospital where she succumbed to her injuries. “She got acquainted with him two years ago during train journeys. They were not in the same college,” said a senior police officer not wishing to be named. “It’s a case of estranged love. The accused is in a stable condition. We have booked him for a murder case now and investigations are on going.”Police said the accused is a native of Nagapattinam district and is an employee of a private manufacturing company in Maraimalai Nagar. The victim was avoiding him for a while, police said, adding that he tried to speak to her at the railway station when the two had a verbal spat. Police have registered a case under section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The accused is being treated at Chennai’s Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. The victim’s body has been sent for post mortem. Similar instances at railway stations have shocked the public in the past in the city. In 2019, a 27-year-old man attacked a woman with a machete at Chennai’s Chetpet railway station leaving her with grievous injuries in a crowded platform. The man then jumped in front of a train to end his life. The two of them had known each other from their hometown in Erode district. In 2016, in another case at Chennai’s busy Nungambakkam railway station, a 24-year-old woman was murdered by her stalker for rejecting his advances. He had stalked her for a few months before the crime. The accused was arrested from his native in Tirunelveli district and the case was closed after he died by suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20yrold-woman-stabbed-to-death-by-stalker-in-chennai-101632421199076.html
23-09-2021||India||Electrocution of minor girls on waterlogged Bengal road triggers political slugfest||The death of two minor girls, who were electrocuted on Wednesday after touching the pole of a street light on a waterlogged road at South Dum Dum near Kolkata, has triggered a slugfest between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). TMC’s Dum Dum Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy and education minister Bratya Basu, the local legislator, had to visit the affected families on Thursday following an agitation by residents of the area. The BJP promptly took up the issue. The government and the South Dum Dum Municipality jointly announced a compensation of ₹2 lakh each for the families but they refused to accept it. The families also made critical remarks about the TMC-run civic body, accusing it of not taking precautionary measures in the wake of similar deaths in other parts of the state since Monday. The municipality ordered an inquiry. The girls, Shreya Banik, 12, and Anuskha Nandy, 13, were making their way through a waterlogged street when they touched the lamp post, the base of which was submerged in stagnant rain water. Both were declared dead on arrival at the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital, said the local police. “No amount of money can make up for the loss the families have suffered. We are only following routine. What happened is heart-breaking but people should not be doing politics over this. Action will be taken if negligence on the part of anyone is established,” Roy said. Leader of the opposition in the state assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, held the government and CESC Ltd, the sole electricity provider for Kolkata and the adjoining districts, responsible for the deaths. Demanding a compensation of ₹50 lakh each for the families, he said, “The government should apologize in public in 24 hours.” “We provide only the power. Junction boxes for street lights are maintained by the civic body,” an executive of CESC Ltd said on condition of anonymity. Amid record rainfall since Monday, at least 10 people in Bengal have died of electrocution either in their homes or in the streets in several districts. In north 24 Parganas district, where the two girls died, three members of a family were electrocuted inside their home on Monday while a man died in the Khardah area on Wednesday. Surajit Roychaudhury, a coordinator of the South Dum Dum Municipality faced the ire of the families of the two girls. “When it was raining heavily, we switched off the street lights fearing an accident but local people started complaining. We had to restore the connection,” he said. Although rainfall declined in Dum Dum on Wednesday morning many streets remain inundated because the Bagjola canal, the main outlet, is still overflowing, Roychaudhury added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/electrocution-of-minor-girls-on-waterlogged-bengal-road-triggers-political-slugfest-101632420660164.html
23-09-2021||India||Man on bail, accused of rape, told to wash women's clothes for six months||An Indian man accused of attempted rape has been given bail on condition that he wash and iron the clothes of all women in his village for six months.Lalan Kumar, 20, will have to buy detergent and other items needed to provide six months of free laundry services to about 2,000 women in the village of Majhor in Bihar state, under the ruling made Wednesday.Kumar, who washes clothes for a living, was arrested in April on charges including attempted rape, Santosh Kumar Singh, a police officer in Bihar's Madhubani district, told AFP.No date has been set for his trial."All the women in the village are happy with the court decision," Nasima Khatoon, the head of the village council, told AFP."It is historic. It will boost respect for women and help to protect dignity," added Khatoon, one of the village dignitaries who will monitor Kumar.Women in the village said the order had made a positive impact by making crime against women a subject of discussion in their community."This is a remarkable step and a different kind of punishment that sends a message to society," said Anjum Perween.India's rape laws were overhauled after a 2012 gang rape in New Delhi but the number of offences remains high, with more than 28,000 rapes reported in 2020.Police have long been accused of not doing enough to prevent violent crime and failing to bring sexual assault cases to court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-on-bail-accused-of-rape-told-to-wash-women-s-clothes-for-six-months-101632420177761.html
23-09-2021||India||Bhupesh Baghel to fly to Delhi to discuss Rahul Gandhi’s Chhattisgarh visit sked||RAIPUR: Chhattisgarh chief minister is likely to visit Delhi in the first week of October to finalise Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s Bastar visit, senior minister and government spokesperson Ravindra Chaubey said on Wednesday.Chaubey said the state’s preparations for Gandhi’s visit are complete and excise minister Kawasi Lakhma, a legislator from Bastar’s Konta constituency, reviewed it a few days earlier and suggested a possible location of the programme. “Last time when Baghelji (Bhupesh Baghel) visited Delhi, he invited Rahulji (Rahul Gandhi) to the state .. Rahulji gave his approval for the visit.. We are all prepared and now the CM is likely to visit Delhi in the first week of October and then he will discuss the final dates with Rahulji,” said Chaubey told a news conference on Wednesday.The minister added that the second visit will be in Surguja division of the state and third is planned in the plains of Chhattisgarh . On August 28, emerging after a long meeting with the Congress high command on suggestions that he should move aside because of a reported two and a half year power sharing agreement with colleague TS Singhdeo, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel seemed to have bought some time. Baghel claimed that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi would visit the state the next week, especially Bastar, to see for himself the work that was being done. The next day, when Singhdeo returned, he said that he had spoken to the leadership too and they had kept a “decision safe”. In December 2018, in the aftermath of a dominant Congress performance where the party won 68 of 90 seats, even as the party’s Delhi leadership sought to put out leadership fires in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh emerged as a problem too.Four state leaders, Baghel, home minister Tamradhwaj Sahu, speaker Charan Das Mahant and Singh Deo flew to Delhi, all eyeing the chief minister’s post. As Mahant settled for speaker, friction between Baghel and Singh Deo meant that Sahu first emerged as the frontrunner, but pushed by the idea that a third leader would take the top position, Baghel and Singh Deo, along with Punia and Gandhi, reportedly arrived at a power-sharing arrangement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhupesh-baghel-to-fly-to-delhi-to-discuss-rahul-gandhi-s-chhattisgarh-visit-sked-101632419218759.html
23-09-2021||India||General Atomics CEO Vivek Lall lauds India's drone policy, says meeting with PM Modi outstanding||The chief executive officer of General Atomics, Vivek Lall on Thursday said that he discussed technology and the potential that India has as an investment destination with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who met with the heads of major companies in the US.Commenting that he had an “outstanding meeting” with Modi, Lall said that the two also discussed the confidence in policy reforms that are being implemented in India and the “great potential that India has from an investment perspective".Following the meeting, Modi said that he also discussed the “paradigm shift” in India’s new drone policy during the meeting. “Drone is an upcoming sector in India and it is of particular interest to the youth. Interacted with Mr Vivek Lall of @GeneralAtomics Global Corporation and spoke about how India is ushering a paradigm shift in drones policy, seen in our PLI scheme and reform measures,” Modi said in a tweet.Drones is an upcoming sector in India and it is of particular interest to the youth. Interacted with Mr. Vivek Lall of @GeneralAtomics Global Corporation and spoke about how India is ushering a paradigm shift in drones policy, seen in our PLI scheme and reform measures. pic.twitter.com/8cEE2YcJ2s“It was an outstanding meeting. We spoke about technology and the confidence in the policy reforms that are coming in India and the great potential that India has from an investment perspective,“ news agency ANI quoted the CEO as saying.Also read | PM Modi, Adobe CEO discuss ideas related to ed-tech, supporting Indian start-upsFurther, Lall also said that US companies viewed India as a very promising investment destination. “There are a lot of potential areas of collaboration that we are in discussions with. I think, US companies and many of my colleagues in US companies see India as a very promising destination,” he said. He also said that the policies and reforms that have been implemented by the countries could benefit each other and also termed it a “sustainable model.”When asked about India’s new drone policy, he lauded them saying that the policy would enable investments in India. “These are very laudable policies, prescriptions and reforms that the PM and the government have taken. I think that will certainly catalyse a lot of interest and investments in India,” he said. The meeting gains significance, especially in terms of drone technology, as India is planning to acquire predator drones from the US for the Indian Navy. Apart from Lall, Modi also met with the CEOs of Qualcomm, Adobe, Blackstone and First Solar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/general-atomics-ceo-vivek-lall-lauds-india-s-drone-policy-says-meeting-with-pm-modi-outstanding-101632417078516.html
23-09-2021||India||TMC alone can take on BJP, not Congress, says Abhishek Banerjee at campaign meet||Only Mamata Banerjee can combat the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and oust the National Democratic Alliance government at the Centre in the 2024 Lok Saba polls, Trinamool Congress (TMC) national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee told voters at Jangipur in Bengal’s Murshidabad district on Thursday. Targeting the Congress, which still has a base in the district where its state president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury represents the Berhampore Lok Sabha seat, Banerjee said, “Both Congress and TMC are confronting the BJP but only our party has proved that it can defeat the BJP. The Congress has failed to do so.” “The BJP is selling national assets like the Railways, the airports. Have you seen the Congress protesting anywhere? The two parties have a secret understanding. Jangipur residents have also told me that they see no difference between the local BJP and Congress,” said Banerjee. “In 2024, the TMC will oust the BJP from Delhi. The entire nation wants Mamata Banerjee. Congress talks big. This is the district that presented to India President Pranab Mukherjee. His son Abhijit Mukherjee joined the TMC in July. The Congress and Communist Party of India (Marxist) have been reduced to zero in Bengal in the recent polls. They forged an alliance in 2016 and this year as well. This only helped the BJP,” said Banerjee. “Reality across the nation is that Congress is losing all elections to the BJP. The TMC, on the other hand, is winning,” said the chief minister’s nephew. “I promise that we will win the next assembly polls in Tripura. Our organisation is being formed. The Tripura government is so scared that it has issued prohibitory orders to stop rallies. The BJP tried to conquer Bengal using money power and central probe agencies against us. It thought that we can be silenced too like the Congress. I have been summoned by the Enforcement Directorate several times. We are not scared. We will make you (BJP) run from Delhi,” said Banerjee. “TMC will go to all states that the BJP is ruling. We will oust the BJP from these states. The more you provoke us the more powerful we become,” he added. Assembly polls in the district’s Jangipur and Samsergunj seats could not be held in March-April as the TMC candidates died of Covid-19. The elections will be held on September 30 along with the Bhawanipore bypoll in Kolkata from where the chief minister is contesting. Addressing a campaign meeting in the Chakraberia area of Bhawanipore, the chief minister on Thursday said, “Probably it was my destiny that I would look at Delhi from Bhawanipore. The BJP has enforced many anti-people laws. The farm laws are among these and must be withdrawn immediately.” Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury reacting to Abhishek Banerjee’s statement on Thursday evening said, “At a time when Sonia Gandhi has called for the unity of all Opposition parties against the BJP, the chief minister and her nephew are making all efforts to sabotage this unity. The TMC is doing this because it has received favours from Narendra Modi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-alone-can-take-on-bjp-not-congress-says-abhishek-banerjee-at-campaign-meet-101632416758657.html
23-09-2021||India||Always a pleasure to hear about his vision for India: Adobe CEO after meeting PM Modi||The discussions between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Adobe chief executive officer Shantanu Narayen were focused on leveraging technology to provide smart education to youngsters and enhance research in India, the ministry of external affairs said on Thursday. PM Modi held a series of discussions with industry leaders on the first day of this three-day visit to the United States.After the meeting, Narayen said that it has always been a pleasure to hear about PM Modi’s vision on how he wants to expand India. Quoting the prime minister, the Adobe CEO said he believes technology is the “way to help move things forward.”Speaking about the National Education Policy, Narayen noted the people are the biggest asset and Adobe is supportive of more emphasis on education."For us, our biggest asset is people. Anything that happens with respect to encouraging education, having digital literacy helps Adobe. We're very supportive of more emphasis and interest in education," he said.PM Modi later said that they discussed “interesting ideas relating to ed-tech, supporting Indian start-ups and boosting innovation.”“Shantanu expressed keenness to take the joys of video and animation to every child in India,” the prime minister tweeted.Also Read | Qualcomm 'proud of partnership with India', PM Modi invites to start production Apart from Narayen, PM Modi held separate meetings with CEOs of Qualcomm, First Solar, General Atomics, and Blackstone Group. First Solar CEO Mark R Widmar hailed the leadership of the prime minister’s leadership, saying that the Indian government has created a strong balance between industry and trade policies.“It makes it an ideal opportunity for companies like First Solar to establish manufacturing in India,” said Widmar after the meeting.CEO of @FirstSolar, Mr. Mark Widmar described his meeting with PM @narendramodi as outstanding and also elaborated on why he is optimistic about closer business relations with India, especially in manufacturing. pic.twitter.com/75ggIKayPUHe opined that every country should follow the footsteps of India to meet long-term climate goal objectives won't be a problem.“His (PM Modi) commitment to ensuring domestic capabilities and ensuring long-term climate goals with focus on energy independence and security, the alignment of what he's trying to achieve couldn't be better for companies looking to manufacture in India,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/always-a-pleasure-to-hear-about-his-vision-for-india-adobe-ceo-after-meeting-pm-modi-101632412336612.html
23-09-2021||India||Seems Dhanbad judge was intentionally hit by auto: CBI tells Jharkhand court||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday informed the Jharkhand High Court that the Dhanbad additional district judge killed in July after being run over by an auto-rickshaw was “apparently hit intentionally” and the central agency was probing all possible angles to unravel the conspiracy behind it.Appearing before the division bench of Chief Justice Dr. Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad, CBI zonal director Sharad Agrawal informed the court that the death of Judge Uttam Anand was not an accident and submitted the weekly probe report as directed by the court.A person who participated in the court hearing said the zonal director informed the court that based on interrogation of the accused and scientific investigation it seems that the judge was hit intentionally, but they are yet to get concrete evidence..Reacting to the revelations, the court directed the CBI not to waste time and investigate the crime thoroughly as any time lost would be detrimental for investigation besides questioning the probe agency about why they have not been able to move beyond the two arrested occupants of the auto rickshaw involved in the alleged crime.“The CBI officer informed the court that one of the two arrested persons (Lakhan Verma) also has a previous criminal record of mobile theft and he has been trying to mislead the agency by shifting his stand. The agency is interrogating the two accused for a breakthrough,” a person aware of the development said.Dhanbad additional district judge Uttam Anand was brought dead to the hospital on July 28, about an hour after he was hit by the auto rickshaw outside magistrate colony near Randhir Verma square in Dhanbad when he was out for his routine morning walk.The two occupants of the three-wheeler, Lakhan Verma and Rahul Verma, were arrested and the vehicle recovered by Jharkhand police after CCTV footage from the location showed that the vehicle seemingly swerved deliberately to hit the judge from behind.Both the Supreme Court and the Jharkhand High Court took suo-motu cognisance of the incident. The CBI took over the investigation from the SIT headed by an ADG rank officer of Jharkhand Police at the state government’s insistence. The HC has directed the central agency to provide a probe status report to the court every week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seems-dhanbad-judge-was-intentionally-hit-by-auto-cbi-tells-jharkhand-court-101632412438129.html
23-09-2021||India||Rawat slammed for calling Pak army chief ‘brother’, says lost son-in-law in J-K||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Anil Baluni on Thursday slammed former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat for referring to Pakistan army chief Qamar Javed Bajwa as ‘brother’. The Rajya Sabha MP said it was hurtful to see that the senior Congress leader referred to someone as ‘brother’ whose ‘hands were bloody due to the sacrifices made by Indian soldiers at the nation’s borders’.Baluni also attacked Rawat and said that his statements were an affront to the people of Uttarakhand, where almost every family has a member in the armed forces.Rawat in a Facebook post justified his statement and said that if Prime Minister Narendra Modi can greet and hug then Pakistan prime minister Nawaz Sharif, how is seditious for Sidhu to hug Bajwa since both are Punjabis, referring to the fact that both belong to undivided Punjab before the Partition of India.Rawat also criticised Baluni and said that he does not need lectures on nationalism. “Anil Baluni ji does not need to remind me of the military tradition of Uttarakhand. My family, from soldier to brigadier, are glorified in various positions. I am also proud that my son-in-law was martyred in Kashmir fighting terrorism, so I don't need lectures from BJP on nationalism,” Rawat said.Sidhu’s appointment gave the Bharatiya Janata Party a fresh chance to criticise the Congress claiming that several senior Congress leaders themselves expressed their concern at Sidhu’s recent elevation as Punjab state unit president of the party.Sidhu was chosen to lead Congress in Punjab which is heading to the polls next year. Soon after his elevation, his differences with former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh came to the fore. The differences led to fellow MLAs rebelling against Singh and also led to Punjab getting a new chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, a year ahead of the polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rawat-slammed-for-calling-pak-army-chief-brother-says-lost-son-in-law-in-jk-101632408588652.html
23-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Defence ministry places order for 118 Arjun Mk-1A tanks and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Defence ministry places order for 118 Arjun Mk-1A tanks worth ₹7,523 croreThe defence ministry on Thursday placed an order worth ₹7,523 crore with Heavy Vehicles Factory, Avadi, for 118 locally made Arjun Mk-1A tanks to sharpen the army’s combat edge. Read moreQualcomm 'proud of partnership with India', PM Modi invites to start productionAfter a brief one-on-one chat with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Christiano R Amon, CEO of Qualcomm, said that his company is proud of a partnership with India. Read moreIPL 2021: Rohit Sharma achieves epic milestone as MI captain goes past 1000 runs against KKRMumbai Indians captain Rohit Sharma built on his dominating record against Kolkata Knight Riders by bringing up 1000 runs against them in the IPL. Read moreRashmi Rocket trailer: Taapsee Pannu fights for respect and her identity in the sports dramaThe trailer of Rashmi Rocket has been released. The Bollywood film, starring Taapsee Pannu in the lead role, revolves around a country girl who dreams of becoming an international athlete. Besides Taapsee, the film also stars Priyanshu Painyuli, Abhishek Bannerjee and Supriya Pathak. Read moreiPhone 13 Mini first impressions: Still cutely small but quite polishedThe iPhone 12 Mini isn’t a very popular choice with the Apple iPhone crowd and amid rumours of the iPhone 13 Mini being the last of its kind, these two models could be sought after by collectors some day. In the present, however, the iPhone 13 Mini is the torch bearer for compact phones, keeping the flame alive for those who couldn’t get enough of the iPhone 5S or the 1st Gen SE. Read more5 tips to speed up your dengue recovery by Rujuta DiwekarIt's the season of dengue and no matter how hard one tries, there is always fear of getting this mosquito-borne disease. From mild illness to shock syndrome, a fatal form of dengue, the disease can strike us in any form. Read moreWhy WHO wants engagement with Taliban after chief Tedros' Afghanistan visitWHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that Afghanistan faces a ‘humanitarian catastrophe’ as health workers leave the country. Tedros added that the resurgence of Polio is a major risk and 50% children are at risk of malnutrition. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-defence-ministry-places-order-for-118-arjun-mk-1a-tanks-and-all-the-latest-news-101632410072510.html
23-09-2021||India||Qualcomm 'proud of partnership with India', PM Modi invites to start production||After a brief one-on-one chat with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Christiano R Amon, CEO of Qualcomm, said that his company is proud of a partnership with India. "It was a great meeting. We talked about 5G and its acceleration. We talked about an incredible opportunity to advance the industry not only domestically in India but India as export of technology," Amon said.During the meeting, PM Modi and Amon discussed investment opportunities offered in India’s telecommunications and electronics sector, including the recently launched Production Linked Incentive Scheme for Electronics System Design and Manufacturing as well as developments in the semiconductor supply chain in India. Strategies for building the local innovation ecosystem in India were also discussed, the government statement said.Follow live updates of PM Modi's interaction with 5 top American CEOsIndia has incredible opportunities, PM Modi told Amon adding that now the country has the scale for ambitious projects. He said India has prepared 5G standards and urged Qualcomm to actively participate as they did in the case of NAVIK. PM Modi also said that since Qualcomm has trusted Indian talent already, it can start manufacturing with the advantage the PLI scheme offers. He also spoke about the new liberalised drone policy and said that Qualcomm could take part in new opportunities in the new emerging market.Two CEOs PM Modi meets today are Indian-Americans: Know about them"We spoke on semiconductors which is an important topic of conversation. We spoke on the opportunity to continue to build an incredible mobile ecosystem developing in India. We are happy with everything we're doing together with India. I think the approach to driving economic growth in making India a destination for investment has been very successful and we welcome that," Amon said.Qualcomm is a world leader in 3G, 4G, and next-generation wireless technology innovations for more than 30 years and is now pioneering to 5G with a new era of intelligent products.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/qualcomm-proud-of-partnership-with-india-pm-modi-invites-to-start-production-101632409244190.html
23-09-2021||India||Kerala to update Covid-19 fatality list, says health minister Veena George||Following the Union government’s announcement of a relief amount of ₹50,000 to dependents of those who died of Covid-19, Kerala is planning to update the fatality list of the state. State health Minister Veena George said the health department will go by the directive of the Union health ministry and make necessary changes. Medical experts said the state will have to at least double the existing deaths (24,191) to include all Covid-19 related fatalities. There were many complaints that the state was under-reporting many deaths to maintain the low death rate, which is still one of the lowest in the country, below 0.5 per cent against the national average of 1.30 per cent. “The state will prepare an updated list of those who succumbed to the pandemic. We will include those who died even after testing negative for the virus after a month,” said the minister adding the government will help all families who lost their family members to the viral infection. Many hospitals said they are getting frequent inquires for proper death certificates to identify the exact cause of death. Earlier the Union health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research had released fresh guidelines which stated that those who succumbed to Covid-19 at home or the hospital within 30 days of testing positive and those who stayed in a hospital beyond 30 days of testing positive and succumbed to the virus will now be counted as Covid-19 fatalities. Later, the Centre submitted an affidavit in the Supreme Court in this regard. Kerala on Thursday reported 19,682 new Covid-19 cases with a test positivity rate of 16.14 per cent after 1,21,945 samples were tested, said the state health ministry. It also reported 152 deaths taking the total fatalities to 24,191. Active cases currently stand at 1,60,046 and the number of recoveries has climbed to 20,510.Thrissur district topped the list of new Covid-19 cases at 3033, followed by Ernakulam at 2,564 and Kozhikode at 1,735. Statistics show cases and TPR are coming down gradually after the state remained the one with the highest viral caseload for more than three months. The second wave of infections aggravated after the Onam festival in August-end. Though it reported high number of cases there were no health crisis or shortage of oxygen in any part of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-update-covid-19-fatality-list-says-health-minister-veena-george-101632408717694.html
23-09-2021||India||India’s GeM portal pips global MNCs for procurement excellence: Govt||New Delhi: London-based Chartered Institute of Procurement & Supply (CIPS) has adjudged India’s state-run e-commerce portal,Government e Marketplace (GeM), as the winner of the CIPS Excellence in Procurement Awards 2021 in the ‘Best Use of Digital Technology’ outshining contenders like Jaguar Land Rover, Royal Dutch Shell and Vendigital, an official statement said.The GeM portal, a public procurement platform, has led to placing 7.61 million orders worth ₹1,39,884 crore from over 2.7 million registered sellers and service providers for more than 54,600 government buyers since its inception in August 2017. More than 56.9% of the total order value catered to over 723,000 small enterprises.“GeM emerged the winner in this category after competing with some of the biggest and best names in procurement across the public and private sector globally, including GEP, Jaguar Land Rover, Royal Dutch Shell and Vendigital,” the commerce and industry ministry statement said.Also Read: Govt drafts guidelines for changes in public procurement policyGeM, a wholly-owned company of the government, is administered by the department of commerce for procurement of goods and services by central and state government organisations. It offers a cashless, contactless, and paperless experience for sellers and buyers, and serves as an end-to-end solution for procurement of common use goods and services by government buyers.GeM was also shortlisted as a finalist in two additional categories -- ‘Public Procurement Project of the Year’ and ‘Best Initiative to Build a Diverse Supply Base’. The award was received on behalf of GeM by Rohit Vadhwana, first secretary, High Commission of India, in the UK at a ceremony held in London on Wednesday.The CIPS Awards, considered a leading recognition around procurement globally, was instituted by the global not-for-profit organisation and professional body dedicated to promoting good practices in procurement and supply management, with a community across 150 countries.“In less than five years since, GeM has completely disrupted this ecosystem through its unified digital marketplace and vast and diverse ecosystem of buyer organizations and sellers... This is a testament to the power of a forward-looking technology-driven approach- leveraging cutting-edge technologies like artificial intelligence including machine learning, natural language processing, blockchain etc - in reinforcing users’ growing faith on the platform,” the CIPS award citation said.GeM has brought its technology-driven innovations and strategic business processes in pursuit of three fundamental goals: driving transparency, efficiency and inclusiveness in public procurement, the government statement said.GeM, a one-stop-shop for public procurement, is headed by an IIT Delhi alumnus, Prashant Kumar Singh. He is a 1993-batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer.“The design and development of the GeM platform - its digital features and functionalities, key business processes as well as the ancillary offline activities like outreach and training of stakeholders is guided by the three goals - driving transparency, efficiency and inclusiveness,” the statement said.“GeM is an example of how digital platforms created with a strategic and clear intent to transform legacy processes can effect lasting change,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-gem-portal-pips-global-mncs-for-procurement-excellence-govt-101632408358088.html
23-09-2021||India||Two CEOs PM Modi meets today are Indian-Americans: Know about them||Prime Minister Narendra Modi began his US engagement on Thursday by meeting five leading American CEOs from five key sectors. Two of them are Indian-Americans – Shantanu Narayen from Adobe and Vivek Lall from General Atomics. The other three are Cristiano E Amon from Qualcomm, Mark Widmar from First Solar, and Stephen A Schwarzman from Blackstone.The meeting is to discuss economic opportunities in India. PM Modi's engagement began with his one-on-one meeting with the president and CEO of Qualcomm, Cristiano R Amon, who expressed keenness to work with India in areas such as 5G and other Digital India efforts. The meeting and Qualcomm's assurance assumes significance as India is pushing for 5G technology. Follow live updates of PM Modi's meeting with America's top 5 CEOs Talking technology...President and CEO of @Qualcomm, @cristianoamon and PM @narendramodi had a productive interaction. PM Modi highlighted the vast opportunities India offers. Mr. Amon expressed keenness to work with India in areas such as 5G and other @_DigitalIndia efforts. pic.twitter.com/kKcaXhpFtBWho is Shantanu Narayen?Shantanu Narayen is chairman, president and chief executive officer of Adobe. He joined Adobe in 1998 as vice president and general manager of its engineering technology group. He became president and COO in 2005, CEO in 2007 and chairman of the board in 2017. He has a bachelor’s degree in electronics engineering from Osmania University, a master’s degree in computer science from Bowling Green State University and a master’s degree in business administration from the University of California. PM Modi's meeting with Narayen reflects the IT and digital priorities of the Indian government. Who is Vivek Lall? Vivek Lall is a renowned scientist who is presently the Chief Executive of General Atomics Global Corporation based in San Diego, California. General Atomics is one of the world’s largest privately held nuclear and defence companies. In May 2018, he was appointed by the United States government in a key advisory role for a two-year term to the US Cabinet Secretary heading theDepartment of Transportation.Modi’s meeting with Lall is significant as General Atomics is a pioneer in military drone technologies and the world’s top manufacturer of military drones, which the US shares only with its key allies. For over a decade, Lall has been instrumental in major bilateral defence deals worth around USD18 billion, as India and the US take steps to forge a new relationship in which defence trade is a key pillar.Here is all you need to know about the rest of the companies CEOs of which are meeting PM Modi now. QualcommQualcomm is a world leader in 3G, 4G, and next-generation wireless technology innovations for more than 30 years and is now pioneering to 5G with a new era of intelligent products.First SolarFirst Solar is a leading global provider of comprehensive photovoltaic (“PV”) solar solutions. The meeting shows India's commitment to the use of solar power to meet its energy needs.BlackstoneBlackstone is one of the world's leading investment firms investing capital on behalf of pension funds, large institutions and individuals.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-ceos-pm-modi-meets-today-are-indian-americans-know-about-them-101632406548105.html
23-09-2021||India||Defence ministry places order for 118 Arjun Mk-1A tanks worth ₹7,523 crore||The defence ministry on Thursday placed an order worth ₹7,523 crore with Heavy Vehicles Factory, Avadi, for 118 locally made Arjun Mk-1A tanks to sharpen the army’s combat edge, a fortnight after India cleared projects worth ₹33,000 crore to equip the Indian Air Force with new medium transport aircraft and airborne early warning systems in a push to the government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (self-reliant India campaign). The order came seven months after the Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) - India’s apex procurement body – accorded its acceptance of necessity (AoN) for the tanks. The Arjun Mk-1A is an upgraded version of the Arjun Mk-1 main battle tank (MBT) currently in army service. The new tank will come with 72 upgrades over the existing variant including 14 major improvements, officials familiar with the development said. The upgrades significantly enhance the tank’s lethality, mobility and survivability. “The Mk-1A is equipped with accurate and superior firepower, all-terrain mobility and invincible multi-layered protection provided by an array of advanced technology systems. It can take on the enemy during day and night. By virtue of these capabilities, this indigenous MBT will be on a par with any contemporary in its class across the globe,” the defence ministry said in a statement. The execution of the order is expected to involve 200 Indian vendors and generate 8,000 jobs. Five Mk-1A t tanks will be delivered within 30 months, followed by 30 tanks every year. Prime Minister Narendra Modi handed over a prototype of the Arjun Mk-1A tank to army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane in Chennai on February 14. The army’s existing tank fleet consists of T-90, T-72 and the Arjun Mk-1 tanks. The improvements on the new tank include better firepower, auto target tracker, remote-controlled weapon system, explosive reactive armour, advanced laser warning and countermeasure systems, containerised ammunition bin, advanced land navigation systems and improved night vision capabilities, as previously reported by Hindustan Times. The tank has been configured and designed for Indian conditions and is suitable for deployment to protect the frontiers, defence ministry officials said. However, some experts have flagged concerns about the bulky tank, saying its weight (68 tonne) could limit the army’s deployment options.The Defence Research and Development Organisation’s Chennai-based Combat Vehicles Research and Development Establishment (CVRDE) has designed and developed the tank. The Mk-1A tanks will be manufactured at the Ordnance Factory Board’s (OFB) Heavy Vehicles Factory at Avadi, outside Chennai. The tank order comes at a time when the OFB - India’s main producer of weapons and military equipment - is being corporatised to boost its efficiency and competitiveness in a long-awaited reform in the country’s defence manufacturing sector. The Union Cabinet, headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, had in June cleared the corporatisation of the board. The OFB, which controls 41 ordnance factories, is being split into seven government-owned entities that will produce ammunition and explosives, vehicles, weapons and equipment, troop comfort items, opto-electronics gear, parachutes and ancillary products. Ordnance factories are currently engaged in the production of tanks, armoured personnel carriers, mine-protected vehicles, bombs, rockets, artillery guns, anti-aircraft guns, parachutes, small arms, clothing and leather equipment for soldiers. The development of the Mk-1A tank began in June 2010 and it was fielded for user trials two years later. Extensive trial evaluation was conducted in various phases covering 7,000 km and substantial firing of various ammunitions during 2012-2015, the defence ministry statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-ministry-places-order-for-118-arjun-mk-1a-tanks-worth-rs-7-523-crore-101632405717828.html
23-09-2021||India||PM Modi in US: All you need to know about his meetings today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who reached Washington DC late on Wednesday night, has a series of high-level meetings lined up on Thursday evening (India time) to kickstart his seventh visit to the United States.Modi will start his day by interacting with American CEOs, where he is expected to highlight the economic opportunities that India offers.He is scheduled to meet Adobe's Shantanu Narayen and Vivek Lall of General Atomics – both them Indian-American — apart from Cristiano E Amon (president and CEO of Qualcomm), Mark Widmar (CEO of First Solar), and Stephen A Schwarzman (chairperson and co-founder of Blackstone).ALSO READ | Predator drone on his mind, PM Modi to meet General Atomics CEOModi's meetings with the CEOs will be followed by a bilateral session with Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison. The meeting assumes significance ahead of the meeting of the heads of the states of the Quad nations — India, US, Australia and Japan — on Friday. Although Indo-Pacific and Climate Change and Justice will be the priority for the Quad summit on September 24, Afghanistan and terrorism will be the flavour of the UNGA high-level segment till September 27.Modi is also scheduled to meet US Vice-President Kamala Harris at the Eisenhower executive office building later in the day.Modi will meet US President Joe Biden for his first in-person meeting at the White House on Friday. India's foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Tuesday that the evolving situation in Afghanistan, as well as counter-terrorism measures, is also on the agenda of the meeting between Modi and Biden.The Indian Prime Minister will address the 76th session of the UN General Assembly in New York on September 25.Landed in Washington DC. Over the next two days, will be meeting @POTUS @JoeBiden and @VP @KamalaHarris, Prime Ministers @ScottMorrisonMP and @sugawitter. Will attend the Quad meeting and would also interact with leading CEOs to highlight economic opportunities in India. pic.twitter.com/56pt7hnQZ8As soon as Modi touched down in the US, he was received by India's Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu, along with a battery of defence attache, including Brigadier Anoop Singhal, Air Commodore Anjan Bhadra and naval attache Commodore Nirbhaya Bapna. Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources TH Brian McKeon was also present on behalf of the US government.ALSO READ | ‘India has always seen humanity as one family’: Modi at Global Covid SummitModi was greeted by the Indian diaspora on his arrival at the Andrews airbase. The Prime Minister "Grateful to the Indian community in Washington DC for the warm welcome. Our diaspora is our strength. It is commendable how the Indian diaspora has distinguished itself across the world," PM Modi called the Indian diaspora as the country's "strength"."Grateful to the Indian community in Washington DC for the warm welcome. Our diaspora is our strength. It is commendable how the Indian diaspora has distinguished itself across the world," Modi tweeted as he interacted with the Indian-American community at the airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-in-us-all-you-need-to-know-about-his-meetings-today-101632400836510.html
23-09-2021||India||New Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi breaks into a 'bhangra'. Watch||The newly-appointed Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday broke into a dance at an event in Kapurthala. Channi was at IK Gujral Punjab Technical University to lay the foundation stone of ‘Baba Sahib Bhim Rao Ambedkar Museum’ dedicated to war heroes. In the video shared by Punjab chief minister’s office, Channi can be seen joining the students to perform Bhangra. The chief minister then hugs the fellow performers and poses with them for photographs.Here’s the video:Chief Minister @CHARANJITCHANNI enjoying Bhangra with the students of IK Gujral Punjab Technical University, Kapurthala. pic.twitter.com/r910EyLALsChanni was named the successor of Amarinder Singh after months of infighting in the Punjab Congress unit. While Singh has not publicly opposed Channi’s appointment as Punjab’s new chief minister, he has claimed that “Super CM” Navjot Singh Sidhu is dictating the terms.Channi’s elevation to the top post hasn’t been smooth as his trip to New Delhi triggered another controversy. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) criticised the new chief minister for taking a chartered flight from Chandigarh to New Delhi."After saying that they stand with the common man, INC leaders take private jets to travel just 250 KMs from Chandigarh to Delhi. Are there no normal flights or cars that can be used? Or is this chest-thumping aimed at the propagation of Gandhi family's Delhi Darbar culture?" the Shiromani Akali Dal tweeted from its official handle.Reacting to the criticism, Channi said that he has failed to understand what the controversy is. "What is the problem with everyone if a gareeb (poor man) takes a jet ride?" he asked rhetorically.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-punjab-cm-charanjit-singh-channi-breaks-into-a-bhangra-watch-101632403688311.html
23-09-2021||India||TN aims to inoculate 1.5 million people in third mega Covid vaccination camp on September 26||Tamil Nadu health minister MA Subramanian on Thursday said that the state intends to inoculate 1.5 million (15 lakh) people during the third mega vaccination camp against Covid-19 to be conducted in the state on Sunday (September 26). The minister’s announcement came after the state surpassed its vaccination target during two such mega camps held previously this month.On September 20, chief minister MK Stalin wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking for 5 million additional vaccine doses every week to the state to achieve the target of inoculating all uncovered eligible beneficiaries by October 31. He has also stressed that such mega camps need to be conducted regularly along with daily vaccinations in TN in order to overcome the low vaccination coverage in the state.Also read | Stalin writes to Modi seeking 5 million more Covid-19 vaccine doses per weekSubramanian also claimed that the Union government did not release enough vaccine doses for the state over the last few days. However, due to the efforts by the state government, such as the letter by Stalin to Modi and also state health secretary J Radhakrishnan calling on the Union health ministry, 500,000 vaccines were received by the state on Wednesday (September 22), he added.“Following the meeting of DMK Parliamentary party leader T R Baalu with Union health minister (Mansukh Mandaviya), we are expecting 14 lakh vaccines to be released to the state. With the arrival of these vaccines, we will be holding third mega vaccination camp coming Sunday targeting to inoculate 15 lakh people through 20,000 vaccination camps,” news agency PTI quoted Subramanian as saying, earlier in the day.As many as 2.198 million people were immunised in the first mega camp, organised on September 12, surpassing the target of 2 million people. Similarly, the second mega camp was conducted on September 19, aimed at 1.5 million people, and 1.643 million people received the vaccines, thus surpassing the target again. As of 7am on the day, 43,508,265 doses of the vaccine have been administered in the state, according to the Union health ministry’s data.Meanwhile, 1,682 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday and 21 more people lost their lives to the disease. With this, the total confirmed infections in the state reached 2,650,370 and the death toll climbed to 35,400, the state health department’s bulletin showed.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-aims-to-inoculate-1-5-million-people-in-third-mega-covid-vaccination-camp-on-september-26-101632403485466.html
23-09-2021||India||2 killed, several including 9 cops hurt in violence during Assam eviction drive||Two civilians were killed and several others including 9 policemen were injured in violence during an eviction drive in Assam’s Darrang district on Thursday afternoon. According to police, a mob of nearly 2000 people attacked the police team during the eviction drive following which police resorted to baton charge and firing that resulted in the death and injuries. Several videos of residents targeting the police team and police personnel firing at civilians and beating them with batons have been doing the rounds on social media following the incident. A photographer present at the scene is seen kicking an injured civilian lying at the scene in one video. “Police are doing their duty. As per my information, people attacked the police with machetes, spears and other things. Eviction has restarted (after violence) and will continue tomorrow as well,” chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told journalists in Guwahati. A similar eviction drive was carried out in two villages in the Garukhuti area of Dholpur on Monday in which nearly 800 families who were settled on nearly 4500 ‘bighas’ of government land were evicted. There was no violence on Monday. Residents of these areas mostly comprise of Bengali speaking Muslims. The areas where the eviction drive is taking place are part of Assam government’s Garukhuti Project, which aims to remove encroachers from 77,420 ‘bighas’ of land and start agricultural and allied activities for indigenous youth. This year’s state budget mentioned that the government plans to “develop this cluster as a beacon of resurgent Assam” and earmarked ₹9.6 crore for it. “As per the government plan of removing encroachers from the area, we have been carrying out evictions in four zones. While the process is taking place peacefully in other three zones, violence erupted at the fourth zone on Thursday,” Sushanta Biswa Sarma, superintendent of police, Darrang said. He mentioned that nearly 1500-2000 people had gathered at the area. At first there was no issue, but when police started removing encroachments using JCB vehicles, the mob started pelting stones and attacking the police with machetes, spears and other things. “One police officer was hit with a machete on his head and sustained serious injuries. We had to resort to firing to disperse the crowd and protect our personnel. As per our information, two civilians have been killed and 9 policemen were injured. Additional force was deployed in the area and the situation is under control now,” said Sarma. Opposition Congress condemned the police firing on residents and termed the eviction drive carried out during the pandemic as inhuman and violation of Supreme Court directives. “SC had given a directive against eviction during pandemic situation, yet the Assam government is behaving in an autocratic manner to evict the residents of Dholpur who have been living in the area since the 1970’s. Before eviction government should have arranged for rehabilitation and alternative housing,” state Congress president Bhupen Kumar Borah said. “These residents are mostly cultivators and their source of sustenance is being attacked. A government’s job is to work for welfare of people and not create problems for people by making them homeless. Congress warns the BJP government not to indulge in actions that will turn Assam into a police state,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-killed-several-including-9-cops-hurt-in-violence-during-assam-eviction-drive-101632403197109.html
23-09-2021||India||Covid-19: Ahead of festive season, health ministry reiterates its SOPs||The Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on Thursday reiterated the need to exercise caution during the upcoming festive season to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), with health secretary Rajesh Bhushan laying out SOPs in this regard, which, he said, were shared by the ministry with states and Union territories on September 21.Also Read | Ahead of festival season, states told to monitor Covid trajectory on daily basis“On 21 September, the health ministry of the Government of India issued directives to all states and UTs for the festive season, and also conveyed to governments what is expected from them during the months of October and November,” Bhushan said in a briefing on the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the country. Government had issued a detailed SOP for States/UTs ahead of the upcoming festive season.Mass gatherings to be avoided in areas identified as containment zones & in districts reporting more than 5% case positivity - @MoHFW_INDIA #IndiaFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/kkf2TkbJGSHere are some key points from the SOPs issued by the Union government:(1.) Districts where positivity rate is at more than 5 per cent, mass gatherings are to be avoided, especially within containment zones.(2.) In districts with positivity rate of 5 per cent or below that, advance permission should be taken for events at which large gatherings are expected. In such a case, information should be given in advance about how many people will be allowed to gather, keeping in mind local conditions.(3.) States and UTs should announce restrictions or relaxations in accordance with the weekly positivity rate. “If the weekly positivity rate is falling, then announce relaxations based on that. If it is on the rise, then impose curbs on the basis of that,” Bhushan said.Covid-19 in India:Though the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic in the country has waned, experts have warned against letting the guard down during the festive season. Doing so, they say, might lead to the arrival of a third wave.Also Read | Covid-19 may be heading towards endemic stage in India, says virologist Gagandeep KangIn the last 24 hours, India logged 31,923 fresh Covid-19 infections, 31,990 recoveries and 282 related deaths, as per the health ministry's dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-festive-season-health-ministry-s-reminder-on-sops-101632398449336.html
23-09-2021||India||Total shutdown in Kerala on September 27 as ruling Left, Congress support bandh||With the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) and opposition Congress supporting the Bharat Bandh called by different unions of farmers, normal life is likely to be crippled on September 27 in Kerala. LDF convener A Vijayaraghavan said it will be a total shutdown in the state and some examinations scheduled on that day will be shifted to another day. “Farmers have been agitating for almost a year. The Union government is ignoring their repeated pleas. The country has never witnessed such an indifferent government. We will support their movement whole-heartedly,” he said appealing to all parties and trade unions to make the bandh a success. Though many merchant association and others asked the LDF to make it a symbolic protest in view of the pandemic situation, the ruling front did not agree. “It is our duty to support such an agitation,” said Vijayaraghavan. Usually in the state such protests turn into a forced shutdown crippling normal life. At least 40 farmers’ outfits under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha have given a call for a countrywide bandh on September 27 which the protestors said will make their movement stronger. They said many trade unions, banks workers’ associations, transporters and others pledged support to their agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/total-shutdown-in-kerala-on-september-27-as-ruling-left-congress-support-bandh-101632400617336.html
23-09-2021||India||India's 66% adult population given 1st dose of Covid-19 vaccine: Govt||India's two-thirds of the adult population has received at least one dose of vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the government announced the major milestone on Thursday. Over 23% of the adult population have received both doses of the required two-dose regimen Covid vaccine, it added. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan told a media briefing that the landmark was achieved due to “tremendous work by some states.”Lakshadweep, Chandigarh, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Sikkim have administered at least one dose of Covid-19 shot to its entire adult population. Bhushan said that Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Kerala, Ladakh and Uttarakhand have first dose vaccination coverage of more than 90%.The official said that though India reported over 31,000 fresh infections in the last 24 hours, the absolute numbers have witnessed a decline. According to the health ministry, the weekly case positivity has declined from 21.48% between April 29-May 5 to 2.16% between September 16-22, with the country reporting less than 3% weekly positivity rate for the 12th consecutive week.The government data suggests that 99% of India's health workers have been given at least one dose of the Covid vaccine and 84% of them have been fully vaccinated. All frontline workers have received the first Covid vaccine shot and more than 80% have received both doses, according to the health ministry.Bhushan said that 62.73% of the new Covid-19 cases over the last week were recorded in Kerala.“We may be witnessing a decline, but we need to continue to follow Covid appropriate behaviour,” he added.The health secretary has also directed states and Union Territories to make special arrangements and provide assistance for vaccination of differently-abled persons near to home vaccination centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-66-adult-population-given-1st-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-govt-101632398124626.html
23-09-2021||India||Indian Army neutralises 3 terrorists along Line of Control in Jammu & Kashmir||The Indian Army eliminated three terrorists in Rampur sector near Jammu & Kashmir's Uri along the Line of Control, and seized a cache of arms and ammunition from them on Thursday.The Army said the terrorists recently crossed over to the Indian territoryfrom Pakistan-occupied Kashmir.“A movement was observed in Hathlanga forest early this (Thursday) morning. The attempt was eliminated, with neutralisation of three terrorists” Lieutenant General DP Pandey, General Officer Commanding of Srinagar's Chinar Corps said. He added that the Army foiled a similar attempt by terrorists on September 18.The Army said it has seized five AK-47 rifles, eight pistols and 70 hand grenades from the terrorists during the operation. Lt Gen Pandey said there has been increased activity at the launch pads on the other side of the LoC recently."While there was no infiltration since the beginning of the year, there has been a little activity at the launch pads which cannot happen without the knowledge of Pakistan army commanders,” he said.The Army launched a massive search operation in Uri earlier this week, after it detected suspicious movement along the Line of Control on the intervening night of September 18 and 19.During the search operation earlier, mobile voice calls and the internet services were suspended in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-neutralises-3-terrorists-along-line-of-control-in-jammu-kashmir-101632396113923.html
23-09-2021||India||Centre okays Covid vaccination at home for people with special needs||People with restricted mobility, special needs will be vaccinated against Covid-19 at home, as the government has cleared the provision, the health ministry said on Thursday during its regular weekly briefing. "Those who do not have enough mobility that they can be brought out of their home, or if someone has a disability or some special needs that they can't be brought to the centre… for them we have made the provision of at-home vaccination under supervision," Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul said as India has achieved the milestone of vaccinating 66% of its adult population by at least one dose of the vaccines. "We have the confidence that our vaccine is safe and the system that we will bring in place to take vaccines to the residence will be safe, effective, nurturing and supportive. It will follow the SOP. This is an important development," Dr Paul said. Order in this regard has been issued and the local teams will take part in such vaccination drive. The Centre has written a letter to all states in this regard on September 22. Also Read | Covishield: 'No technical concern', says UK high commissioner after meeting with India"It is understood that there are still some persons who might be bed-ridden or have extremely restricted mobility or disability and/or special needs that may hamper their accessibility even to the near-to-home centres. It is advised that a line-list of such potential beneficiaries and their caregivers may be prepared in the catchment area of every planning unit and collated at the district level," the letter said.The health ministry said that the vaccination drive aims to be equitable and citizen-centric. Hence, the decision to reach those people who are not being able to come to the vaccination centre for some valid reasons has been taken. On September 17, India achieved a milestone of inoculating over two crore people on a day and as a result, now there are six states/UTs in the country, including Lakshadweep, Chandigarh, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Sikkim, which have 100 per cent coverage of the first dose of the vaccines. Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Kerala, Ladakh and Uttarakhand are on their way to achieving 100% first dose coverage and at present, they have 90% coverage of the first dose, according to health ministry data.How will the vaccination drive reach home?The health ministry has urged the states that vaccine wastage has to be kept minimal even as the drive is now being extended to the residence of the beneficiaries. All SOPs related to the maintenance of cold chain, prescribed temperature, safe injections, waste disposal, adverse events following immunisation are to be followed diligently. "Planning of such a drive should be cognizant f the fact that open vial policy is not applicable on Covid-19 vaccines and hence it should be ensured that vaccine wastage is minimal," the Centre's letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-okays-covid-vaccination-at-home-for-people-with-special-needs-101632396949520.html
23-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Continued instability in Myanmar concerns India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India expresses concern at continued instability in MyanmarIndia has expressed concern at the escalating situation and continued instability in neighbouring Myanmar and said it will continue to support efforts aimed at restoring the democratic process in the wake of the February 1 military coup. Read more here. Ola Electric says e-scooter a start, e-bikes and cars coming soonOla Electric CEO Bhavish Aggarwal says EV presence will grow exponentially in coming times, terms current crop of vehicles as dumb mechanical devices. Read more here. Mallika Sherawat on facing casting couch: ‘Lot of male actors started taking liberties with me’Actor Mallika Sherawat has opened up about having experienced the casting couch in the film industry, and how she handled such situations. Read more here. How effective is ZyCoV-D, the vaccine for adolescents? All about the needle-free, three-dose vaccineZyCov-D is a three-dose vaccine and its second and third doses are to be taken 28 and 56 days respectively after the first one. Here is all you want to know about the vaccine. Read more here. ‘Don’t eat balls in T20s. If you're hungry, have food': Sehwag slams SRH batting approach after loss against DCSehwag left no stones unturned to troll the batting approach of SRH, which he termed as one of the main reasons behind their 8-wicket loss to DC on Wednesday. Read more here. Taliban's narco-terror against India? Afghan heroin in Gujarat sparks worry||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-continued-instability-in-myanmar-concerns-india-101632396105178.html
23-09-2021||India||Armed with microbes, India prepares to fight season of deadly farm fires||Northern India, including Delhi, is bracing for an annual spell of notorious winter smog caused by agricultural fires, but authorities say they are ready to put up a novel fight, armed with a liquid concoction swarming with microbes. A proprietary microbial solution developed by the state-run Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), known as Pusa decomposer, is the best bet yet to prevent fires set by farmers to millions of acres of crop residue after summer paddy harvests, experts say. Farmers are reluctant to use machines to clear rice stalks because it pushes up post-harvest costs by 11-12%, Hukum Singh, a rice-grower in Haryana said. Last year, the Delhi government devised an elaborate plan to distribute several hundreds of litres of the solution to farmers within its territory. Official results reported to a top anti-pollution commission showed the solution was “effective”. Also Read | Ahead of harvest season, officials meet to discuss air pollutionThe Delhi government is preparing to treat at least 4,000 acres of crop residue this year too. On Monday, the Delhi government’s environment minister Gopal Rai announced it would start spraying the decomposer from October 5 to prevent stubble burning. Farmers across Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh typically harvest paddy in October and then set their fields on fire to clear rice stalks for the next crop. The burning of crop residue in more than seven million hectares has emerged as a deadly cause of winter pollution, resulting in weeks-long smog in New Delhi during October and November. The fires are so widespread that they are visible from space. Westerly winds carry the smoke from burning fields towards the national capital. Air pollution in Delhi typically spikes to alarming levels, breaching the “severe” level. Air pollution kills up to an estimated 30,000 people in Delhi annually, according to a 2015 report of New Delhi’s Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). Burning paddy straw has emerged as a big problem in the past two to three decades as farmers have shifted to mechanized combine harvesters, which cut the grainy part of a rice plant, leaving the stalk intact. A special mix of microbes in the decomposer developed by the IARI gorges on any kind of organic biomass. In the process, it turns rice stubble into fluffy manure. “The technology has been given to several agritech firms, which will distribute it to farmers in these northern states free,” said YV Singh, IARI’s principal scientist of microbiology. Yet, this is a modest beginning. Authorities in Punjab are preparing to use decomposer technology in about 700,000 acres to begin with, while officials have identified another 600,000 acres in Uttar Pradesh, Singh, the top IARI scientist, said. About 100,000 acres in Haryana have been targeted too. Private firms see a big potential and are harnessing big data and artificial intelligence to bring efficiency in using the decomposer under technology-sharing deals. Nurture.farm, a Bangalore-based agritech firm, is targeting 500,000 acres in Punjab and Haryana through its platform. The company says its platform has the potential to reach 1 million farmers. “We are using satellite mapping to identify farms where crop burning has been carried out. Using a shared-economy platform, we are spraying farms with the decomposer for free,” said Dhruv Sawhney, the business head of nurture.farm. For now, the cost of production of the decomposer, which is a bioenzyme, is ₹35 per acre, which is “nominal”, said Sawhney. The decomposer comes in the form of capsules that contain an activated package of eight strains of fungi, Singh said. To prepare a solution of 25 litres, farmers need to add 5 capsules of the decomposer, along with jaggery and checkpea flour, to water. Within a week, a good layer of fungi admixture is formed. To decompose paddy stubble in one hectare, farmers need to spray 25 litres of this solution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/armed-with-microbes-india-prepares-to-fight-season-of-deadly-farm-fires-101632396223081.html
23-09-2021||India||Centre’s emissary returns, Naga peace talks likely to continue in Delhi||Following a three-day meeting with insurgent groups in Nagaland, Centre’s emissary and former special director of Intelligence Bureau AK Mishra left for New Delhi on Thursday with an indication that the peace talks will continue in the national Capital.During his visit, Mishra met leaders of the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (NSCN-IM) with whom the Centre had signed the Framework Agreement in 2015, leaders of seven Naga nationalist political groups (NNPGs), and chief minister Neiphiu Rio.“We had practical interactions with the representative of Centre and we made our stand clear that there can be no solution without recognition of our flag and constitution. The next round of talks will continue in Delhi,” an NSCN (IM) source said.Also Read | RN Ravi steps down as Centre’s interlocutor in peace talks after Naga groups object“The GoI (government of India) representative was informed that all political matters have been touched upon and formal negotiations had concluded on 31st Oct. 2019, in New Delhi... Since the negotiations had completed with all negotiating groups, WC (working committee) NNPGs pointed out that it is a right time for the GoI representatives to gauge the pulse of Naga tribes and civil societies and sign the political agreement without delay,” stated a release issued by the NNPGs.Just a day ago, Centre’s interlocutor RN Ravi resigned from the position. The peace talks got delayed after Ravi and the NSCN (IM) fell out over the October 2019 deadline. The latter had accused Ravi of trying to doctor the Framework Agreement and had sought his replacement.Ravi, who was appointed Nagaland governor in August 2019, announced in the assembly in February 2021 that political negotiations between the Centre and Naga groups were over, drawing criticism from political parties and insurgent groups alike. He was transferred as Tamil Nadu governor on September 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centres-emissary-returns-naga-peace-talks-likely-to-continue-in-delhi-101632395743001.html
23-09-2021||India||Ahead of harvest season, officials meet to discuss air pollution||Representatives of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, and Delhi met on Thursday to discuss the preparedness ahead of the harvest season when farm fires emerge as a major contributor to winter pollution in the region.Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav said the meeting mainly focussed on the prevention of the fires, which are caused when farmers set alight paddy stubble left after harvesting. He added between July and September, the ministry issued six advisories and over 40 directions related to air pollution prevention via the Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region (NCR) and adjoining areas on all emission sources—industries, construction, and demolition activities, etc--and how to control them.Yadav said he has spoken to Punjab and Delhi’s chief ministers, and they assured him they will do all they can to prevent air pollution. He referred to stubble burning in the neighbouring states and said the main issue is that there is a very small window between the time farmers harvest paddy and when they begin sowing winter crop. “They are using a bio enzyme developed by Indian Agricultural Research Institute...which helps decompose stubble in around 30 to 35 days.” He added this year more solutions are being tried to address the issue.Yadav said he cannot say how much air pollution will reduce this winter, but he was hopeful that there will be an improvement as many schemes were being implemented to deal with the problem. He added using stubble as biofuel is one of the important interventions this year. But groups representing farmers said they have an even shorter window this time. “There was heavy rain in many parts of Punjab today also. Because of monsoon rains, harvesting and stubble disposal is unlikely for the next 15 to 20 days,” Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union. “We have been asking the Centre to offer direct subsidies to farmers on per quintal basis so that they can manage the stubble themselves and not burn it. There will be stubble fires this year also. The bio-enzyme is not fully effective, it can help partially,” he added, saying that over a thousand farmers were also heading to Singhu border in Delhi to repeat their demand for the repeal of farm laws and increasing minimum support price of certain crops. “The government will have to listen to us,” he said. The practise of burning farm residue sends up plumes of smoke that is carries by north-westerly winds to over Haryana, Delhi and parts of Uttar Pradesh. Here, this smoke proliferates and descends, blanketing a city like Delhi which has high urban air pollution, to create what has been described as a gas chamber. Over the past five years, the situation becomes so severe that schools have yet to be closed and the administration has issued stay-at-home advisories for vulnerable people like children and the elderly. Pollution from Diwali firecrackers also typically makes it worse, and there has been little improvement despite it being an annual crisis.Yadav said the National Thermal Power Corporation has floated a tender for 20 million tonnes of stubble for four years. He added in Gujarat’s Kutch and parts of Rajasthan, paddy stubble was also being procured for fodder for cattle.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar attended the meeting in his capacity as the state’s environment minister. Delhi’s environment minister, Gopal Rai, his Uttar Pradesh, and Rajasthan counterparts, Dara Singh Chauhan and Sukhram Bishnoi, also attended the meeting. Special chief secretary Anirudh Tiwari represented Punjab at the meeting.A Union environment ministry official said the area used to grow Pusa 44 variety paddy, which matures late and leaves a lot of stubble, has reduced this year. “Punjab also ran a campaign...(that helped reduce)... the area under paddy (cultivation)...marginally. Overall area under Basmati (cultivation) has increased which normally does not cause trouble with stubble because it decomposes easily.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-harvest-season-officials-meet-to-discuss-air-pollution-101632395022834.html
23-09-2021||India||‘Neighbouring states ready to try bio-decomposer for stubble pollution’: Delhi minister Gopal Rai||Following a meeting between the Union ministry of environment and the states in the National Capital Region (NCR), Delhi’s environment minister Gopal Rai on Thursday said that the neighbouring states have expressed willingness to experiment with bio-decomposer to tackle the stubble burning issue. However, the minister also said that there is a lack of action plan.Rai made the remarks after the Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav chaired a meeting with the environment ministers and state officials of the NCR states namely Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan and Punjab.“Neighbouring states have said that they're ready for the experiment of bio-decomposer to tackle stubble burning, However, there is a lack in the action plan,” Rai said after the meeting, news agency ANI reported.Also read | Stubble fire: Bio-decomposer solution to be prepared from Sept 24, says Gopal RaiFurther, during a press conference, Rai also said that the neighbouring states and the central government should prepare for spraying bio-decomposer on a war footing to tackle the pollution due to stubble burning. “To solve the problem of stubble pollution, the Delhi government will spray bio-de-composer in about 4,000 acres of agricultural area free of cost. The Central and the concerned State Governments should prepare for [the] sprinkling of bio-decomposer on a war footing as a measure,” he said.Last week, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal too had said that the air quality in the national capital will deteriorate from the middle of October as the state governments have not taken action to support their farmers. His government has been pushing for the adoption of Pusa bio-decomposer, a microbial solution for stubble, to be distributed for free to the farmers in the neighbouring states.Among other measures to curb pollution in the region, Rai said that he has requested Union minister Yadav to facilitate CNG (compressed natural gas) powered public transport in NCR. In addition, he has also asked for the banning of firecrackers during the festival of Diwali in the neighbouring states too. Notably, Kejriwal had already announced that the sale, storage and usage of firecrackers would not be allowed in Delhi during Diwali this year too.The meeting came a day after the World Health Organization revised its guidelines for the global air quality standards, providing evidence for the damage that air pollution causes to human health. The guidelines also recommend new air quality levels to protect the health by reducing the levels of some major pollutants that also contribute to climate change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neighbouring-states-ready-to-try-bio-decomposer-for-stubble-pollution-delhi-minister-gopal-rai-101632393423746.html
23-09-2021||India||Covishield: 'No technical concern', says UK high commissioner after meeting with India||Covishield is recognised by the United Kingdom, but India's vaccine certificate is not yet. A UK government spokesperson earlier said that vaccine certification from all countries must meet the "minimum criteria taking into account public health and wider considerations". India and the UK are engaged in consultation regarding the acceptance of India's vaccine certificate in the United Kingdom.British High Commissioner to India Alex Ellis said the UK side had a meeting with National Health Authority CEO Dr RS Sharma on Thursday and neither side raised technical concerns with each other's certification process. This indicates that the UK may soon announce recognition to Covishield certificates which means Indian travellers fully vaccinated with Covishield will no longer need to be quarantined upon their arrival in the UK. 
23-09-2021||India||Kerala preparing an updated list of Covid fatalities as per new guidelines, says state health minister||Kerala health minister Veena George told reporters on Thursday that the state was preparing an updated list of those who succumbed to Covid-19 in congruence with the updated guidelines released by the Centre.George said the new list would include deaths of individuals who succumbed to Covid-19 within a month after testing negative for the virus, adding that the final list would be ready in a few days. The state health department is also looking into the number of Covid deaths reported in the state and will be taking steps to rectify any mistakes.The daily death rate in Kerala has continued to hover between 100 and 200. The state’s cumulative fatality rate has crossed the 23,000-mark, as the state has continued to contribute a significant number of deaths to India’s daily death toll.The health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have released new guidelines on September 3, which stated that those who succumbed to Covid-19 at home or the hospital within 30 days of testing positive, and those who stayed in a hospital beyond 30 days of testing positive and succumbed to the virus will now be counted as Covid-19 fatalities, the Centre told Supreme Court in an affidavit.The affidavit also stated that any death where the Medical Certificate of Cause of Death (MCCD) has been issued by a medical or health attendant or owner of a place for disposal of dead bodies, under Section 10 of Registration of Births and Deaths Act 1969, shall be treated as a Covid-19 death.Centre had also included a redressal committee for grievances by the next of kin of any deceased, who if not satisfied by the MCCD issued, can file an application, which will be forwarded by the concerned state/UT to a four-member Committee in charge of verifying and issuing remedial directions, including issuance of official document for Covid-19 death within 30 days of submission of application.These new guidelines came after the apex court asked the Centre to frame guidelines for payment of ex-gratia compensation for Covid-19 deaths under the National Disaster Management Act 2005.George also told reporters that the state government wants those who have lost loved ones to the pandemic should be given relief and the state government will ensure the same is done. Her comment comes a day after the Centre told the Supreme Court that states will pay an ex gratia amount of Rs.50,000 to the families of those whose deaths have been certified as Covid-19 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-preparing-an-updated-list-of-covid-fatalities-as-per-new-guidelines-says-state-health-minister-101632392412529.html
23-09-2021||India||Petroleum minister Puri blames states for high fuel prices. Cites this reason||Blaming states for the rising petrol prices, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday said they don’t want to bring the fuel under the ambit of Goods and Services Tax (GST). Speaking to news agency PTI, the petroleum minister said that the Centre kept the tax on fuel unchanged even as the cost of crude oil saw a huge increase. On the other hand, Puri said, the Trinamool Congress-led West Bengal government has increased prices by ₹3.51 per litre since July, taking the per litre cost of petrol over ₹100-mark."If your question is do you want the petrol prices to come down then the answer is yes. Now, if your question is why the petrol prices are not coming down, then the answer is because the states don't want to bring it under GST," PTI quoted Puri as saying.Puri was in West Bengal campaigning for BJP’s candidate Priyanka Tibrewal contesting against West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Bhabanipur bypolls."The Centre charges ₹32 per litre (as taxes on petrol). We charged ₹32 per litre when the fuel price was USD 19 per barrel, and we are still charging the same even when the price rose to USD 75 per barrel. With this ₹32 per litre, we provide free ration, free housing and Ujjawala, among several other schemes, to the people," he said.Also Read | Maharashtra opposes proposal to bring fuel prices under GST ambitLast week, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that the matter regarding petrol and diesel was taken up by the GST council only on the direction of the Kerala High Court. She told a press briefing that the members of the GST council were very clear that they don’t want to bring fuel under the ambit of GST.“On the direction of the court, it was brought up and the members spoke very clearly that they do not want this under GST,” Sitharaman had said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petroleum-minister-puri-blames-states-for-high-fuel-prices-cites-this-reason-101632391643812.html
23-09-2021||India||It's Indo-Pacific in Quad, Afghanistan a priority in UNGA||Although Indo-Pacific and Climate Change and Justice will be the priority for Quad summit on September 24, Afghanistan and terrorism will be the flavour of the UNGA high-level segment till September 27.According to top diplomats in New York and Washington, the western embarrassment over Afghanistan with the Taliban throwing the entire Doha political commitments out of the window will be the main theme of speakers in the UNGA. The Taliban-US deal was negotiated between Qatar, Pakistan, UK and US Special envoy Zalmay Khalilzad.The fact is that all Taliban leaders, who were part of the Doha process, have been side-lined by the Pakistani ISI backed Haqqani Network with all the critical positions including Interior, Intelligence, Border and Tribal Affairs given to hardcore global designated terrorists. The side-lining of Mullah Baradar, Mullah Yaqoob and Sher Mohammed Stanakzai in the Taliban regime reveals the extent of grip Pakistan has over the Sunni Pashtun terror force.It is evident from the conversations that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar have had with their interlocutors over the phone and in New York that recognition to the Taliban regime is not coming soon as none of the conditions of UNSC resolution 2593 has been fulfilled. Despite being promoted by Pakistan, even its iron brother China and Russia are thinking twice before getting into the Afghanistan mess. With powerful Muslim block countries like Saudi Arabia and UAE looking the other war, the accountability rests on Pakistan if any terror attack emanates from Kabul under Haqqanis.Also Read | Predator drone on his mind, PM Modi to meet General Atomics CEOJust as the international mood over the Taliban has hardened since August 15, the Quad partners are also calling a spade a spade in the Indo-Pacific. Before leaving to attend the Quad summit, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga has gone on record saying that China’s changing the status quo with its military power in the background could present a risk to Japanese peace and prosperity. The fact is all the contenders to succeed PM Suga have defined their future agenda by adopting a strident line against China.Australia will AUKUS Anglo-Saxon pact in its bag has taken the deterrence to China to a different level with eight US/UK built nuclear powered conventional attack submarines or SSNs expected to patrol Indo-Pacific waters by the next decade. The AUKUS pact has dove-tailed the strategic element into Quad as India believes in strategic autonomy and Japan is to still shed its pacificist doctrine. And all Quad partners and other countries are of the opinion privately that nuclear submarine is any day a better sub-surface deterrent to the ever-growing Chinese Navy. It is the AUKUS pact that has brought the challenge to Chinese military capability in the South China Sea and beyond.Even though on the face of it, India wants to be a global factory of the world with Quad partners joining hands, it is also very clear about acquiring at least three SSNs in the coming decade. The India-China stand-off in East Ladakh is still a work in progress with PLA still to restore status quo ante in Hot Springs area, Depsang Bulge and Demchok.It is in this backdrop that Quad leaders are meeting in the White House and a strong statement is expected by the end of day on September 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/its-indo-pacific-in-quad-afghanistan-a-priority-in-unga-101632389618131.html
23-09-2021||India||Congress posts Manmohan Singh's old foreign flight pics, says ‘harder to copy’||The official Twitter handle of the Congress on Thursday posted some old photographs of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on board Air India One. In the photos, the former PM can be seen interacting with the media. "Some photographs are harder to copy," the Congress said. This post comes hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi posted a photograph on Wednesday from his US-bound flight. "A long flight also means opportunity to go through papers and some file work," PM Modi wrote as the photo shows him engrossed in file work, with the seat next to him occupied by papers and files. A long flight also means opportunities to go through papers and some file work. pic.twitter.com/nYoSjO6gIBSome photographs are harder to copy. Former PM, Dr. Manmohan Singh addressing Press Conferences on board Air India One. pic.twitter.com/JiYlQcX0HEFollowing PM Modi's photo of working during a long flight, the Congress's post came as a sharp swipe at PM Modi that former prime minister Manmohan Singh used to even address press conferences on his flight. The Congress's tweet went viral in no time, with social media users asking the Congress whether the party used to take so many journalists on former prime minister's foreign tours on taxpayers' money.Prime Minister Narendra Modi boarded the Air Force 1 Boeing 777-337 ER aircraft for the US on Wednesday and reached there on Thursday (Indian time). PM Modi was welcomed at the Joint Base Andrews in Washington by the members of Indian American community on his arrival. "Grateful to the Indian community in Washington DC for the warm welcome. Our diaspora is our strength. It is commendable how the Indian diaspora has distinguished itself across the world," PM Modi tweeted. This is PM Modi's first visit to the United States after Biden became the President and this will be PM Modi's first face-to-face meeting with Biden. On Thursday, he will also meet US Vice President Kamala Harris. On Friday, he will be in New York and address the UNGA before flying back to India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-posts-manmohan-singh-s-old-foreign-flight-pics-says-harder-to-copy-101632387607019.html
23-09-2021||India||AAP to undertake employment guarantee yatra in poll-bound Uttarakhand||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday announced a 70-day long “rozgar guarantee yatra (employment guarantee procession)” in poll-bound Uttarakhand from September 25 under the leadership of its chief ministerial candidate Ajay Kothiyal.“Through this yatra, we will ensure that the six guarantees regarding employment that we have announced reach to people. During the yatra, AAP will also look into new opportunities in each assembly segment which can be used for increasing employment avenues for the locals.... we will talk to the youth, ex-servicemen, and entrepreneurs in these areas,” said AAP’s Uttarakhand in-charge Dinesh Mohaniya. He added Kothiyal and his team will remain in each assembly segment for a day during the yatra and interact with the people there.Also Read | Night curfew clamped in half a dozen Uttarakhand villages after leopard terrorMohaniya said the yatra would begin from Nainital and nearly 350 public rallies will be held. “In each assembly segment, around four small and one big public rally will be held.” He added they will interact with the locals and seek their views and suggestions on how employment avenues can be increased. “We appeal youth to participate in this yatra in a big way. There is already a lot of buzz in the state with regard to AAP’s employment promises.”Uttarakhand is among the states where AAP has sought to make inroads. AAP leader and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has made a series of promises including related to employment creation in the state as his party hopes to form the government in the state. He has pledged if AAP is voted to power in Uttarakhand, it will provide employment to every household, ₹5,000 monthly stipend till unemployed youth get jobs. The AAP has promised 100,000 government jobs within six months of coming to power as well as 80% reservation in jobs to locals, an online job portal, and a separate ministry of employment and migration affairs.Unemployment and migration are two major issues in Uttarakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aapto-undertake-employment-guarantee-yatra-in-poll-bound-uttarakhand-101632386922502.html
23-09-2021||India||At least 3 dead in explosion in Bengaluru, officials probing cause||Three people are feared killed while one person was injured following an explosion at a godown of a transport company in Bengaluru’s Chamarajpet on Thursday afternoon, officials said.“We have found crackers at the location and have also summoned the bomb disposal units and dog squads to the scene. They will search the area,” said the officer.Deputy Commissioner of Police, Harish Pandey, said the explosion could be the result of a cracker blast. “It looks like a cracker explosion definitely. The major impact is from the cracker only. It seems almost 80 boxes were stored here, we still have to calculate,” Pandey said. “Probably, the person who was handling those boxes was right next to it when the box exploded. The impact has caused serious dismemberment. It looks like a handling-related explosion, we’ll get to know the exact details once the chemical team from Forensic science lab (FSL) is here,” he added.  Meanwhile, Congress legislator Zameer Ahmed Khan visited the spot and announced ₹2 lakh for the family of the deceased. The leader said he will take care of those who got injured in the explosion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-3-dead-in-explosion-in-bengaluru-officials-probing-cause-101632386143888.html
23-09-2021||India||Govt to call Christian leaders’ meet amid narcotic jihad row, says Kerala MP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Rajya Sabha member Suresh Gopi on Thursday said the Centre will call a meeting of Christian leaders in the backdrop of a Bishop’s controversial remarks this month that after “love jihad”, Catholic girls and youth were becoming victims of a “well-orchestrated narcotic jihad” in Kerala.“Love jihad” is a term right-wing groups use to describe relationships between Muslim men and non-Muslim women. Muslim groups protested against the comments of Mar Joseph Kallaranghatt, Bishop of Pala Diocese of the Syro-Malabar Church, and accused him of trying to create a communal divide.Also Read | Police officers still don’t know how to speak politely, says Kerala high court“The Union government will hear Christian leaders patiently. It is not fair that the Bishop is singled out and attacked by all. Whatever he has raised, the state government will have to look into it,” said Gopi a day after chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan rejected the demand for an all-party meeting to discuss the matter. Gopi, who also met Kallarangatt this week, provided no further details. The BJP was first to support the Bishop when he made the controversial statement on September 9. His statement triggered a war of words between community leaders. The opposition parties urged the government to call an all-party meeting. Vijayan rejected the idea saying there was no need for discussing non-existent issues.Syro-Malabar Church has backed the Bishop and said his statement was a warning against certain evil tendencies and was not meant against any community.There was no immediate response to Gopi’s claim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-call-christian-leaders-meet-amid-narcotic-jihad-row-says-kerala-mp-101632384761895.html
23-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Farmers' protest completes 300 days and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bharat Bandh: Bank union extends support, farmers' stir completes 300 daysFarmers have refused to budge from their agitation against the three central farm laws even as their agitation completed 300 days on Wednesday. Read moreNight curfew clamped in half a dozen Uttarakhand villages after leopard terrorAccording to forest officials and locals, a leopard pair has been sighting adjoining villages of Pithoragarh district headquarters. Read moreIPL 2021, KKR Predicted XI vs MI: All eyes on the Harbhajan gamble as Kolkata Knight Riders look to floor toughest rivalIn the last five matches between the two teams, MI have emerged victorious four times but here's a trivial that would cheer up KKR fans. Read moreAmid Samantha Akkineni divorce rumours, Naga Chaitanya says it's ‘painful’ to see his name being used to promote gossipNaga Chaitanya, amid rumours of marital discord with Samantha Akkineni, has said that he finds it ‘painful’ when his name is used for gossip purposes. Read moreVolkswagen Taigun launched: Volkswagen Taigun SUV price, specs, featuresVolkswagen Taigun carries the weight of massive expectations and while the competition is tough, would look at carving out a space for itself. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-farmers-protest-completes-300-days-and-all-the-latest-news-101632378337691.html
23-09-2021||India||SC to set up an expert committee to inquire into Pegasus row, order next week||The Supreme Court will set up an expert committee to inquire into alleged use of Israeli spyware Pegasus for mounting surveillance on Indian citizens, Chief Justice of India NV Ramana said on Thursday.The CJI heads the bench which is seized of a clutch of petitions that have demanded a court-monitored investigation into alleged use of Pegasus spyware for unlawful snooping. Justice Ramana informed senior advocate CU Singh about constitution of a committee during the hearing of an unconnected matter. Singh represents one of the petitioners in the bouquet of cases on Pegasus. “Please tell other lawyers too that we will pass our order next week,” the CJI told Singh. The court had, on September 13, reserved its order in the case after the Union government declined to make public whether its agencies used the Israeli software. Also Read | SC panel recommends transfer of Andhra chief justiceDuring the last hearing, the government refused to share any more information on use of Pegasus by its agencies or hand out specific information on alleged interception of some of the petitioners. The bench, which included justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, then said the court will pass an interim order in the next 3-4 days on constitution of an expert committee and on other ancillary issues related to an independent inquiry after considering the materials placed by the petitioners before it and the submissions made by the counsel for the parties. After taking time earlier to reconsider the government’s previous stand against filing a detailed response on the bunch of petitions, solicitor general Tushar Mehta reiterated that use of a particular software like Pegasus cannot be a subject matter of any affidavit or a public debate. He said the government stands by its August 16 affidavit filed on the Pegasus snooping matter. This affidavit neither confirmed nor denied the use of the military-grade spyware to hack phones of ministers, politicians, businessmen, activists and journalists and offered to instead set up an expert committee. The government’s submissions were strongly objected to by petitioners’ lawyers who included senior counsel Kapil Sibal, Shyam Divan, Rakesh Dwivedi, Dinesh Dwivedi, Colin Gonsalves and Meenakshi Arora. The Pegasus row erupted on July 18 after an international investigative consortium reported that the phones of Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 that were potentially targeted by Pegasus, Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software. According to this consortium, Pegasus can switch on a target’s phone camera and microphone, as well as access data on the device, effectively turning a phone into a pocket spy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-set-up-an-expert-committee-to-inquire-into-pegasus-row-101632379361356.html
23-09-2021||India||Bharat Bandh: Bank union extends support, farmers' stir completes 300 days||Farmers have refused to budge from their agitation against the three central farm laws even as their agitation completed 300 days on Wednesday. Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) - the umbrella organisation which is spreaheading the protest - said that the movement is a testimony to the will and determination of lakhs of farmers across the country that would only grow stronger.The 40 farmers organisations under SKM have given a call for "Bharat Bandh" on September 27, which the protesters said will make their movement stronger."Various sections of the society are being reached out to by farmers' outfits in different parts of the country to get their support and solidarity to the farmers' cause, which is also becoming a movement to protect India's democracy," the SKM said in a statement.Here are the latest developments about September 27 Bharat Bandh:• The All India Bank Officers' Confederation (AlBOC) has extended its support to 'Bharat Bandh'. AIBOC requested the government to re-open dialogue with the Samyukta Kisan Morcha on their demands and rescind the three contentious farm laws.• Meanwhile, the SKM said that workers' unions, trade unions, employees' and students' unions, women's organisations and transporters' associations are being roped in for the planning of the "bandh".• Kisan mahapanchayats are also being organised to get more citizens to rally around the "Bharat Bandh" call. Cycle and motorcycle rallies are also being organised, said the SKM.• The chief of Bharatiya Kisan Union's (BKU) Chanduni faction in Haryana Gurnam Singh Chaduni on Wednesday said the farmers sitting at Delhi's borders will not budge till three contentious farm laws of the Centre are repealed.• Farmer leader Ravi Azad said the roads of Delhi will not be opened till the three farm laws are scrapped.• The Haryana government formed a high-powered committee earlier this month to hold talks with the protesting farm union leaders over the clearing of blockade on National Highway-44 at the Kundli-Singhu border. However, the farm union leaders did not attend the meeting.• Haryana home minister Anil Vij said in Chandigarh on Wednesday that the Supreme Court will be apprised of the development.• The court had last month said the Centre and the neighbouring states of Delhi should find a solution to the road blockades at the borders of the national capital.• The farmers have been sitting at the Delhi borders since November last year demanding the repeal of the three farm laws passed by Parliament in September last year. They claim that these laws favour corporate houses and will hurt their earnings.• The government, which has held multiple rounds of talks with the farmers in a bid to break the deadlock, has rubbished all the allegations, saying the farmers are not receiving correct information regarding the landmark reforms. It has also accused the opposition of spreading misinformation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-bank-union-extends-support-farmers-stir-completes-300-days-101632377055309.html
23-09-2021||India||India has administered at least 830 million doses of Covid vaccine till now||India had administered at least 830 million Covid vaccine doses by Wednesday, September 22. US President Joe Biden has also called on other countries to help expand production and availability of vaccines and treatments in order to end the pandemic.Biden hosted a virtual vaccine summit on Wednesday, coinciding with the United Nations leaders’ meetings in a bid to marshal more aid to developing nations where inoculations, treatments and supplies are scarce.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Wednesday, 833,346,676 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 6,498,274 doses were administered on the day.Also Read | Covishield gets UK nod, but Indians have to quarantine. The dispute, explainedIn the 18-45 age group, 337,476,070 people have been given the first dose while 66,781,067 have got their second shot as well.Among the healthcare workers, 10,370,167 have been given the first dose while 8,783,665 have got their second dose as well. Among the frontline workers, 18,347,221 have got their first dose and 14,666,596 have got their second dose too.
23-09-2021||India||Goa CM welcomes potential TMC re-entry into Goa||Chief minister Pramod Sawant has welcomed reported plans of his West Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) to contest the 2022 Goa assembly elections. He said an increase in the number of contenders did not perturb the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “Let everyone come; everyone loves Goa,” Sawant said on Wednesday.Earlier, Sawant also welcomed Arvind Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi Party to Goa. He said even if Kejriwal wanted to contest against him, he was welcome.Congress leader Luizinho Faleiro was rumoured to have been planning to leave the party and join the TMC. Faleiro has dismissed the rumours. “Lot of people are doing surveys. They are meeting all the leaders,” Faleiro said.The TMC unsuccessfully contested the 2012 Goa assembly elections under former chief minister Wilfred de Souza’s leadership.The party has been planning to expand its base since it returned to power for a third time this year in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-cm-welcomes-potential-tmc-re-entry-into-goa-101632375401310.html
23-09-2021||India||Australian minister to visit India next week for further talks on Free Trade Agreement||Australia's minister for trade and investment Dan Tehan said he will be visiting India next week to intensify discussions for a Free Trade Agreement (FTA)."While in India, I will seek to further advance our recent progress towards a free trade agreement, or what is called the Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement, CECA," Tehan told news agency ANI.The FTA, part of the Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement (CECA), was also the main point of discussion during the recent 2+2 dialogue between Union commerce and industries minister Piyush Goyal and his Australian counterpart Tehan on August 27. The two leaders met virtually to discuss “the way forward for an early conclusion of a bilateral (CECA)”.Tehan and Goyal asked officials to speed up negotiations and to meet as often as required to “achieve an early harvest announcement by December 2021 on an interim agreement to liberalise and deepen bilateral trade in goods and services, and pave the way for a comprehensive agreement.”Tehan reiterated the principles adopted by both countries during the last session, stating that “Australia and India are committed to achieving an early harvest announcement on an interim agreement”. The interim agreement is expected to pave the way for a full agreement.CECA has been largely touted by experts as an attempt by Australia to diversify its global trade interest away from China. It is a part of the Comprehensive Strategic Partnership, and the trade agreement has been under discussion since 2011.Elsewhere in Washington Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be attending the first in-person summit of the Quad hosted by the US President on September 23, which will be attended by his Japanese counterpart Yoshihide Suga of Japan and Australian counterpart Scott Morrison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/australian-minister-to-visit-india-next-week-for-further-talks-on-free-trade-agreement-101632374193668.html
23-09-2021||India||Ladakh Councillor says nomads had no access to grazing land||Konchok Stanzin, councillor from the Chushul constituency in Ladakh, has expressed concern that owing to tension between India and China along the Line of Actual Control, normalcy is yet to return to the Union Territory and has affected the movement of nomads to traditional grazing lands. India and China have been locked in a border row for over 16 months, a phase that witnessed a deadly skirmish in the Galwan Valley and saw tensions spiral between the rival armies on the north and south banks of Pangong Tso last year.Speaking to HT from Ladakh on Tuesday, Stanzin said, after a long time nomads on their own initiative had decided to take their flock to grazing lands in Khu-la and other areas, but faced restrictions from the Indian side.“Ideally the government should take steps to help the nomads in providing access to grazing lands, take steps for border area development. This year after a gap of 8-10 years the nomads on their own decided to take their yaks to Khu-la and tsogtsalu but they could not reach the areas that are their traditional grounds. This indicates that despite the disengagement things are still not normal on the ground,” he said. Also Read | Why military has sought more time to induct women into NDAHe said allowing the nomads unfettered access to their traditional grazing lands also ensures that the land parcels are not reduced on account of border dispute.“It (going to grazing lands) was purely an initiative by the villagers of Phobrang, Yourgo and Lukung village. Because nomads play an important role in guarding the border, they work as both ear and eyes to the nation,” he said.Officials in the army headquarters declined to comment on the matter. The two armies kicked off talks to cool border tensions in June 2020.Disengagement has taken place in the Pangong Tso sector and Gogra or Patrolling Point-17A.But problems at Hot Springs and Depsang are yet to be resolved. To be sure, the problems at Depsang predate the current border standoff.Both armies have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each in the Ladakh theatre and the deployments haven’t thinned after the disengagement in the Pangong Tso sector and PP-17A.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ladakh-councillor-says-nomads-had-no-access-to-grazing-land-101632374681436.html
23-09-2021||India||No alternative to BJP in Manipur: Bhupender Yadav||Union minister Bhupender Yadav has said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will win the 2022 Manipur assembly election with over two-thirds majority. He added the people of the state have seen the party deliver on its promises and for “consistency and continuity”, they will vote for the BJP.Yadav is in charge of the Manipur election and was in the state last week for a preparatory meeting ahead of the polls. He said the state has come a long way since the time it was used to facing blockages and bandhs. “In the last five years, there have been no blockages like the economic blockage that went on for four months (November 2016 to March 2017)…. People feel relaxed,” he said.The BJP won 21 of the 60 seats in the state in 2017 and formed the government there with support from parties such as the Naga People’s Front and the National People’s Party (NPP). The ties between the BJP and the NPP remained testy, with differences frequently coming to the fore. On more than one occasion, chief minister Biren Singh had to rely on the central leadership’s intervention to iron out differences. In 2020, the government was on the verge of collapse when four of the NPP legislators withdrew support but came around after negotiations were held in Delhi.Also Read | Manipur’s iconic all-women market to reopen after 5 monthsNPP chief Conrad Sangma has said there will be no pre-poll alliance between the two parties. On whether Sangma’s statement is a precursor to the alliance being called off, Yadav said, a decision on it will be taken based on the post-poll situation. “… What anyone says now is not important. We have been working on the ground and have run a strong alliance government... the major player in Manipur is the BJP and as of date, there is no alternative of the party in Manipur.”He said Congress has “shrunk” and added many from the party leaders have shown the inclination to join the BJP. He added in the run-up to the polls, the trend of Congress leaders joining the BJP will continue. On what would be the BJP’s poll planks in Manipur, he said, “We are committed to ensuring an atmosphere of peace. Manipur has made a significant contribution in the sectors of art, sports, and culture and the Prime Minister wants equal development for the state. We will work on the concept of national ambition and regional aspiration.”Yadav said the BJP has a “long list of accomplishments” which includes providing Ayushman health cards to over 400000 beneficiaries, electricity and roads in villages, and encouraging organic farming. On whether Biren Singh would be the face of the election, he said, “We have provided a stable and strong government. He has been the chief minister rest of the decisions will be taken by the parliamentary board (the highest decision-making body) of the party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-alternative-to-bjp-in-manipur-bhupender-yadav-101632373421188.html
23-09-2021||India||Sharp decline in fertility rate among Muslims: Study||India’s religious composition has not changed significantly since 1951 with the fertility rates of the two major religious groups--Hindus and Muslims--almost converging, according to a report by the Pew Research Center, a non-profit organisation based in Washington DC. The report said every religious group in India “has seen its fertility fall, including the majority Hindu population and Muslim, Christian, Sikh, Buddhist and Jain minority groups”. It added the fertility rate among Muslims has witnessed a sharp decline. The report said between 1992 and 2015, the fertility rates of Muslims fell from 4.4 to 2.6. Among Hindus, it has declined from 3.3 to 2.1. The fertility gap between Muslim and Hindu women shrank from 1.1 to 0.5 children. “This indicates the gaps in childbearing between India’s religious groups are much smaller than they used to be,” the report said.Also Read | Don’t require all-party meet, says Kerala CM Vijayan in ‘narcotic jihad’ rowThe study said it is due to the “declining and converging fertility patterns” that there has been only a marginal change in the religious composition of the country since 1951. India’s average fertility of 2.2 has fallen from what it was in 1951. But it is still higher than developed economies such as the US.The study is based on data sourced from India’s decennial census and the National Family Health Survey. It looked at the three main factors known to cause changes in the religious composition of populations — fertility rate, migration, and conversions. The report said neither migration nor conversions have had any impact on the religious composition of the country. Interestingly, the report notes that conversions are rare in India.A Faizur Rahman, the secretary-general of the Islamic Forum for the Promotion of Moderate Thought, said it is the Muslim realisation that education is the only way to come up in life that has resulted in the reduction of their family size through birth control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharp-decline-in-fertility-rate-among-muslims-study-101632373241284.html
23-09-2021||India||Enthusiasm to travel abroad grows as cross-border travel curbs ease: Survey||Over 65% of people, who participated in a survey by travel portal MakeMyTrip from August 15 to September 15, were actively searching for international flights and hotels while 87% of those surveyed and aged between 30-35 years showed more enthusiasm to travel internationally before the year ends. Dubai (36%), Maldives (33%) and Switzerland (22%) were the top three destinations for leisure travellers.Overall, 43% travellers were keen to travel to Thailand and Bali; 39% to Maldives and Mauritius; 37% to Turkey, Greece, Italy and Egypt; 33% to Paris, London and 25% to Switzerland.Also Read | Covishield gets UK nod, but Indians have to quarantine. The dispute, explained“As cross-border travel restrictions ease across some countries, travellers are weighing multiple parameters when searching and planning travel. 54% of the surveyed indicated that travel regulations including quarantine guidelines were one of the key reasons for shortlisting a destination,” a MakeMyTrip spokesperson said.Vipul Prakash, chief operating officer of MakeMyTrip said, “On MakeMyTrip, recent flight and hotel searches to the destinations open for Indian travellers indicates strong demand as the festive and winter holiday season approaches.”MakeMyTrip said that as per its latest flight searches and bookings, travellers are increasingly becoming comfortable with booking travel 30 to 60 days ahead of the date of travel. “Advance bookings for international travel currently account for 40% of the overall international flights business on the platform,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/enthusiasm-to-travel-abroad-grows-as-cross-border-travel-curbs-ease-survey-101632372701119.html
23-09-2021||India||Taliban's commitment to not allow terror on Afghan soil must be implemented: Jaishankar||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has told the G20 nations that the Taliban’s commitment not to allow the use of Afghanistan’s soil for terrorism in any manner should be implemented and the world expects a broad-based, inclusive process that involves representation from all sections of the Afghan society.Jaishankar addressed the G20 Foreign Ministers’ Meeting on Afghanistan on Wednesday, held on the sidelines of the high-level 76th session of the UN General Assembly.“International community must come together in response to humanitarian needs. Assistance providers must be accorded unimpeded, unrestricted, and direct access,” Jaishankar said in a series of tweets after the virtual meeting.“Taliban’s commitment not to allow the use of Afghan soil for terrorism in any manner should be implemented. The world expects a broad-based inclusive process that involves representation from all sections of Afghan society,” he said.The Taliban swept across Afghanistan last month, seizing control of almost all key towns and cities in the backdrop of withdrawal of the US forces that began on May 1. On August 15, the capital city of Kabul fell to the insurgents.The Taliban claimed victory over opposition forces in the last holdout province of Panjshir on September 6, completing their takeover of Afghanistan three weeks after capturing Kabul.The Taliban has said that Afghan territory will not be used against any country.Jaishankar said the UN Security Council resolution 2593 on Afghanistan reflects global sentiment and should continue to “guide our approach. India’s engagement will be driven by its historical friendship with the Afghan people.”The resolution, adopted under India’s Presidency of the 15-nation Council in August, demanded that Afghan territory not be used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter or train terrorists, or to plan or to finance terrorist acts, and reiterated the importance of combating terrorism in Afghanistan, including those individuals and entities designated pursuant to resolution 1267 (1999), and noted the Taliban’s relevant commitments.It had condemned in the strongest terms the deplorable attacks of August 26 near Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul, which were claimed by the Islamic State in Khorasan Province, an entity affiliated with the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (Da’esh), and resulted in deaths and injuries of over 300 civilians and 28 military personnel.The resolution took note of the Taliban’s condemnation of this attack.Following the G20 meeting, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken tweeted “Had a productive dialogue at #UNGA76 with G20 Foreign Ministers and International Organisation Principals on Afghanistan. The international community is united in its expectations for the Taliban to adhere to their commitments.” PTI YAS/ZH NSA AKJ NSA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/talibans-commitment-to-not-allow-terror-on-afghan-soil-must-be-implemented-jaishankar-101632370424621.html
23-09-2021||India||57 poachers surrender arms in Assam's Bodoland Territorial Region||As many as 57 poachers surrendered their arms and wildlife parts near the Raimona National Park in Assam’s Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) on Wednesday. The surrenders coincided with World Rhino Day and are expected to discourage hunting and poaching of wild animals in the area.Pramod Boro, a chief executive member of the Bodoland Territorial Council that administers the four districts in the region, also gave financial aid to the poachers who decided to give up poaching and take up alternate vocations. “Handed over ₹50,000 ex-gratia and assured two handloom clusters to 57 poachers who surrendered their arms…..Our govt. is committed to take every possible step to make ‘Poaching free BTR’,” tweeted Boro, who heads the United Peoples Party Liberal, an ally of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party.Boro asked all poachers to stop killing wild animals and said they plan to introduce rhinos to the Raimona National Park.Rathin Barman, joint director, Wildlife Trust of India, said the initiative to have the poachers surrender their arms started after Raimona was declared a national park. “Poachers were identified and educated about protecting wildlife...,” he said. “In Assam and rest of northeast... various tribes have been involved in traditional hunting. Most of the weapons surrendered were self-made muzzle loaded rifles. Some of the poachers have already given up hunting, but they decided to hand over their weapons to the government.” Barman said there is no data on the number of poachers in the area and the process of surrender of arms would continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/57-poachers-surrender-arms-in-assam-101632371381189.html
23-09-2021||India||Predator drone on his mind, PM Modi to meet General Atomics CEO||In the backdrop of India acquiring 30 Predator drones from US for muscling up over the horizon military capability, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is meeting the head of armed drone manufacturer General Atomics along with four other top US company CEOs in Washington on September 23.According to sources based in Washington, PM Modi will be meeting all the four CEOs on one-to-one basis as each company they are heading are leaders in their respective fields. The heads of General Atomics, Qualcomm, semi-conductor major, BlackRock global investment company, First Solar, non-conventional energy leader, and Adobe, US leader in software.It is understood that Apple CEO Tim Cook dropped out at the last moment due to health reasons as Covid numbers are climbing in the US.It is quite evident from the line-up that PM Modi meetings with the CEOs are with the specific intention of India being a key part of global resilient chain, a military power which matches over the horizon capabilities in the Indo-Pacific and speed up non-conventional energy needs to go beyond the climate change commitments for climate justice.While all the companies are global leaders in their own right, the meeting with General Atomics head acquires significance as Indian Navy is already operating two Predator MQ-9 unmanned aerial vehicles for building maritime domain awareness from Gulf of Aden to Lombok Straits in Indonesia.With Indian Navy as the lead player, India has plans to acquire 30 Predator armed UAVs with each service getting 10 each for muscling its stand-off capabilities. The Predator can be armed with seven Hell-Fire air to surface missiles (ASMs) or laser guided bombs. The UAV operates at a ceiling of 50,000 feet and has an endurance of nearly 27 hours. It is a multi-mission aircraft with multi-mode radar for intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance and targeting.It is important for India to acquire armed drones as its own indigenous capability is limited with both Beijing and Islamabad operating Chinese made armed drones. Pakistan is also eyeing to acquire armed drones for Turkey, which now is a self-appointed leader of Sunni world and wants to bring back orthodox legacy of the bygone Ottoman Empire. The Turkish drones were used to good effect in the Azerbaijan-Armenian conflict with Pakistani mercenaries operating against Armenia.With the Biden administration giving a green signal for India to acquire Predator drone, it is only a matter of time when the Indian Navy brings up the proposal before the Defence Acquisition Committee (DAC) for the process to take off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/predator-drone-on-his-mind-pm-modi-to-meet-general-atomics-ceo-101632371040729.html
23-09-2021||India||Monsoon likely to intensify next week: IMD||Widespread rain is likely in Uttarakhand and eastern Uttar Pradesh till Sunday, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) as the monsoon is likely to intensify again as a low-pressure area is likely to form over the northeast and the east-central Bay of Bengal on Friday.The monsoon trough is lying to the south of its normal position and is likely to remain so during the next five days. A cyclonic circulation is lying over north Chhattisgarh and neighbourhood. It is likely to move west-north-westwards across north Madhya Pradesh during the next three days.Also Read | Cloudy sky with a chance of light rain in Delhi todayAnother cyclonic circulation is lying over West Rajasthan and neighbourhood. Due to these meteorological factors, scattered to widespread and heavy rainfall is likely in Uttarakhand till Sunday and in East Uttar Pradesh till Friday. The rainfall is likely to decrease in Gangetic West Bengal and Odisha. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rain is likely in East Rajasthan and Gujarat till Sunday. Widespread and heavy rain is likely in Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha and Chhattisgarh till Thursday.A cyclonic circulation is lying over the Myanmar coast and adjoining the Gulf of Martaban. It is likely to move north-westwards and emerge into Northeast and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal. Under its influence, a low-pressure area is likely to form over the region on Friday.The low-pressure area is likely to move west-north-westwards towards the Odisha coast during the subsequent 48 hours. Under its influence, a fresh spell of heavy rainfall is likely in Odisha and adjoining areas from Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-likely-to-intensify-next-weekimd-101632371141317.html
23-09-2021||India||Sangh-backed committee wants memorial to mark 100 years of Moplah killings||The 1921 Malabar rebellion martyrs remembrance committee, a group backed by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), has demanded that September 25 be marked as Malabar Hindu genocide day and a “memorial” be built to mark the killings a 100 years ago in Kerala’s Malappuram. The RSS is opposed to recognising the killings that began in August 1921 as a part of an uprising against the British or the landlords and asserts that those were “targeted killings of Hindus”.“Even Annie Besant had challenged Gandhiji to come and see what happened in Malabar. Muslims in Mumbai had said this is not Islam; in a statement that was published in the Hindu, they said this (killings) is a one-sided attack on a society, forcing them to convert. C Sankaran Nair, who was the president of the Indian National Congress called it a genocide… however after 1975 it was illegally deemed as part of the freedom struggle,” said J Nandakumar, the all India convener of Prajna Pravah, a Sangh-backed think tank, and a member of the committee. Also Read | With its ear to the ground, how the BJP is sharpening its poll strategyNandakumar said while the Kerala government has not considered their demand, they are hopeful the Centre will consider the observations of BR Ambedkar, Annie Besant and more recently CI Issac, member of the Indian Council for Historical Research (ICHR), who has dubbed the incident as communal outrage. Last month, a three- member committee of ICHR, formed to review the names of freedom fighters from 1857 to 1947, considered removing the names of 387 “Moplah rioters”. On September 25, the committee will hold an exhibition and a programme in Delhi’s Palika Park to pay homage to those who died a century ago. A day later, it will make a formal demand for building what could be India’s first genocide memorial. Events will be held across the country to commemorate the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sanghbacked-committee-wants-memorial-to-mark-100-years-of-moplah-killings-101632370901045.html
23-09-2021||India||Terrorist killed in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir's Shopian||A terrorist was killed by the security forces in Jammu Kashmir's Shopian early on Thursday during an encounter, news agency ANI reported. The encounter started on Wednesday night in Kashwa village.The security forces received an input about terrorist Anayat Ashraf Dar attacking a civilian and injuring him in Kashwa village in Zainapora area of Shopian district by opening fire, ANI quoted Jammu and Kashmir Police as saying. Soon, a cordon and search operation (CASO) was launched, the police further said, ANI reported.They said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants opened fire towards the security forces drawing retaliation. The terrorist was offered to surrender but he didn't, according to ANI.Quoting officials, news agency PTI reported that the operation is in progress.The police further said that Dar was earlier an over ground worker (OGW) and involved in drugs business. One pistol and ammunition were recovered from his possession.The injured civilian, meanwhile, has been admitted to local hospital, the police said.The identity and group with which the terrorist is affiliated to, was not immediately known, reported PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-killed-in-encounter-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-shopian-101632369835730.html
23-09-2021||India||Covishield gets UK nod, but Indians still have to quarantine. The dispute, explained||The United Kingdom is facing a severe backlash for what many have called its “selective vaccine policy” after the country issued its revised international travel advisory on Wednesday, in which it approved several formulations of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine – including the Covishield shot manufactured by the Serum Institute. But it has still kept countries like India, which use Covishield, in the list where travellers are required to be quarantined when they reach Britain.The guidelines provided in the latest advisory suggest that Britain has no problems with the formulation of the Covishield vaccine, but with the Covid-19 vaccine certification provided by India through the CoWIN app.The new rules issued by the UK have triggered a controversy here in India, with several lawmakers heavily criticising the “discriminatory policy” and with diplomats warning of retaliation on an official level.Here's what the entire controversy is about, explained in ten brief pointers:1. The UK government issued an updated international travel advisory on Wednesday (September 22), where it listed the Covid-19 shots which will be deemed as ‘approved vaccines’ for travellers visiting Britain from any part of the world from October 4 onwards.2. This new list included Covishield, the formulation of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII). In essence, the UK will consider a traveller as ‘fully vaccinated’ if they are inoculated with a full dose of any of these vaccines – Oxford-AstraZeneca, Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, or the Janssen shot. It will also consider the different formulations of the four aforementioned vaccines – such as Covishield (AstraZeneca), Vaxzevria (AstraZeneca), or Takeda (Moderna).3. However, even though the UK kept Covishield, manufactured by the SII, in its list of ‘approved vaccines’, it kept India in the list of countries whose travellers need to quarantine for 10 days when they reach the UK. This has been done due to some issues with the certification process in India, said UK officials.4. For context, there are currently 18 nations – including Denmark, Canada, and Antigua and Barbuda – that have been cleared by London for the UK ‘green list’. Travellers vaccinated in these countries – even with Covishield – can fly to Britain without having to follow mandatory quarantine protocols. However, a traveller flying to the UK from India will still have to undergo 10 days of mandatory home quarantine even if they had been inoculated with the same Covishield vaccine due to India's vaccination certificate through the CoWIN app.5. This is what is being called a ‘discriminatory policy’ by diplomats on the Indian side. Earlier this week, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla warned that if the UK did not amend its policy on Covishield, India could impose ‘reciprocal measures’. However, the new advisory issued by Britain a day later did not make it any easier for Indian travellers flying to the UK, despite recognising Covishield as an approved vaccine.6. Alex Ellis, the British high commissioner to India, said on Wednesday, “We're clear Covishield is not a problem. We have been having detailed technical discussions regarding certification, with the builders of the CoWIN app and the NHS app, about both apps.7. Ellis, however, said the UK wants to make the process of travelling as easy as possible. “We listen very carefully to what the Indian government says but ministers have to take decisions and they have been clear that Covishield is not an issue,” he said in an interview with a news channel.8. National Health Authority CEO RS Sharma, however, said he was not aware of any concerns being raised by the UK about the Covid-19 vaccine certification by India, asserting that the Co-WIN system is WHO-compliant. “I am not aware of any concerns being raised by the UK,” the PTI news agency quoted him as saying. “The British high commissioner met me on September 2 and wanted to know details about the Co-WIN system.”9. In his video remarks at the global Covid Summit hosted by US president Joe Biden on Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also said that international travel should be made easier through mutual recognition of vaccine certificates, amid several countries adopting different sets of rules to allow foreigners to enter their territory in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic that has caused unprecedented disruption.10. External affairs minister S Jaishankar has also strongly taken up the issue of Covishield-vaccinated travellers being required to quarantine in the UK with newly-appointed British foreign secretary Elizabeth Truss at a meeting in New York. “Urged early resolution of quarantine issue in mutual interest,” said the foreign minister in a tweet informing of his meeting with the UK foreign secretary earlier on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishield-gets-uk-nod-but-india-not-on-vaccine-list-the-dispute-explained-101632362712334.html
23-09-2021||India||India working with other nations on vaccine certificate recognition: Minister||Union minister Rajeev Chandrashekhar said on Wednesday the Indian government is working with several countries to recognise its vaccine certification on a mutual reciprocal basis. This came on the day the UK added Covishield, the India-manufactured Oxford/AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, to its list of approved vaccines. After an earlier travel advisory of the UK government did not recognize the vaccine, the Indian government had cautioned against reciprocal measures over “discriminatory” action against a UK-licensed product. Also Read | UK recognises Covishield, but still no green light for IndiansAddressing the media, Chandrashekhar said, as the world will seek a more rule-based, transparent and democratic future in the post-Covid order, India, under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi will play a significant role in shaping it. On Wednesday, PM Modi embarked on a three-day visit to the United States to address the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA). He will also participate in the Quad Leaders’ Summit and hold a bilateral meeting with US President Joe Biden at the White House during the trip. To a question about some countries not recognising Indian vaccines, he said fear and paranoia about travel have become high in the pandemic and every sovereign country will take a decision which it thinks is in the best interest of its people. Stating this as his personal opinion, the minister said there is nothing right and wrong about this as some countries will take stronger view on what vaccine will be accepted by their medical fraternity because of “the unknown” about the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-working-with-other-nations-on-vaccine-certificate-recognition-minister-101632367780768.html
23-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: IMD predicts cloudy sky with light rain, thunderstorm in Delhi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Cloudy sky with a chance of light rain in Delhi today: IMDDelhi is likely to see cloudy sky with light rain and thundershowers on Thursday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. Read MoreDelta globally dominant variant, replacing other variants of concern: WHOThe delta variant of Covid-19 is the globally dominant variant circulating around the world, out-competing the alpha, beta and gamma variants, Maria Van Kerkhove, the World Health Organization's (WHO) technical lead on Covid-19 told reporters on Wednesday. Read More'He would have thought 'oh no, not these two': Pietersen 'not surprised' to see Warner dismissed for 0 vs DCDavid Warner did not have the greatest of returns to Sunrisers Hyderabad's Playing XI as he was dismissed for a duck against Delhi Capitals in Match 33 of the IPL 2021 in Dubai on Wednesday. Read MoreKBC 13: Amitabh Bachchan regrets not being around more when Abhishek Bachchan, Shweta Nanda were kidsAmitabh Bachchan, on Wednesday night’s episode of Kaun Banega Crorepati 13, expressed regret over not being able to make more time for his children, Abhishek Bachchan and Shweta Nanda, when they were growing up. Read MoreShraddha Kapoor goes bold and traditional in navy blue crop top, brocade lehengaAll we need for a night of dancing and revelry this festive and wedding season are stylistic melange of contemporary, fashion-forward and playful designs and Bollywood actor Shraddha Kapoor seems to have sorted our woes. Read MorePM Modi's picture aboard flight to the US shows why he's called a 'workaholic'Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been known to work 18-hours in a day. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-imd-predicts-cloudy-sky-with-light-rain-thunderstorm-in-delhi-and-all-the-latest-news-101632366240116.html
23-09-2021||India||Defamation complaint filed against lyricist Javed Akhtar||A lawyer has filed a complaint against lyricist Javed Akhtar in a Mumbai court for his alleged defamatory comments in a TV interview against Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). In the complaint, Dhrutiman Joshi, who is associated with the RSS, said, “Akthar talking on a TV show said that those who support organisations like RSS, VHP and Bajrang Dal need to do some introspection.” He quoted Akhtar calling the Taliban reprehensible and barbarians and even as he added the people “whom you are supporting, how are they different from them?”Joshi said Akhtar compared RSS with the Taliban and said they have the same thoughts vis-a-vis minorities. He called Akhtar’s comments well planned and calculated to defame RSS and discourage, disparage, and misguide the people who have joined the organisation or would like to join it. Joshi said Akhtar sought to belittle RSS.He accused Akhtar of unnecessarily defaming RSS as part of a calculated and well-planned move and sought an investigation against him. The court will hear the matter on October 30.Akhtar was unavailable for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defamation-complaint-filed-against-lyricist-javed-akhtar-101632367000739.html
23-09-2021||India||Hours after attacking shopkeeper in Shopian, militant dies in gunfight||Security forces killed an overground worker and a newly recruited militant in an overnight exchange of fire in Shopian district of south Kashmir, said the police on Thursday. The deceased was allegedly involved in an attack on a shopkeeper in Keshwa village of the district earlier in the day.Also Read | J&K sacks 6 govt employees for ‘terror links’The police spokesperson said militant Anayat Ashraf fired upon Jeewer Hameed Bhat who sustained serious injuries and was hospitalised. “Ashraf would threaten people in and around his village with his illegal weapons. After a thorough interrogation of several suspects after the attack [on Bhat] and with input from sources, a cordon and search operation was launched at village Keshwa,” the spokesperson said.He said during the operation, Ashraf fired upon the joint search party. “All civilians in the houses adjoining the target area were evacuated. He (Ashraf) was asked to surrender but he did not. Later on, during the encounter, the said newly active militant was neutralised. One pistol and ammunition were recovered from his possession.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hrs-after-attacking-shopkeeper-militant-dies-in-gunfight-with-forces-in-shopian-101632366700593.html
23-09-2021||India||PM Modi gets a warm welcome from Indian diaspora in Washington. See pics||Prime Minister Narendra Modi called the Indian diaspora as the country's "strength" as he landed in Washington on a three-day visit to the United States. He was welcomed by the members of Indian-American community members who stayed at the Joint Base Andrews despite rain.Also Read | Why Modi’s visit to the US matters"Grateful to the Indian community in Washington DC for the warm welcome. Our diaspora is our strength. It is commendable how the Indian diaspora has distinguished itself across the world," PM Modi tweeted as he interacted with the Indian-American community at the airport. He also posted the pictures of the warm welcome he received.The Prime Minister was seen smiling and shaking handing with the members of the Indian-American community.More than a hundred members from the Indian-American community had gathered at the air force base to welcome PM Modi. The crowd was chanting his name and waving the Indian flag amid light showers."We are so excited to see Prime Minister Narendra Modi. We don't mind standing in rain. We are excited to meet Prime Minister Modi," news agency ANI quoted an Indian-American as saying.PM Modi even stepped out of his car to meet people who were waiting to welcome him.Upon his arrival in Washington, he was received by US department of state officials.India's Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu, defence attache including Brigadier Anoop Singhal, Air Commodore Anjan Bhadra and naval attaché Commodore Nirbhaya Bapna also welcomed the Prime Minister.This is Prime Minister Modi's first visit abroad beyond the neighbourhood since the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-gets-a-warm-welcome-from-indian-diaspora-in-washington-see-pics-101632361694741.html
23-09-2021||NA||News highlights: PM Modi holds bilateral meeting with Australian PM Morrison||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:PM Modi holds bilateral meeting with Australian counterpartUS | Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Australian PM Scott Morrison hold a bilateral meeting in Washington DC pic.twitter.com/3Our0zC9aGPrime Minister Narendra Modi held a bilateral meeting with Australian PM Scott Morrison in Washington, reports ANI.CDS Rawat attends conference of Chiefs of General Staff of SCO member states in RussiaChief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat during his two-day visit to Russia attended the conference of the Chiefs of General Staff of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation member states in Orenburg at Russia: Indian Army pic.twitter.com/WaGajeM5EfChief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat attended the conference of the Chiefs of General Staff of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) countries in Orenburg at Russia, as part of his two-day visit to the country, reports ANI citing the Indian army.Discussed continued investment in innovation in India, says Adobe's Narayen on meeting PM ModiIt's always been such a pleasure to hear about his vision for how he wants to expand India. Among the key topics we talked about was continued investment in innovation, he said he believes that technology is the way to help move things forward: Shantanu Narayen, Adobe Chairman pic.twitter.com/mTWhq7KVMRAdobe CEO Shantanu Narayen said that he discussed the company's continued investment in innovation during his meeting with PM Modi. “He said he believes that technology is the way to help move things forward,” Narayen said, reports ANI. Covid-19 vaccination drive: Over 840 million doses administered in India#Unite2FightCorona#LargestVaccineDrive➡️ India’s cumulative vaccination coverage crosses 84 crore landmark milestone.➡️More than 65 lakh Vaccine doses administered today till 7 pm.https://t.co/cgqzyrxUrI pic.twitter.com/LQ5BLtREW1More than 840 million Covid-19 vaccine doses have been delivered in India so far and over 6.5 million doses have been delivered as of 7pm today. IMD predicts more showers in next 4 days as heavy rains lash parts of GujaratHeavy rains lash parts of Gujarat, 103 roads shut; IMD predicts more showers in next 4 daysThe India Meteorological Department has predicted more rains in the next four days as heavy rains lashed parts of Gujarat, where 103 roads have been shut due to the rains, reports PTI.PM Modi meets Qualcomm CEO Cristiano R AmonPM Narendra Modi holds a meeting with Cristiano R Amon, President and CEO of Qualcomm in Washington DC, the US. pic.twitter.com/UdIe67yjt6Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with the president and CEO of Qualcomm Cristiano R Amon in Washington, reports ANI. Kerala reports 19,682 new Covid-19 cases, 152 deaths in last 24 hoursKerala reports 19,682 new #COVID19 cases, 20,510 recoveries and 152 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total recoveries 43,94,476Active cases 1,60,046Death toll 24,1911,21,945 samples tested in last 24 hoursKerala logged 19,682 new Covid-19 cases and 152 deaths in the last 24 hours. The state's death toll was recorded at 24,191 and the active caseload stood at 160,046, reports ANI.Over 62% Covid-19 cases last week were from Kerala, says CentreIn last 24 hours, 31,000 cases odd cases have been reported and most of these cases have been reported from Kerala & Maharashtra. However, absolute numbers have gone down. 62.73% of the total cases in the last week have been reported from Kerala: Union Health Secy Rajesh Bhushan pic.twitter.com/vFN5xOjDahUnion health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that over 62% of the Covid-19 cases reported in India last week were from Kerala, reports ANI. 3 terrorists eliminated by Indian Army in J&K's Rampur sectorIn the early hours today, a movement was observed in Hathlanga forest, Rampur sector. In a brief operation, the attempt was eliminated, with neutralization of 3 terrorists. A similar attempt was made on (September) 18, which was foiled: General DP Pandey, Chinar Corps Commander pic.twitter.com/4Y62PnLmKfThree terrorists were eliminated in a brief operation in the early hours today in the Hathlanga forest in Rampur sector, Jammu and Kashmir, reports ANI.SC to pass order on Centre's guidelines recommending ex-gratia to kin of Covid victims on Oct 4SC considers Central government’s guidelines recommending ₹50,000 ex-gratia payment to kins of persons who died of Covid & will pass order on Oct 4 We've to take judicial notice of the fact that what India has done, no other country could do: Bench observed during the hearing pic.twitter.com/WUVx29Y993The Supreme Court said that it considers the Central government’s guidelines recommending ₹50,000 ex-gratia payment to the kin of people who died due to Covid-19 and would pass an order on Oct 4, reports ANI. “We have to take judicial notice of the fact that what India has done, no other country could do,” the bench observed during the hearing.Nobel science, literature prizes to be awarded in winners' home countriesThe Nobel prizes for science and literature would be awarded in the winners' home countries, reports AFP.Army jawan shoots himself dead with service rifle in J&K's Kupwara district, reports PTIArmy jawan shoots himself dead with service rifle in Kupwara district of Jammu and Kashmir: OfficialsAn army jawan shot himself dead with service rifle in the Kupwara district of Jammu and Kashmir, reports PTI citing officials.‘Requested fire crackers to be banned in neighbouring states also’: Delhi environment ministerTo curb vehicular pollution, we've requested Union Environment Minister to facilitate CNG-powered public transport in NCR. We've also demanded that firecrackers should be banned around Diwali in neighbouring states also: Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai pic.twitter.com/taZAhwZyzuDelhi's environment minister Gopal Rai said that the has requested Union environment minister that fire crackers should be banned in Delhi's neighbouring states too, during Diwali, reports ANI. At least 3 dead in godown explosion in Bengaluru, officials probing causeThree people died and one was injured after an explosion was reported in  a godown of a transport company in Bengaluru on Thursday. Officials are probing the cause.  More details awaited. Man held for spreading communal messages ahead of Bhabanipur bypollThe Bengal police said on Thursday that they have arrested a man from Birbhum district for allegedly spreading communally sensitive messages and obscene materials through WhatsApp groups, days ahead of the Bhabanipur bypoll."In the wake of the Bhabanipur bypoll, a number of WhatsApp groups was created. The admin of the groups, who was arrested, along with others used them to post communal messages. They also posted some obscene materials containing sexually explicit acts," a policer officer told news agency PTI. Former Delhi Police Commissioner Y S Dadwal passes away at 70Former Delhi Police Commissioner Y S Dadwal died at the age of 70 following prolonged illness, officials told news agency PTI on Thursday. A senior police officer said Dadwal died on Wednesday night in Delhi. Dadwal, a 1974-batch IPS officer became the Delhi Police Commissioner in 2007. Bihar: Bike-borne criminals abduct 12-year-old girl, demand ₹5 lakhA 12-year-old girl was kidnapped by motorcycles-borne criminals from Bihar’s Muzaffarpur. The abductors demanded ₹5 lakh for her safe release, officials said. Read moreSC to set up technical expert panel to inquire into Pegasus rowThe Supreme Court will set up a technical expert committee to inquire into the Pegasus snooping row, Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana said on Thursday. The issue came into light in July after an international investigative consortium said that many important figures in the country including ministers, opposition leaders, journalists, businessmen etc were the potential targets of an Israeli firm NSO Group’s phone hacking software called Pegasus. The monsoon session of Parliament has witnessed widespread protests from opposition leaders over the alleged surveillance of citizens.Anirudh Tewari appointed as new Punjab chief secretaryThe Punjab government on Thursday appointed Anirudh Tewari as the state's new chief secretary. Tewari is a 1990-batch IAS officer. 'Covid-19 lockdown in New Zealand can be lifted if…,' says PM Jacinda ArdernNew Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said on Thursday that the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), can be dropped if the rate of vaccination is more than 90%, news agency Reuters reported. Read more70 teaching staff of Kabul Univ resign after Taliban sack V-CNearly 70 teaching staff of the Kabul University resigned after the Taliban on Wednesday sacked vice-chancellor Muhammad Osman Baburi, a PhD holder and replaced with Muhammad Ashraf Ghairat, who only has a BA degree, news agency ANI reported on Thursday. The appointment of Ghairat has led to protests on social media. Critics highlighted a tweet by Ghairat in 2020 where he justified the killing of journalists. India sees rise in daily Covid tally with nearly 32,000 new casesIndia's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) saw a major rise on Thursday as 31,923 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 33,563,421, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard. As many as 282 patients died and 31,990 recovered from the viral disease, taking the cumulative count of deaths and recoveries to 446,050 and 32,815,731 respectively. The active cases in the country stand at 301,640. Somaiya files complaint against state govt, Mumbai police over his detentionBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya on Wednesday filed a complaint against the Maharashtra government and the Mumbai police at Navghar Mulund East Police Station over his alleged detention at Karad Railway Station. Read moreUpdate: Militant killed in encounter with forces in J-K's ShopianSecurity forces on Thursday morning killed a militant in Jammu and Kashmir's Shopian district. Security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Kashwa village in Zainapora area of the district following information about presence of militants there, officials told news agency PTI. JNU to reopen classes for 3rd-year PhD scholars from todayAs the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation improves in Delhi, the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) has decided to hold classes for third-year PhD scholars from Thursday. The university said in a statement on Wednesday that final year MBA and MSc students can attend physical classes from September 27 (next Monday). Read moreEncounter breaks out at Kashwa area in J-K's ShopianAn encounter breaks out at Kashwa area of Shopian. Police & Security Forces are undertaking the operation. Details awaited: Jammu & Kashmir PoliceAn encounter has broken at the Kashwa area in Jammu and Kashmir's Shopian district, the J-K Police said on Thursday, adding, police and security forces are undertaking the operation.  Bengal leader Mainul Haque, who quit Congress, likely to join TMC todayVeteran Congress leader from West Bengal Mainul Haque, who resigned from the party on Tuesday, is likely to join the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Thursday. Speaking to news agency PTI, Haque had said after resigning that he had sent the interim letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Read moreCovid-19: US authorizes Pfizer booster for elderly and high-risk people: ReportThe United States on Wednesday authorized the use of boosters of Pfizer's vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for people aged over 65, people at high-risk of severe disease and those in high-exposure settings to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-september-23-2021-101632357195282.html
23-09-2021||India||Files, paper work: How PM Modi spent time on 'long flight' to the US||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is in the United States on a three-day visit, during which he will hold several high-profile interactions, including meetings with President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamal Harris. PM Modi will also participate in a summit of the Quad leaders and address the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA).Also Read | Why Modi’s visit to the US mattersBefore beginning his packed US visit, the Prime Minister kept working on the long flight, going through some papers and files."A long flight also means opportunities to go through papers and some file work," he posted on Instagram.A post shared by Narendra Modi (@narendramodi)The newly inducted Boeing 777 VVIP aircraft with call sign Air India One carrying PM Modi and the Indian high-level delegation took off from New Delhi shortly after 11am on Wednesday and landed at the Joint Base Andrews in Washington, DC at 3.30am Indian Standard Time on Thursday.This is PM Modi's first visit abroad beyond the neighbourhood since the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak.PM Modi has a packed schedule during his visit to the US. On Thursday, he will meet US Vice President Kamala Harris, Australian and Japanese counterparts Scott Morrison and Yoshihide Suga, and hold one-on-one meetings with CEOs of five American companies.Also Read | PM Modi reaches US, to meet Kamala Harris, global CEOs on packed Day 1On Thursday, he will meet US President Joe Biden and participate in the Quad summit. This will be the first in-person meeting between the two leaders after Biden took over as the US President in January this year. On Friday, he will be in New York and address the UNGA before flying back to India.PM Modi is accompanied by a high-level delegation comprising National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and senior officials.Before leaving for the US on Wednesday, PM Modi said that his visit will be an occasion to strengthen the strategic partnership with the United States, Japan and Australia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/files-paper-work-how-pm-modi-spent-time-on-long-flight-to-the-us-101632356833260.html
23-09-2021||India||India, UAE begin 1st round of CEPA talks today; aim to sign trade pact by 2022||India and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) have officially launched negotiations for a free trade agreement, the first round of talks for which are set to begin on Thursday. According to Union minister of commerce and industry Piyush Goyal, the two countries are aiming to conclude the trade talks by the end of the year and sign a mutually beneficial Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA) by March 2022, after the completion of the legal paperwork and ratification.Union minister Piyush Goyal met Thani bin Ahmed Al Zeyoudi, the UAE minister for foreign trade, in this regard on Wednesday and held talks aimed at improving bilateral economic relations, including the expanding of existing trade and investment relationships. According to an official statement, both the ministers expressed a desire to reach a mutually beneficial economic deal, building upon the progress made by both India and the UAE under the Comprehensive Strategic Partnership signed in 2017.Also Read | ‘Aggressive’ plan for $115 billion India, UAE trade in 5 years: GoyalThe CEPA deal is expected to create new jobs, raise the living standards, and provide wider social and economic opportunities in both nations. A new strategic economic agreement is expected to increase the bilateral trade in goods to $100 billion within five years of the signed agreement and increase trade in services to $15 billion.Both Goyal and bin Ahmed Al Zeyoudi vowed to strengthen the “rules-based, transparent, non-discriminatory, open, and inclusive multilateral trading system” embodied by the World Trade Organisation. They also underlined the need to coordinate and promote cooperation under the framework of the memorandum of understanding signed in January 2017 between India and the UAE for cooperation on trade remedy measures. As envisaged in that agreement, both countries will identify clear areas of focus and establish ways of working together to resolve trade remedy cases.Also Read | Dubai Expo 2020: India pavilion crucial, says UAENotably, the UAE is India's third-largest trading partner and also its second-largest export destination after the US, with exports valued at approximately $29 billion in the 2019-2020 financial year. India's major exports to the UAE include petroleum products, precious metals, stones, gems and jewellery, minerals, food items such as cereals, sugar, fruits and vegetables, tea, meat, seafood, textiles, engineering, machinery products, and chemicals.The UAE is also the eighth-largest investor in India, having invested around $11 billion between April 2000 and March 2021, while the investment made by Indian companies in the UAE is estimated to be over $85 billion. In light of these relations, both India and the UAE have emphasised that concluding the CEPA negotiations “quickly and constructively” will further strengthen the deep trade and economic ties between both countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-uae-begin-1st-round-of-cepa-talks-today-aim-to-sign-trade-pact-by-2022-101632353850941.html
23-09-2021||India||PM Modi reaches US, to meet Kamala Harris, global CEOs on packed Day 1||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday local time arrived in Washington, DC for his three-day visit to the United States. The Prime Minister has a packed schedule from the very first day of the visit, during which he will meet US President Joe Biden and also address the United Nations General Assembly.PM Modi was received by US department of state officials at Joint Base Andrews upon his arrival. He was welcomed by India's Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu, along with the defence attache including Brigadier Anoop Singhal, Air Commodore Anjan Bhadra and naval attache Commodore Nirbhaya Bapna.Despite heavy rain, a significant number of Indian Americans were also there at the air force base to welcome PM Modi.Here is the schedule of PM Modi on Thursday:• PM Modi will meet US Vice President Kamala Harris at the Eisenhower Executive Office Building. The meeting is expected to last for about an hour.• "I am also looking forward to meeting Vice President Kamala Harris to explore opportunities for cooperation between our two nations particularly in the area of science and technology," PM Modi said on Wednesday, just before leaving for the US.Landed in Washington DC. Over the next two days, will be meeting @POTUS @JoeBiden and @VP @KamalaHarris, Prime Ministers @ScottMorrisonMP and @sugawitter. Will attend the Quad meeting and would also interact with leading CEOs to highlight economic opportunities in India. pic.twitter.com/56pt7hnQZ8• This will be the first meeting between the two leaders. Harris had earlier spoken with Modi over the phone in June during the Covid-19 crisis. She is the first woman, the first Black American, and the first South Asian American to be elected Vice President of the United States.• Separate meetings with Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japanese PM Yoshihide Suga are also scheduled on Thursday. Both are the members of the Quarilateral Security Alliance or Quad.• He will also meet global CEOs on the same day in Washington DC. One-on-one meetings are planned with Cristiano E Amon from Qualcomm, Shantanu Narayen from Adobe, Mark Widmar from First Solar, Vivek Lall from General Atomics and Stephen A Schwarzman from Blackstone.• The prime minister travelled to the US on the recently-inducted custom-made Boeing 777 aircraft.• This is Prime Minister Modi's first visit abroad beyond the neighbourhood since the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak.• Before leaving for the US, PM Modi on Wednesday said that his visit will be an occasion to strengthen the strategic partnership with the United States, Japan and Australia.• All of PM Modi's previous visits had his signature massive meetings with the Indian-American community, like the Madison Square Garden event in 2015, and thereafter in the Silicon Valley and the last one was Houston in 2019. However, because of Covid-19 restrictions, no large event for the Prime Minister has been planned.• PM Modi is visiting the US for the seventh time after assuming office in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reaches-us-to-meet-kamala-harris-us-ceos-on-day-1-10-points-101632355401702.html
23-09-2021||India||Someone else will become Bengal chief minister if I don’t win: Mamata Banerjee at Bhabanipur bypoll campaign||Kolkata: Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said someone else from her party would become the chief minister of West Bengal if she did not win the Bhabanipur assembly bypoll, scheduled on September 30. “Cast your vote even if it rains. I will suffer if I don’t get even one vote. Don’t be complacent and assume that my victory is ensured. Please don’t do that. If you want to see me as chief minister you must vote for me. Every vote is crucial. If I do not win, someone else will become the chief minister since we are in the majority,” Banerjee said at her first election meeting in Ekbalpore area, in South Kolkata, where members of the Muslim community comprise a sizeable chunk of voters. Speaking in Hindi and Bengali while using odd Urdu words, Banerjee said, “I contested from Nandigram but there was a conspiracy to defeat me. The matter is being heard by court. It is destiny that I am contesting from Bhabanipur again to become chief minister.” For the record, TMC trailed the BJP at two Hindu-dominated civic wards in Bhabanipur in the last two polls that Banerjee won. Muslims comprise around 20% of total voters in the constituency. “Voters of Kidderpore (of which Ekbalpore is a part) supported me six times when I contested and won the Kolkata South Lok Sabha seat. I am sure you will support me again,” said Banerjee. “The BJP is a party of liars. They allege that Bengalis are not allowed to perform Durga Puja and Kali Puja. People from all communities freely practise their religions here whereas in Tripura the government has imposed Section 144 (CrPC). How can Tripura residents perform Durga Puja?” said Banerjee. She was referring to the prohibitory orders the Biplab Deb government has imposed in Tripura till November, citing the Covid-19 pandemic. TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee could not hold the party’s first rally in Agartala because of the restrictions. Before the March-April assembly polls, Banerjee surprised everyone when she announced in East Midnapore’s Nandigram that she would contest the local seat against her protégé-turned-adversary, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari, and not from Bhabanipur, her old seat. In the polls held on April 1, Adhikari defeated her by around 1,500 votes and subsequently became the leader of the opposition in the state assembly. Reacting to Banerjee’s appeal to voters, Adhikari said, “The person responsible for this bypoll is Suvendu Adhikari. A defeated chief minister is making desperate efforts. She did not learn from the Nandigram lesson.” Bhabanipur witnessed a flurry of activities on Wednesday as Banerjee, Adhikari, Union petroleum minister Hardeep Singh Puri, Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta and Bengal BJP’s new president Sukanta Majumdar campaigned in different parts of the constituency. Majumdar entered into an altercation with the police when he and the BJP workers were stopped from visiting homes of voters at Harish Chatterjee Street, where the chief minister lives. The area is marked as a high security zone. Akash Magharia, deputy commissioner of police (south), who stopped the BJP team, said, “There are restrictions in this zone. Moreover, we could not allow so many people in view of the pandemic. Nobody could show vaccination certificates.” The highest concentration of Kolkata’s Sikh community is based in Bhabanipur, where Puri on Tuesday offered prayers at Gurdwara Sant Kutiya Ji and also visited the ancestral homes of freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose and Bharatiya Jana Sangh founder Shyama Prasad Mookerjee before meeting voters at several locations. Banerjee took a dig at Puri saying he should tell voters why price of cooking gas has touched the ceiling. In a rebuttal, Puri said, “The chief minister should tell people why the state is against imposition of goods and services tax (GST) on petrol and diesel. A major component of fuel prices in Bengal comprises state tax. She should think before making this a political issue.” While addressing residents of Lord Sinha Road, where non-Bengali Hindu voters and members of the business community are in the majority, Adhikari said, “What has this government given in five months? The defeated chief minister only offers doles and subsidies. Bengal’s debt burden is hovering around ₹5 lakh crore. Never expect jobs and industries here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/someone-else-will-become-bengal-chief-minister-if-i-don-t-win-mamata-banerjee-at-bhabanipur-bypoll-campaign-101632345579570.html
23-09-2021||India||Govt looks to screen first Netflix original at international film festival of India||New Delhi: International Film Festival of India (IIFI) is looking to tie-up with video-streaming giant Netflix to debut a platform original during the festival and host master classes with experts from the over-the-top platform, officials familiar with the matter said. “There is a major international film that may be aired during the festival as part of the collaboration,” an official familiar with the matter said, adding, “It may be chosen from a coterie of films that may be released in November.” The festival, which will be held from November 20-28, is expected to be held in a hybrid form. It is also under consideration to take the festival to the remotest parts of the country, with nearly 75 locations under consideration to live stream the festival. The concepts to air a platform original and organise master classes were discussed at a meeting between Netflix CEO Reed Hastings and Union information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur. “Good discussion with Mr @reedhastings (Co-Founder & CEO Netflix),” Thakur said on Twitter. “Today consumers of content are traveling the world through stories; India offers a variety of opportunities and ideas - in multiple languages.” Netflix’ original films -- which include international releases like screen legend Sophia Loren in her son’s film, The Life Ahead, also out November 13 on Netflix -- may be slated to be launched in India at the festival. “The film is not finalised yet but it will be one of our big international releases,’’ he said.The platform is also looking to add to master classes, a standard function of the festival, by tying up with experts who can help teach them, the official cited above said. “These could be a director of photography, cinematography or any kind of creator, who may share their experience with their peers,” the official added. The festival will be a first-of-its-kind hybrid event, especially if it manages to scale to the remote parts of the country wherein it is trying to showcase a live stream. A Netflix film launching in India will further boost the festival’s popularity. HT reached out to Netflix but did not receive a response immediately. A second official familiar with the matter said that IFFI was in talks with several online streaming platforms. “Nothing has been concretised yet,” the official said. “We are still figuring out the contours of how the process will work. Talks are happening with all platforms.” The platforms, including Netflix, seem to be on board despite the government’s controversial social media and intermediary guidelines. The first official mentioned above said the guidelines were not a major concern for the platforms as they already self-regulate. “It’s good that there is framework… Netflix is part of all major film festivals, it will not miss out on India as it happens to be a big market,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-looks-to-screen-first-netflix-original-at-international-film-festival-of-india-101632344979157.html
23-09-2021||India||After Erdogan mentions Kashmir in UNGA, Jaishankar says important to respect UN resolutions on Cyprus||WashingtonHours after Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan made a reference to Kashmir in his address to the UN General Assembly, external affairs minister S Jaishankar emphasised the need to adhere to the relevant UN Security Council resolutions in respect to Cyprus.“Important that relevant UN Security Council resolutions in respect of Cyprus are adhered to by all,” Jaishankar tweeted after a meeting with Nikos Christodoulides, the foreign minister of the Republic of Cyprus, on the sidelines of the UN general assembly’s general debate that kicked off Tuesday.Jaishankar, who arrived in New York on Monday to participate in the high-level 76th session of the UN General Assembly, has held at least 18 bilateral meetings with counterparts from various countries, including the United Kingdom, France, Australia, Egypt, Norway, South Korea and Vietnam. On Wednesday, he was also scheduled to attend a meeting of the G-20 foreign ministers on Afghanistan and of the G-4, which is seeking permanent seats for India, Brazil, Japan and Germany on the UNSC.Jaishankar met his South Korean counterpart Chung Eui-Yong and had wide-ranging conversations on different aspects of the bilateral relationships, including Southern Policy and India’s Act East Policy. “Pleased to meet FM Chung Eui-Yong of the Republic of Korea. A wide-ranging conversation on different aspects of our relationship. RoK’s New Southern Policy and India’s Act East Policy have strengthened our convergence in the Indo-Pacific,” tweeted Jaishankar.While interacting with his Italian counterpart Luigi Di Maio, who is the current G20 chair, Jaishankar discussed challenges related to vaccine accessibility and smooth travel. “Discussed challenges related to vaccine accessibility and smooth travel. Look forward to joining him at a discussion on Afghanistan tomorrow,” he tweeted.The Union minister also met with his Finnish counterpart Pekka Haavisto and discussed the humanitarian situation in Afghanistan. Jaishankar held a discussion on the Indo-Pacific issues during his meeting with his Chilean counterpart Andres Allamand. “Another perspective on the Indo-Pacific from FM @allamand of Chile. Also engaged on expanding our economic engagement, including on green energy,” he tweeted.Earlier, in his address to the General Debate on Tuesday, Erdogan had said, “We maintain our stance in favour of solving the ongoing problem in Kashmir for 74 years, through dialogue between the parties and within the framework of relevant United Nations resolutions.”Erdogan had raised Kashmir in his address also in 2019, which was the last in-person meeting of the UN general assembly. At that time, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had reiterated India’s support for “independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity and unity” of island nation after a meeting with Cyprus President Nicos Anastasiades. Cyprus backs India’s claims to a permanent seat in the UN Security Council.The long ongoing conflict in Cyprus began in 1974 when Turkey invaded the northern part of the country in response to a military coup on the island which was backed by the Greek government. India has been advocating a peaceful resolution of the issue in accordance with the UN resolutions.In a 1998 resolution, the UN Security Council called upon “all States to respect the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the Republic of Cyprus and request(ed) them, along with the parties concerned, to refrain from any action which might prejudice that sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity, as well as from any attempt of partition of the island or its unification with any other country”.The UNSC resolution also called for the “all concerned to commit themselves to a reduction in defence spending and a reduction in the number of foreign troops in the Republic of Cyprus to help restore confidence between the parties and as a first step towards the withdrawal of non-Cypriot forces”.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-erdogan-mentions-kashmir-in-unga-jaishankar-says-important-to-respect-un-resolutions-on-cyprus-101632344439209.html
23-09-2021||India||Supreme Court rejects plea against BJP leaders Raman Singh, Sambit Patra in ‘toolkit’ case||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to interfere with an order by the Chhattisgarh high court staying investigation against former Chhattisgarh chief minister Raman Singh and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Sambit Patra in the alleged “toolkit” case but told the high court not to be influenced by the observations made in the FIR in deciding the petitions.The Chhattisgarh government moved a petition against the June 11 interim order passed by a single judge of the Chhattisgarh high court that said that the FIR against Singh and Patra, among others, was politically motivated, borne out of political grudge and rivalry, and none of the offences contained in the FIR were made out. The high court order came on separate petitions by Singh and Patra. Satisfied that a prima facie case was made out for staying of the FIR, the single judge stayed further proceedings in the case, and sought a response by the state government.Dismissing the state’s appeal against the interim order, the bench headed by chief justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana said, “The special leave petition is dismissed. We request the High Court to dispose the petition expeditiously. The observations (made in the order) will not come in the way of the High Court in deciding the matter.”Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, appearing for the Chhattisgarh government told the Supreme Court that with the scathing observations passed by high court, there was no scope left for the state government to get a fair hearing.“The case made out by the court says that the FIR is only on the ground of malafide and political grudge. Since he is a political person, these findings are given straight away that no case is made out. What is left for me to go back for?” Singhvi said.The bench, also comprising justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli said, “We are not interfering with the high court order. Let the high court decide finally. You will have the opportunity to challenge the final decision.”The FIR against Singh and Patra among others was filed on May 19 at Civil Lines police station in Raipur on a complaint filed by the chief of the Chhattisgarh unit of the Congress-affilated National Students Union of India (NSUI). The case was registered under sections relating to statements promoting enmity within community, causing breach of public tranquillity, forgery to harm reputation, and disobedience of orders by a public servant.The FIR said that Singh and Patra, through their Twitter handles, tweeted images showing an alleged toolkit prepared by the Indian National Congress (INC). The tweets in question were posted on May 18 showing a document allegedly issued by “AICC Research Department”. These posts accused the Congress of hatching a conspiracy to discredit the country in the international media by taking advantage of the pandemic situation. Twitter tagged the tweets by Singh and Patra among several others who tweeted the document as “manipulated media”.As per Twitter policy, this tag is given to such content where the microblogging site has reason to believe that the said media or the context in which it is presented is significantly and deceptively altered or manipulated.In the FIR registered with the Chhattisgarh Police, the Congress claimed that the document tweeted by the accused was on an allegedly forged letterhead of All India Congress Committee(AICC) and this amounted to spreading false and fabricated content.Simultaneously, even the Delhi Police took up the probe into the same events following a complaint and questioned the Twitter India Managing Director and visited Twitter offices in Delhi and Gurgaon in connection with their action to flag the tweets as “manipulated”.The case had also seen the intervention of the Union government which issued notices to Twitter to remove the “manipulated” tags as it amounted to prejudging the veracity of tweets which is a subject matter of investigation by the law enforcement agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-rejects-plea-against-bjp-leaders-raman-singh-sambit-patra-in-toolkit-case-101632343358985.html
23-09-2021||India||Information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur to inaugurate first Himalayan film festival on Friday||New Delhi: Union information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur will inaugurate the first Himalayan Film Festival on Friday in the Union Territory of Ladakh. “The Himalayan region of India attracts filmmakers from all around the globe due to its unique scenic endowment. The unique geography of the region is widely documented along with its indigenous people, traditional skills, and occupations. Film festival in this context presents an opportunity for the local filmmakers to narrate their stories to a wider audience,” the government said in a statement on Wednesday. Thakur will kick-off the five-day festival which will be held in Leh district from September 24-28. It further added that the Himalayan Film festival envisions institutionalising a Himalayan film fraternity which will have productive repercussions for filmmaking in the Himalayan parts of India. According to the statement, makers and cast of the Bollywood movie Shershah, including director Vishnuvardhan and lead actor Siddharth Malhotra, will attend the opening ceremony of the festival. The five-day festival will also include the screening of a “package of contemporary National awards and Indian panorama selected film”. The festival is also set to have a diverse set of workshops and master classes will be organised wherein filmmakers, critics, technicians from the Himalayan region will be invited to impart knowledge and skill to local film enthusiasts. “This will serve as a necessary stimulus to ignite a creative leaning towards filmmaking,” the statement said. Short films and short documentaries have also been invited for the competition section with awards, including for best film, director, producer, cinematography, editor and best story, up for grabs. The five-day festival will also host a food and music festival, along with cultural shows which are being held in collaboration with the department of culture, to showcase the rich cultural variety of Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/information-and-broadcasting-minister-anurag-thakur-to-inaugurate-first-himalayan-film-festival-on-friday-101632343060663.html
23-09-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh govt recommends CBI probe into death of Akhara Parishad chief Narendra Giri||Lucknow/ Prayagraj: Uttar Pradesh recommended a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the death of influential Hindu seer Narendra Giri on Wednesday night, hours after he was laid to rest in Prayagraj and a post-mortem report suggested that the holy man may have died by asphyxiation. Giri -- the president of the Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, the highest decision-making body of 13 Hindu monastic orders, and mahant (chief priest) of the Bade Hanuman Temple in Prayagraj -- was found hanging from a ceiling fan in his room in the Baghambari Gaddi Math in Prayagraj on Monday evening.A purported suicide note by the seer named his disciple and the Math’s de-facto number 2 till recently, Anand Giri, Bade Hanuman Temple priest Aadya Tiwari, and his son Sandeep Tiwari of harassing him, said police. Anand Giri and Tiwari were sent to 14-day of judicial custody on Wednesday. “On the instructions of UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, a probe by the CBI has been recommended in the incident pertaining to the sad death of chairman of Akhara Parishad chief Mahant Narendra Giri,” the state home department tweeted in Hindi.On Tuesday, Adityanath had promised to spare no culprits in the case. A formal notification in this regard is likely to be issued by the Centre in a day or two, people familiar with the development said.An 18-member special investigation team of Uttar Pradesh Police is already probing the case. The federal agency is expected to examine the post mortem report, crime scene and take assistance of forensic experts from the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) after formally taking over the probe. The post-mortem examination of the seer was conducted by a panel of five doctors -- two from Motilal Nehru Medical College and three from the chief minister’s office -- at SRN hospital inPrayagraj. No injury marks were reportedly found on the body and the viscera was preserved after the examination, said people aware of developments. The report suggested death due to asphyxiation, said police officials. The entire procedure, which was conducted for over two hours, was videographed and the report handed over to authorities in a sealed envelope, they added. Earlier in the day, Prayagraj chief judicial magistrate Harendra Kumar sent Anand Giri and Aadya Tiwari to 14 days’ judicial custody while a third accused -- Tiwari’s son Sandeep -- was arrested.A case under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) was lodged against Anand Giri at Georgetown police station on a complaint by Pawan Maharaj, a staffer at the math who reported the note to the authorities. While the FIR initially did not include Tiwari’s name, it was later added on the basis of the purported suicide note.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-govt-recommends-cbi-probe-into-death-of-akhara-parishad-chief-narendra-giri-101632342519090.html
23-09-2021||India||Two minor girls electrocuted on waterlogged road near Kolkata||Two minor girls died due to electrocution on Wednesday afternoon at South Dum Dum near Kolkata when they touched an electrical post the base of which was submerged in rainwater, police said. The girls, Shreya Banik, 12, and Anuskha Nandy, 13, were making their way through a waterlogged street when the accident happened. They were declared dead on arrival at the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital, local police said. The girls, both of whom were class 6 students, were going to their private tutor. Krishna Banik, an eyewitness, told the local media that the girls tried to grab the post to save themselves from the water splashed by passing vehicles. Surajit Roychaudhury, a coordinator of the South Dum Dum Municipality said, “We rushed to the spot on hearing about the incident. The electrical lines were disconnected. Water has accumulated in the area because Bagjola canal, the main outlet in this area, is overflowing.” Three members of a family died due to electrocution inside their inundated home in the North 24 Parganas district on Monday. Between Monday and Tuesday, Kolkata and its adjoining areas experienced more rainfall than what had been recorded in the last 14 years. Though rainfall has been very light since then, numerous streets in the state capital and the nearby townships are still inundated. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who is contesting the September 30 assembly bypoll at Kolkata’s Bhawanipore constituency, had to cancel her campaign in the Ekbalpore area on Tuesday because of waterlogging.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-minor-girls-electrocuted-on-waterlogged-road-near-kolkata-101632341679126.html
23-09-2021||India||Why do farm concerns not get as much political attention as they should?||An analysis of the report of the latest Situation Assessment Survey (SAS), the findings of which were first reported on September 11, offers an insight into the reasons for the problems in the agriculture sector not finding a resonance in politics.A large majority of the population at the bottom of the social hierarchy in India does not have significant stakes in agriculture. The social groups, who are still invested in farming, are also the ones who are more successful in getting out of villages. This creates a political vacuum for a social-economic class that can build pressure for an effective policy framework to rescue Indian agriculture from its current crisis. Even those who are left in villages are sidetracked by other issues and unlikely to make efforts to develop a genuine farmers’ solidarity.Here are four charts which explain this argument in detail.The socially downtrodden are over-represented in rural IndiaBR Ambedkar, India’s most important social reformer and also the father of the Indian Constitution, wanted Dalits or the Scheduled Castes (SC) to get out of villages. “The love of the intellectual Indian for the village community is of course infinite, if not pathetic... What is a village but a sink of localism, a den of ignorance, narrow-mindedness and communalism?” Ambedkar wrote.Ambedkar’s was not a subjective rant against village life, something Mahatma Gandhi, the tallest leader of the Indian freedom movement always eulogised. Dalits hardly owned any land in the village and during Ambedkar’s time, they were mostly bonded labourers for the upper caste “oppressors”. Ironical as it is, it is the upper castes which took Ambedkar’s lesson seriously and started moving out of villages. A comparison of estimated population shares of SC, scheduled tribes (ST), other backward classes (OBC), and others, shows that SCs and STs are significantly over-represented in India’s villages.Population share of SC-ST-OBC and others in rural and urban India
23-09-2021||India||Jharkhand BJP leader Jitram Munda shot dead on outskirts of Ranchi||RANCHI: A local Bharatiya Janata Party leader, Jitram Munda, was shot dead in Ormanjhi area on the outskirts of state capital Ranchi on late Wednesday evening.Munda, the Ranchi district president of the BJP’s scheduled caste wing, was taken to a private hospital after being shot by unidentified bike-borne assailants. He was declared brought dead at the hospital. Superintendent of police, Ranchi (rural), Naushad Alam said, “The incident occurred around 7pm. It is too early to say anything about people behind the crime. We are completing the legal formalities and investigating the case.”The incident triggered a sharp attack from the opposition BJP, which accused the chief minister Hemant Soren of failing to control the law and order situation.Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda rushed to the hospital where the victim was taken after the incident.“His death is due to complete administrative failure. He had a threat to his life as he was attacked in past as well about which the administration was aware. He even applied for an arms license. The administration neither provided him security nor issued the arms license.” Munda said.The Union minister demanded that Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren order a probe to establish the lapses.Former chief minister and BJP national vice president Raghubar Das also targeted the Soren government, saying “no section of society are safe in the current regime, be it tribals or women”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-bjp-leader-jitram-munda-shot-dead-on-outskirts-of-ranchi-101632340658892.html
23-09-2021||India||Bhupesh Baghel vs TS Singh Deo in the spotlight after FIR against Congress leader||RAIPUR: The Chhattisgarh Police have registered a criminal case against state Congress secretary Pankaj Singh, known to be one of health minister TS Singh Deo’s closest aides for allegedly manhandling and abusing a medical worker in a hospital in Bilaspur. But the First Information Report (FIR) put the focus back on the leadership struggle in Chhattisgarh after Bilaspur MLA Shailesh Pandey asked if Pankaj Singh was targeted for being close to the health minister.“Police are not able to explain why they have booked Singh. Police are saying that the instructions for FIR were given by senior officials hence... I asked the police, are they registering cases against us because we are close to Singh Deo?… Last year I was also booked by police for just helping the poor and now Singh was targeted...These questions should be answered,” said Shailesh Pandey, who is also known to be close to Singh Deo, said.On Tuesday, the Congress MLA reached the police station along with his supporters to protest the police move.Health minister Singh Deo could not be reached even after repeated attempts.Also Read: The inside story of the Bhupesh Baghel-TS Singh Deo battle in ChhattisgarhBhupesh Baghel and Singh Deo have been locked in a tussle for the chief minister’s chair in Chhattisgarh that brought them to Delhi last month for meetings with top Congress leaders.On August 28, emerging after a long meeting with the Congress high command on suggestions that he should move aside because of a reported two and a half year power-sharing agreement with colleague Singh Deo, Bhupesh Baghel seemed to have bought some time. He said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi would visit the state the next week, especially Bastar, to see for himself the work that was being done. The next day, when Singh Deo returned, he said that he had spoken to the leadership too and they had kept a “decision safe”.Also Read: In Chhattisgarh, the Congress leadership impasse refuses to endIn December 2018, in the aftermath of a dominant Congress performance where the party won 68 of 90 seats, friction between Bhupesh Baghel and TS Singh Deo meant that Tamradhwaj Sahu, now home minister, initially emerged as the frontrunner for chief minister, but pushed by the idea that a third leader would take the top position, Baghel and Singh Deo, along with Punia and Gandhi, reportedly arrived at a power-sharing arrangement.The trigger for the Congress MLA’s swipe at Bhupesh Baghel is an incident at Bilaspur hospital on September 18, when Pankaj Singh visited the government-run Chhattisgarh Institute of Medical Sciences (CIMS), Bilaspur, after receiving a call from a patient. Superintendent of Police, Bilaspur, Deepak Jha said they received a complaint on September 19 regarding the incident the previous day. “A patient had come for a radiology examination at CIMS and for some reason the machine was dysfunctional. Since, there was a delay due to the technical glitch, the patient called Pankaj Singh, who reached the hospital. Singh got irritated with the delay and manhandled and abused the radiographer, Tula Tande. The next day, Tande reached police and lodged a complaint” said the Bilaspur SP said.Police said that they have investigated the case and retrieved CCTV footage from the hospital and subsequently registered a case on Monday.“We have booked Singh under the section 186 IPC (obstruction in government work), section 353 (criminal assault on a govt employee on duty) and section 3 of Chhattisgarh Medical Service Persons and Medical Service Institutions Prevention of Violence and Damage or Loss to Property Act 2010,” the Bilaspur district police chief said, adding that the preliminary stage of investigation is complete and police will proceed for Singh’s arrest based on the final findings of the investigation.Congress’s state communication head, Shailesh Nitin Trivedi said the matter should not be politicised as it is a case of allegedly breaking the law, a message aimed at his own party.“We are living in a state where even CM’s father was booked by the police because he had given a statement which is against a particular community. The arrest of Singh should not be politicised and let the law take its own course,” said Trivedi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhupesh-baghel-vs-ts-singh-deo-in-the-spotlight-after-fir-against-congress-leader-101632339699071.html
23-09-2021||India||UP govt recommends CBI probe into Giri’s death||Uttar Pradesh recommended a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the death of influential Hindu seer Narendra Giri on Wednesday night, hours after he was laid to rest in Prayagraj and a post-mortem report suggested that the holy man may have died by asphyxiation.Giri — the president of the Akhara Parishad, the highest decision-making body of 13 Hindu monastic orders, and mahant (chief priest) of the Bade Hanuman Temple in Prayagraj -- was found hanging from a ceiling fan in his room in the Baghambari Gaddi Math in Prayagraj on Monday.A purported suicide note by the seer named his disciple and the Math’s de-facto number 2 till recently, Anand Giri, Bade Hanuman Temple priest Aadya Tiwari, and his son Sandeep Tiwari of harassing him, said police. Anand Giri and Tiwari were sent to 14-days of judicial custody on Wednesday.“On the instructions of UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, a probe by the CBI has been recommended in the incident pertaining to the sad death of chairman of Akhara Parishad chief Mahant Narendra Giri,” the state home department tweeted.On Tuesday, the CM promised to not spare the culprits.A formal notification in this regard is likely to be issued by the Centre soon, people familiar with the development said.The federal agency is expected to examine the post mortem report, crime scene and take assistance of forensic experts from Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL).The post-mortem examination of the seer was conducted by a panel of five doctors -- two from Motilal Nehru Medical College and three from the chief minister’s office -- at SRN hospital. No injury marks were reportedly found on the body and the viscera was preserved, said people aware of developments. The report suggested death due to asphyxiation, said police officials.The entire procedure was videographed and the report handed over to authorities in a sealed envelope, they added.Earlier in the day, Prayagraj chief judicial magistrate Harendra Kumar sent Anand Giri and Aadya Tiwari to 14 days’ judicial custody while a third accused -- Tiwari’s son Sandeep -- was arrested. A case under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) was lodged against Anand Giri at Georgetown police station on a complaint by Pawan Maharaj, a staffer at the math who reported the note to the authorities. While the FIR initially did not include Tiwari’s name, it was later added on the basis of the purported suicide note in which he was also accused of harassing the top priest. The duo were arrested on Tuesday.Giri was laid to rest at Baghambari Math later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-recommends-cbi-probe-into-giri-s-death-101632339299633.html
23-09-2021||India||Govt looks to screen 1st Netflix original at international film fest||International Film Festival of India (IIFI) is looking to tie-up with video-streaming giant Netflix to debut a platform original during the festival and host master classes with experts from the over-the-top platform, officials familiar with the matter said.“There is a major international film that may be aired during the festival as part of the collaboration,” an official familiar with the matter said, adding, “It may be chosen from a coterie of films that may be released in November.”The festival, which will be held from November 20-28, is expected to be held in a hybrid form. It is also under consideration to take the festival to remote parts of the country, with nearly 75 locations under consideration.The concepts to air a platform original and organise master classes were discussed at a meeting between Netflix CEO Reed Hastings and Union information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur on Tuesday.“Good discussion with Mr @reedhastings (Co-Founder & CEO Netflix),” Thakur said on Twitter. “Today consumers of content are traveling the world through stories; India offers a variety of opportunities and ideas - in multiple languages.”Netflix original films -- which include international releases like screen legend Sophia Loren in her son’s film, The Life Ahead, also out November 13 on Netflix -- may be slated to be launched in India at the festival. “The film is not finalised yet but it will be one of our big international releases,’’ said the official.The platform is also looking to add to master classes by tying up with experts, the official cited above said. “These could be a director of photography, cinematography or any kind of creator, who may share their experience with their peers,” he added.The festival will be a first-of-its-kind hybrid event, especially if it manages to scale to the remote parts of the country wherein it is trying to showcase a live stream. HT reached out to Netflix but did not receive a response immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-looks-to-screen-1st-netflix-original-at-international-film-fest-101632339168417.html
23-09-2021||India||Cab driver held after woman alleges sexual assault in Bengaluru||Police on Wednesday arrested a cab driver for allegedly sexually assaulting a passenger in the wee hours of Wednesday. Devaraju, who lives in K R Puram, was arrested on the basis of a complaint by the woman at Jeevan Bhima Nagar police station in east Bengaluru.The incident, police said, took place between 4 am and 5 am when the woman was returning home from a friend’s house. The woman alleged that she had fallen asleep when the driver stopped the cab away from her house and sexually assaulted her. “He then fled from the location,” a police official said, seeking anonymity. Police said the woman managed to snatch the accused’s phone which helped the cops to track him. The accused, police said, is a resident of Andhra Pradesh and was employed with a private cab aggregator for the past two years. Additional commissioner of police, (East) S Murugan said a case under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code was registered and the woman will be sent for medical examination. Officials at Jeevan Bhima Nagar police station said the suspect in custody has denied the charges and claimed that there was an argument between them over some issue. “We are verifying his claims. But the car was found parked away from the designated drop location and was there for close to 25 minutes. This is suspicious,” officials said. Siddaramaiah attacks govt over Mysuru caseMeanwhile, leader of opposition in Karnataka Assembly, Siddaramaiah, attacked the state government over the Mysuru gang rape case and accused home minister Araga Jnanendra of taking the incident casually. “People are scared after the gang rape incident and parents of children studying in Mysuru are worried,” he said. Alleging that there was a 14-15 hour gap between the hospital reporting an MLC (Medico-Legal Case) and registering an FIR, he asked, “Why was there a delay? Why was the case first registered under section 354 (a) (sexual harassment) and was changed to 376 (d) and 397 of IPC after a protest by local residents and Congress workers?”(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cab-driver-held-after-woman-alleges-sexual-assault-in-bengaluru-101632338258809.html
23-09-2021||India||476 calls made by satellite phones in state since 2020, say Karnataka police||A day after Karnataka home minister Araga Jnanendra said that intelligence agencies have tracked 476 calls made by satellite phones in the state since 2020, police on Wednesday said that these calls were traced to foreign countries, but refused to divulge the specifics of these calls. They, however, said their teams are on the ground collecting information. On Tuesday, responding to a Zero Hour question raised by former Congress minister UT Khader, the home minister had said: “After the 2011 Mumbai terror attacks, the usage of satellite phones is prohibited on Indian waters by the Directorate General of Shipping. There were 256 instances of satellite phone usage in 2020 and 220 so far this year in the coastal region.” He added that the state and central agencies, including the Intelligence Bureau (IB) and Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW), are keeping a close watch on the use of satellite phones. Such phone connects to satellites, unlike the normal cell phone which is connected to terrestrial mobile sites. They bypass the local telecom system which means the agencies are unable to track the conversation. “Even though it is difficult, we have our ways of tackling them. Some of the calls may come from international shipping and whatever has emerged from the state, we are tracking them,” said a senior intelligence official. This comes after the city police arrested a native of Rajasthan, Jitendra Singh, for allegedly sharing sensitive information about the Indian army with Pakistan’s Inter-Service Intelligence (ISI). The City Crime Branch (CCB) in a joint operation with the Military Intelligence had arrested the accused on Monday. The accused allegedly took videos and photos of army bases, firing ranges, and movement of the Indian army and shared them with ISI agents. He wore an Indian army uniform while taking photos and videos. Cops are also investigating his purpose of visiting Bengaluru. The police have retrieved his mobile data and are tracking his contacts. On September 1, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai had said that police had received inputs about possible terrorist activity on the coasts of Kerala and Karnataka and added the state administration is keeping a watch for any suspicious activity in the coastal and adjoining forest areas. “I can’t discuss some issues openly, but I want to tell you that Karnataka Police along with NIA is keeping a strict vigil on any anti-national activity in coastal and adjoining forest areas. NIA had also picked up a person who was involved in such activities. We have also issued a high alert in coastal areas,” said the chief minister. It was then claimed by the police that a central Intelligence report had warned that terrorists could infiltrate from the coastal districts of the state. The fresh alert comes days after the chief minister’s statement. So far, 15 Islamic State sympathizers have been arrested from Karnataka. The latest arrests were reported on August 11, when the National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested Zufri Jawhar Damudi from Karnataka’s Bhatkal town in connection with terror activities of a group propagating the violent ideology of the Islamic State (IS). A day before that NIA had arrested Ammar Abdul Rahman of Mangalore and Shankar Venkatesh Perumal of Bengaluru in connection with the case after conducting simultaneous searches in Jammu and Kashmir and Karnataka. NIA has arrested that 130 IS sympathizers from across India between 2014 and 2021. According to the NIA list at the time, a maximum of 33 people have been arrested from Tamil Nadu, followed by Kerala (24), Uttar Pradesh (19), Karnataka (15) Telangana (14), and Maharashtra (12) While answering a question regarding ‘reports of the presence of Islamic terrorists in southern states of India’, during the monsoon session in September 2020, the Union ministry of home affairs told parliament: “Some instances of individuals from different states, including the southern states, having joined Islamic State (IS) have come to the notice of Central and state security agencies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/476-calls-made-by-satellite-phones-in-state-since-2020-say-karnataka-police-101632337958708.html
23-09-2021||India||Karnataka high court upholds arms act exemption to Kodavas, Jamma land holders||The Karnataka high court on Wednesday upheld the constitutional validity of the Union government’s notification that grants exemption to members of the Kodava community and Jamma tenure land holders in the coffee growing region of Kodagu, from the requirement to obtain a licence to carry and possess firearms. A division bench of acting Chief Justice Satish Chandra Sharma and Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum heard the matter which was first filed on June 30 by 41-year-old Captain (Retd) Chethan YK, also a resident of Kodagu, who sought to know why only one race was given this exemption. Sajjan Poovayya, senior counsel who appeared for the Bengaluru Kodava Samaj said that the exemption was made from the British colonial era which permitted members of this race and those who hold Jamma land, that includes people from other communities, be exempted from obtaining a licence. Poovayya said that there are 40-50 exemptions in the Arms Act and one of them is for the Kodava race whose exemption was called into questioning by the HC in 2017 after the Centre’s review. The Centre, in 2019, brought a fresh and identical exemption with a periodical review from 2019-29 and then review it every 10 years. “But that exemption again as I said is not a blanket ban as you have to go through a process of police verification, you have to indicate there is a limitation on the number of weapons in each household, etc, etc,” Poovayya said. The Kodavas, who are from Kodagu in Karnataka, about 225 kms from Bengaluru, have a distinct culture in terms of their language, attire and bear weapons which is part of their ethnic identity. Several members of this community have made a name for themselves in the armed forces as well as in the field of sports with many representing India in games like hockey and other areas. Field Marshal KM Cariappa and General KS Thimmaiah are some of the most notable who belong to this community. The respondents argued that the weapon is part of its religious and cultural identity and supported the arguments under Article 25 and 26 that the gun is both a cultural and religious symbolism from them. Gagan Ganapathy, the advocate on record for one of the defendants said that there is no antecedents to suggest the misuse of the weapon and also that the Kodavas are a martial race. “That order states that there is nothing unconstitutional about it (exemption) and does not violate Article 14,” Ganapathy said. He added that the court observed that the notification was in accordance with law and also that from time immemorial the Kodavas were a martial race.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-high-court-upholds-arms-act-exemption-to-kodavas-jamma-land-holders-101632337904725.html
23-09-2021||India||Will complete Bengaluru Metro Ph 2 project by 2024: CM Bommai||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday reiterated that the Phase-II of the Bengaluru Metro should be completed by 2024, a year ahead of the original deadline, so as to ensure that the project becomes a “lifeline” for the residents of India’s IT capital. After witnessing the completion of the 885 meter underground stretch, Bommai told reporters that the subsequent reaches or stages of the Metro would be completed much faster. “Metro is a prominent plan for Bengaluru . When Metro second phase (Phase-II) is completed, then it would mean another 56 kms (of metro lines),” he said. The statement comes even as the Metro project continue to witness long delays, forcing over 12 million residents of the city to depend on private transport for commuting. According to the Metro chief, Anjum Parvez, the average tunneling per day per machine is around 4 meters with wire-duct is double this length. The Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) has managed to complete just around 60 kms in the last 13 years, averaging around 4 kms per year, Hindustan Times had reported in February. “The first phase was a little difficult because it was new,” Bommai said, adding that the learnings from this phase would help quicken the other stages and make it operational. The chief minister said that the speedy completion of the Metro would reduce the load on the roads. With over 9.4 million vehicles, poor quality of roads, dug up streets and other basic infrastructure problems, Bengaluru’s infamous traffic became a global phenomena when it was adjudged to have the world’s worst traffic, according to a 2019 report by Netherlands-based TomTom. Each year due the delay, Metro officials said, would add to at least a 5% escalation in project cost. Bommai has also asked officials to draw up plans to more than double the existing metro line plan to 317 kms with the Phase-III operations. Metro is a major project undertaken in almost all big urban centres across the country. According to the Union government, about 730 kms of Metro lines are operational in 18 different cities and another 1,049 kms of Metro rail / RRTS projects are under construction. A Metro line is also being constructed till Bengaluru international airport, about 40 kms away from the city and is scheduled to be completed in 2025. Bommai said that the government wants to take the Metro till the airport and that the Centre has shown a lot of interest and has provided financial support as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-complete-bengaluru-metro-ph-2-project-by-2024-cm-bommai-101632337838779.html
23-09-2021||India||Political slugfest over nod to Chanakya University Bill||The Karnataka Congress on Wednesday lashed out at the Basavaraj Bommai government and its decision to deviate land acquired for industrial purposes to an organization having close links with the Sangh Parivar for the setting up a university. Claiming that the allocation was a “misuse of power” that has caused loss to the exchequer and the people of the state, former chief minister and leader of the opposition Siddaramaiah on Wednesday said, “The government by misusing its power took a decision in the Cabinet meeting to allot 116 acres and 16 guntas of land which was acquired for defence industry and compensation of ₹1.50 crore per acre. At this rate, the land (116.16 acres) comes up to ₹175 crore. He added that this land was given to the Centre for Educational and Social Studies (CESS) to set up Chanakya University for ₹50 crore. Siddaramaiah further alleged that all the members of this university have close ties with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological parent of the BJP, and are “Manuwadi’s”. @BJP4Karnataka is gifting highly priced land to RSS agency at cheaper price. It is unfortunate that government has flouted all the rules to set up University & passed a Bill to favour RSS mouthpiece which does not have any experience of running educational institution,” Siddaramaiah said on Twitter. The Karnataka legislative council passed the Bill on Wednesday amid absolute commotion in the Upper House with the Congress continuing to oppose it. On Tuesday, the government had hurriedly passed the Chanakya University Bill in the Lower House during the ongoing monsoon session of the state legislature. The Congress accused the BJP of deviating land acquired for the Aerospace Park near Devanahalli, near Bengaluru Airport, for a private university which does not even have the eligibility. “The University shall be a multi-disciplinary institution committed unflinchingly to the service of society through excellence in teaching, development of knowledge and direct contributions to the world of practice. The concerns of India and Indian knowledge systems will deeply inform all the knowledge endeavors of the University including teaching , research and practice Higher Education in Sciences, Engineering and Technology, Arts, Humanities, Social Sciences, Commerce, Management, Medicine, Health Sciences, Pharmacy, etc,” according to the Bill. The university is proposed to be set up by Bengaluru-based Centre for Educational and Social Studies (CESS), an initiative by an organization called the Vidyarthi Shikshana Seva Trust and is headed by Dr. MK Sridhar, who has a doctorate in philosophy, worked in various colleges and has served as the member secretary of the Karnataka Knowledge Commission. CESS did not respond to queries by mail nor responded to calls made by Hindustan Times. The CESS was established in 2006 and, on its website, claims to be “engaged in myriad activities in the domain of education for over a decade and positioned itself to meet the current challenges in the society keeping education as a focal point.” Taking a dig at the assembly speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri for passing the bill, Siddaramaiah said, “The speaker gave importance and pushed this up even though there were 8 other bills. The speaker should be impartial, above politics and political parties. Yesterday, the way he acted did not seem impartial.” The speaker had praised the government and encouraged more such organisations that promote and teach “Indian culture” to prevent students and the educational system from getting “westernised”. DK Shivakumar, the Karnataka Congress president, also the promoter of an educational institution, said that any college that needs to be in existence for at least five years to be eligible to apply for the status of a university. “Why are you acquiring land for some other purpose and why are you deviating this. You are setting a very bad precedent. They have no qualification or eligibility and this is a misuse of power to promote RSS,” Shivakumar said. The Congress president also said that each acre on the National Highway near the airport costs around ₹10 crore per acre and 116 acres have been given for a paltry ₹50 crore. The Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) acquired land here to accommodate the Aerospace and Defence Park which has not been the biggest success for the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-slugfest-over-nod-to-chanakya-university-bill-101632337778767.html
23-09-2021||India||Police officers still don’t know how to speak politely, says Kerala high court||Disapproving of a police report which said there were no lapses on the part of one of its officers who allegedly used abusive language against a doctor, the Kerala high court on Wednesday said officers of the force “don’t know how to speak politely”.“Your police officers still don’t know how to speak politely,” the court said to the state government.The observation by Justice Devan Ramachandran came during the hearing of a plea by a doctor, claiming abusive language was used against him by police officers when they stopped his vehicle.The court said that a report by the Assistant Commissioner of Police of Kollam with regard to the incident stated that there were “no serious lapses” on the part of the officer concerned, but it did not explain how he came to that conclusion.“I have gone through the statement filed by the ACP, Kollam. Not satisfied by the contents thereof,” the judge said and asked “are only policemen allowed to live in the country?””He (petitioner) is a doctor, a respectable person. He states that abusive language has been used against him. Are you (police) saying use of disrespectful language (words like ‘da’) against a doctor requires no enquiry?” the court asked.It said that the state police chief, on the high court’s orders, has issued directions not to use such language, but the ACP’s report does not deal with the allegation of use of abusive language by the officer concerned.The court directed the Kollam ACP to “make a proper enquiry” into the allegation by the petitioner and file an action taken report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-officers-still-don-t-know-how-to-speak-politely-says-kerala-high-court-101632337598683.html
23-09-2021||India||Telangana reports 258 new Covid-19 cases, one death||Telangana on Wednesday logged 258 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the caseload to 664,164, while the toll rose to 3,908 with one more fatality.The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) topped in the number of cases with 69, followed by Karimnagar (25) and Ranga Redddy (21) districts, a state government bulletin said, providing details as of 5.30 PM on Wednesday.It said 249 people recuperated from the infectious disease, taking the cumulative number till date to 655,310.The number of active cases stood at 4,946, the bulletin said.It said 55,419 samples were tested on Wednesday and the total number of specimens examined so far to 26,002,886.The samples tested per million population was 6,98,626.The Case Fatality Rate in the state was 0.58 per cent, while it was 1.3 per cent at the national level, the bulletin said.The recovery rate in Telangana was 98.66 per cent, while it was 97.74 per cent in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-reports-258-new-covid-19-cases-one-death-101632337541545.html
23-09-2021||India||Minor girls’ skeletons found in Harra forest of Mirzapur||VARANASI The skeletons of three minor girls were found in the Harra forest of Halia, in Mirzapur, on Wednesday, police said.Though relatives claimed that the skeletons belonged to the missing girls from their family, police said only a post-mortem examination report would confirm that.An officer said that Seema, wife of Devidas Kol, resident of Belahi village, in Halia police station area, had gone out with three daughters Mamta (8), Munni (10) and Golu (12) on August 16. From that day, all four had gone missing.Family members told the officer that on August 18, Seema reached her maternal home in Sukhda Belgawan village, alone. When her family members asked Seema about the three girls, she told them that she sent her daughters to a woman in Indore.Devidas and his brother-in-law, Ramakant, went to Indore to bring the girls back. However, the girls were not found there. It was then that the family members launched a search for the girls.On Wednesday, shepherds saw three skeletons lying in the Harra forest. They informed locals. Devidas and Ramakant also reached the forest as soon as information about the skeletons spread. By the umbrella and the clothes lying nearby, they identified the girls.The police were informed and reaching the spot, the police took possession of the skeletons and began investigations.Soon after, the girls’ mother, Seema, fled her parents’ house.ASP Naxal Mahesh Singh Atri said that the skeletons have been sent for a post-mortem examination. Identification of the skeletons will be possible only after the report arrives, he said.Sudhir Kumar, Varanasi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minor-girls-skeletons-found-in-harra-forest-of-mirzapur-101632337540352.html
23-09-2021||India||Left, Cong, TDP hold meeting in Andhra ahead of Bharat Bandh||In a bid to make Bharat Bandh called by San successful, a meeting was held on Wednesday at Andhra Pradesh’s Communist Party India (CPI) office by left parties, Congress, and Telugu Desam Party (TDP).During the meeting, Donepudi Sankar, CPI State leader said, “Farmers have been agitating for nine months in Delhi, so this Bharat Bandh will be held to support them.”Criticising the Centre for its policies, he further said, “The three black laws of the central government have thrown farmers into crisis. The central government is selling off railway stations, railway lines, telecom, oil, gas, insurance, banks, airports and seaports in the name of the National Monetisation Pipeline.”The leader also said that the central government plans to privatize government organizations.“The Centre is trying to sell off public assets worth ₹75 lakh crores at throwaway prices. It is trying to privatize Visakhapatnam Steel Plant at a loss,” he said.“Prices of petrol, diesel, gas and other essential commodities have also increased,” he added.He also appealed to the general public, political parties, mass organizations, and trade unions to take part in the Bharat Bandh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/left-cong-tdp-hold-meeting-in-andhra-ahead-of-bharat-bandh-101632337539872.html
23-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu reports 1,682 new Covid cases, 21 deaths||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday witnessed 1,682 new Covid cases with Coimbatore, Erode and Tiruppur districts contributing the maximum numbers, taking the overall caseload to 2,650,370. With 21 deaths due to the infection, including six in private hospitals and 15 in government facilities, the toll has risen to 35,400.With 1,627 patients getting discharged following treatment on Wednesday, the cumulative recoveries stand at 2,597,943. The number of active Covid cases, including isolation as on Wednesday, remains at 17,027, according to a bulletin here.Coimbatore saw 235 new Covid cases, Chennai 194, Erode 130, Chengalpattu 110 and Tiruppur 101. Ramanathapuram, Perambalur, Theni, Tenkasi, Dindigul and Virudhunagar saw new cases in single digits while 27 districts reported fresh cases below 100, the bulletin said.The State capital reported three deaths due to the infection taking the Covid related fatalities to 8,453. With 2,068 active cases, Chennai’s total cases have mounted to 548,289. The total recoveries, including 176 Wednesday, stand at 537,768.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-reports-1-682-new-covid-cases-21-deaths-101632337538673.html
23-09-2021||India||SC panel recommends transfer of Andhra chief justice||The Supreme Court collegium headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana has recommended to the Centre to re-transfer Justice Joymalya Bagchi from Andhra Pradesh to the Calcutta High Court.Justice Bagchi, who was elevated as a judge of the Calcutta High Court in 2011, was transferred to the Andhra Pradesh High Court earlier this year.The collegium, which also comprised justices U U Lalit and A M Khanwilkar, has recommended that Justice Bagchi be transferred back to his parent high court.“The Supreme Court Collegium in its meeting held on September 16, 2021, has recommended re-transfer of Justice Joymalya Bagchi, Judge, Andhra Pradesh High Court to Calcutta High Court,” the statement, uploaded on the apex court website, said.Justice Bagchi graduated in law in 1991 and practiced before the Calcutta High Court before being appointed as the judge there in 2011.Earlier, the collegium on Tuesday decided to recommend to the Centre the transfer of six more judges in different high courts of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scpanel-recommends-transfer-of-andhra-chief-justice-101632337480012.html
23-09-2021||India||Don’t require all-party meet, says Kerala CM Vijayan in ‘narcotic jihad’ row||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday denied plans to call an all-party meeting to discuss the ongoing ‘love jihad’ and ‘narcotic jihad’ row, set off by Pala Bishop Joseph Kallarangatt’s controversial statements. Talking to newsmen in the state capital, Vijayan said the religious leader’s statement was “unfortunate and uncalled for” and both (love jihad and narcotic jihad) were not based on any statistics or fact. The Bishop’s statement triggered a war of words between religious communities and opposition parties urged the government to call an all-party meeting. “How can we call an all-party meeting on such non-issues? Both are non-existent. We don’t want to call a meeting on non-existent issues. Some people are trying to exploit the situation by whipping them up, and we have to isolate them first,” the chief minister said, reeling out statistics. He stated the government has information about 100 people who joined the Islamic State (IS) till 2019 of Kerala origin?, out of these, 72 slipped out from countries (mainly middle-east) where they were working.“Out of 72, 71 are Muslims. And some of the people who went to IS-held areas from north Kerala were converted much earlier. There are no complaints that some women were converted and forcibly taken to war-torn areas,” he said. Even the Union government and several courts made it clear that love jihad and narcotic jihad practices never existed, Vijayan said. He said after 21 people left from north Kerala in 2016, the special branch of police started several re-radicalisation camps to bring youngsters, who were attracted to some extremist forces, to the mainstream. He reiterated that social evil like narcotics has no religion and it is highly improper to put into the account of a particular religion. He said, in 2020, around 4,941 cases were registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, and 5,422 people were arrested in connection with them. “Out of these, Hindus were 2,700 (49.80 %), Muslims 1,869 (34.47%) and 853 (15. 73%) belong to Christianity. It shows offenders belonged to all religions. Such crimes are not religion-based. There are no unusual numbers from any particular community either,” the CM said, adding that some forces were trying to fish in troubled waters, and their attempts will remain a daydream. He said strict action will be taken against those who vitiate the communal fabric of the state. When asked whether any action will be taken against the Bishop he said he had already made it clear no case will be registered against him. He criticised the opposition Congress and BJP for exploiting the issue for some political gains. (CAN WE PUT THIS IN A QUOTE?)Opposition leaders are yet to react to the CM’s statement. Addressing a church ceremony in Kottayam on Sept 9, the Bishop said that Catholic girls and youth were targeted by it. “Wherever arms are not used, narcotic drugs are being used, and Catholic girls turn victims. Some groups are functioning in the state to support them. To understand this, one needs to analyse how women from other religions landed in the Islamic State camps,” he said, referring to the trip of 21 people, including five converts to Islam, from north Kerala to Afghanistan in 2016. Meanwhile, Vijayan welcomed the decision to pay compensation to Covid-19 victims but said it is quite unfair states will have to take the whole responsibility. “We all know the poor economic condition of states after pandemic set in. We hope the Centre will adequately compensate states,” he said, adding virus cases were dipping slowly. On Wednesday, the state reported 19,675 cases Wednesday with a test positivity rate of 16.45 after 119,594 tests. It also logged 142 deaths, and the toll crossed 24,000 (24,039).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-require-all-party-meet-says-kerala-cm-vijayan-in-narcotic-jihad-row-101632337478715.html
23-09-2021||India||Actor Tarun appears before ED in 2017 drugs case||Actor Tarun appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) here on Wednesday as part of a money laundering probe in connection with a high-end drugs racket that was busted in the city in 2017.He is one of the 10 Telugu film industry (Tollywood) personalities who were summoned by the ED.Since August 31 this year noted filmmaker Puri Jagannadh, actresses Charmee Kaur, Rakul Preet Singh and Mumaith Khan, actors Nandu, Rana Daggubati, Ravi Teja, P Navdeep and Tanish have so far appeared before the central agency.On July 2, 2017 the Telangana’s Prohibition and Excise department, had busted the drug racket by arresting a three-member gang. Subsequently, several cases related to the drug trafficking were registered and over 20 people were arrested including a US citizen, who was a former aerospace engineer and had worked with the NASA, a Dutch national, a South African national besides seven B.Tech degree holders employed with multi-national companies here.The names of some Tollywood personalities surfaced during the interrogation of persons arrested in connection with the racket.A Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Prohibition and Excise department, as part of its investigation had also probed the alleged drug-links with Tollywood, and had then questioned 11 people connected to the Telugu film industry.The ED summoned the Tollywood personalities who were among those questioned by SIT and they were asked to appear before it.The racket supplied high-end drugs such as lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) and methylenedioxy-methamphetamine (MDMA), and it is suspected that people from the film industry, employees of MNCs and college students were among their customers.Orders were placed through the ‘Darknet’ (secretive websites or online networks) and the drugs were delivered by courier including from overseas, the investigators had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/actor-tarun-appears-before-ed-in-2017-drugs-case-101632337419738.html
23-09-2021||India||Kerala high court questions fixed rates for post Covid treatment in Kerala||When deaths even after 30 days of a person turning negative for coronavirus is treated as a COVID death, then by the same rationale treatment for post-Covid complications should also be reckoned as part of corona care was the prima facie view expressed by the Kerala High Court on Wednesday.A bench of Justices Devan Ramachandran and Kauser Edappagath expressed the view while directing the state government to clarify why it issued the August 16 order by which treatment charges were fixed for post-Covid complications for those above poverty line.“Government must clarify why the order dated August 16, 2021 was issued, particularly when, as of now, deaths which occur 30 days after a person turns negative for Covid-19 is also accounted as a Covid death.“On a parallel reasoning, treatment which goes on after a person turns negative, must, prima facie, be also reckoned as a Covid treatment,” the bench said and asked government pleader S Kannan to seek instruction on the issue.The query by the court came after perusing a memo filed by the state government, through Kannan, stating therein that Covid infection and complications due to it are different from disease management point of view.The government further said that “to reduce the financial burden on the public due to the Covid-19 pandemic and assist the financial constraints of the population, the rates at which the treatment for post Covid syndrome, multi-system inflammatory syndrome and Covid associated mucormycosis demands to be fixed”.The rate fixation of these treatments would also ensure that the private hospitals in the state do not charge exorbitant rates from such patients, the government has said in the memo.It has also said that cost of treatment for persons above the poverty line (APL) for any ailment has to be borne by the patients always, but considering the very high cost of treatment of complications due to Covid, treatment has to be made available to APL category patients at reasonable costs.It has further stated before the court that poor and financially constrained people can avail free treatment for post Covid complications at public hospitals.The court was hearing a review petition filed by the Kerala Private Hospitals Association in relation to the Covid treatment charges fixed by the state for treatment of coronavirus in private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-high-court-questions-fixed-rates-for-post-covid-treatment-in-kerala-101632337418731.html
23-09-2021||India||Full inoculation or Covid -ve report now mandatory to enter Tirumala||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams, which manages the Lord Venkateshwara temple in Tirumala, Chittoor, on Wednesday made it mandatory for all pilgrims to produce a complete Covid vaccine certification or RT-PCR Covid negative test report, not older than three days, before entering the temple premises, chairman YV Subba Reddy said in a statement. The decision was taken keeping in view the health security of the devotees coming from all parts of the country, he said. “Devotees coming with online special entry tickets or slotted Sarva darshan (SSD) tokens (issued to pilgrims to have free darshan of Lord) should possess either 2-dose vaccination certificate or come with Covid-19 negative test report, which they have taken three days before reporting on the allotted day of the darshan,” Reddy said in the statement.He urged all the devotees to strictly follow the Covid-19 guidelines for their benefit as well the others. While the Tirumala temple has remained open even during the second wave of the Covid pandemic, it restricted the entry only for the pilgrims who purchased the ₹300 tickets for darshan and the VIPs.The TTD resumed free darshan at Tirumala temple from September 9, for the sake of devotees, with certain restrictions. To start with, only 2,000 devotees, that too only from Chittoor district, were allowed in a day under the SSD token system introduced at the ticket counters at Alipiri, the foothills of Tirumala.However, Subba Reddy announced on Wednesday that the issuance of SSD tokens for common pilgrims at the off-line counters at Alipiri would be stopped from September 26 to prevent the spread of the Covid-19. “As the overcrowding at SSD token issue centres earlier had allegedly become a source of the spread of Covid-19, the TTD has decided to do away with it and take up issuance of tokens only online,” the TTD chairman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/full-inoculation-or-covid-ve-report-now-mandatory-to-enter-tirumala-101632337360266.html
23-09-2021||India||Cong demands govt action in Amazon, Mundra drug haul issues||New Delhi: The Congress on Wednesday demanded a criminal action to be initiated against Amazon for “bribery” and sought a special commission, headed by Supreme Court judges, to look into the ₹21,000 crore heroin consignment seized at Gujarat’s Mundra port. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, “India’s Law Ministry’s Annual Budget is ₹1,100 crores. How can a company’s budget be almost ₹9,000 crores in legal fees? It has now come out that this was money being given as bribe.” “So the question is very simple, the so called alleged bribery of ₹8,546 crore was being given to whom in Modi Government, who received this money?” asked Surjewala. The Union government has received preliminary details of “abnormally” high legal expenditures by e-commerce giant Amazon India in two financial years (2018-19 and 2019-20), which amounts to ₹8,546 crore, two people aware of the development said, and added that the spends were being investigated. The company, however, said expenses categorised as legal, include fees for several professional consultancy services. “Will Prime Minister of India raise a demand from his US counterpart that criminal action be initiated in United States for alleged bribery against Amazon? Will Prime Minister of India answer that? Is this not a serious breach of National Security? And considering that Government has totally failed, should this matter not be investigated by a sitting judge of the Supreme Court of India?” Surjewala said. A similar demand has been made by Surjewala for an investigation into the biggest drug haul. “The second scandal is even more scaring, it is not India’s, but, the world’s biggest drug haul appears to have happened right here in our country,” referring to the recovery of 3000 kgs of heroin worth Rs.21,000 crores. “Why is it drug cartel prospering right under the nose of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah? Why has Mundra Port not been investigated? And considering that Narcotics Control Bureau, DRI, ED, CBI, IB, Home Ministry everybody was sleeping, how can the drugs than come in such a large quantity?” said Surjewal, demanding an investigation by a special commission of sitting judges of the Supreme Court of India and a special SIT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-demands-govt-action-in-amazon-mundra-drug-haul-issues-101632337120877.html
23-09-2021||India||RN Ravi steps down as Centre’s interlocutor in peace talks after Naga groups object||New Delhi: The Centre’s interlocutor for Naga peace talks since 2014, RN Ravi, with whom Naga groups had refused to hold any discussions, on Wednesday stepped down from the post. A ministry of home affairs spokesperson said Ravi’s resignation was accepted with immediate effect.The development comes days after Ravi was moved as Governor of Tamil Nadu from Nagaland, where he held the post of Governor as well.Isak-Muivah-led National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN-IM), while seeking his ouster, had claimed last year that Ravi misinterpreted the 2015 Framework Agreement between the Naga groups and the Centre and tried to manipulate it.In a statement issued in August last year, NSCN-IM said Ravi was creating hurdles in the final settlement of the Naga political issue.His removal on September 9 from Nagaland is being seen as a positive step towards finalising the peace deal, especially at a time when all the members of the Nagaland legislative assembly have agreed to come together to push for settlement and pave the way.“The trust deficit between Ravi and Naga groups had deepened so much in last two years that talks had not moved at all. The process has begun again,” said a government official.The biggest and oldest of the Naga rebel outfits, NSCN-IM had been in peace talks with the central government since 1997 and signed a Framework Agreement (FA) on August 3, 2015, in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which was to be the basis for a final deal on the long-pending Naga issue.Though peace talks with NSCN-IM and other pro-talks rebel outfits (Naga National Political Groups-NNPGs) concluded in October 2019, a formal deal to end the decades-old Naga political problem is still awaited.Former Intelligence Bureau (IB) special director, Akshay Mishra, is currently handling the peace talks “unofficially”, but government officials familiar with the development said Mishra’s name as interlocutor will be made formal soon through a notification. Mishra has already been advising the Centre on the matters of north-east since his retirement in June this year.There are also indications that IB chief Aravind Kumar may join as an additional interlocutor for the Naga peace talks.Officials said Naga groups have so far appreciated the handling of the issue by Mishra.Assam chief minister and convener of North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA), Himanta Biswa Sarma, and Nagaland CM, Neiphiu Rio, met key NSCN-IM leaders, including Th Muivah, on Tuesday to accelerate the peace process.“At Dimapur today, we held a discussion with NSCN(IM) representatives in presence of Nagaland CM Neiphiu Rio about the ongoing peace talks with GoI (Government of India)... We are keen that the ongoing peace talks fructify into concrete results soon,” Sarma tweeted on Tuesday evening.The Naga peace talks were stalled in October 2019 over differences on issues related to the 2015 Framework Agreement, and NSCN-IM’s insistence on a separate Naga flag and constitution.Mishra, who will be in Nagaland till September 23, is scheduled to meet the working committee of seven Naga nationalist political groups (NNPGs) with whom the central government had signed an “agreed position” in 2017.Ravi didn’t respond to HT’s calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rn-ravi-steps-down-as-centre-s-interlocutor-in-peace-talks-after-naga-groups-object-101632336818630.html
23-09-2021||India||IMD alerts: Heavy rain to continue in 10 states due to cyclonic circulation till Sept 26||The monsoon seems to continue this year beyond the expected time limit with several states, including Gujarat, West Bengal and Maharashtra, either witnessing rise in water level of nearby rivers or waterlogging in vast areas. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has now made a forecast that the situation would continue for the next four days in all the three states and seven more regions.In its latest bulletin, the IMD said that a low pressure currently lies over southwest Jharkhand and the north of Chhattisgarh along with the cyclonic circulation. The low pressure is expected to weaken during the next 24 hours and move west-northwestwards as a “cyclonic circulation across north Chhattisgarh and north Madhya Pradesh” over the next three days.Furthermore, the IMD bulletin also stated that a cyclonic circulation lies over west Rajasthan and its neighbourhood at lower tropospheric levels and is likely to remain till September 24.Earlier in the day, visuals shared by news agency ANI showed villages in Waghodia tehsil of Vadodara city in Gujarat heavily waterlogged. People in the visuals were seen walking amid rainwater that reached their waist level. A similar situation was reported in Maharashtra’s Nashik where Godavari river’s water level went up owing to excessive rain.Gujarat: Villages got waterlogged in Waghodia tehsil of Vadodara owing to incessant rainfall in the region; visuals from earlier today pic.twitter.com/ITKzVjB3Y7Meanwhile, Kolkata – the capital of West Bengal — among several other districts and towns in the state, continues to face waterlogging with several parts of the city inundated due to constant rainfall activity. On Monday, the weather department noted that Kolkata received the highest rainfall in the past 14 years on a single day in September. Till 8.30am on Monday, counting from 24 hours before the time, the city received 142 mm rain – the highest since September 25, 2007.Here are the key IMD alerts for 10 states till September 26:1.     Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall is likely over Gangetic West Bengal and Odisha for the remaining part of September 22. The IMD bulletin added that a low-pressure area is likely to form over east-central Bay of Bengal around September 24 evening, which will possibly move west-northwestwards towards Odisha in the subsequent 48 hours. Under this influence, a fresh spell of heavy rainfall is expected over Odisha and its adjoining regions from September 25 onwards.2.     The IMD bulletin said that fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy downpours is expected over east Rajasthan and Gujarat till September 26.3.     Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy falls is expected over Chhattisgarh, Vidarbha and Madhya Pradesh till September 24, and over central Maharashtra, Goa, Konkan, and Marathwada till September 23. The rainfall activity in these regions will witness a reduction after tomorrow.4.     Uttarakhand will witness scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy downpour till September 26. A similar weather, the IMD bulletin forecasted, is expected over east Uttar Pradesh till September 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-to-continue-in-10-states-due-to-cyclonic-circulation-imd-101632336080539.html
23-09-2021||India||NIA to probe fake currency case in Bangladesh||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has registered a case over a sophisticated counterfeit Indian currency smuggling racket running out of Dhaka, laying the ground for the federal agency’s first probe in Bangladesh, people familiar with the development said.The fake currency operation in Dhaka is suspected to be controlled from Pakistan. The probe, a senior NIA official said, “has been taken up after noticing that a new module was involved in the transportation of very high quality fake Indian currency notes in the denomination of ₹500 and ₹2,000”. An NIA team will soon visit Dhaka to interrogate the suspects and find the entire network, the official said.A 2019 amendment in the NIA Act enables the agency to probe terrorist activities outside India if Indians or Indian interests abroad are targeted. The change in law was patterned on the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s powers which empower the US agency to carry out investigations outside the United States.This will be NIA’s third probe abroad. Last year, the agency took up the investigation into the March 25, 2020 attack on a gurdwara in Kabul, in which 27 Sikh devotees including an Indian national were killed. Its second case was registered in December against Gurpatwant Singh Pannun led Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) for organising protests at Indian missions in various countries including the US, the UK, Germany, Canada, etc.An FIR recently registered at Paltan Model police station by the Dhaka Metropolitan Police in connection with the case has already been taken over by the NIA. The FIR was registered after five people, including two Pakistani nationals, were arrested in Dhaka with fake Indian currency of ₹46 lakh.A second NIA official said although India and Bangladesh have a joint task force mechanism to share real-time information on the fake currency smuggling, New Delhi decided to investigate the syndicate on its own to identify the handlers and unearth the larger network. Indian officials believe it will lead them to Islamabad. “The FICN (fake Indian currency notes) produced in Pakistan are sent to Bangladesh by air/sea and then smuggled to India via the porous border. It seems Pakistan is trying to perfect counterfeiting the new ₹500 and ₹2,000 denomination notes to destabilize the Indian economy,” said a counterterrorism official, requesting anonymity. He acknowledged that “there has been a gradual improvement in the quality of FICN being seized”.According to the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report, FICN worth ₹92 crore was detected and seized across India in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-to-probe-fake-currency-case-in-bangladesh-101632336575842.html
23-09-2021||India||Isro likely to miss 3 key missions despite reducing targets||Despite the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) reducing its launch target from 16 to five projects in 2021 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the agency is likely to miss some critical missions, according to people aware of the matter.The space agency was to launch two earth observation satellites, one navigation satellite, one purely scientific mission, and the first unmanned flight under the Gaganyaan mission as per its revised targets for the year.Two of the missions were to use the new small satellite launch vehicle in two development flights. Isro qualifies a launch vehicle after two successful development flights. The small satellite launch vehicle or SSLV will mostly be used for commercial launches, according to people aware of the matter.There have only been two launches this year – the purely commercial PSLV C-51 launch in February carrying Brazil’s earth observation satellite Amazonia-1 and the GSLV-F10 mission in August carrying an Indian earth observation satellite EOS-03 that failed.To be sure, the space agency has plans for three more missions before the end of the year, including the first development flight of the SSLV. The other two will use India’s workhorse PSLV to launch two earth observation satellites EOS-04 and EOS-06.“The three planned missions appear unlikely this year,” a senior scientist at the agency said on condition of anonymity.Ajey Lele, senior fellow at Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, said: “It is critical for Isro to quickly conduct the SSLV launches; they have been delayed for far too long. It will be a commercial satellite and some of the slots even in the development flight has been booked by foreign agencies. If the launches do not happen soon, they might move to other launch service providers and Isro will lose market.”The space agency will also miss the launch of the navigation satellite NVS-01 that is to replace one of the satellites in India’s own regional GPS-like system NAVigation with Indian Constellation (NavIC).The NVS-01 satellite is to replace the IRNSS-1G satellite that was launched in 2016 and has a mission life of 12 years. Among the still functioning satellites in the constellation, the earliest to be launched is IRNSS-1B launched in 2014 with a mission life of 10 years.“This is likely to be one of the satellites where the atomic clock malfunctioned,” said Lele. There was no confirmation from Isro. All three atomic clocks – one main and two back-ups – on the first satellite of the constellation IRNSS-1A failed, prompting the space agency to launch a replacement satellite IRNSS-1H (which failed) and IRNSS-1I (which is currently working). Officials from the space agency also confirmed that the failure of the atomic clock has affected more satellites.There was no official response from Isro on the matter.“The pandemic has hit the space agency hard, making it difficult to integrate components coming in from various parts of the country. These delays are important in terms of missions like NavIC that needs a constellation of satellites; if the entire system is not up and running we are not utilising the life-years of the other satellites. However, when it comes to purely scientific missions such as the Gaganyaan, the delay does not have much impact. In case of Adiya-L1 the only challenge is that most of the hardware was ready but it could not be launched. After AstroSat’s good data, many scientists are awaiting data from the solar mission,” said Dr SM Ahmed, head of central instruments laboratory at University of Hyderabad and formerly a scientist with the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre who worked on Chandrayaan-1 mission.“The pandemic has affected missions world over; US’ artemis mission is also behind schedule,” Dr Ahmed added.The NVS-01 replacement satellite was to be launched on board Isro’s Geosynchronous Launch Vehicle or GSLV, the same one that failed this August. Four of the fourteen GSLV missions so far have failed. In comparison, only two of the 53 PSLV missions have failed.The space agency had also targeted the first of the two unmanned flights under the Gaganyaan mission for 2021, but it is unlikely to happen this year.“There have been delays in most missions of Isro, there are several more tests that need to be done before even the unmanned mission. The space agency also needs to launch two relay satellites. Another much awaited mission of Isro is the solar mission Aditya-L1. The other scientific Isro missions have produced good data, and the scientific community is waiting for it,” said Lele.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-likely-to-miss-3-key-missions-despite-reducing-targets-101632336519718.html
23-09-2021||India||Padmanabhaswamy temple trust to face audit of 25 years: Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: An administrative committee mandated to conduct a special audit of the Sri Padmanabhaswamy temple in Kerala will also scrutinise the finances of the temple trust over a 25-year period from 1989-90 to 2013-14, the Supreme Court ruled on Wednesday, rejecting the trust’s contention that the top court’s verdict last year did not cover the trust. The three-judge bench comprising justices UU Lalit, S Ravindra Bhat and Bela M Trivedi also told the committee headed by the Thiruvananthapuram district judge to complete the audit within three months.“In the light of developments leading to the passing of judgment dated July 13, 2020, it is quite clear that the audit contemplated by said direction was not intended to be confined to the temple but was also with respect to Sree Padmanabha Swamy Temple Trust (SPSTT),” the bench said on Wednesday.The court relied on two extracts from its 2020 judgment to turn down the trust’s request.Firstly, the report of senior advocate Gopal Subramanium, who as amicus curiae, produced a report recommending a special audit of not just the temple but the trust as well. It noted that the April 15, 2014 report of former Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) Vinod Rai, specifically pointed out that the temple trust’s utilisation of income hadn’t been adequately established.Second, the bench also noted that senior advocate Arvind Datar, who appeared for the trust in proceedings leading to the 2020 verdict, agreed to the trust’s audit on May 5, 2015.The temple, located in the state capital of Thiruvananthapuram, came under media glare in 2011 when a vast treasure was discovered in its vaults, known as “Kallara” in Malayalam. The vaults were opened pursuant to a May 2011 order of the apex court. It was estimated that the intrinsic value of the treasure in five of the six vaults which were opened amounted to more than ₹90,000 crore.In its petition objecting to the district committee’s move to audit its finances, the temple trust requested the court to give a finding that it should be declared as an independent entity to ensure that it does not come under the management of the administrative committee. The bench refrained from going into that aspect, saying, “This will require assessment of facts which analysis may appropriately be done by a court or an authority competent to go into that question after the special audit is conducted.”The administrative committee, which was also entrusted with the interim management of the temple and its properties, filed two reports before the top court indicating that the temple’s financial position was in a bad shape due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown last year. As there was no income during the lockdown, the committee dipped into the temple’s savings to meet routine expenses to cover money incurred on performing rituals, and paying salary, wages and pension of staffers.Senior advocate R Basant, who appeared for the committee, said the temple faced an “unprecedented crisis” as its income wasn’t not enough to meet its monthly expenses of ₹1.25 crore and sought the help from the temple trust and the government to tide over the situation.The July 2020 order was crucial for the running of the temple as it set aside a Kerala high court direction of 2011 allowing the state government to take over the temple. The Supreme Court held that the temple will be managed by the royal family and will enjoy shebaitship, the right to maintain and manage the temple and the deity. The administrative committee was told to manage the affairs of the temple as an interim measure.When the administrative committee decided on October 27, 2020 appoint an auditing firm to look into the temple and the trust’s finances, the trust refused to cooperate with the auditor and filed an application before the Supreme Court stating that the 1965 trust formed by then ruler of Travancore, Sree Chithira Thirunal Bala Rama Varma was not meant to oversee the puja and other rituals and had nothing to do with the day-to-day functioning of the temple.Datar, who appeared for the trust, submitted that rental income from some buildings was the trust’s primary source of income and the funds were spent towards upkeep of these buildings besides minor administrative expenses and offerings for the temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/padmanabhaswamy-temple-trust-to-face-audit-of-25-years-supreme-court-101632336279192.html
23-09-2021||India||World Rhino Day: Assam burns rhino horns to bust myth on medicinal value||Nearly 2,500 rhino horns, which officials say was the world’s largest such stockpile, were burnt and destroyed in Assam’s Bokakhat on Wednesday to mark World Rhino Day and discourage the myths that have propelled poaching of the endangered pachyderms. About 2,479 horns weighing around 1300kg, which had been seized from poachers and illegal traders or recovered from dead rhinos in the state’s national parks and wildlife sanctuaries since 1979, were burnt in six large pyres at a stadium in Bokakhat, 240 km east of Guwahati. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, accompanied by several cabinet colleagues, lit the pyres remotely through drones. “Through this event, we want to convey to the world that...there is no medicinal value to them (rhino horns). We want to urge people not to kill these rare animals or buy their horns based on superstitions or myths. We should allow rhinos to live and grow naturally,” Sarma said. The chief minister said it was necessary not to sell the horns and add value to the illegal poaching industry. “Some are saying that instead of destroying the horns we should have sold them. But like the way we can’t sell seized drugs to earn revenue, the same way a government can’t earn money by selling rhino horns,” he said.He added that this may be the largest such pile to be destroyed. “In South Africa, they have burned seized rhino horns, but the quantity is not that large. I think today we are setting a world record,” Sarma said. Though there is no scientific basis, the demand for rhinoceros horns is born out of demand in some Asian countries such as China and Vietnam, where these are used to practice traditional medicine. Each horn, which is made up of keratin (found commonly in hair and nails), is valued over thousands of US dollars, driving the rampant killing of rhinos in Asia and Africa. At 71%, Assam is home to the world’s largest population of one-horned rhinoceros. According to a 2018 census, there are nearly 2,650 rhinos in the state with around 2,400 of them in the Kaziranga National Park. Rhinoceros are listed in Schedule 1 of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, as endangered animals and there is an international ban on trade of rhino horns under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna (CITES). The Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 allows for destruction of wildlife parts (including rhino horn) under Section 39 (3). On September 16, the Assam cabinet had approved destruction of the horns kept in treasuries. While 2,479 horns were destroyed in Assam on Wednesday, 50 more associated with pending court cases will be kept in state treasuries and 94 others will be preserved for exhibition or educational purposes. The state government said it will set up a natural history museum near the Kaziranga national park to keep the preserved pieces. Before destroying them on Wednesday, experts verified the horns using scientific methods at the 12 treasuries where they were kept. Each horn was cleaned, weighed, photographed, labelled with a unique barcode, DNA samples extracted, and packed and sealed again in the presence of several witnesses. Of the total 2,623 horns in state treasuries, 15 were of African rhinos (which have two horns) and 21 were found to be fake. “This is a rare event... the horns were verified in a very transparent manner before destroying them. We also want to convey a stern message to poachers not to dare target another rhino in Assam,” forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya said at the event on Wednesday. In recent years, the state government has taken measures to clamp down on poaching, including arming forest personnel with sophisticated weapons and increasing surveillance using drones. The measures have helped greater one-horned rhinos (Rhinoceros unicornis) move up from the ”endangered” to ”vulnerable” category in IUCN’s red list of threatened species. According to government figures, the number of rhinos in Assam has risen by nearly 1,000 from 1,672 in 1999 to 2,605 in 2018.“Scientifically, rhino horns don’t have any value, but they have a price in some markets based on superstitions about its medicinal properties. If we preserve them, it will convey the message that we believe in such superstitions. It’s good that the horns stored in Assam are being destroyed,” Rathin Barman, joint director, Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) said. “I congratulate the Assam government on the decision to burn the rhino horns and send the message that they don’t have any medicinal value. The horn looks best on a living animal and is not suited for any other purpose,” said Bibhab Talukdar, chief executive officer (CEO) of Aaranyak, a wildlife non-governmental organisation (NGO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-rhino-day-assam-burns-rhino-horns-to-bust-myth-on-medicinal-value-101632335918823.html
23-09-2021||India||Supply chains for vaccine raw materials must be kept open to hike production: PM Modi||The supply chains for Covid-19 vaccine raw materials must be kept open so that India can increase production and resume vaccine supplies to other countries, Prime Minister Narendra Modi told a virtual Covid-19 summit on Wednesday. At the same time, international travel should become easier through mutual recognition of vaccine certificates so that the world can cope with the pandemic’s economic impacts, Modi said while addressing the summit called by US President Joe Biden. In his remarks at the opening of the summit convened on the margins of the UN General Assembly, Biden announced the donation of another 500 million doses of the Pfizer vaccine to low and middle income countries, taking total US commitments to more than 1.1 billion shots. Modi noted the pandemic has resulted in “unprecedented disruption and it is not yet over”. Biden’s initiative is timely and welcome as much of the world is yet to be vaccinated, he said. “As newer Indian vaccines get developed, we are also ramping up production capacity of existing vaccines. As our production increases, we will be able to resume vaccine supply to others too. For this, the supply chains of raw materials must be kept open,” he said. India is working with partners in the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad to leverage the country’s manufacturing strengths to produce vaccines for the Indo-Pacific region. India and the South Africa have proposed a waiver of the WTO Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) for Covid-19 vaccines, diagnostics and medicines to scale up the fight against the pandemic, Modi said. “We also need to focus on addressing the pandemic’s economic effects. To that end, international travel should be made easier, through mutual recognition of vaccine certificates,” he said. Modi recalled India’s role in helping other nations tackle the pandemic by producing cost-effective diagnostic kits, drugs, medical devices and PPE kits, and sharing medicines and medical supplies with more than 150 countries. “Earlier this year, we shared our vaccine production with 95 other countries and with UN peacekeepers. And like a family, the world also stood with India when we were going through a second wave,” he said. India is now running the world’s largest immunisation campaign, and had vaccinated 25 million people on a single day. More than 200 million Indians were fully vaccinated, and India is willing to share its digital platform CoWIN and other digital solutions freely as open source software, he said. Biden too highlighted the US partnership with Quad members India, Japan and Australia to help produce one billion vaccine doses in India to boost global supplies by the end of 2022. “The US is buying another half billion doses of Pfizer to donate to low and middle income countries around the world,” he said. “This is another half billion doses that will all be shipped by this time next year. And it brings our total commitment of donated vaccines to over 1.1 billion vaccines.” He added, “Put another way, for every one shot we’ve administered to date in America, we have now committed to do three shots to the rest of the world.” Biden also announced the launching of the European Union-US vaccine partnership to expand global vaccinations, and said the US will provide an additional $370 million to support administering and delivery of vaccines worldwide. More than $380 million will be provided to GAVI to facilitate distribution of vaccines in regions with the greatest need, he added. The summit, Biden said, was focused on “supercharging efforts” in three key areas – vaccinating the world by dramatically ramping up vaccine production, donations and delivery of doses, addressing the oxygen crisis in hospitals around the world and making other treatments more accessible, and building back better so that global health security infrastructure becomes more resilient. He said US secretary of state Antony Blinken will convene a meeting of foreign ministers later this year to check collective progress, and proposed a second virtual Covid summit in the first quarter of 2022 to keep efforts fully aligned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supply-chains-for-vaccine-raw-materials-must-be-kept-open-to-hike-production-pm-modi-101632335798511.html
23-09-2021||India||‘Aggressive’ plan for $115 billion India, UAE trade in 5 years: Goyal||India and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) have drawn up an “aggressive and ambitious” time frame aiming to conclude a comprehensive trade negotiation by December 2021 and hope to sign a formal free trade agreement in the early part of 2022 to achieve over $115 billion bilateral trade in five years.Indian commerce minister Piyush Goyal said after the latest round of discussions the two partners are looking at the possibility of crossing the initial figure of $100 billion. “Both the teams will reassess as both of us feel that the possibilities are far more than as both goods and services will complement each other,” he said.Earlier, the agreement was expected to raise bilateral trade in goods to $100 billion and services to $15 billion within five years of signing the agreement. UAE was India’s third largest trading partner with about $59.12 billion of bilateral trade in 2019-20, a non-Covid period.“The first round of CEPA negotiation will be held tomorrow and day after [September 23-24] in Delhi,” Goyal said on Wednesday in New Delhi at a joint press conference with UAE minister of state for trade Thani bin Ahmed Al Zeyoudi. The two partners want to sign a formal India-UAE Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA) in March 2022 after completing internal legal procedures and ratification.Zeyoudi said the UAE is excited about the trade agreement with India, which will boost bilateral trade between both nations. “India is now UAE’s second largest trading partner,” he said adding that during the first half of 2021, the total volume of non-oil trade between the two countries reached $21 billion.Goyal said India is participating in a big way at Expo 2020 Dubai, which begins on October 1, 2021, and said that Indian participation would help to boost bilateral trade and investment. He extended his deepest appreciation to the UAE for its support during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, especially for supplying liquid medical oxygen and medicines. Zeyoudi also thanked India for its support during the pandemic that included keeping supply chains open. Both ministers underlined the need to coordinate and promote cooperation under the framework of the memorandum of understanding signed in January 2017 between the two countries for cooperation on trade remedy measures.UAE has been an important trade alley of India for over five decades. It is India’s second largest export destination after the US with exports worth $29 billion in 2019-2020. India’s major exports to the UAE include petroleum products, precious metals, stones, gems and jewellery, minerals, food items such as cereals, sugar, fruits and vegetables, tea, meat, and seafood, textiles, engineering and machinery products, and chemicals.India’s top imports from the UAE include petroleum and petroleum products, precious metals, stones, gems and jewellery, minerals, chemicals, and wood and wood products. India imported $10.9 billion of crude oil from the UAE in 2019-2020. UAE is the eighth largest investor in India with investments worth $11 billion between April 2000 and March 2021. Investments by Indian companies in the UAE are estimated to be over $85 billion, according to official data.The UAE is also home to more than 3.5 million Indian expatriates, reportedly the largest ethnic community that constitutes roughly 30% of the total population. In recent years, the two sides have also boosted strategic and security cooperation as part of India’s focus on its extended neighbourhood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aggressive-plan-for-115-billion-india-uae-trade-in-5-years-goyal-101632335739709.html
23-09-2021||India||Common links appear in two Tihar deaths||New Delhi: On May 14, 2021, prisoner Shrikant Rama Swami died in Delhi’s Tihar jail number 2 after allegedly getting into a fight with other inmates. He was to be released on bail the next day. About three months later, on August 3, gangster Ankit Gujjar, one of western Uttar Pradesh’s most wanted men, was found dead inside Tihar’s jail number 3. The two high-profile cases have several features in common – from allegations against prison officers and questions over jail treatment to missing CCTV footage and charges of poor handling of the investigation – according to case documents and witness statements seen by HT. Both Tihar officials nor Delhi Police declined to comment on the record.PHONE CALLS A DAY BEFORE THEY DIED Swami, a resident of Delhi’s Ashok Vihar, was arrested in a murder case in 2015.Jail authorities told the court that three undertrials beat Swami with cricket bats around 7am on May 14. He died on his way to the hospital at 11.30am. After his death, Delhi Police and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested four inmates and said that he was beaten to death by the four prisoners because Swami bullied them. Swami’s sister filed a petition in court May 22,alleging that Swami had called her just a day before he was murdered. The petition said that her brother feared that he would be murdered by prison officers. It was on the basis of this petition that the high court transferred the case to the CBI on July 20. Gujjar, a 29-year-old with least 13 cases in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh against him, was beaten to death by prison officers inside Tihar’s jail 3 on August 3, according to a complaint by his family. The prison department said Gujjar and two others were injured in a scuffle that broke out after jail officers confiscated a cell phone, data cable, and a knife inside Gujjar’s cell.A day before Gujjar was found dead inside the jail, he called his sister from the jail, alleging a threat to his life from the prison officers, said case documents. Later, the family made 16 distress calls to the Delhi Police control room informing them that Gujjar had been beaten inside the jail, according to a status report prepared by the police and submitted to the Delhi high court. The first call was made at 10.55pm on August 3, within three to four hours of the initial scuffle inside the jail, when Gujjar was still alive. When contacted a senior prison officer, said, “The two cases are different. The fact that Shrikant was murdered by other inmates has been substantiated by other eyewitnesses too. Gujjar’s case is different. One should not combine the two cases.”‘MISSING’ CCTVs On May 15, Delhi Police wrote to the superintendent of jail number 2, seeking a copy of the CCTV footage in ward 2, -- barrack number 4 where Swami was allegedly assaulted by other inmates and barrack number 6 where he was later shifted. Prison officers did not provide the footage claiming that the cameras were not functioning. In the status report, police wrote , “Notice was given to jail authorities to provide CCTV footage of the incident. But they stated that the CCTVs in ward 2 are not in working condition.” In Gujjar’s case too, the cameras inside ward 1A(where he was assaulted) and 5A(where he was shifted and later found dead) were “switched off for maintenance work”, according to replies by jail officers to the police.In response to the allegations from Gujjar’s family that jail officers deliberately switched off the CCTVs, the above-mentioned jail officer said, “In Shrikant’s case, we could not provide the footage because the installation of the CCTV cameras was still in progress. But as on September 20, the process is complete. Around 7,000 CCTV cameras have been installed. The process is also complete. The cameras have a recording facility of at least 30 days.”DEPUTY SUPERINTENDENTS IN THE DOCKOn May 14, Delhi Police’s control room received a distress call from inside Tihar jail. The caller, who claimed to be an eyewitness, said that a deputy superintendent had murdered Swami. Police confirmed that the call was received from inside the jail at around the same time when Swami was being rushed to the hospital but are yet to trace the identity of the caller. During investigation, Delhi Police later traced the owner of the SIM card(from which the distress call was made) to a woman in north Delhi’s Mukundpur but the woman told police that her phone had been stolen but she never reported it.Gujjar, 29, was allegedly assaulted by jail officers on August 3after he slapped one of the officers when they were conducting a search of his cell, according to status report filed by prison department. On August 9, Delhi Police filed a case of murder against a deputy superintendent. To be sure, the deputy superintendent who was named in the distress call is different from the one in Gujjar’s case. Dissatisfied with Delhi police’s investigation and allegations of extortion against jail officers which led to the murders, the Delhi high court transferred both cases from the Delhi police to the CBI – the Swami case on July 20 and the Gujjar case on September 8. BOTH HAD ’REFUSED TREATMENT’On September 8, while ordering the transfer of Gujjar’s murder probe to the CBI, the Delhi high court directed the agency to look into the role of jail doctors. The high court on Wednesday noted that when Gujjar was injured, his life could have been saved if proper medical treatment was provided. On September 11, HT reported that the prison’s inquiry report showed that while Gujjar had suffered 12 injuries on his body, the jail doctors only gave him a painkiller “because Gujjar refused treatment” at around 1 am on August 4. According to a jail superintendent’s report in the Swami murder case, he too had “refused treatment.” In that case, the superintendent submitted a report to the police claiming that at around 7 am on May 13, the prison officers saw four inmates -- Arun, Akash, Ganpat and Kishan -- beating Swami with a cricket bat. “ The inmate Arun was also injured and blood was oozing out from his head when the jail officials intervened. Immediately Arun was taken to jail dispensary where he was given stitches and Shrikant was asked to come to the jail dispensary, however he refused to go to the dispensary.” Sometime later (the time is not specified in the report), jail officers found Swami complaining of “pain and trepidation in his body” and also noted the “injury in his body” after which he was rushed to the dispensary and later to the Safdarjung Hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries. Some jail officers said they found prison doctors negligent in discharging their duty in the two cases. “The prison department will soon write to the state government about the conduct of the doctors inside. The CBI is investigating the role of every person in the case,” said a second prison officer, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/common-links-appear-in-two-tihar-deaths-101632335499250.html
23-09-2021||India||MP woman suffers partial vision loss after acid attack: Police||A 20-year-old woman suffered partial vision loss after she was allegedly attacked with acid and brutally thrashed by two men in Panna district, police said on Wednesday. The incident took place on Tuesday when the accused arrived at the woman’s house and started fighting with her brother. A sister of the accused, police said, had recently eloped with an unknown person and the two men suspected the role of the siblings behind it. “She told Pawai Police that the accused -- Summi Raja and Goldi Raja -- arrived at her house and started fighting with her brother. They later took her and her brother to a nearby forest and allegedly thrashed them,” Panna superintendent of police Dharmraj Meena said. “The accused also tried to molest the woman and when she objected, they threw acid in her eyes. They fled from the spot as the woman started crying for help. Her brother also went missing after the incident,” he added. The woman was rushed to a district hospital by a passerby but later referred to an eye hospital in Chitrakoot. A case under section 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt), 294 (using obscene language) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code was registered against the accused. “The woman has suffered burn injuries in her eyes and has suffered partial vision loss. The doctors are not sure about the acid used but are trying hard to save the eyes from getting permanently damaged,” district collector Sanjay Mishra said. A search for the accused and the woman’s brother is underway, police said.(With inputs from Anupam Pateriya from Sagar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-woman-suffers-partial-vision-loss-after-acid-attack-police-101632335438626.html
23-09-2021||India||Kerala high court allows minor rape survivor to medically terminate pregnancy||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday allowed another minor rape survivor to medically terminate her pregnancy, which was a result of a sexual assault on her, a the third such order passed by the court in the last week. The latest victim was 16 weeks pregnant. The survivors of the earlier two cases were more than 26 weeks pregnant, and the court constituted a medical board following which, termination was allowed on recommendation. In March 2021, an amendment was made by the Parliament to the Medical Termination Pregnancy Act (MTP) of 1971, to increase the permissible termination period from 20 to 24 weeks, exceeding which, the high court can pass a special order in exceptional cases. In the latest case, the parents of the 16-year-old survivor moved the court after two private hospitals refused to terminate her pregnancy since a case was registered against the perpetrator of the crime. But a government lawyer, whose opinion was sought by the court, said in this particular case the permission of the court was not required under the MTP Act since it was under the permissible period of termination. The survivor’s counsel also contended in the high court that delivery at this age would be detrimental to the physical and mental health of the survivor. The court later directed her parents to approach a government hospital with a copy of the amended act and the court order to terminate her pregnancy.It later disposed of the father’s petition. During the hearing of a POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act case about two months back, the court had expressed concern over the growing number of sexual assault cases against minors. In the last year, the court permitted 12 minor survivors who were sexually assaulted, to medically terminate their pregnancy. In six cases, the offenders were relatives of the survivors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-court-allows-another-minor-to-medically-terminate-pregnancy-after-sexual-assault-101632306516339.html
23-09-2021||NA||Highlights: International travel should be made easier, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi embarked on a three-day visit to the United States on Wednesday to address a meeting of the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA). He will also participate in the QUAD Leaders' Summit and hold a bilateral meeting with US President Joe Biden at the White House during the trip.The PM will be accompanied by a high-level delegation that would comprise external affairs minister (EAM) S Jaishankar and national security advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval.Also Read| 'Occasion to strengthen strategic ties': PM Modi before leaving for USSpeaking to news agency ANI, foreign secretary Harsh V Shringla said the meeting between Modi and Biden on September 24 will focus on the present regional security situation following the recent developments in Afghanistan. As part of the Quad Leaders' Summit to be hosted by Biden, interactions will be held among Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, his Japanese counterpart Yoshihide Suga, besides Modi.Also Read| At UNGA, Biden says ‘future’ belongs to those who allow people to ‘breathe free’On September 25, he will address the UNGA session, where he will dwell on issues like global efforts to combat the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, climate change and cross-border terrorism among others. Follow all the updates here:International travel should be made easier via mutual recognition of certificates: PM Modi at Global Covid-19 summitPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday at the global Covid-19 summit said that countries need to “focus on addressing the pandemic’s economic effects.” Pertaining to this, he added that global travel “should be made easier” through mutual recognition of vaccine certificates.Joe Biden launches EU-US vaccine partnership to beef up global vaccine donationsUS is leading world on vaccination donations, we need other high-income countries to deliver on their own ambitious vaccine donations&pledges. Today we're launching EU-US vaccine partnership to work more closely together&with our partners in expanding global vaccinations: US Pres pic.twitter.com/7Ski3o6h2RBiden also stressed for countries to unite to donate, and not sell, Covid-19 vaccine doses to low and lower-income nations, and for these donations to come without any political string.PM Modi to meet heads of Adobe, Qualcomm tomorrow in Washington DCPrime Minister Narendra Modi, who is en route to the US, will meet several global leaders, including the heads of Qualcomm, Adobe, First Solar, and Blackstone, among others, to participate in the meeting, news agency ANI reported.US to donate 500 million additional Pfizer Covid vaccines to worldUS President Joe Biden will announce Wednesday the government's plans to donate an additional 500 million Pfizer-BioNTech Covid vaccines to the rest of the world, bringing its total commitment to 1.1 billion, officials told news agency AFP on Wednesday. Read moreAhead of Quad summit, Yoshihide Suga warns China's military rise could threaten Japanese economyJapanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga told news agency Bloomberg on Wednesday that China’s rapidly growing military influence and unilateral changing of the status quo could pose a risk to Japan. PM Modi's UNGA address to focus on Covid, climate changeThe Prime Minister's address at the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) will focus on issues such as Covid-19 pandemic, climate change and cross-border terrorism. PM Modi's departure statement ahead of US visit 2021: Full textIn a statement before leaving for US, Prime Minister Modi said that his upcoming meetings will provide an occasion for India to strengthen the comprehensive global strategic partnership with the US, consolidate relations with India's strategic partners - Japan and Australia - and take forward bilateral collaborations on important global issues. Read moreFlight to fly over Pak airspace to avoid AfghanistanPrime Minister Narendra Modi's non-stop flight to the US on Wednesday will fly over Pakistan's airspace to avoid Afghanistan. Government sources told news agency PTI that India had sought permission from Pakistan regarding the usage of Pakistan's airspace for flight to the US, for which a nod was given by Islamabad.MEA says PM Modi's US visit ‘a visit of enormous significance’A visit of enormous significance!PM @narendramodi embarks on a visit to USA. The first in-person Quad Leaders’ Summit; bilateral meetings with President @JoeBiden, @VP Kamala Harris, PM @ScottMorrisonMP and PM @sugawitter; and address at the 76th UN General Assembly, await! pic.twitter.com/YtfP3ovj8EArindam Baghchi, the spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs, said on Wednesday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's three-day visit to the United States will be a visit of enormous significance. PM Modi departs from New Delhi for his visit to the US#WATCH | PM Narendra Modi departs from New Delhi for a 3-day visit to US to attend the first in-person Quad Leaders’ Summit, hold bilateral meetings, and address United Nations General Assembly pic.twitter.com/hxNeQEKMH1PM Modi on Wednesday departed from New Delhi for his three-day visit to the United States. Looking forward to meet US V-P Harris to discuss global issues, says ModiPrime Minister Modi also said on Wednesday the he is looking forward to meet United States Vice President Kamala Harris to discuss global issues and explore ideas for cooperation between India and the US. ‘Visit an occasion to strengthen the Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership with US’: PM ModiModi also said on Wednesday that his three-day trip to the United States will be an occasion to strengthen the Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership with the US, consolidate relations with  Japan and Australia - and take forward  'our' collaboration on important global issues. ‘Will discuss regional, global issues with Biden’: PM before leaving for USDuring my visit to US between Sept 22-25, I will review India-US Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership with President Joe Biden and exchange views on regional and global issues of mutual interest: PM Narendra Modi before departing for US pic.twitter.com/yLIGsT683zMoments before leaving for the United States, Prime Minister Modi said on Wednesday that he will exchange views on regional and global issues of mutual interest with US President Joe Biden.  PM Modi to leave for United States at 11amPeople familiar with developments have told Hindustan Times Modi would leave for the US at 11am on Wednesday. The PM will be accompanied by a high-level delegation that would comprise external affairs minister (EAM) S Jaishankar and national security advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-us-visit-live-updates-101632285611124.html
23-09-2021||NA||Highlights: UP recommends CBI probe into Narendra Giri's death||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:UP seeks CBI inquiry into priest's deathUttar Pradesh Government recommends CBI investigation into the death case of president of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, Mahant Narendra Giri.Intensity of interaction between India, US has increased, says Indian ambassador to USWe have had a lot of interactions, visits by cabinet ministers from the US & also our EAM and the Foreign Secretary came here. So, the intensity of interaction has increased as also the content: Indian Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, to ANI in Washington DC pic.twitter.com/QruusLZ3R5India's ambassador to US Taranjit Singh Sandhu said that the intensity of interaction between the two countries has increased, reports ANI. Joe Biden announces half billion doses of Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine to donateToday I'm announcing another historic commitment. The US is buying another half-billion doses of Pfizer to donate to low and middle-income countries around the world. This is another half-billion doses that will all be shipped by this time next year: US President Joe Biden pic.twitter.com/IjZ3MRQnLVUS President Joe Biden announced that the country would donate another 500 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine to low- and middle-income countries, reports ANI.Maharashtra reports 3,608 new Covid-19 cases, Mumbai adds 486 cases to tallyWith 3,608 new Covid-19 cases and 48 deaths, Maharashtra's tally reached 6,531,237 and the death toll climbed to 138,664.Mumbai saw 486 new cases as the total confirmed cases reached 739,361 and with four more deaths, the death toll went up to 16,063.Priest son arrested in Akhara head Narendra Giri's death caseOne Sandeep Tiwari arrested in connection with Mahant Narendra Giri death case: Prayagraj PoliceSandeep Tiwari arrested in connection with Mahant Narendra Giri's death case, reports ANI citing Prayagraj Police.PM Modi to meet global CEOs in Washington on Sept 23PM Modi's US visit | On 23rd September, PM Modi will meet global CEOs in Washington DC. The Heads of Qualcomm, Adobe, First Solar, General Atomics and Blackstone to participate in the meeting. pic.twitter.com/knPPARwrkBPrime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to meet global CEOs, including the chiefs of Qualcomm, Adobe, First Solar, General Atomics and Blackstone in Washington DC on September 23, reports ANI. Fight of opposition parties will continue till Modi govt is ousted, says Sitaram YechuryFight of 19 opposition parties to save the country has begun like a people's movement and it will continue till Modi govt is ousted from power; many parties are also joining in: CPI (M) General Secretary Sitaram YechuryCPI (M) leader Sitaram Yechury said that the fight of 19 opposition parties would continue till the Modi government is ousted from power, reports PTI.Ex-gratia of ₹50,000 to be given from state disaster response fund for Covid-19 deaths: Centre tells SCAn ex-gratia of ₹50,000, from the state disaster response fund (SDRF) would be given to the kin of Covid-19 victims, Centre told the Supreme Court, reports PTI. US to donate 500 million additional Covid-19 vaccine doses, reports AFP#UPDATE Biden will ask leaders to vaccinate 70% of every country by Sept. 2022: officials pic.twitter.com/kbVSbrQrMtUS to donate additional 500 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine to the world, reports AFP.JNU says phase 3, 4 reopening of campus from Sept 23, 27 respectivelyDelhi: Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) decides phase 3 and 4 reopenings of the campus from 23rd September and 27th September respectively. pic.twitter.com/xUVZ0mKa2CThe Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) has said that the phase 3 and 4 of its reopening of campus will begin from September 23 and September 27 respectively, reports ANI. Anand Giri sent to 14-day judicial custdoy in connection with Mahant Narendra Giri death case#UPDATE | Anand Giri has been sent to 14-day Judicial custdoy in connection with the president of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, Mahant Narendra Giri death case.Anand Giri, disciple of Mahant Narendra Giri, president of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, has been sent to 14-day judicial custody, reports ANI.‘Poor, vulnerable in developing countries affected more by Covid’: RBI GuvCOVID-19 pandemic has affected poor and vulnerable more in developing countries: RBI Governor Shaktikanta DasThe Reserve Bank of India's governor Shaktikanta Das said that Covid-19 pandemic has affected the poor and vulnerable more in developing countries, reports PTI. Nepal hopeful of receiving more Covid-19 vaccines as India announces resumption of 'Vaccine Maitri'Nepal's envoy to India Nilamber Acharya expressed hope to receive more Covid-19 vaccine doses from India following the announcement to resume ‘Vaccine Maitri’ initiative to export jabs, reports ANI.J&K govt sacks 6 employees for having terror linksJammu and Kashmir government sacked six of its employees for having terror links and working as overground workers, reports ANI. Air India CMD Rajiv Bansal appointed as secretary in civil aviation ministryAir India CMD Rajiv Bansal has been appointed as Secretary in the Ministry of Civil Aviation (File photo) pic.twitter.com/hM3zlD9BH0Air India CMD Rajiv Bansal has been appointed as a secretary in the ministry of civil aviation, reports ANI. ED conducts raids at multiple locations in Hyderabad Enforcement Directorate (ED) conducted raids on Wednesday at multiple locations in Hyderabad and other places across India in connection with its money laundering probe against Karvy Stock Broking Limited (KSBL), reported ANI.2 Taliban members among 3 killed in Jalalabad attackThree civilians were killed in an attack in district 7 of Afghanistan's Jalalabad on Wednesday, TOLO news reported. Adding that two of those killed were members of Taliban. UK to send over 1 million Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine doses to South KoreaThe United Kingdom will be sending 1 million doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine to South Korea, reported Reuters. Adding that by the end of 2021 South Korea will be returning the same number of doses to the UK.UK government approves Covishield in revised advisoryCOVID19 | In its revised travel advisory, the UK government says Covishield qualifies as an approved vaccine pic.twitter.com/B5R52cDu6vHaryana govt announces pension scheme for maintenance of trees older than 75 yearsOn Wednesday the Haryana government announced a pension scheme of ₹2,500 for the maintenance of trees older than 75 years, called the Pran Vayu Devta Pension Scheme. "Such trees will be identified throughout the state and these will be looked after by involving local people in this scheme," Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar told news agency ANI.SC rejects Centre's plea to defer first NDA exam for womenSupreme Court rejects Centre's plea to defer the first NDA exam for women candidates, directs women will be allowed to sit for the upcoming exam on November 14.The Supreme Court said, “This won't send the right signal to women after having given them the aspiration..let's begin from this year.”Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri in West Bengal, campaigns door to door for BJP's Priyanka TibrewalWest Bengal: Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri conducts door-to-door campaign in Bhabanipur Assembly constituency in support of BJP candidate Priyanka Tibrewal who is contesting the by-election against CM Mamata Banerjee pic.twitter.com/bXbYxsc8xvWest Bengal: Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri conducts door-to-door campaign in Bhabanipur Assembly constituency in support of BJP candidate Priyanka Tibrewal who is contesting the by-election against CM Mamata Banerjee Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda calls for CLP meetingFormer chief minister of Haryana Bhupinder Singh Hooda has called for a Congress Legislative Party (CLP) meeting in Chandigarh on Wednesday, reported news agency ANI.Policeman succumbs to bullet injury in J&K's Kupwara Policeman Ajay Dhar succumbed to a bullet injury in J&K's Kupwara on Tuesday night after he forcefully tried to enter a temple at midnight. According to J&K Police, Dhar was shot by a sentry guarding a temple around 2 am after he failed to stop when asked, reported ANI.India's daily Covid-19 tally goes up by 26,964; 383 fatalities recorded in last 24 hoursIndia recorded 26,964 cases on Wednesday, pushing the total tally of cases to 3,35,31,498. In the last 24 hours 131 fatalities were also recorded, the death toll now stands at 445,768, according to the Union health ministry.PM Modi congratulates his Canadian counterpart for election winPM Modi congratulated his Canadian counterpart Justin Trudeau for wining the Parliamentary elections. “Congratulations Prime Minister @JustinTrudeau on your victory in the elections! I look forward to continue working with you to further strengthen India-Canada relations, as well as our cooperation on global and multilateral issues,” the PM tweeted on Wednesday. Mortal remains of Mahant Narendra Giri sent for post-mortemPrayagraj: Mortal remains of Mahant Narendra Giri taken to Swaroop Rani Nehru Medical College for post-mortem pic.twitter.com/9joefIyRaQCustoms dept arrests 2 officials at Mumbai airport for possessionThe Customs department arrested two individuals who arrived from Johnsburg, US, for possessing 5kg heroine worth ₹25 crores. Accused have been sent to judicial custody for 14 days, reported ANI.Taliban seeks representation at UN, names new envoyThe Taliban have demanded representation at this week's United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) session, challenging the credentials of the current envoy of the country. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-september-22-2021-101632273001438.html
23-09-2021||India||17-year-old teenager from Chennai finds bug in IRCTC’s ticketing portal, gets it fixed||A 17-year-old school student from Chennai has identified and flagged a bug in the online ticketing platform of the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) that could have made the private information of millions of passengers vulnerable, according to news reports on Tuesday. The bug has then been fixed and was also acknowledged by the IRCTC. Also, the IRCTC has said that their e-ticketing system is well protected with the state of the art cyber-security technologies.The Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT), India, based on the alert by the teenager, marked the vulnerability to the IRCTC, which then fixed it, thus preventing the potential hack of millions of user records from the largest online ticket reservation portal in the country.P Renganathan, the 17-year-old class 12 student from Tambaram, Chennai, said that he tried to reserve a train ticket by logging into the IRCTC’s portal a few days earlier, during which he came across certain vulnerabilities in the system that could compromise its security features, according to a report in The Hindu on Tuesday. Renganathan could access the data about the other passengers such as name, gender and age and also journey-related data such as PNR number, train details, departure station and the data of journey, due to the critical Insecure Object Direct References (IDOR) vulnerability on the platform, the report also showed.He said that a hacker could have been able to cancel a ticket of the passenger without their knowledge, a claim that the IRCTC has denied, due to the vulnerability and it caused the risk of the data of millions of passengers being leaked.“Since the back-end code is the same, a hacker would have been able to order food, change the boarding station and even cancel the ticket without the knowledge of the bona fide passenger. Other services like domestic/international tourism, bus tickets and hotel bookings would have been possible in the user profile of other passengers. Most importantly, there was a risk of a huge database of millions of passengers getting leaked,” The Hindu quoted him as saying.Earlier on August 30 the teenager had raised the issue with CERT, India, which had notified the IRCTC immediately. The bug was fixed five days later by the IRCTC, the report showed.However, IRCTC later clarified that the issue has been fixed on September 2 and that the website is “well secured and protected” and is subjected to regular third party security audits. Further, it also said that there is no chance of cancelling ticket booked by another user or changing their boarding station without logging in from the same account from which the ticket was initially booked. “Railways E-ticketing system is a well-protected system equipped with state of the art cyber security technologies at Network, System and Application layers. The system has been regularly audited by third-party security auditors for security vulnerabilities. The website ensures secure data transfer with its users and payment gateways/ Banks with end to end data encryption. However, as and when any bugs and vulnerabilities are reported from any quarters, it is taken up and resolved,” IRCTC's PRO Anand Kumar Jha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/17yearold-teenager-from-chennai-finds-bug-in-irctc-s-ticketing-portal-report-101632223767951.html
