24-09-2021||India||‘Stronger, closer, tighter’: US heralds new India paradigm||US President Joe Biden on Friday said at a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the relationship between the two countries is “destined to be stronger, closer and tighter”, and the Indian leader rolled out a 10-year road map for growing ties based on Four Ts — talent, technology, trade, and trusteeship.The two were meeting for the first time since Biden took office, and it is one of the most crucial engagements for Prime Minister Modi who is on a three-day visit to the US. The President went on to express optimism about the relationship, saying that he has long believed — even back in 2006 — that by 2020, India and the United States will be “among the closest nations in the world”.The two leaders have spoken on the phone several times, and have participated in virtual meetings. They displayed an easy level of comfort with each other, which was visible immediately when President Biden began recounting a story he has told many times before -- of people in India with the same surname “Biden”. Modi took it forward this time and said that since Biden last told him about it, he got some research done into it and he now brought along some genealogy documents for the president.“Your leadership will certainly play an important role in how this decade is shaped. The seeds have been sown for an even stronger friendship between India and the US,” the PM told Biden.“Today we’re launching a new chapter in the history of US-Indian ties, and taking on some of the toughest challenges we face together, starting with a shared commitment to end the Covid pandemic,” Biden added.Biden said he and Modi will discuss what more can be done to end the pandemic and take on climate challenges that the world faces, and ensure stability Indo-Pacific, including with partners of the Quad, which was scheduled to hold its first in-person summit meeting later in the day. Afghanistan, economic cooperation and trade will also figure in their talks, officials said.Biden also said the relationship was more than a partnership between the two countries and included “family ties”, alluding to the four million Indian-Americans. Pointing to Mahatma Gandhi’s upcoming birth anniversary next week, the US president said people should be reminded that his “message of non-violence, respect, tolerance, matters today maybe more than ever”.In the morning, the US President tweeted about the upcoming bilateral and said: “I look forward to strengthening the deep ties between our two nations, working to uphold a free and open Indo-Pacific, and tackling everything from Covid-19 to climate change.”Prime Minister Modi spoke of the decade starting 2021 as a transformative period for ties between the two countries. Modi then went on to unveil his four-Ts road map: He spoke first of the talent of Indian-Americans that Biden had referred to in his remarks. “When I look at the importance of this decade, and the role that is going to be played by this talent of the Indian Americans, I find that the people to people talent will play a greater role and Indian talent will be a full partner in this relationship,” he said.Technology, the second T, he said, will be the “most important driving force” and technology that is going to be for the service and for the use of humanity.Trade, the third T, will continue to assume importance in the relationship, the Prime Minister said, adding: “We find that the trade between our two countries are actually complementary”. “There are things that you have and there are things that we have, and then we in fact complement each other. I find that the area of trade during this decade, that is also going to be tremendously important,” he stressed.The fourth T: trusteeship, a concept advocated by Mahatma Gandhi, who, Modi said, “used to talk about the principle of trusteeship, trusteeship of the planet”. He added that the sentiment of trusteeship would assume increased importance globally and also in relations between India and the US.”Richard Rossow, head of India studies at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said though the public remarks had “less flash than President Trump’s public engagements with Prime Minister Modi, it reflects a return to normal diplomacy. Not simply for its sober, friendly tone, but also the fact that the leaders are focused on the global partnership. This appeared less transactional than recent summits. Of course, the public session has less importance than what might be announced after the formal bilateral later today.”He also noted that Biden did not use the remarks to “directly raise growing concerns in Washington about human rights interest in India. He reiterated our shared interest but did not turn this into a potential point of friction”.Atman Trivedi, a former Obama administration official who is now a non-resident senior fellow at the Atlantic Council’s South Asia Center, said, “The two leaders meeting in person, separately and with the Quad, presents a rare opportunity to take advantage of the growing strategic convergence in the Indo-Pacific, while working on the most consequential challenges of our times, from Covid-19 to climate change to cybersecurity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stronger-closer-tighter-us-heralds-new-india-paradigm-101632507671943.html
24-09-2021||India||Former MLA booked for derogatory comments against Kerala Health Minister||The Kerala Police on Friday registered a case against former legislator P C George for allegedly making derogatory comments against state health minister Veena George. The editor of Crime magazine T P Nandakumar was also booked. The incident surfaced after a telephonic conversation between George and Nandakumar over mounting Covid-19 cases in the state. Later, excerpts of the conversation were posted in the magazine which carried some disparaging comments against the minister. During the talk George allegedly said she was not fit for the minister’s post and passed some comments against her. HT could not verify the authenticity of the conversation which later surfaced on social media also. The case was registered against the duo after a lawyer of the Kerala High Court BH Manzoor filed a police compliant. In the complaint he said George allegedly made some derogatory comment which was an insult to women in general. Both were charged under Section 509 of the Indian Penal Code (insulting the modesty of women). George later said the case was based on a cooked up report and he would deal with it legally. Leader of Jana Paksham, a splinter group of the Christian-dominated Kerala Congress, he was defeated in Poonjar, his home turf in Idukki district in the last assembly election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-mla-booked-for-derogatory-comments-against-kerala-health-minister-101632507010478.html
24-09-2021||India||BJP says parties should first disclose caste representation within their political outfits||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is under pressure from the opposition parties to clarify its stance on caste-based enumeration, on Friday, responded by asking the parties to first disclose the representation given to various castes in their respective organisations. Addressing the media, Rajya Sabha MP, Sudhanshu Trivedi said even those parties which were founded on the basis of caste politics have ended up as family-oriented parties. “Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav used to be called dharti putra (son of the soil) but he ended up promoting his son. Mayawati, addressed as behanji (sister) by her admirers, spoke of the deprived communities but only thought of her brother,” Trivedi said taking pot-shots at the opposition parties. He said unlike other parties that only speak about empowerment of people from the so-called lower castes, the BJP has walked the talk on development for all. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s policy is clear. He believes in Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas…and welfare measures have been extended to all irrespective of their castes,” he said. Responding to a question on the Union government’s stand on the issue of caste-based enumeration he said the government’s reply to the apex court was based on “technical grounds”. The Union government in an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court has ruled out a caste-based census. Declining to collect data on backward class of citizens during the upcoming census, the government maintained that this exercise is administratively complex, and against the policy decision of the government. Apart from the opposition parties, the BJP’s allies, the JDU and Apna Dal too have been in the forefront of seeking caste-based enumeration. JDU leader and Bihar CM, Nitish Kumar led an all-party meeting that met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to push for their demand for caste-based census.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-says-parties-should-first-disclose-caste-representation-within-their-political-outfits-101632503588749.html
24-09-2021||India||PM Modi-Biden meeting at White House: Here's what the two leaders said||Ahead of the bilateral meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden, the two leaders talked about the scope and significance of a stronger India-US relationship. While PM Modi invoked the sentiment of trusteeship by quoting Mahatma Gandhi, Biden said the world is watching a new chapter in India-US ties. The US President told the briefing that they will talk about what more could be done by the two countries to fight Covid-19 and ensure stability in Indo-Pacific.Here are the top quotes by PM Modi ahead of the bilateral meeting:
24-09-2021||India||5 Bidens in India: PM Modi, Biden share light moment as Modi says he has their papers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden shared a light moment during their much-awaited bilateral summit on Friday in the White House as Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he brought some papers regarding those in India who have Biden surname. This was something that Joe Biden had claimed long before he became the President. During a visit to Mumbai in 2013, Biden had said that his distant relatives lived in Mumbai."You have told about people with the surname Biden. You have personally told me about this. Since then I have been trying to look into this. I have brought some documents also if they may come to any use," PM Modi said in Hindi, with a smile on his face.As his comment was translated into English, Joe Biden burst into laughter and asked in disbelief whether he actually brought some documents. PM Modi nodded with a smile.'Known you for a long time,' says Biden, PM Modi praises US Prez's visionFollowing the light exchange, PM Modi started his remark in which he praised Joe Biden's leadership and hoped for a new era in the history of India-US ties. Biden too recalled the episode and said when he visited Chembur in Mumbai as the vice president of the United States, he was asked by the Indian press whether he had any relatives in India. "I said I don't know but I had received a letter from someone called Biden from India. The next day, Indian press told me that there are five Bidens in India," Biden said. Biden received the letter in 1981 when he was 29 years old. Are there 5 Bidens in India?Reports said Ian Biden, his sister Sonia Francis nee Biden, their mother Angelina Biden, Ian and Sonia's first cousin Rowena Biden are the Bidens of India. The letter that Joe Biden talked about was apparently written to him by Leslie Biden, paternal grandfather of Ian Biden. But they are based in Nagpur and the Joe Biden thinks they are from Mumbai as the letter was written from Mumbai, then Bombay. The Nagpur address was mentioned in the letter and Biden replied to the Nagpur address, reports said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-bidens-in-india-pm-modi-biden-share-light-moment-as-modi-says-he-has-their-papers-101632501779185.html
24-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: NHA chairman says CoWIN not reason behind UK quarantine rule and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Problems with India’s Covid-19 vaccine certification are non-existent: RS SharmaAfter India raised objections regarding the ‘discriminatory’ treatment of vaccinated Indians to the UK, British High Commissioner Alex Ellis on Thursday, made a public statement that neither side had raised technical concerns about each other’s certification process. This came after the High Commission’s statement on Monday that said, “We are engaging with the government of India to explore how we could expand UK recognition of vaccine certification to people vaccinated by a relevant public health body in India.” [Read more…]‘Looking forward’: Biden's message ahead of bilateral meeting with PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi's first in-person meeting with US President Joe Biden began on Friday as PM Modi reached the White House being greeted by the Indian community who organised a welcome programme for PM Modi outside the White House. “This morning I’m hosting Indian PM Narendra Modi at the White House for a bilateral meeting. I look forward to strengthening the deep ties between our two nations, working to uphold a free and open Indo-Pacific, and tackling everything from Covid-19 to climate change,” Biden said ahead of the meeting. [Read more…]Sachin Pilot meets Rahul for 2nd time in a week, Priyanka Gandhi also presentRajasthan Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Friday met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi at the latter's residence in New Delhi, news agency ANI reported. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was also present in the meeting. [Read more…]Be dignified, get rid of ‘super CM’: Sukhbir to ChanniChandigarh Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday urged chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to conduct himself with dignity to match the sanctity of the office he holds. In a veiled attack at state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, Sukhbir advised Channi not to allow “an extra-constitutional super CM” treat him like a “rubber stamp”. [Read more…]Karim questions BCCI for including Hardik in T20 WC squadThe absence of Hardik Pandya in Mumbai Indians' (MI) first matches of IPL 2021 phase 2 has raised a few eyebrows. The Baroda all-rounder could not take the field against the Chennai Super Kings (CSK) and Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) due to inadequate match fitness owing to a niggle. While the MI team management is confident of his return to the field at the earliest, former India cricketer Saba Karim has raised a few pertinent questions. [Read more…]Top 7 Google Android features smartphones are getting this fallGoogle can drop its Android 12 mobile operating system anytime now. Ahead of the launch of the Android 11 successor, Google has announced a major update for its Android OS that brings a host of new features including the ability to control smartphones using facial gestures, using your smartphone as a TV remote, and adding photos and videos to a passcode-protected space. Let’s take a brief look at these Android features. [Read more…]Raqesh Bapat says there was ‘lot of guilt’ during divorce from Ridhi DograWhile Raqesh Bapat was on Bigg Boss OTT, his ex-wife Ridhi Dogra championed him from the outside, defending him against comments such as ‘spineless’ and ‘henpecked husband’. The two parted ways in 2019, after more than seven years of marriage, and share a cordial relationship with each other. [Read more…]||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-nha-chairman-says-cowin-not-reason-behind-uk-quarantine-rule-and-all-the-latest-news-101632496665542.html
24-09-2021||India||‘Looking forward’: Biden's message ahead of bilateral meeting with PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's first in-person meeting with US President Joe Biden began on Friday with a focus on bilateral trade, US-India ties and the present situation in Afghanistan. Terming India-US ties as ‘deep’, Biden tweeted that he is looking forward to the bilateral meeting with PM Modi, the first in-person meeting between the two leaders after Biden became US President. “This morning I’m hosting Indian PM Narendra Modi at the White House for a bilateral meeting. I look forward to strengthening the deep ties between our two nations, working to uphold a free and open Indo-Pacific, and tackling everything from Covid-19 to climate change,” Biden said ahead of the meeting.As PM Modi reached the White House, he was greeted by the Indian community who organised a welcome programme for PM Modi outside the White House.  Follow live updates of PM Modi's bilateral meeting with Joe BidenThe situation in Afghanistan will be one of the key issues at the Modi-Biden meeting, the ministry of external affairs said earlier. The two leaders are likely to discuss the need to "stem radicalism, extremism, cross-border terrorism and dismantling of global terrorist network" during their one-hour meeting.  This morning I’m hosting Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the White House for a bilateral meeting. I look forward to strengthening the deep ties between our two nations, working to uphold a free and open Indo-Pacific, and tackling everything from COVID-19 to climate change.US and India share robust and multifaceted bilateral ties which Biden described as ‘deep’. Discussion to bolster bilateral trade and investment ties will take place. "The bilateral meeting will also feature the current regional security situation following the recent development in Afghanistan, our stakes as a neighbour and the long-standing and preferred development partner of the people of Afghanistan. In this context, he would undoubtedly discuss the need to stem radicalism, extremism, cross-border terrorism and dismantling of the global terrorist network," the external affairs ministry said earlier. As India-US ties have become deeper in recent years, the frequency of high-level visits and exchanges between India and the US has gone up. PM Modi had visited the US in 2019 and then US President Donald Trump visited India in 2020. The two countries have also held 2 + 2 Ministerial Dialogue.PM Modi and Biden have participated in several virtual summits, including that of the Quad in March and the Climate Change Summit in April. The bilateral meeting between the Prime Minister and the US President will be followed by the first in-person Quad leaders' summit. On Thursday, PM Modi met US Vice President Kamala Harris and Prime Ministers of Australia and Japan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/looking-forward-biden-s-message-ahead-of-bilateral-meeting-with-pm-modi-101632495881651.html
24-09-2021||India||‘Not because of CoWIN’: RS Sharma on UK quarantine rule for Indians||NEW DELHI: India and the United Kingdom are yet to arrive at an agreement on accepting India’s Covid-19 vaccine certification so that vaccinated Indian travellers can skip a 10-day quarantine. India’s National Health Authority (NHA) chairman RS Sharma, who held discussions with UK high commissioner Alex Ellis on Thursday, said there was no problem with the digital platform CoWIN and the UK side hadn’t raised any concerns around it either at his meetings. Edited excerpts:So there is no problem with CoWIN or the certificate that India gives?There is none and this is a completely baseless controversy raised by some people.We saw the exchange of tweets between you and the UK high commissioner (who confirmed that no technical concerns were raised about the certification processes). Can you tell us what concerns were raised at the meeting?There were absolutely no concerns either before the meeting or during the meeting. The concerns were actually (in) the fertile minds of some of the people who started a controversy where nothing existed.But why is it then that the UK is treating us like the unvaccinated despite having the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine (Covishield)?That’s a larger issue. I have not interacted or am competent enough to answer that question. The only question I am referring to is that they (the UK) have raised certain concerns about India’s certification process. I just wanted to put on record that they are happy and there are absolutely no concerns raised at any point in time by the British side.But couldn’t you help us understand where the problem lies?No, I cannot help you understand because that’s not my mandate. You ask the foreign secretary, you ask the health secretary or someone else. I am just in charge of the CoWIN platform so I will only answer questions about that.So there is no problem with CoWIN or the certificate that India gives?There is none and this is a completely baseless controversy raised by some people.Is the problem that India doesn’t share its Covid data? Or in coordinating data with NHS (United Kingdom National Health Service)?It is so unfortunate that despite my saying there’s no problem, you continue to persist as if there was a problem. What can I say?So you are saying it is a country-to-country issue. I wanted to ask you that IMF and airline associations across the world are pushing for a universal vaccine certificate. Do you and India support this?I am not competent to answer this question. That is being dealt with by the civil aviation ministry and the ministry of external affairs.There’s nothing that the UK wants clarity on, from us?Nothing related to the certificate or process on CoWIN.Finally, did you request the meeting with the UK envoy?The meeting was to understand each other’s system and a perfect understanding has been arrived at. They have even sent us a mail saying that there is no further information required and there is absolutely no concern. In the proceedings of the meeting, there is not even a single line that says that there is concern from either side.Did you ask for the meeting after you heard the reports (of concerns around CoWIN)?No. I didn’t ask for any meeting. Yesterday, he (UK high commissioner) asked for a phone call and we made the call.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-because-of-cowin-rs-sharma-on-uk-quarantine-rule-for-indians-101632495908143.html
24-09-2021||India||Sachin Pilot meets Rahul for 2nd time in a week, Priyanka Gandhi also present||Rajasthan Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Friday met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi at the latter's residence in New Delhi, news agency ANI reported. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was also present in the meeting.This is the second meeting between Rahul Gandhi and former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot. The two earlier met on September 17 where both leaders discussed the political situation in the state, according to a report by HT. Pilot was the deputy chief minister and Rajasthan state unit president till July 2020 but resigned from both posts after he expressed his discontent with Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot.A person from the Congress who is familiar with the developments that happened last week during the meeting between Rahul Gandhi and Sachin Pilot said that no imminent change can be expected in Rajasthan, according to the report by HT.The leaders, however, said that if any changes do occur in Rajasthan, it will be done keeping an eye on the 2024 Lok Sabha elections and means to improve Congress’ performance. Pilot also told the Congress that he will require at least more than a year to prepare for the 2024 elections.Pilot’s second meeting with Rahul Gandhi following the removal of Punjab chief minister has created a buzz in political circles that a change of leadership is imminent but it is still unclear what both the leaders discussed during their meetings.Pilot earlier this year expressed his concern that Congress MLAs in his camp were not given what was due to them despite working hard in the previous legislative assembly elections to ensure Congress was victorious over the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Pilot has also clarified earlier that he does not wish to join the BJP. The BJP however last month said that Pilot and Gehlot were fighting for the CM’s chair. Union labour minister Bhupendra Yadav while on Jan Ashirwad Yatra in Rajasthan targeted the Rajasthan Congress claiming that there was infighting between the two factions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-pilot-meets-rahul-for-2nd-time-in-a-week-priyanka-gandhi-also-present-101632495587734.html
24-09-2021||India||India says China’s ‘provocative behaviour’ on LAC disrupted normal ties||India on Friday blamed China’s “provocative behaviour” and unilateral attempts to alter status quo on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) for disruption of bilateral ties and rejected Beijing’s contention that the Indian side was responsible for the deadly Galwan Valley clash last year. The remarks by external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi were a response to the Chinese foreign ministry’s assertion earlier in the day that the Galwan Valley incident was the result of Indian forces illegally trespassing on the LAC to “encroach on Chinese territory”. The brutal clash in Galwan Valley on June 15 last year, which saw troops from both sides fighting each other for several hours with rods, clubs covered with barbed wire and rocks, resulted in the first fatalities on the LAC in 45 years. The Indian side lost 20 soldiers while China has acknowledged four deaths. The testy exchange on Friday reflected the tensions caused by the dragging military standoff on the LAC that began in May 2020. The two sides withdrew frontline troops from the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February and from Gogra in August. India has insisted bilateral ties can be normalised only when disengagement and de-escalation is completed at other friction points on the LAC such as Hot Springs and Depsang. Responding to a question on the reorganisation of the Indian military into theatre commands and its impact on the Sino-India border at the Chinese foreign ministry’s regular news briefing, spokesperson Zhao Lijian said: “The Galwan Valley incident last year was caused by the Indian side’s illegal trespass of the LAC to encroach on Chinese territory, in violation of previously signed treaties and agreements.” Zhao added, “We hope that the Indian side will strictly abide by relevant treaties and agreements signed by the two countries and take concrete actions to safeguard peace and stability in the China-India border areas.” The series of treaties and agreements signed by the two sides over the years on maintaining peace and tranquillity along the LAC had “played an important role in upholding stability along the China-India border”, he said. The external affairs ministry spokesperson dismissed Zhao’s remarks that the Galwan Valley incident occurred because India violated all treaties and agreements and encroached on Chinese territory. Bagchi said: “We reject such statements. Our position with regard to developments last year along the LAC in eastern Ladakh has been clear and consistent. It was the provocative behaviour and unilateral attempts of the Chinese side to alter status quo in contravention of all our bilateral agreements that resulted in serious disturbance of peace and tranquillity.” He added, “This has also impacted the bilateral relations. As emphasized by [external affairs minister S Jaishankar] in his meeting with Chinese [foreign minister Wang Yi] earlier this month, it is our expectation that the Chinese side will work towards early resolution of the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols.” Following a meeting between Jaishankar and Wang on the margins of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Summit in Dushanbe on September 17, the Indian side had said both ministers had agreed on further meetings of military and diplomatic officials to speedily resolve the remaining issues related to the standoff. Several rounds of diplomatic and military talks have failed to end the tensions, the worst in decades. India has consistently rejected China’s accusations that Indian troops crossed the LAC in eastern Ladakh, and asserted that New Delhi has always taken a responsible approach to border management and maintaining peace and tranquillity. Meanwhile, Chinese ambassador Sun Weidong said in a virtual address to a track II dialogue event on Friday that “peace and tranquillity in the border areas is important, but it is not the whole story of the bilateral relations”. His remarks reflected the Chinese position that the standoff be delinked from ties in other areas such as trade. Addressing the event co-hosted by the School of International Studies of Sichuan University (SCU), China Center for South Asian Studies and the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, Sun said the difficulties witnessed in bilateral ties since 2020 had been “unseen for many years”. The two countries should seek a “fair, reasonable and mutually acceptable solution” to the LAC standoff through dialogue, he said. “We hope that the Indian side will meet us halfway to move the situation towards stability and shift it from urgent dispute settlement to regular management and control, so as to jointly safeguard the peace and tranquillity of the border area,” he added. Sun contended it is important for India and China to cooperate to counter turbulence and change on the global stage, the Covid-19 pandemic, sluggish economic recovery and the sudden changes in Afghanistan. “The current status of bilateral relations [is] obviously not in the fundamental interest of either side. Many far-sighted people from both countries have advocated that China and India should improve their relations, and bring...relations back on track,” he said. In an apparent jibe at groupings such as the Quad and AUKUS, Sun said some countries with a Cold War mentality were seeking “closed and exclusive ‘small cliques’ with the aim of containing a third party, stoking bloc confrontation and geopolitical games”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-says-china-s-provocative-behaviour-on-lac-disrupted-normal-ties-101632494108148.html
24-09-2021||India||Tina Dabi's sister Ria Dabi ranks 15th in UPSC, elder sister 'delighted'||IAS officer Tina Dabi's younger sister Ria Dabi has ranked 15th in the UPSC Civil Services 2020 exam, the final result of which was announced on Friday. Tina Dabi was the topper of UPSC Civil Services 2015; the result was announced in 2016. Tina Dabi's success in the UPSC was much celebrated as she was the first Dalit to top the Civil Services examination. "I am delighted to share that my younger sister Ria Dabi has got rank 15 in UPSC 2020 exam," the IAS officer posted on social media. Like elder sister Tina, Ria too went to Lady Shri Ram College of Delhi University. While Tina Dabi is posted in Rajasthan at present, Ria is a resident of Delhi.UPSC Civil Services 2020 Results out: List of toppersApart from being the first Dalit topper of the UPSC, Tina Dabi remained in news for his marriage with Athar Amir Khan, who was also a UPSC topper. Their marriage was hailed as a symbol of communal harmony and many politicians were present at one of the wedding receptions of the celebrated couple. In November 2020, Tina Dabi and Athar filed for mutual divorce in a family court in Jaipur. In August this year, the duo got divorced. The Union Public Service Commission announced the final result of the Civil Services exam 2020 on Friday. Shubham Kumar, B.Tech in civil engineering from IIT Bombay has topped the list while Jagriti Awasthi, a B. Tech in Electrical Engineering from MANIT, Bhopal is the topper among the women candidates securing overall 2nd rank.The top 25 candidates comprise 13 men and 12 women.Education qualifications of the top 25 successful candidates range from graduation in Engineering, Humanities, Commerce and Medical Science from premier institutions such as IIT, BITS, NSUT, DTU, JIPMER, Delhi University, Mumbai University etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tina-dabi-s-sister-ria-dabi-ranks-15th-in-upsc-elder-sister-delighted-101632492991330.html
24-09-2021||India||MoD inks ₹22,000-cr deal with Airbus for 56 C-295 planes||The defence ministry on Friday announced that it has signed a ₹22,000-crore contract with Airbus Defence and Space for 56 C-295 medium transport aircraft to modernise the Indian Air Force’s transport fleet, with the development coming a fortnight after India’s Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) cleared the purchase to give a push to the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (self-reliant India campaign). The C-295s will replace the IAF’s fleet of ageing Avro-748 planes that entered service in the early 1960s. Airbus Defence and Space and Tata Advanced Systems Limited (TASL) will jointly execute the programme under which Airbus will deliver the first 16 aircraft in flyaway condition from Spain while TASL will assemble the rest in India. IAF will become the 35th C-295 operator worldwide. “The aircraft is capable of operating from semi-prepared strips and has a rear ramp door for quick reaction and para-dropping of troops and cargo. It will give a major boost to the tactical airlift capability of IAF, especially in the northern and north-eastern sectors and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands,” the defence ministry said in a statement. The C-295 can carry up to nine tonnes of payload or 71 personnel (or 50 paratroopers) and has a maximum speed of 480 kmph. It has a light footprint and can operate from short or unprepared airstrips. The Avro replacement project was in the works for almost a decade. The defence acquisition council --- India’s apex defence procurement body --- accorded its acceptance of necessity (AoN) to replace the Avro planes with 56 new aircraft in 2012. Under India’s defence procurement rules, AoN by the council is the first step towards buying military hardware. “The C-295 is a damn good aircraft. I hope we start manufacturing it in India soon to boost Atmanirbhar Bharat. The Avro was overdue for replacement,” said former IAF chief Air Chief Marshal PV Naik (retd). The first 16 aircraft will be delivered to IAF in flyaway condition between September 2023 and September 2025, while the remaining 40 will be inducted by September 2031. Airbus Defence and Space and TASL are yet to announce where the aircraft will be assembled in India. “More than 100 locations across the country have been looked at and evaluated over the years. We have looked at aspects such as length of the airstrip, availability of infrastructure, social indicators and weather. A decision has not yet been made,” TASL CEO Sukaran Singh said at a media briefing after the contract was signed. The final assembly line in India will have a capacity of 12 aircraft per year. After the contract has been fully executed, subsequent aircraft manufactured in India can be exported to countries cleared by the government, the defence ministry said in its statement. Export opportunities could be there, but the current priority is to execute the project to the satisfaction of IAF, said Jean-Brice Dumont, executive vice president, military aircraft, Airbus Defence and Space. “Export potential is there, but we don’t want to divert attention from this project (for 56 C-295s),” Dumont said. The project is expected to boost India’s aerospace ecosystem and generate 15,000 skilled and 10,000 indirect jobs in the country. “It is the first ‘Make in India’ aerospace programme in the private sector involving the full development of a complete industrial ecosystem; from the manufacture to assembly, test and qualification, to delivery and maintenance of the complete lifecycle of the aircraft,” Airbus Defence and Space and TASL said in a joint release. This is the first time that an Indian private company will be manufacturing a military aircraft in India. “This endeavour demonstrates TASL’s capabilities as a defence manufacturer to build globally competitive complex platforms in India,” Singh said. While the C-295s are meant to replace the Avro-748 planes, the new aircraft will also be suitable for demanding roles that the AN-32 currently undertakes. The contract will also have an offset clause. India’s offset policy stipulates that in all big-ticket capital purchases, the foreign vendor has to invest at least 30% of the value of the purchase in the country to boost indigenous capabilities. Airbus Defence and Space will discharge its offset obligations through direct purchase of eligible products and services from Indian offset partners, officials said. “The clearance of the joint project between Airbus Defence and Tata Advanced Systems is a great step forward in the opening up of aviation and avionics projects in India…It will create a domestic supply chain capability to international standards, which has never been undertaken before,” Tata Sons chairman emeritus Ratan Tata said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mod-inks-rs-22-000-cr-deal-with-airbus-for-56-c-295-planes-101632492187606.html
24-09-2021||India||Meenakari chess set, copy of old notifications: What PM Modi gifted to Kamala Harris, other Quad leaders||With a hint of Kashi and nostalgia, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during their first in-person meeting as part of the US visit, gifted US Vice President Kamala Harris a copy of old notifications in a handcrafted wooden frame, related to her grandfather, who was a senior Indian government officer, along with a 'meenakari' chess set, government officials said on Friday."In a very touching gesture, PM Modi presented Vice President Harris a copy of old notifications related to her grandfather, Shri PV Gopalan, in a wooden handicraft frame. P V Gopalan was a senior and respected government officer who served in various positions," a government source told PTI.Modi also gifted Harris a 'gulabi meenakari' chess set, the craft of which is closely associated with Kashi or Varanasi, one of the oldest cities of the world and the prime minister's Lok Sabha constituency.Each piece on this particular chess set is remarkably handcrafted, officials said. The bright colours reflect the vibrancy of Varanasi, they added.During their discussions at the White House, Prime Minister Modi described India and America as "natural partners" as the two leaders decided to further cement the Indo-US strategic partnership and discussed global issues of common interest, including threats to democracy and in the Indo-Pacific, according to the joint statement.Besides meeting Harris, Prime Minister Modi held bilateral meetings with Suga and Morrison on Thursday and presented special gifts to them.To Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, PM Modi gifted a 'silver gulabi meenakari ship', while Japanese Premier Yoshihide Suga was gifted a sandalwood Buddha statue. The ship gifted to Morrison is also distinctly handcrafted and its brightness reflects Varanasi's dynamism, officials said. Meanwhile, Buddhism plays a big role in bringing India and Japan together. The thoughts and ideas of Lord Buddha reverberate far and wide in Japan.Modi arrived in Washington on Wednesday on an official visit to the US during which he will hold the first face-to-face meeting with President Joe Biden, attend the maiden in-person Quad summit and address the 76th session of the UN General Assembly in New York.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/meenakari-chess-set-copy-of-old-notifications-what-pm-modi-gifted-to-kamala-harris-other-quad-leaders-101632489976127.html
24-09-2021||India||UPSC Civil Services 2020 Results out: List of toppers||The Union Public Service Commission has announced the final result of the Civil Services exam 2020 on its website, upsc.gov.in. The Commission has released the list of candidates who will now join various central services in addition to IAS, IPS and IFS. Shubham Kumar, B.Tech in civil engineering from IIT Bombay has topped the list while Jagriti Awasthi, a B. Tech in Electrical Engineering from MANIT, Bhopal is the topper among the women candidates securing overall 2nd rank.The top 25 candidates comprise 13 men and 12 women. Education qualifications of the top 25 successful candidates range from graduation in Engineering, Humanities, Commerce and Medical Science from premier institutions such as IIT, BITS, NSUT, DTU, JIPMER, Delhi University, Mumbai University etc. The top 25 successful candidates opted for subjects like Anthropology, Civil Engineering, Commerce and Accountancy, Economics, Geography, Mathematics, Mechanical Engineering, Medical Science, Philosophy, Physics, Political Science, International Relations, Public Administration and Sociology as their optional choice in the Main examination.Here is the list of toppersShubham KumarJagrati AwasthiAnkita JainYash JalukaMamta YadavMeera KPraveen KumarJivani Kartik NagjibhaiApala MishraSatyam GandhiDevayanuMithun PremrajGaurav BudaniaKarishma NairRia DabiArth JainSarthak AgrawalRadhika GuptaShashwat TripurariP SrijaVaishali JainNitesh Kumar JainSadaf ChoudharyKrishan Kumar SinghVaibhav RawatPulkit SinghMaithreyu NaiduDivya MishraPrakhar Kumar SinghDivyanshu ChoudharyThese candidates have been recommended for appointment to the IAS, IFS, IPS and Centra services. A total number of 761 candidates have been recommended for the appointment.Candidates have been selected on the basis of the main written exam held from January 8 to January 17 and the interview held from August 2 to September 22. Prior to the main written exam, a preliminary test was held in October 2020. Candidates who had qualified for the preliminary test were shortlisted for the main exam. A total of 2,046 candidates were shortlisted for the interview.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upsc-civil-services-2020-results-out-list-of-toppers-101632490273621.html
24-09-2021||India||On BJP's post-poll violence claim, Mamata cites NRC deaths in Assam||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee on Friday hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over a protest it held near her Kalighat residence with the body of a party worker on Thursday.Calling the main Opposition party in the state an insanely violent and murderous one, Banerjee said the Trinamool Congress was not a party of goons and its workers would feel embarrassed to even touch workers affiliated with the former.She also hit out at the BJP leadership over the deaths in Assam following the publication of the National Register of Citizens and said there was no law in BJP’s rule.BJP is insanely violent, cruel and murderous. They are doing hooliganism every day. They are bombing their own houses and saying they are being attacked. Who will attack you? We feel embarrassed by even touching you. TMC is not a party of goons: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee pic.twitter.com/5Z2JV7sL9WBanerjee made the statements while speaking at an event in Bhabanipur where a by-election is due next week. Banerjee is pitted against the BJP’s Priyanka Tibrewal in the election.Also read | Someone else will become Bengal CM if I don’t win: Mamata Banerjee“I heard a worker of the BJP had died months after the elections. Such deaths are always unfortunate. They came with the body near my house. Several people were killed in Assam over NRC. Don't you have any shame? There is no law in BJP's rule,” the TMC supremo was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.BJP's newly appointed state chief Sukanta Majumder said earlier in the day the Kolkata Police had registered a ‘suo moto’ case against him and other party leaders, including Tibrewal, in connection with protests with the body of a BJP leader near chief minister Mamata Banerjee's residence in the city.BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra, who took part in a campaign during the day for Tibrewal, said the "violence unleashed in the aftermath of elections in West Bengal has led to a humanitarian crisis" in the state. He said members of his party should be lauded for putting up a "valiant fight against the goons of the ruling TMC".Banerjee said, “The BJP is insanely violent, cruel and murderous. They are indulging in hooliganism every day. They are bombing their own houses and saying they are being attacked. Who will attack you? We feel embarrassed to even touch you. The TMC is not a party of goons.”Banerjee further said no inquiry was initiated against the Communist Party of India- Marxist (CPI-M) even though it was involved in a lot of injustice. “The CPM has done so much injustice, has there been a single CBI inquiry and ED case on them? Our party, which fights with such bravery, is not being spared. Our phones are being tracked through Pegasus,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-bjp-s-post-poll-violence-claim-mamata-cites-nrc-deaths-in-assam-101632488644689.html
24-09-2021||India||Malayalam teacher from UP trains migrant students in local language amid pandemic woes||The local language being a huge impediment for children of migrant labourers in pursuing their education in Kerala, it took a Malayalam teacher from Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh to help them to bridge the gap. Arshi Salim (21), the daughter of a wood work designer, has been teaching 40 children belonging to other states at a centre started by the Samagra Siksha Kerala (SSK) during the Covid-19 pandemic in Kothamangalam in Ernakulam district.Online classes were alien to these children when their very existence was in question due to pandemic-induced recession and job losses of their parents. When the SSK started 40 such centres to help children of migrant workers in Ernakulam, Arshi Salim chipped in. As a daughter of a migrant worker, she understood their pain and agony more than anyone else.“My father came to Kerala when I was 9 years old. Enrolled in a local school I was a mute spectator as the medium of instruction was Malayalam. One day, I mustered enough courage and approached the Malayalam teacher with a strange request-- I wanted to speak like a Malayali. The teacher was so moved that she started teaching me well,” she said. She got a distinction in both Malayalam papers in her Class X Board examination.She is the eldest daughter of M Salim who has four children. “Life was really tough in the initial days of the pandemic. My father even thought of going back. But many people helped us and the SSK selected me as an educational volunteer to teach migrant children,” she said adding she was really happy when she got her first salary of ₹6,000. She is pursuing a computer course now after completing her Plus 2 in humanities with distinction. Not a trained teacher, she imparts basic lessons in all subjects other than Mathematics.“Malayalam is a beautiful language very close to Sanskrit but some words are really tongue-twisting. But once you learn it the flow will come naturally. Now I read Malayalam novels and poems,” she said adding that her first priority is to help ease the burden of her father after assuming a permanent job. Now most of her students are from the north-eastern states. She hopes to pursue her studies after her siblings get basic education and her role models are Father of Nation Mahatma Gandhi and former President A P J Abdul Kalam.“For us, it is easy to connect. Her flow in three languages (Hindi, English and Malayalam) bowled us over,” said Biman Sarkar, a class 8 student belonging to Manipur. “A hard working girl she handles children well. She takes teaching as a passion,” said co-ordinator of the SSK Siju Jacob.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malayalam-teacher-from-up-trains-migrant-students-in-local-language-amid-pandemic-woes-101632488167110.html
24-09-2021||India||Who instigated Darrang eviction drive violence, asks Assam CM Sarma||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the ongoing eviction drive that turned violent on Thursday leading to the death of at least two men was urgent but not taken up overnight. Stating discussions were held for four months and there was agreement on a peaceful eviction of encroachers, Sarma asked who could have instigated the violence.He said 11 policemen were injured in the clashes that took place at Sipajhar in Darrang district, adding a judicial enquiry would be held into the incident.A 12-hour bandh was called on Friday by various organisations to protest the death of two persons in police firing a day ago.Sarma said the eviction drive was initiated on an agreed principle -- that landless people will be provided two acres each as per land policy. “We expected no resistance, but about 10,000 people gheraoed the Assam Police, used violence. It was then that police retaliated,” Sarma was quoted as saying,#WATCH | You cannot demean state govt with one video...Since 1983 that area is known for killings... Otherwise, normally people don't encroach on temple land. I've seen encroachments all around. Peaceful eviction drive was agreed upon, but who instigated?:Assam CM Himanta B Sarma pic.twitter.com/MJ63OCyr8S“You cannot demean the state government with one video.Since 1983, that area is known for killings. Otherwise, normally people do not encroach on temple land. I have seen encroachments all around. Peaceful eviction drive was agreed upon, but who instigated?” he further said.On a visit to the area on Thursday night, director general of police Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta said a photographer of the deputy commissioner's office who was seen in a viral video kicking and hitting a man allegedly shot dead by security personnel had been arrested and booked, adding he was in the CID's custody. Mahanta said the state Criminal Investigation Department (CID) would probe the incident.This (eviction drive) was urgent. It was not done overnight, discussions were on for 4 months. Congress delegation had met me & agreed on land allotment to landless...27,000 acres of land has to be productively used...There was a temple, which was also encroached upon: Assam CM pic.twitter.com/C8po2NQSpTSarma said, “Our 11 police personnel have been injured. We will carry out an inquiry on how a cameraman came into the scene, and why he tried to overpower that particular person. We have ordered a judicial probe,” he said.“This (eviction drive) was urgent. It was not done overnight, discussions were on for four months. A Congress delegation had met me and agreed on land allotment to landless. About 27,000 acres of land had to be productively used.There was a temple, which was also encroached upon,” he added.On Thursday night, Sarma said the eviction drive will not be stopped and the police entrusted with the job of clearing the land of "illegal encroachers" will continue to do so till the job was done.Eleven seriously injured people, of whom three were policemen and the rest civilians, were shifted to Gauhati Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) late on Thursday night, its superintendent Abhijit Sharma said.A policeman and three civilians were stated to be critical, while the condition of the remaining people was stable although they were under observation, he said.Meanwhile, a Congress delegation, comprising its state chief Bhupen Bora, Rajya Sabha MP Ripun Bora, deputy leader of Congress Legislature Party Rakibul Hussain and other senior leaders, staged a protest outside the Darrang deputy commissioner's office in district headquarters Mangaldoi.The delegation was also scheduled to submit a memorandum to governor Jagdish Mukhi through the deputy commissioner, party spokesperson Bobbeeta Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-instigated-darrang-eviction-drive-violence-asks-assam-cm-sarma-101632485346586.html
24-09-2021||India||Ram, Krishna, Shiva were ancestors of Indian Muslims, says Yogi govt minister||Uttar Pradesh minister Anand Swaroop Shukla has said that Muslims in India should bow to Indian culture and Ram, Krishna, and Shiva were the ancestors of Indian Muslims. The minister of state for parliamentary affairs also said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath have defeated the mindset which intended to create an Islamic State in the country by raising the flag of Hindutva and “Indian culture”, news agency PTI reported.The minister's remarks come days after controversial posters were put up in Sambhal calling Sambhal the land of ghazis, ahead of AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi's meeting earlier this week. The minister said this was an outcome of the Samajwadi Party supporting Islamic terrorists. He also referred to Samajwadi Party MP Shaifur Rehman Barq's statement supporting the Taliban. In August, Shafiqur Rehman Barq was booked for sedition as he defended the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan and equated it with India's freedom struggle.There are still people with Islamic mentality and they are stupid as their ancestors became Muslims out of fear, Shukla said adding that this kind of thinking cannot flourish under the Modi and Adityanath governments.“The ancestors of the Muslims of India are lord Ram, Krishna and Shankar (Shiva). They do not need to see the land of Kaaba. These people should bow to the land and culture of India," the UP minister said. “After Syria and Afghanistan, some people from different countries want to make the world an Islamic State. Some in India have this mindset too. But, the Modi and Adityanath governments at the Centre and state have raised the flag of Hindutva and Indian culture in the country and defeated this mindset,” Shukla said. (With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-krishna-shiva-were-ancestors-of-indian-muslims-says-yogi-govt-minister-101632483370806.html
24-09-2021||India||Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren-led delegation to meet Amit Shah over census||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren will head a delegation that will meet Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday to submit a memorandum demanding caste census and a separate column for Sarna tribal religion in the 2021 census. The meeting is being held days after Soren on September 7 wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking an appointment for the delegation over the issue. People aware of the matter said the Prime Minister’s Office instead suggested a meeting with Shah as census comes under his ministry’s preview.“The meeting has been fixed at 4 pm at home minister Amit Shah’s residence on Sunday. We have invited all parties besides our allies Congress and RJD (Rashtriya Janata Dal to be a part of the delegation). We have got confirmation from the Left parties and AJSU Party. We have also invited the BJP to join the delegation. It is now up to them to decide,” said Supriyo Bhattacharya, a spokesperson for Soren’s Jharkhand Mukti Morcha.Jharkhand BJP chief Deepak Prakash earlier this week said they would not join any such delegation.Bhattacharya said Soren spoke to Prakash again over the issue on Friday. “We are waiting for their response.”Barring the BJP, all other parties have demanded caste census. The Jharkhand assembly last year adopted a unanimous resolution demanding a separate Sarna tribal religion column in the 2021 census.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-cm-hemant-soren-led-delegation-to-meet-amit-shah-over-census-101632483908222.html
24-09-2021||India||Shilpa Medicare to produce Cadila's 3-dose Covid-19 vaccine in India||Indian drugmaker Shilpa Medicare Limited said on Friday it had agreed to produce Cadila Healthcare Ltd's three-dose COVID-19 vaccine.The country's health authorities had given emergency approval in August for Cadila's vaccine, the world's first COVID-19 DNA shot, in adults and children aged 12 years and above.Cadila, which is expected to begin supplying its vaccine from next month, aims to make 100 million to 120 million doses of ZyCoV-D a year.While India's vaccination programme aims to inoculate all eligible adults by December, the country also expects to resume exports to meet its commitments under the global COVAX initiative from October to December.Shilpa Medicare said its unit will make the vaccine's drug substance, while Cadila will package, distribute and market the shot.The targeted production of the ZyCoV-D vaccine from Shilpa Medicare's facility in Karnataka has not been disclosed. Cadila and Shilpa Medicare did not immediately respond to Reuters requests seeking details on the deal.A government source told Reuters last week that Cadila Healthcare will supply 10 million doses of its COVID-19 vaccine in October.Shilpa Medicare also produces the Russian Sputnik V vaccine under an agreement with Indian pharma giant Dr. Reddy's Laboratories.Shares of Shilpa Medicare, which rose about 2% after the announcement, were last down about 0.6%. Cadila Healthcare's shares were unchanged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shilpa-medicare-to-produce-cadila-s-3-dose-covid-19-vaccine-in-india-101632482031627.html
24-09-2021||India||Om Birla rues lack of extensive discussions on proposed laws in legislatures||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said not enough extensive discussions were being held in legislatures at the time of framing laws and it was a matter of concern as public representatives were directly connected with people and closely aware of their difficulties.Addressing a joint session of the Karnataka legislature on Friday, Birla said the legislators’ role was the most important when laws were being made. “We should make an effort to have more active participation while framing laws. There should be discussions and there should be no obstruction or ruckus in the House,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.This is the first time Birla addressed the joint session of the two Houses of a legislature.It is our duty to have extensive discussions on the laws we form, there should be more active participation of MLAs so that no questions could be raised on the laws that are formed: Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla at Vidhana Soudha in Bengaluru, KarnatakaThe Congress boycotted Birla’s address to the joint sitting held on the last day of the ongoing monsoon session, contending that it would set a “wrong precedent”. Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah said the Congress had taken a decision to boycott the joint session as "the BJP government is trying to create a new precedent in Karnataka Legislative Assembly. It has never happened before”.Also read | Siddaramaiah, Shivakumar reach K'taka House in carts to protest fuel pricesBirla further said it was our duty to have extensive discussions on the laws being framed with more active participation of MLAs so that no questions could be raised later.“When the Constitution was drafted, the sentiment was to make our legislature more aware, dutiful, honest and responsible so that a path could be paved for the social and economic betterment of people,” he added.Birla's comments came in the wake of repeated disruptions of the recently concluded Parliament session when a number of bills were passed with minimal discussions on the same amid chaos. Former chief minister BS Yediyurappa was named the best legislator of the year 2020-21 during the day. He was presented with a memento by Birla in the presence of his successor Basavaraj Bommai.Bengaluru: Karnataka Legislative Assembly named former chief minister BS Yediyurappa as best legislator of the year 2020-21. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla presented him with a memento. pic.twitter.com/xgQetimgmCAssembly speaker Vishweshwara Hegde Kageri said the award was being constituted on the lines of the best parliamentarian award given in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha.“In the lines of best parliamentarian award being given in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha annually, Karnataka will have the best legislator award for members of the Legislative Assembly from this year,” Kageri said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/om-birla-rues-lack-of-extensive-discussions-on-proposed-laws-in-legislatures-101632482796684.html
24-09-2021||India||BSF starts inquiry after firing leaves two troopers dead in Tripura||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Friday ordered an inquiry into the firing that left two personnel dead and another injured following an altercation at an outpost along India-Bangladesh border in Tripura’s Gomati district on Thursday.“A departmental inquiry is being conducted to find out the actual cause of the incident,” the BSF said in a statement. The two BSF personnel have been identified as head constable Satbir Singh and constable Pratap Singh. They were on duty when the altercation began. Pratap Singh allegedly fired at Satbir Singh with his service rifle. He later returned to his post, where he fired at his other colleagues and left sub-inspector Ram Kumar injured. A sentry later fired at Pratap Singh.Gomati police superintendent Sashwat Kumar said they have filed a case and added the firing was reported after a fight between the two personnel.In 2018, a BSF trooper shot dead three of his colleagues with his service rifle before killing himself in Tripura’s Unakoti district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-starts-inquiry-after-firing-leaves-two-troopers-dead-in-tripura-101632483428279.html
24-09-2021||India||Indian vaccine cardholders now eligible for EU green pass as Italy recognises Covishield||Italy on Friday recognised Covishield, the vaccine against coronavirus jointly developed by Oxford University and pharma giant AstraZeneca and manufactured by the Serum Institute of India. This would mean Indian cardholders inoculated by the vaccine would now be eligible for an Italian green pass, the Indian embassy in Italy said on Friday.The embassy credited Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya’s meeting with his Italian counterpart Roberto Speranza and the ministry of external affairs (MEA) continuous efforts for the recognition.“As an outcome of a meeting between Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya an his Italian counterpart Roberto Speranza coupled with MEA's persistent efforts, Italy recognised India's Covishield. Indian vaccine cardholders are now eligible for Green Pass,” the embassy said in a statement.Mandaviya, who was in Rome, Italy, for the G20 health ministers' meeting early September, held talks with Speranza on September 6 and discussed prioritising travel for vaccinated Indian students among other issues.“Had an interaction with Mr Roberto Speranza, Health Minister, Italy to enhance the bilateral cooperation between the two nations in the field of health and medicine,” Mandaviya had tweeted.Also Read: Covishield: 'No technical concern', says UK high commissioner after meeting with IndiaSo far, 16 countries from the European Union (EU) have recognised Covishield. This would make it easier for citizens to avail the EU Digital Covid Certificate or "green pass", which aims to facilitate free movement as the Covid-19 pandemic rages on. The green pass exempts individuals from travel restrictions within the EU region. The EU has given 27 member-states the freedom to decide which vaccines they would want to include on their approved list. EU countries also have the freedom to approve vaccines authorised at the national level or those recognised by WHO.Besides Italy, countries like Switzerland, Iceland, Austria, Bulgaria, Finland, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Latvia, Netherland, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Estonia have recognised Covishield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-cardholders-now-eligible-for-eu-green-pass-as-italy-recognises-covishield-101632480178075.html
24-09-2021||India||Depression likely over east-central Bay of Bengal, may intensify monsoon||Monsoon is likely to remain active at least till the end of the month with a well-marked low-pressure area forming over the east-central Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood on Friday, weather officials said. The system is likely to intensify further into a depression by Friday night and bring widespread and heavy rain to parts of east and central India and then move up to Gujarat. This is the second depression of the season and the second also in September since no depressions formed between June and August.Normally 5 to 6 depressions form during the monsoon season bringing extensive rainfall to central and west India. Another cyclonic circulation is expected to form around September 28 which will again bring a fresh spell of rain to east and central India, according to forecasts by India Meteorological Department’s Regional Specialized Centre for Tropical Cyclones.There is only a 2 per cent deficiency in monsoon rain since June 1 with 0 per cent excess over central India; 4 per cent deficiency over northwest India; 9 per cent excess over peninsular India and 11 per cent deficiency over east and northeast India according to the IMD. The deficiency at the end of August was 9 per cent. The IMD in its forecast on September 1 said owing to above normal rains in September, the overall monsoon rain this year may be in the “lower end of normal category.” The weather department considers 96 per cent to 104 per cent of the long-period average to be in the “normal” category. The long period average is considered for the period of 1961 to 2010 period and is 88 cm. But considering that widespread rains are likely to continue till the end of the month, total monsoon rainfall may increase further.A well-marked low-pressure area formed over the east-central Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood on Friday morning and is very likely to become more intense during the next 12 hours. It is likely to move west-northwest wards towards the Odisha coast during the next 48 hours. A cyclonic circulation is also lying over northeast Madhya Pradesh and adjoining south Uttar Pradesh and a cyclonic circulation is lying over Saurashtra and neighbourhood. A number of systems are forming over the Western Pacific. The remnants of these systems are moving towards the Bay of Bengal leading to the formation of cyclonic circulations and low-pressure areas here.“A well-marked low-pressure area has already developed over east-central Bay of Bengal (BoB) which is likely to become a depression in the next 12 hours. When it crosses the Odisha coast around Sunday, very heavy rain is expected there and over Chhattisgarh and MP also. Another cyclonic circulation is expected to form around September 28. This is mainly associated with the tropical storm which has just crossed Vietnam. The remnants of the system are moving towards BoB. The favourable position of the Madden Julian Oscillation (MJO) in the east of the Indian Ocean is supporting convective activity and cloud formation over the Bay of Bengal. The remnants from the South China Sea are also moving towards the Bay of Bengal,” explained Sunitha Devi, in charge of cyclones at IMD.“We can expect widespread rain in the next few days over Odisha, north Andhra Pradesh, Vidarbha, Telangana, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh followed by Gujarat,” said M Mohapatra, director general of IMD.The extended range model guidance of IMD is indicating widespread rain over the country till October 7 and patchy rain till October 14. The monsoon is normally expected to commence withdrawal from northwest India from September 16. It is 8 days late already.“There is no chance of monsoon withdrawal for another week. After this depression moves away, remnants from the Gulf of Thailand may lead to the formation of another low this month. Patchy rain will continue over northwest India including Delhi/NCR. Monsoon may finish with normal rainfall around 99 per cent of LPA,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology at Skymet Weather. Two depressions and two low-pressure areas formed in September so far as well as more than two cyclonic circulations leading to 30.9 per cent excess rains only in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/depression-likely-over-east-central-bay-of-bengal-may-intensify-monsoon-101632480727680.html
24-09-2021||India||UP tourist killed, 3 others injured as car falls into gorge in Uttarkashi||A tourist was killed and three others injured after their car fell into a gorge about 100m deep near Bhatwari area of Uttarkashi district about 175 km away from Dehradun late on Thursday night, officials of the state disaster response force (SDRF) said on Friday. SDRF is also looking for bodies of an elderly brother-sister duo from Kanpur who allegedly died by suicide by jumping into the Ganga in Devprayag area of Tehri Garhwal district, 110 km away from Dehradun. According to SDRF personnel, the four tourists hailed from Auraiya district of Uttar Pradesh and were going to the popular tourist spot of Harshil Valley from Bhatwari on Thursday night. “The incident happened around 10 pm and the SDRF base in Bhatwari was informed about it at the same time. While heading towards Harshil, the one driving the car, lost control over it and it fell into the gorge adjacent to the road after breaking the parapet,” said SDRF media in-charge Lalita Negi. She informed that one of the four tourists all aged 28-34, fell out of the car before it fell into the gorge. “He informed the locals about the accident. The locals soon went to the spot to check and then informed the SDRF which rushed to the spot to initiate a search and rescue operation. Braving bad weather and darkness, the team went down and recovered the body of one of the four men who died on the spot and rescued the remaining two who had sustained injuries,” said Negi. She informed that the injured are receiving treatment in the nearby hospital of Bhatwari while the body has been sent for post-mortem examination. According to the police, the deceased identified as Arvind, 65 and Suman, 62, hailing from Kanpur, had come to Devprayag on September 20 and booked a hotel room while informing the hotel manager that they would go to visit Kedarnath and Badrinath shrines. “After staying for a couple of days there, they went near the Ganga ghat on September 22 afternoon to perform some rituals. At around 6 in the evening, both of them went near a secluded Ganga ghat but didn’t return for an hour even after dark. It was after that the priests went to check on them only to find their footwear at the ghat with both missing. They then informed the police which tried to find their bodies in the river but failed,” said Constable Ravinder Chauhan who was among the police officers who reached the spot. Chauhan added, “Police are suspecting them to have died by suicide by jumping into the Ganga. However, no suicide note was found from the spot nor from their hotel room. A search is on to find their bodies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-tourist-killed-3-others-injured-as-car-falls-into-gorge-in-uttarkashi-101632479705827.html
24-09-2021||India||India objects to language used in UK MPs’ debate on ‘human rights in Kashmir’||India has strongly objected to the language used by parliamentarians in the United Kingdom during an all-party debate on the issue of ‘human rights in Kashmir’.Stating that any assertion made in any forum on a subject related to an integral part of the country needed to be substantiated with authentic facts, Indian government was particularly dismayed by the some of the language used by the MPs in the Backbench Debate in the House of Commons.A minister from the Indian High Commission in London slammed the words used against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and reiterated Kashmir's status as an integral part of India.“It is with sadness that the High Commission of India notes that an august institution of a fellow democracy has been misused today to level abuse against the elected leader of the largest practising democracy in the world,” the minister said, while referring to remarks of Pakistani-origin Labour MP Naz Shah on the 2002 Gujarat riots.The debate in the UK Parliament was opened by Opposition Labour Party MP Debbie Abrahams who said the discussion was not to be read as “pro or anti” any country as the lawmakers were only speaking in defence of human rights. “Kashmiris must be at the heart of a trilateral peacebuilding process,” she added.Read More: ‘No jeans, sleeveless tops’: New dress code for MPs ahead of UK House of CommOver 20 cross-party members participated in the debate, with the ruling Conservative Party MPs Bob Blackman and Theresa Villiers speaking out in favour of Indian courts and institutions ability to “properly investigate alleged human rights abuses”. They said the elections held in Kashmir last year were a positive sign.“As a democracy where religious minorities have full constitutional protections and which places great value on the respect for the rule of law, I believe that India’s courts and institutions are well capable of properly investigating alleged human rights abuses,” said Villiers.Regarding Pakistan, Labour MP Barry Gardiner spoke about terrorist camps harboured by its administration and drew parallels with neighbouring Afghanistan."Over the years, Pakistan has harboured Taliban leaders and the ISI, their security services, provided other forms of support to them and to other terrorist organisations," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-objects-to-language-used-in-uk-mps-debate-on-human-rights-in-kashmir-101632478597830.html
24-09-2021||India||Who is gangster Jitender Gogi shot dead at Rohini court?||Jitender Gogi, who was killed on Friday inside Delhi’s Rohini Court complex by two unknown gunmen, ran the infamous Jitender Gogi gang which was involved in dozens of cases related to murder and extortion in Delhi. Police officials say that Gogi and his associates were involved in crimes such as murders, attempts to murder, extortion, possession of illegal arms, carjacking and land grabbing.Gogi was caught by the police in 2016 after he escaped from police custody within three months. At the time of his escape, he was carrying a ₹4 lakh reward on his head.Gogi was back in the news in 2018 when he along with his associates shot gangster Virender Mann dead in a busy road in Burari. Gogi intercepted Virender Mann, a history sheeter, and pumped 20 bullets into his chest, according to a report by HT. During the firing, a passerby was also shot dead by Gogi and his associates.'A bright student'Jitender Gogi’s gang is involved in a gang war with the Tillu gang, a rivalry that is decades old and started during Delhi University student elections around 2010. Gogi, who was a bright student studying in Swami Shraddhanand College, did not take kindly to Sunil alias Tillu and his associates beating Gogi’s friend who was contesting college elections. After a stand-off, Gogi’s friend withdrew from the elections but that incident also gave birth to gang rivalry between Tillu and Gogi which saw more than 10 deaths from both sides in the past decade, according to a report by HT.Frequent run-ins with the policeMembers of both gangs are infamous for their run-ins with the Delhi Police. Before the shootout in Delhi’s Rohini Court, which saw Gogi dead, the police arrested Kuldeep Kasana, a member of the Gogi gang from Dwarka last month, after an encounter, according to a report by news agency PTI.Two members of the Tillu gang were also arrested around the same time from Delhi’s Karala for allegedly killing a certain Nitesh, whose brother Parvesh killed two members of the Tillu gang. Parvesh was in jail along with Jitender Gogi for their alleged involvement in the murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-is-gangster-jitender-gogi-shot-dead-at-rohini-court-101632477985531.html
24-09-2021||India||Firing at Rohini court, 3 killed including jailed gangster||Two assailants dressed like lawyers shot dead jailed gangster Jitender alias Gogi in Delhi’s Rohini court complex on Friday before police deployed there killed the attackers, said deputy police commissioner Pranav Tayal.Police said the identities of the attackers were being ascertained even as they are suspected to have been a part of Gogi’s rival gang. Sunil alias Tillu Tajpuriya, who is presently in jail, heads the rival gang. Gogi and Tajpuriya’s gangs have a long-standing rivalry that has claimed over a dozen lives.“Swift action by the police team in launching counter fire on two assailants who were in lawyers’ attire and attacked...Gogi. Both assailants are dead along with...Gogi,” said Delhi Police spokesman Chinmoy Biswal.The Delhi Police’s special cell arrested Gogi from Gurugram in March last year along with his three associates, including Kuldeep Maan alias Fajja. Fajja was gunned down at a flat in Rohini this year after he escaped from police custody following a shoot out at Delhi’s Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital when he was taken there for treatment.On Friday, Gogi was to be produced in the Rohini court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/firing-at-rohini-court-3-killed-including-jailed-gangster-101632477367052.html
24-09-2021||India||Punjab CM Channi set to meet Rahul Gandhi today to discuss cabinet expansion||Newly appointed Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi will hold a meeting with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi later in the day to discuss the expansion of his cabinet.The meeting will be held at Gandhi’s residence in Delhi in the presence of top party functionaries, according to news agency ANI.Earlier, it was reported Channi had been called to the national capital to hold talks with the party's central leadership over the issue.Also read | 'What is the problem if a poor man takes a jet ride?': Charanjit Channi after backlashThe central leaders, including Rahul, All India Congress Committee general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat among others, held deliberations on the new ministry on Thursday.Channi was sworn in as the chief minister on Monday along with his deputies Brahm Mohindra and Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. Gandhi had attended the oath-taking ceremony.Channi’s appointment for the top job came after Amarinder Singh put in his papers last week citing months of humiliation. The ruling camp has been struggling with dissent and rebellion over power-sharing issues between Singh and state party president Navjot Singh Sidhu.Also read | New Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi breaks into a 'bhangra'According to reports, Singh’s close aides are likely to be dropped from the cabinet, while five new faces may make their place in the ministry.On Tuesday, Channi, his two deputies and Sidhu had come to Delhi to meet Venugopal, Rawat and two central observers Ajay Maken and Harish Chaudhary with the names of probables for induction into the ministry. At the time, Gandhi was in Shimla on a private visit.The state has already seen a major bureaucratic reshuffle since Singh's exit, including the transfer of nine IAS and two PCS officers and posting of three more officers in the new chief minister’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-channi-set-to-meet-rahul-gandhi-today-to-discuss-cabinet-expansion-101632475522362.html
24-09-2021||India||Rohini shootout: 3, including gangster Jitender Gogi, killed as gunmen, police exchange fire||Two gunmen dressed as lawyers entered Delhi's Rohini court and opened fire killing the Capital's most wanted gangster Jitender Gogi. The police counter-fired in which the two gunmen died inside the court. The incident took place in Rohini court number 207 when Jitendra was presented before the judge. The sudden exchange of fire led to chaos and panic inside the court as it took place at a time when several sessions were going on and many people were present in the court. Gogi, the most wanted gangster in Delhi before Sandeep Kala, was arrested in March 2020.“Two criminals opened fire at gangster (Jitender Mann) 'Gogi' when he was taken to the (Rohini) court for a hearing. In retaliation, police shot dead both the attackers. One of them was carrying a reward of ₹50,000,” Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana said to ANI. #WATCH | Visuals of the shootout at Delhi's Rohini court todayAs per Delhi Police, assailants opened fire at gangster Jitender Mann 'Gogi', who has died. Three attackers have also been shot dead by police. pic.twitter.com/dYgRjQGW7JThe incident reveals the security lapse in the court premises as the two attackers who entered the courtroom dressed as lawyers reportedly belong to Jitender Gogi's rival Tillu gang.Jitender Gogi is a history-sheeter who was arrested in 2016 but managed to flee police custody within three months. He was involved in several criminal cases in Delhi including murders, attempts to murder, extortion, possession of illegal arms, carjacking, land grabbing etc.Reports said that the two gangs had been at a turf war for years and the clashes have been going on even though Jitender Gogi was behind the bars these months. Both the gangs have been running extortion rackets for years in Alipur and Sonipat and a gang war ending in such bloodshed is not the first for them. In the last six years, over 10 members of the two gangs have been killed, reports said.Gogi was accompanied by the members of the counter-intelligence team on Friday as a few months ago, Gogi's associate Kuldeep escaped police custody when he was being produced in Karkardooma court. The officials of the counter-intelligence team fired and gunned down the attackers.Jitender Gogi, or Jitender Mann, took to crime after his father's death in 2010. Before that, he had dropped out of school and started property dealing. A 2018 FIR against Jitender Gogi says he was arrested the first time in 2011 after shooting at two men during the elections at a Delhi University college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/attackers-dressed-as-lawyers-open-fire-in-delhi-s-rohini-court-gangster-killed-101632472751668.html
24-09-2021||India||After SC order, Centre opens online application for women in NDA, naval academy exams||The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) said on Friday it has opened an application window for women candidates to apply for the National Defence Academy and Naval Academy Examination, 2021. “In compliance with the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India’s interim direction permitting the women candidates to take part in the National Defence Academy and Naval Academy Examination (II), 2021 by its order dated 18/08/2021 in WP (C). No.1416/2020 filed by Kush KalraVs. UoI& Others, the Union Public Service Commission has decided to open the online portal of application on its website (upsconline.nic.in) for this Examination to enable the unmarried women candidates ONLY by issuing a corrigendum to the Notice No. 10/2021-NDA-II, which was published on 09/06/2021,” UPSC said in a statement.The corrigendum can be accessed on the UPSC’s website and the application window will remain open for women candidates from September 24 to October 8, the commission said.This comes after the Supreme Court on Wednesday stressed that it “cannot belie the aspirations of young girls” as it rejected the Centre’s request to delay the first-ever examination for women candidates for their entry into the NDA. The top court also directed that they shall be allowed to sit for the upcoming exam on November 14.Only male candidates who have cleared Class 12 level or its equivalent, and are in the age group of 16-and-a-half and 19 are eligible to apply under the current eligibility criteria. Those who clear the NDA exam are called for interview by the Service Selection Board (SSB), and following a medical exam, candidates are recruited in the army, navy, and air force wings of NDA, and for the INA course for pre-commission training.Also read | Why military has sought more time to induct women into NDAThe government on Monday said that women can sit for the entrance exam in April-May next year and join the academy in January 2023. But the Supreme Court said there cannot be a request from the authorities to make the aspiring women skip the upcoming exam in November. “What would effectively mean by the submission of the armed forces is – No jam today, jam tomorrow!” a bench of justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul and justice BR Gavai said. “It will be difficult for us to accept that position, the aspirations of women having been arisen in view of the order, albeit subject to the final outcome of the petition. We would thus not like to effectively vacate the order passed,” the bench said in its order.The bench directed the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) to issue a revised notification for the entrance exam for NDA after consultation with the ministry of defence (MoD).Additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati, who was representing the Centre, said that women candidates will have to skip the exam in November in view of the sweeping changes that have to be brought about before women cadets are inducted and start their training at the joint defence service training institute of the Indian armed forces.However, the bench said “armed forces have been in far more difficult and tight situations…” “It is not very easy but it is not that complex as it is being projected. Armed forces deal with all kinds of emergency situations and they are the best people to handle such situations. What answers do we have for women who are now ready to take exams? Will we say you try your luck sometime in future? No, you work out something this year only.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-opens-online-application-for-women-in-nda-naval-academy-exams-101632471502012.html
24-09-2021||India||Vehicles in India may soon be powered by flex-engines. All you need to know||Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari on Friday said that he will be issuing an order in the next three to four months, mandating all auto manufacturers to power their vehicles with flex engines, which can run on more than one fuel. The statement comes about a month after Gadkari said that the central government will soon make it mandatory for auto manufacturers to offer vehicles running 100 per cent on bio-fuels.Nitin Gadkari has been advocating for the use of alternative energy sources and bio-fuels to bring down the environmental impact left behind by the Indian auto industry. Not only is alternative fuel less polluting and saves forex, but it is also cost-effective for customers, the minister said. Pointing out that a litre of bioethanol costs ₹65 as against ₹110 paid for petrol, Gadkari said last month, “We are committed to delivering vehicles with flex engine norms. We have taken a decision, we will make it mandatory by which there will be a flex-engine.” He added that state-run oil marketing companies have already been ordered to offer bio-fuels at the same facilities as the ones selling petrol and diesel.What are flex engines?Flex engines power what are colloquially known as flexible-fuel vehicles or flex-fuel vehicles (FFVs). These are vehicles running on alternative fuel, equipped with an internal combustion engine that is designed to run on more than one fuel. These FFVs usually run on gasoline blended with either ethanol or methanol fuel; however, both fuels are stored in a common tank. The resulting blend is burnt in the combustion chamber, generating power for the vehicle.Flex-fuel vehicles are different from bi-fuel vehicles, which use two fuels stored in separate tanks – and as such, might prove to be costlier than its alternative. The ethanol flexible-fuel vehicle is the most common form of commercially available flex engine in the global market. Most of these FFVs in Western countries run on E85, a blend of 85 per cent anhydrous ethanol and 15 per cent gasoline.Why could flex engines be essential for India?According to Union minister Nitin Gadkari, customers will be provided a choice between using conventional petrol-powered engines and those running on bioethanol. He said a switch to the alternative is essential for the country because of the surplus production of crops like rice, maize, corn, and sugar, from which bioethanol is made. In many of these crops, the minimum support price (MSP) offered to the farmers is higher than the commercial price or the one in international prices, making it essential for diverting the harvest for the overall betterment of the country.Earlier this month, Gadkari also said that the central government is mulling over the concept of an ‘electric highway’, to be built between the national capital of Delhi and Jaipur in Rajasthan. With the world moving on from conventional fuels to alternative sources of energy for powering transport, these options are currently among the most popular choices for powering motors of propulsion in vehicles. If the proposed electric highway comes through, it will see vehicles powered by electricity ply on the stretch – the first of these will be between Delhi to Jaipur; and later, if everything goes well, the Delhi-Mumbai stretch may see another of these electric highways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vehicles-in-india-may-soon-be-powered-by-flex-engines-all-you-need-to-know-101632468874033.html
24-09-2021||India||‘Please focus on our concern’: Rakesh Tikait tweets to US President Biden ahead of meeting with PM Modi||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Friday urged US President Joe Biden to "focus" on the three contentious farm laws passed by the Centre ahead of his meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Tikait talked about their protest against the farm laws and said hundreds of farmers have died during their agitation. “Dear @POTUS, we the Indian Farmers are protesting against 3 farm laws brought by PM Modi's govt. 700 farmers have died in the last 11 months protesting. These black laws should be repealed to save us. Please focus on our concern while meeting PM Modi,” Tikait, the spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), tweeted.PM Modi, who is in the United States on a three-day visit, will hold a bilateral meeting with President Biden at the White House on Friday evening—the first in-person meeting between the two leaders after the Democrat leader took office on January 20.
24-09-2021||India||Elephant tramples woman to death in Kerala||An elephant trampled to death a 36-year-old woman near Munnar in Idukki district of Kerala on Friday after the bike she was riding pillion on with her husband skidded at a hairpin bend in the hilly region. Police said P Viji and her husband panicked after seeing the elephant on a road and the bike skidded while the latter was trying to take a U-turn. Both fell on the road before the elephant charged at them and trampled Viji. The husband received minor injuries.Police said the couple worked at a tea plantation and were going to work after meeting their relatives.The woman’s death is the latest in fatalities linked to the human-animal conflict in Kerala. According to the Kerala forest department, 173 people died in human-animal conflicts in the state from 2010 to 2020,. The highest number of deaths were reported in 2016 – 33. Among 173, 120 died in elephant attacks. As many as 64 elephants also died over the last decade in the state. Wildlife experts say the straying of elephants into human habitations can be contained by protecting animal corridors. They say one of the main reasons for elephant attacks in Idukki is encroachment along Anamalai-Periyar Tiger Reserve’s elephant corridor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/elephant-tramples-woman-to-death-in-kerala-101632469266049.html
24-09-2021||India||Siddaramaiah, Shivakumar reach K'taka House in carts to protest fuel prices||Congress leaders Siddaramaiah and DK Shivakumar came to the Karnataka Assembly in Bengaluru on horse-driven ‘tangas’ (carriages) to protest against rising fuel prices.Siddaramaih, the leader of Opposition in the Assembly and a former chief minister, Shivakumar, the state Congress president, were accompanied by several other legislators of the grand old party during their unique protest march on Friday.#WATCH | Leader of Opposition in Karnataka Assembly Siddaramaiah, State Congress president DK Shivakumar along with other party MLAs arrive at the Legislative Assembly in Bengaluru on tangas in protest against fuel price hike pic.twitter.com/ATQwywGoNoAccording to the day’s fuel rates, a litre of petrol would cost ₹104.7, while diesel was being sold at 94.27 a litre in Karnataka.The Opposition has been targeting the Basavaraj Bommai-led BJP government in the state over rising prices. A day ago, there was a heated debate over the rates of idli and dosa at a popular eatery.Taking to Twitter, Shivakumar wrote the rising prices of fuel and essential commodities had broken the back of common people. “To protest against the same, marched from KPCC office to Vidhana Soudha on Tangas, alongside CLP leader Sri @Siddaramaiah and other Congress leaders, to attend the last day of Assembly Session,” he added.On Thursday, Union petroleum minister Hardeep Singh Puri said prices of petrol were not coming down as states did not want to bring fuel under the ambit of the goods and services tax (GST).The Congress will also boycott Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla’s address to the joint sitting of both the Houses of the legislature on Friday, the last day of the ongoing monsoon session, contending that it will set a “wrong precedent”.Siddaramaiah said the Congress had taken a decision to boycott the joint session which will be addressed by Lok Sabha Speaker today. "The BJP government is trying to create a new precedent in Karnataka Legislative Assembly. It has happened never before||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/siddaramaiah-shivakumar-reach-k-taka-house-in-carts-to-protest-fuel-prices-101632467947578.html
24-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Diesel becomes costlier amid surge in global oil prices||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.After 19 days, diesel becomes costlier amid surge in international oil pricesState-run fuel retailers on Friday raised diesel rates by 20 paise a litre, the first price hike after 19 days of pause as international crude oil prices surged 6.96 per cent at $77.25 a barrel since September 5 on rising demand. Read MoreGovt seals mega deal with Airbus for purchase of 56 C-295 military transport aircraftThe Ministry of Defence on Friday announced that it has signed a ₹22,000-crore contract with Airbus for 56 C-295 medium transport aircraft for the Indian Air Force. The Cabinet Committee on Security, headed by PM Modi, cleared the purchase a fortnight ago. The C-295s will replace the IAF’s fleet of ageing Avro-748 planes. Airbus Defence and Space and Tata Advanced Systems Limited (TASL) will jointly execute the project to equip the air force with the new transport aircraft under the ‘Make in India’ initiative in the aerospace sector. Read MoreMaharashtra’s active Covid-19 case count dipsEven as Maharashtra’s active Covid-19 case count is reducing, experts and the state public health department are monitoring the situation closely as they expect a spurt in infections by October first week due to increased movement during the Dahi Handi and Ganeshotsav festivals. Officials from the health department said that so far there are no signs of the potential third wave of Covid-19 infections. Read MoreOdisha forest officials launch operation to rescue lone tusker stuck in Mahanadi riverA team of 80 forest officials from two forest divisions of Odisha launched a major operation to rescue an adult tusker that was trapped inside the swirling floodwaters of Mahanadi river near Mundali bridge of Cuttack district on Friday morning, officials said. Read MoreWATCH: 'People hid in freezers': Cops narrate horror after shooting at US supermarketA gunman opened fire at a supermarket in US' Tennessee killing at least one, injuring 12 others. The rampage occurred at a Kroger grocery store in Collierville, a suburban town east of Memphis. According to Collierville Police, the shooter died of a 'self-inflicted gunshot wound’. Police said some victims had 'very serious injuries' & cautioned that the death toll could rise. Watch here‘My only regret, we couldn’t push him at No. 3’: Gambhir says letting Suryakuamr go has to be ‘KKR’s biggest loss'‘Suryakumar Yadav is currently at the peak of his career’ – that’s what Gautam Gambhir feels about the Mumbai Indians (MI) batsman. However, the former Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) captain also regrets the franchise’s decision to release the youngster, especially after grooming him for four years. Read MoreKota Factory season 2 review: Popular but problematic Netflix show makes you wonder what all the fuss is aboutYou always wonder what promising breakout filmmakers would be able to do with bigger budgets. But beyond cumbersome contracts and perhaps a more rigidly-controlled set, the move to Netflix appears to have done little for the guys behind Kota Factory. After a mildly interesting first season that was nowhere near as good as what the YouTube views would indicate, the show, now stamped with the Netflix ‘tudum’, has returned with a new batch of five episodes that is actually inferior to the first. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-diesel-becomes-costlier-amid-surge-in-global-oil-prices-101632467558397.html
24-09-2021||India||Govt seals Airbus transport aircraft deal for purchase of 56 C-295||The Ministry of Defence on Friday announced that it has signed a ₹22,000-crore contract with Airbus for 56 C-295 medium transport aircraft for the Indian Air Force. The Cabinet Committee on Security, headed by PM Modi, cleared the purchase a fortnight ago.The C-295s will replace the IAF’s fleet of ageing Avro-748 planes. Airbus Defence and Space and Tata Advanced Systems Limited (TASL) will jointly execute the project to equip the air force with the new transport aircraft under the ‘Make in India’ initiative in the aerospace sector. Airbus will supply the first 16 aircraft in flyaway condition while the remaining 40 will be assembled in India by Tata Advanced Systems Limited (TASL), as previously reported by HT.The Avro replacement project was in the works for almost a decade.The defence acquisition council accorded its acceptance of necessity (AoN) to replace the Avro planes with 56 new aircraft in 2012. Under India’s defence procurement rules, AoN by the council is the first step towards buying military hardware. The Avro-748 entered service in the early 1960s and has been long due for replacement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-seals-mega-deal-with-airbus-for-purchase-of-56-c-295-military-transport-aircraft-101632467407359.html
24-09-2021||India||‘Great step forward’: Ratan Tata on Centre buying 56 C-295 military aircraft||Tata Trusts chairperson Ratan Tata said on Friday the Centre’s contract with Airbus Defence to procure C-295 medium transport military aircraft is a “great step forward in opening up of aviation and avionics projects” in India. The Centre sealed a ₹22,000 crore contract with Airbus Defence and Space of Spain to procure 56 C-295 medium transport aircraft, which will replace Avro-748 planes of the Indian Air Force (IAF). The purchase of the transport aircraft was cleared by the cabinet committee on security two weeks back. The project will be jointly executed by Airbus Defence and Space and Tata Advanced Systems Limited (TASL). It will equip the IAF with the new transport aircraft under the Centre’s Make-in-India initiative in the aerospace sector.“The clearance of the joint project between Airbus Defence and Tata Advanced Systems to build the C-295 is a great step forward in the opening up of aviation and avionics projects in India. It envisages total manufacturing of the aircraft in India,” Ratan Tata said in a statement on Friday.As per the deal, 16 aircraft will be delivered in a flyaway condition within 48 months of signing the contract and the remaining 40 will be assembled in India by TASL.The Avro replacement project was in the works for almost a decade. The defence acquisition council accorded its acceptance of necessity (AoN) to replace the Avro planes with 56 new aircraft back in 2012. The Avro-748 entered service in the early 1960s and has been long due for replacement.“All 56 aircraft will be installed with indigenous electronic warfare suite,” the Union defence ministry said in a statement on September 8 after the procurement was cleared cabinet committee on security.A large number of detail parts, sub-assemblies and major component assemblies of aerostructure are scheduled to be manufactured in India. According to news agency PTI, the defence ministry said that before completion of the deliveries, a servicing facility for C-295 MW aircraft is scheduled to be set up in the country.(With inputs from Rahul Singh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-seals-rs-22k-crore-deal-with-airbus-for-buying-56-c-295-military-aircraft-101632466927146.html
24-09-2021||India||CBI takes over probe into Mahant Narendra Giri’s alleged suicide||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday began probe in the case registered under the Indian Penal Code’s Section 306 (abetment to suicide) in connection with influential Hindu seer Narendra Giri’s death after it took over the probe into the case on Thursday night.Giri, who headed the Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad, the top body of the country’s Hindu monastic orders, was found hanging from a ceiling fan in his room in the Baghambari Gaddi Math in Prayagraj on Monday. Giri was also the mahant (chief priest) of the Bade Hanuman Temple in Prayagraj.A CBI official who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the Delhi unit of the federal agency’s special crime branch registered the case as soon as it took over the probe following a Central government notification in this regard. Officials familiar with the matter said CBI will recreate the crime scene and question people who worked closely with the seer.On Thursday, a five-member CBI team visited Prayagraj to collect the First Information Report and other details related to the case from an 18-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the state police that was earlier constituted to probe the death.The Uttar Pradesh government late on Wednesday night recommended a CBI probe into the death on the directions of chief minister Yogi Adityanath.The SIT was investigating the allegations of harassment the seer made in his purported suicide note, naming his disciples Anand Giri, Aadya Tiwari, and the latte’s son, Sandeep Tiwari. The three have been arrested in the case.Rohit Kumar Singh contributed to this story.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-takes-over-probe-into-mahant-narendra-giri-s-death-101632463386467.html
24-09-2021||India||After 19 days, diesel becomes costlier amid surge in international oil prices||State-run fuel retailers on Friday raised diesel rates by 20 paise a litre, the first price hike after 19 days of pause as international crude oil prices surged 6.96 per cent at $77.25 a barrel since September 5 on rising demand. Diesel price, which had softened to ₹88.62 per litre three weeks ago after climbing to record ₹89.87 a litre in mid-July, has been priced at ₹88.82 on Friday in Delhi. Pump prices of petrol in the national capital, however, remained unchanged at ₹101.19 since September 5.Retail prices of petrol and diesel are under pressure due to rising international oil rates and auto fuel rates may see a northward movement, two executives working in different oil companies said, requesting anonymity. Benchmark Brent crude continued an upward movement in intraday trade on Friday with a gain of 0.14 per cent at $77.36 a barrel. On Monday, HT reported that fuel retailers would start raising rates soon.As international oil prices dropped below $70 a barrel in mid-August, fuel retailers had reduced diesel rates by 20 paise per litre on August 18 after an all-time high for 34 days. Petrol prices were also reduced by 20 paise a litre on August 22, after it maintained a record of ₹101.84 per litre in Delhi for 36 days. Subsequently, petrol and diesel had become cheaper in small doses by 65 paise a litre and ₹1.25 per litre, respectively. After that, the prices of the two fuels remained frozen since September 5. According to the people mentioned above, international crude oil prices rose on subdued US oil production in view of the Ida hurricane which tore through the Gulf of Mexico, and robust demand on optimism about global economic growth. “Companies were holding prices, and expecting some tax relief from the government in terms of GST [Goods and Services Tax] relief, but the proposal to include petroleum products in GST was declined in the GST Council meeting on Friday, forcing companies to think about raising fuel rates,” one of the people mentioned above said. International oil rates, which are often volatile, directly influence pump prices of petrol and diesel in India. Heavy loads of central and state taxes are also responsible for astronomically high rates of auto fuels. Throughout 2020, as global crude prices plunged (below $20 a barrel in April last year), the central government raised excise duty on fuel to shore up its finances. States too followed suit as their revenues were hit on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. As a result, the central and state levies on petrol and diesel are over 50 per cent of their retail prices. According to official data, the petroleum sector contributed ₹371,726 crore central excise revenue in 2020-21, and ₹202,937 crore state levies or value-added tax (VAT). Due to the high incidence of taxes and a spike in international oil prices, petrol and diesel rates had soared to a record ₹101.84 per litre and ₹89.87, respectively, in mid-July this year. While prices softened a bit in mid-August, a further spike in auto fuel rates is expected as international crude prices are again moving north and the value of the rupee is depreciating against the dollar. India imports more than 80 per cent crude oil it processes and pays in dollars. In Delhi, central levies account for over 32.5 per cent of petrol’s price, and state taxes (VAT) 23.07 per cent. On diesel, the central excise is over 35.8 per cent while VAT is more than 14.6 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-19-days-pause-diesel-becomes-costlier-amid-surge-in-international-oil-prices-101632462786686.html
24-09-2021||India||ICMR removes Ivermectin, HCQ from revised guidelines on Covid-19 treatment||The Indian Council of Medical Research and the Covid-19 National Task Force have dropped the usage of Ivermectin and Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) drugs from their revised "clinical guidance for management of adult Covid-19 patients".However, both the medicines can be used with caution in a climax trial setting. According to reports, experts of the government bodies did not find enough evidence of a potential therapeutic effect of the widely used medicines against coronavirus.A study by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) had earlier said the antiparasitic medicine Ivermectin did not reduce the viral load or duration of symptoms in patients with Covid-19 even at higher doses. This was found in a randomised controlled trial on 157 patients admitted with mild to moderate disease at the premier hospital during the first surge of infections between July and September last year.Also read | Govt drops Ivermectin, HCQ and favipiravir from Covid-19 treatment listA report in The Hindu Business Line said Hydroxychloroquine was dropped because of no mortality benefit, increased risk of address drug effect (ADE) when co-administered with Azithromycin.Studies also found there was no clarity on mortality benefit, no effect on length of stay and clinical recovery in case of Ivermectin.The World Health Organisation had warned against use of Ivermectin a day after Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane recommended the medicine for all adult residents of the coastal state to fight the deadly virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmr-removes-ivermectin-hcq-from-revised-guidelines-on-covid-19-treatment-101632461755113.html
24-09-2021||India||CBI takes over probe into Mahant Narendra Giri's death||The CBI has taken over the investigation into the death of top seer Narendra Giri and constituted a team, news agency ANI reported on Friday. This comes after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath recommended a CBI inquiry into the death of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) president Narendra Giri, who was found dead in his room at Baghambari Gaddi Math in Prayagraj on September 20.Officials have said that Prayagraj Police on Thursday forwarded its report related to the incident to the government, police said. They said that all documents, including the copy of the FIR lodged in connection with the case, autopsy report and the list of collected samples etc had been forwarded to the concerned authorities.Also watch | CBI steps in to probe Mahant Giri's death as Anand Giri, 2 others remain in custody
24-09-2021||India||Govt reduces patent fees for educational institutions by 80 percent||The central government introduced Patents (Amendment) Rules, 2021 on Tuesday which reduced the fee for patent filing and prosecution for educational institutions by 80 percent. The move has been taken to strengthen innovation and creativity in the knowledge economy. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry in a press release on Thursday said, “In order to create a conducive environment for innovation, the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade has been working towards promoting greater collaboration between industry and academia. This can be achieved by facilitating commercialization of research undertaken in educational institutions.”The high patenting fee was a hindrance for educational institutions in getting newer research and technologies patented and hence worked as a disincentive for the development of newer technologies, the ministry noted. While applying for patents, innovators had to apply for these in the name of institutions that were required to pay exorbitant patenting fees. However, now the official fees payable by them in reference to the Patents Rules, 2003, have been reduced through the Patents (Amendment) Rules, 2021. In addition, the government amended the patent rules in 2016, 2017, 2019 and 2020 to remove procedural inconsistencies and unnecessary steps in the processing of patent applications thereby. These have helped expedite the grant, registration and final disposal process, and make these more efficient, user-friendly, and compatible for e-transactions. The department has taken key initiatives in this regard. These include augmentation of manpower by recruiting new examiners; making the patenting process completely online; hearing of patenting cases through video-conferencing for speedy and contact-less proceedings; dynamic redesigning of the website and real-time based hassle-free dissemination of IP information to stakeholders. In addition, the mechanism of lodging feedback and complaints regarding the functioning of IP offices has been set up on the IPO website. Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade in collaboration with the office of Controller General of Patents, Designs & Trade Marks (CGPDTM) is regularly engaged in the dissemination of information to IP stakeholders through awareness activities in IPR which are conducted for schools, universities, industries, legal and enforcement agencies and other stakeholders. The ministry also noted that these reforms have helped decrease the time taken for the examination of patents, and it is expected that the time for final disposal of patents, which has already been reduced to an average of 48 months at present as compared to a few years earlier, will be reduced further to an average of 24-30 months by the end of 2021.“An Expedited Examination System has been introduced wherein an application for grant of patent is being decided within one year of filing such request under Expedited Examination as compared to the period of few years required in case of normal examination route,” the ministry notified in the press release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-reduces-patent-fees-for-educational-institutions-by-80-percent-101632461285956.html
24-09-2021||India||Indian Army accelerates historic overhaul to counter China||India’s long-delayed plans to overhaul its military are getting a new life as Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government moves closer to the US and its allies, which are strengthening defense cooperation against China. Modi, who will attend a meeting of Quad leaders at the White House Friday along with Australia’s Scott Morrison and Japan’s Yoshihide Suga, is taking steps to undertake the biggest reorganization of India’s military since independence in 1947. The moves to integrate the army, air force, and navy – which now operate with little coordination – come as the US and UK work with Australia to put more nuclear-powered submarines in Asia-Pacific waters.Last month, a newly created Department of Military Affairs ordered the Indian Army unit overseeing the Pakistan border to draw up a plan for integrating with the navy and air force, according to officials aware of the developments. That model will be replicated throughout the country so the entire military is under a new operating structure by 2024, said the officials, who asked not to be identified due to rules for speaking to the media. A more unified Indian armed forces would make it easier for the country to link up with militaries from the US and its allies in the event of a conflict. A key aspect of the AUKUS partnership announced last week by the US, Australia, and the UK involves interoperability in a range of defense areas – something India currently lacks within its own forces.“The Quad partners have previously found that they can only exercise with one Indian service at a time -- for example, the navy but no air force, or air force but not navy,” said David Brewster, a senior research fellow at the National Security College of the Australian National University who wrote the book “India as an Asia Pacific Power.” “This severely hampers cooperation when many if not most operations will be joint.”On Thursday in the US, Modi met separately with Morrison, Suga, and US Vice President Kamala Harris ahead of the Quad meeting at the White House. In a tweet, his office noted India’s “shared values” with the US and said cooperation was “gradually increasing.”Over the decades, Indian leaders kept military command and control divided to avoid coups that were once common in the neighborhood. While bureaucrats and military officials have resisted proposals for unification that have been around since the 1990s, mostly due to turf wars, the current structure is proving a disadvantage in countering China, which moved to a similar model as the US and Australia in 2016.“The modernization of the Indian military is underway to meet the regional challenges and technological changes,” A. Bharat Bhushan Babu, a Defense Ministry spokesperson, said without providing more details on the plan. The Indian Navy, Army, and Air Force didn’t comment immediately.The reorganization would create at least four theater commands: One in the west looking at Pakistan, another in the east focused on China, a maritime command for the Indian Ocean region, and an air defense command, the officials said. The restive northern section of Jammu and Kashmir will remain untouched for now, they added.The move is designed to allow India’s military to operate seamlessly across land, sea, and air. The theater commands would pool warships, patrol craft, soldiers, and fighter jets, and work with other missile and gun regiments that have a network of ground radars to handle threats along its disputed borders with China and Pakistan, the officials said.While China has the largest standing army in the world, with more than 2.1 million troops, India is second with a bloated ground force of 1.2 million regular soldiers and 960,000 reserves whose pay and pensions absorb most of the defense budget. The Indian Army estimates that organizing along theaters will yield economies of scale, cutting expenditure by about one-third while concentrating power in a single office: the Chairman of the Joint Staff Committee.“India’s siloed approach to training, planning, and operations created a dissonance when working with other more ‘modern’ militaries,” said Anit Mukherjee, associate professor at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies in Singapore. “Over the last five years, the challenges to the Indian military have grown manifold and it is an open question whether they have been able to match those challenges.”The Indian Air Force in particular has opposed the concept of multiple theaters, arguing that its scarce resources will be spread too thin if they aren’t able to respond to threats in different parts of the country, officials said.The three services still don’t have a common secure communication network, which was evident in 2019 when Indian Air Force jets fired missiles into Pakistan to destroy an alleged terror training camp in response to a suicide attack in Jammu and Kashmir that left 40 soldiers dead. Indian Army units were put on alert but they weren’t told why or what to expect, according to a senior officer who asked not to be identified. While India’s military answers to elected representatives, a tradition of political non-interference has also allowed feuds between the three main services to flourish. That has also strengthened the army, which commands more than 60% of total military spending, leading to a greater focus on land borders over building the capacity to become a force in Indo-Pacific waters.  “The problem with India’s reorganization so far is the tendency to reinforce army dominance of the defense force and reinforce a narrow focus on continental defense,” said Brewster from the Australian National University. “This may mean a reduced capability of Indian armed forces to project power around the Indo-Pacific region in cooperation with the Quad partners.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-accelerates-historic-overhaul-to-counter-china-101632459595675.html
24-09-2021||India||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams makes Covid vaccine certificate, test mandatory for devotees||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), which is in charge of managing the Lord Venkateshwara temple at Tirumala in Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh, has made Covid-19 vaccination certificates or negative RT-PCR test results mandatory for all pilgrims, TTD chairperson YV Subba Reddy has said in a statement. The vaccination certificates will only be admissible if the individual has been doubly vaccinated, and RT-PCR tests cannot be more than three days old, he cautioned.“Devotees coming with online special entry tickets or slotted sarva darshan (SSD) tokens (issued to pilgrims to have free darshan of Lord) should possess either 2-dose vaccination certificate or come with Covid-19 negative test report, which they have taken three days before reporting on the allotted day of the darshan,” Reddy said.The Tirumala temple remained open throughout the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic but entry was restricted to only those who purchased tickets worth ₹300 for darshan and for VIPs. The SSD, or free darshans, was re-started from September 9, allowing only 2,000 devotees from the Chittoor district.Tickets for free darshan were being issued from the token counter at Alipiri, the foothills of Tirumala, but the administration pivoted to an online ticketing system fearing crowds near the counter might lead to a spread of Covid-19.Andhra Pradesh reported 1,171 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the total tally of cases to 2,043,244. To date, 14,108 fatalities have been recorded in the state, with 11 deaths being reported in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tirumala-tirupati-devasthanams-makes-covid-vaccine-certificate-test-mandatory-for-devotees-101632459397121.html
24-09-2021||India||New Android malware steals mobile banking data, money. Here's how to identify||A new Android malware is increasingly being used by cybercriminals in their attempts to steal data and user information, especially mobile banking details. Alerting users about the new malware which is targeting users of Indian banks, the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In), a government cybersecurity agency, released a notification elaborating on the manner in which this malware functions. According to the agency, the new mobile banking Android malware is known as ‘Drinik’, which has already targeted customers of more than 27 public and private sector banks in India.The Drinik Android malware was, until about five years ago, used for stealing short message service (SMS) data. However, with the prevalence of SMS declining and the majority of user data moving to the internet, the Drinik malware was updated by cybercriminals to adjust to a more modern age. In its new, updated avatar – the Drinik Android malware has evolved into a banking Trojan virus.How does the Drinik malware work?Like most Trojan and phishing-related malware programmes, the Drinik virus, too, functions by displaying the user a fake banking screen (the ‘phishing’ screen) where the user is persuaded to enter sensitive banking information – which is then collected by the cybercriminals and used to accumulate data and money from the actual bank servers.The victim usually receives an SMS or an e-mail containing a link that redirects to the said phishing screen. This e-mail or SMS may look entirely official and the screen it redirects to may resemble a similar website of the Government of India (such as the website of the Income Tax department, for example), thus tricking the user to go forward with the next steps.According to the cybersecurity agency, the Android malware is currently masquerading as an Income Tax (I-T) department app. Whenever a user ends up installing it, the app asks them to grant necessary permissions to access SMS records, call logs, contacts, and the like.Now, even if the user does not enter any of the said on the phishing website, the same screen with the form is displayed in the Android app. This form includes entries for full name, PAN, Aadhaar number, address, date of birth (DoB), mobile number, email id.The form also asks users to enter financial details such as account number, IFSC code, CIF number, debit card number, expiry date, CVV, and PIN.Next, the Android malware, presenting itself as a government form, asks the user to proceed with the option of transferring a potential refund amount to their account. The moment the user enters the amount and clicks on ‘Transfer’, the application shows an error and demonstrates a fake update screen.During this process, the Trojan virus sends the user details to the hacker/cybercriminal, including all the SMS data, call logs, and banking details.How can you identify the Drinik malware?The agency also shared indicators of compromise (IOC) to better track down the malware.File Hashes:103824893e45fa2177e4a655c0c77d3b28ef632aeee467678b9ac2d73519b00b78745bddd887cb4895f06ab2369a8cce8cc1e2baeb758b7424b6e1c81333a239e60e4f966ee709de1c68bfb1b96a8cf700313e685c293615cf2e1f39fde7eddd04c3bf5dbb5a27d7364aec776c1d8b3bC2 servers:jsig.quicksytes[.]comc4.mypsx[.]netfcm.pointto[.]usrfb.serveexchange[.]comFile Type: .apk||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-android-malware-steals-mobile-banking-data-money-here-s-how-to-identify-101632452541225.html
24-09-2021||India||Widespread and heavy rainfall likely to continue in parts of India||Widespread and heavy rainfall is likely to continue in Gujarat, east Rajasthan, west Madhya Pradesh, and Konkan region over the next five days, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). A fresh spell of heavy rain is likely to begin in West Bengal and Odisha from Sunday.The monsoon trough is lying to the south of its normal position and is likely to remain there for the next five days. A cyclonic circulation is over south Chhattisgarh and neighbourhood and extends up to middle tropospheric levels. It is very likely to move west-north-westwards across Madhya Pradesh during the next two days.Cyclonic circulations are also over southwest Rajasthan and east-central Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood and a low-pressure area is likely to form over the region during the next 12 hours. It is likely to move west-north-westwards towards the Odisha coast during the subsequent 48 hours. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rain is very likely in east Rajasthan, west Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Konkan, Goa, and coastal Andhra Pradesh during the next five days.Isolated very heavy rain is also likely in Gujarat till Sunday, Saurashtra, and Kutch till Monday, and Coastal Andhra Pradesh till Sunday. Due to the likely formation of a low-pressure area over northeast and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal during the next 12 hours and its west north-westwards movement, a fresh spell of heavy rainfall is likely in Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal from Sunday. Rainfall activity is likely to increase in Kerala and Mahe with fairly widespread rainfall and isolated heavy rain from Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-and-heavy-rainfall-likely-to-continue-in-parts-of-india-101632454445819.html
24-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Voting for 1st phase of Bihar panchayat polls begins and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bihar panchayat election 2021: Voting for first phase begins todayThe first phase of the Bihar panchayat election began on Friday as voting for 4,647 posts are being held in 12 blocks spread over 10 districts in the state amid tight security. Read MoreDelhi to prepare bio-decomposer solution from today to fight stubble burningThe Delhi government will start preparing a bio-decomposer solution from Friday for spraying across farmlands in order to stop stubble burning which leads to air pollution in the national capital. Read MoreFrance still upset with US over submarine snub. Patching up will take timeTop diplomats of France and the United States said on Thursday that patching up bilateral ties will take some time yet, as French discontent still sizzles over the trilateral AUKUS nuclear submarine deal that tore up one of its contracts with Australia. Read MoreIPL 2021: KKR skipper Morgan fined ₹24 lakh for slow over-rate against Mumbai IndiansThe Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) have been fined for maintaining a slow over rate during the Indian Premier League (IPL) match no. 34 against Mumbai Indians (MI) on Thursday in Abu Dhabi. Read MoreKBC 13: Jackie Shroff says he once approached Amitabh Bachchan for autograph but was stopped by Abhishek, Shwetaackie Shroff and Suniel Shetty will be seen as the special guests on Kaun Banega Crorepati 13's Shaandar Shukarvaar episode. Read More‘Dumb mechanical devices’ can wait, Ola Electric CEO has plans for flying carsOla Electric has revealed big and boisterous plans to change the mobility landscape of India, a country where penetration of personal vehicles among masses remains significantly low. Read MoreFree Indo-Pacific, Afghanistan: What PM Modi discussed with Japan's SugaPM Modi met his Japanese counterpart Yoshihide Suga on Day 1 of his 3-day trip. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-voting-for-1st-phase-of-bihar-panchayat-polls-begins-and-all-the-latest-news-101632452702570.html
24-09-2021||India||President Kovind to give away National Service Scheme Awards today||President Ram Nath Kovind will on Friday give away the National Service Scheme (NSS) Awards for the year 2019-20 to 42 people in three different categories virtually from Rashtrapati Bhavan. Union minister of youth affairs and sports Anurag Thakur and minister of state for youth affairs and sports Nisith Pramanik will attend the ceremony from Sushma Swaraj Bhawan in New Delhi.The Union ministry of youth affairs and sports said in a statement that NSS is a central sector scheme, which was launched in 1969, with the primary objective of developing the personality and character of students through voluntary community service. The ideological orientation of the NSS is inspired by the ideals of Mahatma Gandhi.NSS volunteers work on issues of social relevance through regular and special camping activities--including literacy and education, health, family welfare and nutrition, environment conservation, social service programmes, programmes for the empowerment of women, programmes connected with economic development activities, rescue and relief during calamities, etc.The Union ministry of youth affairs and sports confers the National Service Scheme Award every year to recognise and reward outstanding contributions towards voluntary community service made by universities or colleges, councils, senior secondary, NSS units and programme officers and NSS volunteers to further promote NSS in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-to-give-away-national-service-scheme-awards-today-101632453412751.html
24-09-2021||India||Kamala Harris talks to PM Modi about Pakistan's role in terrorism, here's what was discussed||US vice president Kamala Harris, during her maiden meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, ‘suo moto’ referred to Pakistan's role in terrorism. Harris mentioned that there were terror groups working in Pakistan and that she asked Islamabad to take action so the matter does not threaten the security of India and the United States, news agency PTI reported citing the ministry of external affairs. “When the issue of terrorism came up, the vice president suo moto referred to Pakistan's role in that regard (terrorism),” the agency quoted foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla as telling reporters following the key meet between Prime Minister Modi and the US vice president.Also Read | Modi thanks Harris for Covid-19 call, invites her to IndiaShringla, when asked if the issue of Pakistan's role in terrorism came up during Harris' meet with PM Modi, confirmed the development and added that the US vice president also mentioned there were terror groups working in Pakistan.“She (Harris) asked Pakistan to take action so that this will not impact US security and that of India,” the foreign secretary of India was quoted as saying. “She agreed with the Prime Minister's briefing on the fact of cross-border terrorism, and the fact that India has been a victim of terrorism for several decades now and on the need to rein in, and closely monitor Pakistan's support for such terrorist groups.”Kamala Harris noted that it is incumbent on the two nations to protect democracies in the best interests of the people in the two countries.Also Read | On second day of US visit, PM Modi to meet President BidenPrime Minister Modi held the meeting with vice president Harris at the White House on Thursday during which they decided to further cement the Indo-US strategic partnership and discussed global issues of common interest, including threats to democracy, Afghanistan, and the Indo-Pacific.Modi also thanked Harris profusely for extending support to India “like a family, with a sense of kinship” when she had called some months ago in the midst of a devastating second wave of Covid-19 cases sweeping through India. He then went on to extend Harris an invitation to visit India, to which Harris nodded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kamala-harris-talks-to-pm-modi-about-pakistan-s-role-in-terrorism-here-s-what-was-discussed-101632445852206.html
24-09-2021||India||Muzaffarnagar riots: Charges to be framed against ex-UP minister, 9 others||In the Muzaffarnagar riots case, charges are expected to be framed on Friday against former Uttar Pradesh minister Saeeduzama and nine others who were accused of inciting communal tensions through inflammatory speeches in 2013. On Tuesday, a local court fixed the date for framing of charges as September 24 after eight of the nine accused in the Muzaffarnagar riots case – which includes the former UP minister, ex-MLA Kadir Rana, and ex-MLA Maulana Jameel – appeared before it.The clashes between the Hindu and Muslim communities in the Muzaffarnagar district of Uttar Pradesh in the fall of 2013 had resulted in more than 60 deaths and the displacement of over 40,000 people. The riot, which has been described as “the worst violence in Uttar Pradesh in recent history” also saw the Indian Army deployed in the state for the first time in two decades to bring the law and order situation under control.As many as 98 individual cases of riots have been decided so far; however, more than 1,100 people have been acquitted due to a lack of solid evidence. On Monday, a local court in Muzaffarnagar acquitted 20 more accused persons, noting that the prosecution had failed to provide incriminatory evidence against them. The prosecution, for its part, said that charges were filed against 21 persons under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) by a special investigation team (SIT) probing the Muzaffarnagar riots case. The charge sheet related to the alleged burning down of several houses and instances of loot at the Kutbi village in the district during the riots. However, most of the accused were acquitted due to the lack of direct evidence linking them to the incident.According to reports, as many as 510 cases have been registered by the police so far in relation to the Muzaffarnagar riots, while 1,480 people have been arrested. The special investigation team probing the separate incidents has till now filed charge sheets in 175 individual cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muzaffarnagar-riots-charges-to-be-framed-against-ex-up-minister-9-others-101632442720833.html
24-09-2021||NA||LIVE: CJI speaks to Delhi HC chief justice on Rohini court shooting||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Rohini court shooting: CJI speaks to Delhi HC chief justiceCJI NV Ramana expresses concern at Delhi's Rohini court complex; speaks to Delhi HC chief justice DN Patel, and advices him to talk to both police and Bar associations to ensure that the functioning of court isn't affected.Punjab CM Channi arrives at Rahul Gandhi's residenceDelhi: Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi arrives at the residence of party leader Rahul Gandhi. pic.twitter.com/1G9B89ee0BPunjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi arrives at party leader Rahul Gandhi's residence for a meeting.Crime branch to probe Rohini shooting: Rakesh AsthanaDelhi Police's crime branch will probe today's shootout at Rohini court. It's a sensational case, seems like this incident was executed with advanced planning: Rakesh Asthana, Delhi Police commissionerTamil Nadu reports 1733 new Covid-19 casesTamil Nadu reports 1,733 new #COVID19 cases, 1,631 recoveries and 27 deaths in the last 24 hoursTotal cases: 26,53,848Total recoveries: 26,01,198Death toll: 35,454Active cases: 17,196 pic.twitter.com/Sbt0AJ1UxdTamil Nadu logs 1733 new Covid-19 cases, 1631 recoveries and 27 deaths.Govt appoints Lt Gen NV Khanduri as Western Army commanderLt Gen NV Khanduri appointed as next Western Army commander. Lt Gen Khanduri is the first officer from the Corps of Army Air Defence to have been appointed at the Commander-in-chief rank in the force.Temples in Maharashtra to reopen from October 7All temples in Maharashtra to be reopened from October 7th -the first day of Navratri. All religious places in the state will also reopen from the same date: Maharashtra Chief Minister's Office (CMO)India's CAG selected as next auditor of IAEA: MEAIndia’s Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has been selected as the next External Auditor of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) for a six-year term, from 2022-27, at the General Conference of the IAEA in Vienna: Ministry of External Affairs (MEA)President Kovind undergoes cataract surgery at Army Hospital, DelhiPresident Ram Nath Kovind undergoes successful cataract surgery at the Army (Referral and Research) Hospital, Delhi. President discharged from hospital after surgery.Cinema halls in Karnataka to open at 100% capacity from Oct 1Karnataka govt issues order instructing that cinema halls, auditoriums will operate with 100% capacity from October 1 while adhering to Covid-19 norms and taking minimum one dose of vaccine. Night curfew will continue to be imposed in the state from 10pm to 5am from Sept 25.Civil Services topper Shubham Kumar an IIT-Bombay graduate: UPSCShubham Kumar, who has secured the first position, graduated in B Tech (Civil Engineering) from IIT-Bombay. Jagrati Awasthi is the topper among the women candidates securing an overall second rank. She has graduated in B Tech (Electrical Engineering) from MANIT Bhopal: UPSCUPSC announces final result of Civil Services Exam 2020Shubham Kumar tops as UPSC announces final result of Civil Services Exam 2020. Total 761 candidates recommended for appointment.4 injured in chemical boiler blast in Karnataka's AnekalKarnataka | 4-5 km area around Lake Chemicals in Attibele, Anekal covered in smoke following a chemical boiler blast. 4 people have been injured in the incident. Fire tenders at the spot. More details awaited. pic.twitter.com/9irDV9GjryArea around Lake Chemicals in Attibele, Anekal covered in smoke following a chemical boiler blast. Four people injured in the incident. Fire tenders at the spot. Srinagar district admin announces 10-day Covid-19 curfewJ&K: Srinagar District Administration imposes strict #COVID19 curfew in some areas for a period of 10 days starting today.Standalone grocery/vegetable/meat/milk shops may also remain open and functional from 7 am to 11 am only. pic.twitter.com/p7QJ1qSeg1Srinagar district administration announces strict Covid-19 curfew for 10 days starting today.Desperate attempts being made to increase infiltration: J-K DGPFour encounters have happened in the last two months in Rajouri and Poonch. These attempts show that desperate attempts are being made to increase infiltration. These activities are likely to increase. Our personnel are alert: Dilbag Singh, J-K DGP on an encounter in Uri24 new Covid-19 cases in Delhi; no new fatalityDelhi reports 24 new #COVID19 cases, 66 recoveries and zero deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 14,38,658 Total recoveries 14,13,182Death toll 25,085Active cases 391 pic.twitter.com/ZfLnwhYwrhDelhi reports 24 new Covid-19 cases, 66 recoveries and zero deaths in the last 24 hours.UP polls 2022: BJP announces alliance with Nishad Party BJP formally announces pre-poll alliance with Nishad Party for the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh in 2022.Schools in Maharashtra from class 8th onwards to reopen from October 4: Education ministerMaharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad announces schools from class 8th onwards to reopen from October 4. SOPs for teachers and students to be issued, says Gaikwad.Odisha govt announces yellow alert for rain in several districtsYellow alert issued with heavy rainfall very likely to occur at one or two places over the districts of Bhadrak, Kendrapada, Cuttack, Khodak, Puri, Jagatsinghpurup, during the next 12 hours: Office of Special Relief Commissioner, Govt of OdishaJoint CP to probe Rohini court firing: Delhi PoliceTwo gangsters killed in immediate counterfire as they opened fire in lawyers attire at a gangster UTP in Rohini court premises today. All three gangsters dead. No other injury/death occurred. Joint CP Northern range will inquire into the incident and submit report: Delhi PoliceWHO authorisation for Covaxin expected ‘soon’, says MoS (health)WHO's emergency use authorisation to Covaxin is expected soon, says Minister of State (health) Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar.Schools in Himachal for class 9-12 students to open from September 27Cabinet has decided to open schools from September 27 for classes 9th-12th. Students of class 10th and 12th will attend schools on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, whereas students of class 9th and 11th will attend schools on Thursday, Friday and Saturday in a week: Himachal Pradesh govtNitish Kumar announces guidelines for Unlock 6Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, in a series of tweets, announces guidelines for phase 7 of unlock from the state's coronavirus lockdown. Aanganvadi centres and primary schools to open.3, including gangster Jitender Gogi killed in firing at Delhi's Rohini courtMost-wanted gangster Jitender Gogi shot dead inside Delhi's Rohini court; both assailants shot dead in retaliatory firing by police.Gangster Jitender Gogi, 2 others shot inside Delhi's Rohini courtJitender Gogi, one of Delhi's most wanted gangsters, was shot along with 2 others in Delhi's Rohini court. Bio-decomposer solution cheaper than other alternatives to stubble burning: Delhi CMDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday the bio-decomposer solution developed by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government in association with the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, is cheaper than other alternatives to stubble burning. Read more‘Great step forward’: Ratan Tata on Centre buying 56 C-295 military aircraftTata Trusts chairperson Ratan Tata said on Friday the Centre’s contract with Airbus Defence to procure C-295 medium transport military aircraft is a “great step forward in opening up of aviation and avionics projects” in India. Read moreCommitted to double farmer's income, says CentreUnion minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Friday that the Centre is committed to double the income of farmers, be it by purchasing agriculture produce at MSP, promoting organic farming or spending ₹1 lakh crores on farm marketing infrastructure. Rahul Gandhi’s move to appoint Channi as Punjab CM bold decision: Sunil JakharPunjab Congress leader Sunil Jakhar on Friday hit out at the party’s opponents for attributing motives to its choice of the chief minister in the state. Read moreMaharashtra to reduce working time of women police personnel from 12 to 8 hrsMaharashtra govt has decided to reduce the working hours of women police personnel from 12 hours to 8 hours: Maharashtra DGP Sanjay Pandey (File pic) pic.twitter.com/boa7jUJVtYMaharashtra will now reduce the working time of its women police personnel from 12 hours to 8 hours, state DGP Sanjay Pandey said on Friday. CBI takes over investigation into UP seer Narendra Giri's death, forms probe teamThe Central Bureau of Investigation on Friday took over the investigation into the death of Uttar Pradesh seer Narendra Giri, according to news agency ANI. India's daily Covid tally falls slightly to 31,382; new deaths at 318India's daily tally of Covid-19 saw a slight drop on Friday after 31,382 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 33,594,803. After 18 days, diesel price goes up, petrol price unchanged across IndiaAfter seeing a constant trajectory for the past 18 days, fuel prices in India saw a hike on Friday. According to a report by Hindustan Times' sister publication, Live Hindustan, the price of diesel has gone up by 20-24 paise while the price of petrol remained unchanged. Read moreMaharashtra's Thane adds 297 new Covid cases, 4 more deathsThane's caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) climbed to 557,436 after 297 cases were reported in the last 24 hours. The virus claimed the lives of four persons during the same period and the death toll in the district rose to 11,390.CIA sacks Vienna station chief over handling of Havana syndrome casesThe Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) has removed its Vienna station chief amid widespread criticism over not taking seriously the surge in cases of the Havana syndrome, the Washington Post reported on Thursday. On second day of US visit, PM Modi to meet President BidenPrime Minister Narendra Modi will meet US President Joe Biden on Friday during his three-day trip to the United States. The two leaders are expected to discuss the situation in Afghanistan at length along with other bilateral issues. Read moreDelhi to prepare bio-decomposer solution from today to fight stubble burningThe Delhi government will start preparing a bio-decomposer solution from Friday for spraying across farmlands in order to stop stubble burning which leads to air pollution in the national capital. Read moreSpecial Investigating Cell to monitor probe into Delhi riots, say policeThe Delhi Police said on Thursday that a Special Investigating Cell (SIC) has been constituted to monitor the investigation into the 2020 Northeast Delhi violence. The SIC will be chaired by the special commissioner of police (central zone).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-september-24-2021-101632444470335.html
24-09-2021||India||‘Source of inspiration’: Modi praises US vice president Kamala Harris||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday praised US Vice President Kamala Harris as a "source of inspiration" while extending an invitation to her to visit India.PM Modi met US Vice President Kamala Harris here, a day ahead of his highly anticipated bilateral meet with US President Joe Biden."Your election as Vice President of USA has been an important and historic event. You are a source of inspiration for many across the world. I am confident that under President Biden and your leadership our bilateral relations will touch new heights," PM Modi said in a joint press conference with Harris after the two leaders met."Continuing on this journey of victory, Indians would also want you to continue that in India and therefore they are waiting to welcome you. I extend you an invitation to visit India," he added.This was PM Modi's first in-person meeting with Harris after she made history by becoming the first Indian-origin person to become the Vice President of America.PM Modi expressed his gratitude to the US for extending a helping hand when the country was hit by the second wave of Covid-19 earlier this year."I extend my gratitude for the warm welcome that you have extended to me and my delegation. Some months ago, we had the opportunity to talk to each other over the phone. We had a detailed discussion at that time. The way you spoke to me so warmly and naturally. I will always remember that," PM Modi said."It was a very difficult time when India was hit by the second wave of Covid-19. The way you expressed concern and extended a helping hand, I express my gratitude to you. I will like to thank you," he added.Highlighting that India and America are "natural partners", PM Modi said India and the US have similar values, geopolitical interests, and our coordination and cooperation is also increasing."The vibrant and strong people-to-people connections between India and the US is a bridge between our two countries, their contributions are praiseworthy," he added.Earlier in June this year, PM Modi held a telephonic conversation with Harris and discussed the US' strategy for global vaccine sharing and the Quad vaccine initiative to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.In a statement before leaving for the US, the Prime Minister had said he is looking forward to meeting Vice President Kamala Harris to explore opportunities for cooperation between our two nations particularly in the area of science and technology.Earlier in the day, PM Modi met US Vice President Kamala Harris, Australian PM Scott Morrison and held meetings with five global CEOs for potential investment in India. These talks were part of series of meetings that Prime Minister Modi undertook with select heads of corporates that have the potential to invest significantly in India.Earlier on Wednesday, Prime Minister Modi arrived in Washington for his much-touted US visit. He had earlier addressed the Global Covid-19 Summit called by US president Biden.Biden is scheduled to host PM Modi at the White House on September 24. This is going to be the first in-person meeting between the two leaders after Biden took over as the US President on January 20.Biden will host the first-ever in-person Quad Leaders' Summit, which will be joined by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga.PM Modi's US visit will conclude on September 25 with an address at the United Nations General Assembly focusing on the pressing global challenges including the Covid-19 pandemic, the need to combat terrorism, climate change, and other important issues.This is Prime Minister Modi's first visit abroad beyond the neighbourhood since the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak. PM Modi is accompanied by a high-level delegation comprising National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, and senior officials.The high-level session of the UNGA began on Tuesday in New York. The theme for this year's General Debate is ‘Building Resilience through hope to recover from Covid-19, rebuild sustainably, respond to the needs of the planet, respect the rights of people, and revitalise the United Nations.’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/source-of-inspiration-modi-praises-us-vice-president-kamala-harris-101632444138289.html
24-09-2021||India||On second day of US visit, PM Modi to meet President Biden||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet US President Joe Biden on Friday during his packed three-day trip to the United States and the two leaders are expected to discuss the situation in Afghanistan at length along with other bilateral issues. This will be his first meeting with Biden after he became the US President in January this year. Before this, PM Modi met Biden on his first visit to the US as the prime minister in 2014. Biden was the vice president at the time in the administration of president Barack Obama. Both leaders have spoken on multiple occasions after Biden, a Democrat, became US president in January.On Thursday, PM Modi met Kamala Harris and praised the US vice president referring to her as an "inspiration," a leader who is like "family" and called her a "real friend" who has had India's back during the Covid-19 crisis. "The oldest democracy and the largest democracy...we are indeed natural partners, we have similar values," Modi said.Modi on Thursday also met the chief executives of Qualcomm, Blackstone, Adobe, First Solar and General Atomics.Also watch: Why PM Modi 'specially invited' US VP Kamala Harris to visit IndiaPM Modi also met Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Thursday, which Morrison said was "productive" and that both leaders look to further deepen the partnership between the two countries. "Great to meet with my good friend and a great friend of Australia, Indian PM Narendra Modi, during my visit to the US. A wide-ranging and productive discussion ahead of the first in-person Quad meeting as we look to further deepen the partnership between our two countries," Morrison tweeted.Also read | PM Modi, Australia’s Scott Morrison hold talks ahead of Quad summitPM Modi and his Japanese counterpart Yoshihide Suga had a "fruitful" meeting in Washington wherein they discussed several issues including ways to give further impetus to trade and cultural ties. "Furthering friendship with Japan. Prime Ministers @narendramodi and @sugawitter had a fruitful meeting in Washington DC. Both leaders held discussions on several issues including ways to give further impetus to trade and cultural ties," the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) tweeted.This was also PM Modi's first in-person meeting with Suga after the latter took over the reins from Shinzo Abe in September last year.Quad summitA first in-person meeting of the leaders of the Quad group of countries - the United States, Japan, Australia and India - on Friday will yield progress in several areas including infrastructure, health and cyber, a senior U.S administration official told Reuters.Biden and Modi will also hold a "Quad" summit with the leaders of Australia and Japan, aiming to boost cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region amid China's growing dominance in the area. The ministry of external affairs (MEA) had said in a statement on September 14 that the leaders will review progress made since their first virtual summit on March 12 and discuss regional issues of shared interests.Also read | It's Indo-Pacific in Quad, Afghanistan a priority in UNGAPM Modi, Biden, Suga and Morrison will also discuss regional security, a senior US administration official told Reuters on Thursday, although he stressed that security was not the focus of the informal grouping that has come together in response to China's growing power. The official told Reuters that the first in-person meeting of the leaders of the Quad group of countries will yield progress in several areas including infrastructure, health and cyber. The official did not provide specific details about the meeting but said the summit at the White House "will have much to say" about the next steps on vaccines for the Indo-Pacific region."We have what we call deliverables in infrastructure, on broader health engagements on science and technology on the space, on cyber," he said. "Obviously, there have been challenges in India over the course of the summer. But ... we believe that it will be important to meet the ambitions that we laid out at that time,” the official was quoted as saying by Reuters.According to Reuters, the US official called Friday's meeting "historic," and an opportunity for the four leaders to talk openly about "modern challenges, their hopes and aspirations." "We'll talk about a variety of things, including regional security, but we'll also talk about our goals on education, on infrastructure," he said.Also read | Not going AUKUS way: India okay with Quad emerging as non-military entityThe Quad summit comes just over a week after the US, the UK and Australia announced a security pact dubbed AUKUS that will help Australia acquire US nuclear-powered submarines, a move immediately denounced by China.PM Modi's US visit will end on September 25 with an address at the United Nations General Assembly focusing on the pressing global challenges including the Covid-19 pandemic, the need to combat terrorism, climate change and other important issues.This is Prime Minister Modi's first visit abroad beyond the neighbourhood since the coronavirus pandemic outbreak. PM Modi is accompanied by a high-level delegation comprising National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and senior officials. The last time Prime Minister Modi visited the US was in September 2019 when he and then US president Donald Trump, a Republican, addressed the high-profile Howdy-Modi event in Houston.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-second-day-of-us-visit-pm-modi-to-meet-president-biden-101632443051532.html
24-09-2021||India||20-yr-old woman stabbed to death by stalker in Chennai||A 20-year-old woman on Thursday was stabbed to death allegedly by her stalker at Tambaram railway station, more than 30-km away from Chennai, police said, adding the accused later attempted suicide by slitting his throat, and is undergoing treatment at a local government hospital.The incident took place at about 1.30 pm when the woman, who was a student of Medical Laboratory Technology at a private college, was waiting at the railway station to return home to Chrompet.According to the police, the accused had followed her to the railway station. Eyewitnesses claimed the two had an argument during which the man, in a fit of rage, took out a small knife from his pocket and stabbed her in the neck, they said.The accused then attempted suicide by slitting his throat. Passersby alerted the police and called an ambulance.The woman was taken to Chrompet government hospital where she succumbed to injuries while the accused was admitted to Chennai’s Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital for treatment.Police said the woman knew the man for the past two years but had been “ignoring him” off late. The victim’s body was later sent for post mortem.“She got acquainted with him two years ago during train journeys. They were not in the same college,” a senior police officer said, seeking anonymity.“...The accused is in a stable condition. We have booked him for murder (under Section 302 of IPC) and investigations are underway,” the officer added.The accused, police said, is a native of Nagapattinam district and an employeae at a private firm in Maraimalai Nagar.Condemning the incident, AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam said incidents like these are “very distressing.” “Hearing the news of the student’s murder in broad daylight has caused great anguish… It is distressing that the rise in the incidents of murders has caused insecurity and apprehension among women,” he said.The incident brought back memories of similar horrifying cases for the locals.In 2019, a 27-year-old man attacked a woman with a machete at Chetpet station and then jumped in front of a moving train.In 2016, a 24-year-old techie was murdered by a youth at Nungambakkam station for allegedly rejecting his advances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20yrold-woman-stabbed-to-death-by-stalker-in-chennai-101632432181354.html
24-09-2021||India||Congress to boycott Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla’s address in K’taka legislature||Bengaluru The Congress in Karnataka said it will boycott Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla’s address to the joint sitting of both the Houses of the state legislature on Friday, the last day of the ongoing monsoon session, contending that it will set a “wrong precedent”.The principal opposition is opposed to the address being held at the legislative assembly chamber and has stated that it will set a “wrong precedent” as no one other than the President of India and Karnataka Governor have addressed such joint sittings so far.However, the party has no reservation if the event were to be held at the banquet hall of Vidhana Soudha, the seat of state legislature and secretariat here.“When the matter came up at the Business Advisory Committee meeting, I had said, it will set a new precedent, as so far no Lok Sabha speaker has addressed the joint sitting in the assembly. Let’s not set a new precedent, also there is no scope for it in the constitution,” Leader of Opposition in the assembly Siddaramaiah said on Thursday.Speaking to reporters he said, the Assembly Speaker however tried to give an explanation by stating that he had addressed Rajasthan or Uttar Pradesh Assembly.The senior Congress leader cited the government and the Speaker not agreeing to their demand for extending the session, joint sitting not being discussed with the Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Council, no scope for it in the constitution, and it setting a new precedent, as the reasons for his party’s opposition.“We suggested that, as the invites have been sent out, let the address be held at the banquet hall at Vidhana Soudha and not in the assembly hall, and we too will attend. But the Assembly Speaker is not ready to agree to it. So we have made it clear to the Speaker that we will boycott,” he added.The Lok Sabha Speaker is scheduled to address the joint sitting of the state legislature at 2:30 PM on the topic “Democracy - Safeguarding Parliamentary Values.” Siddaramaiah in response to a question on the topic, asked “does it mean that democratic and parliamentary values have gone, as they are going to safeguard it?” State Congress President D K Shivakumar said the government was trying to create a “new history” in the historic Karnataka Legislative Assembly.He said the Lok Sabha Speaker’s address will set a wrong precedent and the Congress will not be a party for legislative assembly being used as a political platform. “We have decided to boycott in protest.” “There is no scope for such an address (by the Lok Sabha Speaker) inside the Assembly as per our parliamentary system and our business rules,” he said, adding that from the topic of the address it seems that the ruling dispensation has agreed that democracy and parliamentary values have deteriorated under their rule.Friday is the last day of the 10-day long monsoon session of the state legislature that began on September 13.Siddaramaiah also said the government is not agreeing to extend the session by at least a week, pointing out that both houses have met after six months and there are a lot of issues to be discussed.“At the BAC meeting last week I had asked for at least a four week session, but they said we will decide it in the next BAC. No BAC meeting was called this week, so I wrote a letter to him (Speaker) to at least extend the session by a week, he said- the government is not agreeing, what should I do? ,” he said.In the parliamentary system of governance, assembly and parliament is the only forum to raise issues, he said, adding, the Congress had agreed to opposition’s demand to extend the session while in power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-boycott-lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla-s-address-in-k-taka-legislature-101632431881413.html
24-09-2021||India||Yet to release compensation to families of Covid victims: Karnataka government||Bengaluru The Karnataka government on Thursday admitted that it is yet to release any compensation to the families of those who died due to Covid- 19 in the state. The admission came after B Siramulu, Karnataka’s minister for transport and Schedule Tribe in the Lower House of the state legislature said that those who died of Covid have been given ₹1 lakh. The Congress jeered the statement forcing health minister DK Shivakumar to give out the details of compensation.In in response, Sudhakar said that the money has been kept but there were “procedural delays” in disbursing them. Former chief minister BS Yediyurappa also had to clarify the issue and calm the rising tempers in the House. “By mistake Sriramulu has said that we have disbursed money but we (government) have not been able to do so. The money has been released but is yet to be distributed,” Yediyurappa said, much to the embarrassment of Sriramulu who, until that point, kept defending that the money had been distributed. Taking a dig at the government, Siddaramaiah, the former chief minister and Congress’ leader of the opposition said that the government had announced ₹300 crore for compensation but no money has been released so far. He said that only 24 persons who died due to oxygen shortage in Chamarajanagar district were paid ₹2 lakh each because of a court order. The admission by the government comes at a time when the death toll in Karnataka continues to rise on account of the lingering virus and the impending third wave of infections. A total of 37,683 persons have died due to Covid- 19 since March last year, including 15 on Thursday, according to the daily health bulletin of the state health department. The government has been under pressure for its handling--or mishandling--of the pandemic and the problems it caused due to unscheduled lockdowns, shortage of hospital beds and life saving medicines, oxygen and even space to bury those who died due to the spike in deaths in the months between April and July this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yet-to-release-compensation-to-families-of-covid-victims-karnataka-government-101632431761561.html
24-09-2021||India||2 killed in suspected cracker blast at New Tharagupet in Bengaluru||Bengaluru Two people died while 3 others were injured in an explosion near a godown in new Tharagupet area in Chamrajpet near the busy KR Market in Bengaluru on Thursday afternoon. According to the police and locals, the godown was a transit goods depot and there were around 80 boxes of firecrackers stored inside at that time. The owner of the godown has been arrested as he had no permission to store firecrackers, police said. Officials suspect that the blast occurred outside the godown when the workers were unloading the boxes which may have contained crackers. Harish Pandey, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) on Thursday said that two persons have died, while one was critical and at least two are injured, but are out of danger. The persons who died have been identified as Manohar (28) from Thiruvanamalai in Tamil Nadu and Aslam Pasha (45) who worked in the adjoining puncture shop, Pandey said. The police have ruled out any gas cylinder explosion or short circuit which was being suspected earlier. “It is a box of crackers (that exploded) that either fell or was casually thrown on the ground which caused the blast,” Pandey said, adding that it was a “directional explosion” which meant that the people who were killed were near the boxes or directly in line of its impact. He added that there were three boxes which were being unloaded and one of them exploded, triggering the other two as well. Pandey also said that there were 78 boxes of crackers inside the shop which remained intact . The locality where the blast occurred is often bustling with workers, trucks and even children playing around since there is no real demarcation in Bengaluru between residential and commercial spaces. This particular depot or godown houses a family of four who reside right on top, including two young children, who were not hurt in the incident. “Our FSL (forensic sciences laboratories) officials have gone there, fire and police have also viisted the spot to determine what caused the incident and how it happened,” Araga Jnanendra, Karnataka minister for home affairs said. He added that it was a major accident as people were seriously injured and the impact has damaged walls of homes as well as vehicles. Congress MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan, who visited the spot on Thursday, announced to give ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh to the families of those who died from his own pocket. He urged the Basavaraj Bommai-led government to also extend monetary help and compensation to those who have died and were injured in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-killed-in-suspected-cracker-blast-at-new-tharagupet-in-bengaluru-101632431521584.html
24-09-2021||India||Covid third wave: 20% beds in government hospitals to be kept for kids, says Karnataka minister||Bengaluru Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Thursday said as part of its preparation to fight the possible third wave of COVID-19, the state government has taken several measures, including reserving 20 per cent of beds in district and taluk hospitals and community health centres for children.He was responding to a question raised by Congress MLA from Vijayanagar constituency M Krishnappa during question hour, on the issue of preparations made to tackle the possible third wave of COVID-19, especially concerning children.“The Technical Advisory Committee (consisting of experts) have suggested that children are at more risk during the possible third wave of COVID, in the wake of this the government has readied 25,870 oxygen supported beds and 502 paediatric ventilators both at the government and private level,” Sudhakar said.He said about 285 paediatricians, 1,250 medical officers, 1,202 nurses, along with 85 paediatricians recruited on July 6-7, have been given special training regarding providing treatment for third wave of COVID.“All the required equipment and infrastructure have been kept ready, few more equipment are yet to come, probably in 15 days to three weeks time they will be made available at hospitals,” he added.The Minister further said 20 per cent of beds at district and taluk hospitals, and community health centres will be reserved for children.Noting that as COVID numbers have come down there is no shortage of beds, he said, it is true that there are reports of shortage of beds at a couple of places like Raichur and immediate measures have been taken.“Action has been taken and instructions have been given to officials to ensure there is no shortage of beds,” he said.Intervening, Congress MLA Shivanand Patil from Basavana Bagevadi constituency, pointed out that there is a shortage of beds for delivery at mother and child hospitals, especially in Vijayapura district, where the highest number of deliveries are taking place in the state.Responding to this, Minister Sudhakar said, at some district centres more deliveries are taking place, especially in border districts, as people from neighbouring states also come there, and the government will take steps to enhance the number of beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-third-wave-20-beds-in-government-hospitals-to-be-kept-for-kids-says-karnataka-minister-101632431221092.html
24-09-2021||India||₹20 crore spent on Bengaluru road works in last 5 years: Karnataka CM Bommai||Bengaluru Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday revealed that the Karnataka government, in the last five years, has spend ₹20,060 crore in various road works in Bengaluru. Bommai, who is also the minister in-charge of Bengaluru portfolio, made the revelation while responding to query in the ongoing monsoon session of the Upper House of the state legislature. “I agree that the roads in Bengaluru are discussed no matter which government is in power. We elected representatives get a lot of criticism,” Bommai said. In his response, the chief minister acknowledged that out of the 11,285.05 kms of roads in the city, just 1,344.34 kms are motorable, admitting to the one of the biggest infrastructural challenges gnawing at India’s IT capital for perpetuity. Bommai said that he would conduct a road maintenance audit to monitor and check the money spent on roads (arterial and sub-arterial), estimates when it started and final cost, maintenance history, potholes and would seek responses from contractors, officials and every person involved in the works to keep a watch on the amount spent on these projects. “I will fix the responsibility on officers,” Bommai added PR Ramesh, the Congress MLC who sought the responses on road infrastructure from the government, on Thursday said that the officials and others involved were “looting public money”. ‘They are only earning money with no intention of doing good work,” he told Hindustan Times on Thursday. Though Bengaluru aspires to be a global city, its administrators including the government, have only focused on just over 800 square kms area, leaving most of its residents without basic amenities despite it being one of the revenue generators in the country. Successive governments have often fallen back on the same excuse of “developing city” as a way to circumvent taking responsibility for its apathy on providing motorable roads without potholes, slush, dust and no life-threatening stretches. Over the years, several persons have lost their lives as a result of the administration’s apathy. Bengaluru led the country in registering cases against civic authorities for causing death due to negligence in 2020,as per the National Crime Records Bureau’s (NCRB) latest report. Its 18 cases account for 85% of all such cases reported in the country. Mumbai and New Delhi accounted for the three other cases reported in this category, while all other major cities didn’t book any civic authorities for death due to negligence, Hindustan Times reported on September 15.The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has 198 wards and councillors elected from each of them. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been in power in the corporation since 2010 till September 2020. There has been no elected council for over one year in Bengaluru, leaving officers in-charge of most of the public works without much accountability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/20-crore-spent-on-bengaluru-road-works-in-last-5-years-karnataka-cm-bommai-101632430981689.html
24-09-2021||India||Suicide case: Bengaluru Police question Byadarahalli man after five of family found dead||Days after five members of a family, including a nine-month-old baby, were found dead in a house in Byadarahalli, the Bengaluru police said they have started questioning the head of the family, who has been accused of harassment in three purported suicide notes recovered from the house during investigation. According to the police, four members of a family – a 51-year-old woman, her two daughters aged 34 and 31 and her 25-year-old son — were found hanging while the body of her nine-month-old grandson, suspected to have died of starvation, was found in the house in Byadarahalli on Friday night. Police suspect the family members died by suicide. A two-year-old girl was found lying unconscious beside the bodies. Police said during the initial investigation, husband of the 51-year-old woman and the head of the family who worked as small-time journalist, claimed he had left home on Friday following an argument. According to his statement, he was unhappy with the fact that both his daughters were not living with their in-laws and his son was in financial trouble. Police said the head of family his statement also said the argument and his leaving home could have led to the suicide. Police said they were in the process of closing the investigation, when they found three notes in separate rooms in the house, which had initially gone unnoticed. Police said the letters, allegedly written by the head of family’s three children, accused him of constantly harassing them. “We can’t share all the details, but the son’s letter claims that his father used to physically abuse his mother. He also alleged that he was forced to marry the daughter of a woman with whom his father had an illicit relationship,” said an officer from Bydarahalli. The officer added that the daughters have also made similar allegations in their notes and claimed they were unable to handle their father’s harassment and so decided to take the extreme step. Meanwhile, police said they have begun questioning the head of family based on the purported suicide notes. “We have also sent these letters for handwriting verification. Once we get these reports, will take further action,” the officer added. The two-year-old girl, who was found unconscious, is with the ghead of the family, police said, adding that they are yet to speak to her since she is in trauma. In another incident, a 12-year-old girl was found hanging at her house while her mother and eight-year-old younger sister were rescued by their neighbours at Dibbur village in Bengaluru Rural district on Wednesday, police said. According to the police, the woman’s husband had died due to Covid-19 two months ago and since then she was under depression due to financial crunch. Police said they suspect the woman convinced her daughters to hang themselves and attempted the same herself. While the elder daughter was found hanging in her house, police said the younger daughter raised an alarm and alerted their neighbours, who rescued them. Police said the woman is receiving treatment at a hospital. Further probe is on, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suicide-case-bengaluru-police-question-byadarahalli-man-after-five-of-family-found-dead-101632430741066.html
24-09-2021||India||Vote for TMC even if cyclone comes: Mamata Banerjee in Bhabanipur; Hardeep Puri says Didi will lose bypoll too||Kolkata: Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee on Thursday urged people to vote for her in the September 30 Bhabanipur bypoll if they want her to continue as the chief minister of West Bengal, even as Union petroleum minister Hardeep Singh Puri said she will be defeated again. Speaking at a public meeting for the bypoll, Banerjee asked the people of the Bhabanipur assembly constituency in south Kolkata to cast their votes even if it rains on the day of polling. Heavy rain has been occurring in the state for the last four months, Banerjee said.“My party has the majority. There is no dearth of people who can become the chief minister. But if you want me to continue, bless me with your votes.... Even if cyclone or tornado comes, come and cast your vote,” she said addressing the gathering.“India starts from Bhabanipur as B stands for Bhabanipur, Bharat Mata and Bharat Varsh,” she added.Meanwhile, Union minister Puri – who went around Bhabanipur constituency for the second consecutive day, campaigning for Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate Priyanka Tibrewal, who is pitted against Mamata Banerjee – on Thursday interacted with voters at a ‘cha chakra’ (tea session) and urged them to vote for BJP to fight the “misrule of TMC government which has unleashed a terror psyche” in the constituency and elsewhere in Bengal.“Mamata Didi is urging everyone to vote for her to get her elected. She is scared to lose. She had been defeated in Nandigram (in the April-May state polls). She will concede defeat again,” he told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vote-for-tmc-even-if-cyclone-comes-mamata-banerjee-in-bhabanipur-hardeep-puri-says-didi-will-lose-bypoll-too-101632429780921.html
24-09-2021||India||2011 caste census data unusable: Centre to Supreme Court||The caste census conducted in 2011 is “unusable” for any official purpose on account of grave “inaccuracies” in its data, the Union government has told the Supreme Court, while adding it is also against collecting any information on castes or backward classes, other than Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs), during the upcoming population census in 2022.Submitting its affidavit in the court, the Centre opposed the Maharashtra government’s plea to make the 2011 caste census public, underlining that the data is “fraught with mistakes and inaccuracies”, and has been hence kept under wraps.“Either due to the mistakes by the enumerators, inherent flaws in the manner of conducting census, and several such other factors, there is no reliable dependable caste-based census data available which can be the basis of any constitutional or statutory exercise like reservations in admissions, promotions or local body elections,” stated the affidavit filed before a bench headed by justice AM Khanwilkar.Refusing to collect data on backward class of citizens (BCCs) during the upcoming census, the government maintained that this exercise is administratively complex, and against the policy decision of the government.It added that unlike the constitutional mandate for collection of census data on SCs and STs, there is no obligation to provide the census figures of OBCs/BCCs. The census data on SCs and STs are used for delimitation of electoral constituencies as well as for reservation of seats, as mandated under the Constitution.The case came up before the bench, which also included justices Dinesh Maheshwari and CT Ravikumar, on Thursday. It was adjourned by four weeks as the state government sought time to reply to the Centre’s submissions.The 2011 caste census, collected during the United Progressive Alliance government, was the first caste-based census since the 1931 census of India. The first census was conducted in 1881, and since then, has been held every 10 years. While the Socio Economic and Caste Census (SECC) was last conducted in 2011, the 2021 census was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and it is now expected to take place in February 2022.On August 23, an 11-member delegation led by Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to demand caste-wise enumeration of OBCs in the 2021 census. Most advocates say that not knowing the numbers of the various OBC communities prevents the creation of targeted interventions for their welfare.However, in July, Nityanand Rai, the minister of state for home affairs, stated in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha that the Union government has decided as a matter of policy not to enumerate caste-wise populations other than SCs and STs in the census.Meanwhile, the affidavit, filed through the ministry of social justice and empowerment in the top court, pointed out that the socio-economic data in the 2011 census was used by the government to identify the poor households and in implementation of the anti-poverty programmes, but the caste data was kept confidentially with the office of the registrar general of India “primarily for the technical flaws that makes it unusable”.It added that the Union Cabinet also set up a committee in July 2015 under the chairmanship of then NITI Ayog vice-chairman Arvind Panagariya but the committee never took off, “as a result no action has been taken on the data in the past five years”.The Centre was responding to a petition by the Maharashtra government, which has asked for the release of the 2011 caste census data for implementing 27% reservation for other backward classes (OBCs) announced under the Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act.On March 4, the Supreme Court held that the Maharashtra government cannot implement the 27% OBC quota to the elections of these local bodies since the state did not have any empirical data. The Court further held that the cumulative reservation in these local bodies (for SC/ST/OBC) should not exceed 50% cap as mandated by the Supreme Court in its landmark judgment of Indra Sawhney in 1992.Citing this judgment, the Maharashtra government filed a fresh petition in the top court, arguing that without the Central census data, the proportional representation of OBCs, rural backward BCCs cannot be done in the elections.The state has also demanded that the court should direct the Centre to collect data on BCCs while conducting the national population census in 2022. The Centre has, however, opposed both the prayers of the state government.About collecting data on BCCs, its affidavit said: “Enumeration of OBCs/BCCs has been always adjudged to be administratively extremely complex difficult and cumbersome. It has suffered and will suffer both on account of completeness and accuracy of the data, as also evident from the infirmities of the 2011 census, making it unused unusable for any official purpose and cannot be mentioned as source of information for population data in any official document.”The Union government added that exclusion of information regarding any other caste from the purview of census is a conscious policy decision taken by it. “In such a situation, any direction from this court to the census department to include the enumeration of social-economic data to the extent relating to BCC of rural India in the upcoming census would tantamount to interfering with the policy decision,” underlined the affidavit. It said that based on the above policy decision, no information was collected about the castes except those of SCs and STs since the 1951 census in the independent India.The affidavit further highlighted that several high courts as well as the Supreme Court have earlier ruled against giving any direction to the Union government to carry out a caste census. It cited a 2014 Supreme Court judgment that had set aside the Madras High Court order directing the Centre to conduct caste-wise census in the country, terming it “as a colossal transgression of power of judicial review”.The affidavit further pointed out that the 2011 data shows more than 4.6 million caste names which have not been classified or categorised into the appropriate category of classes or castes till date. Collection of data in respect of backward classes in the upcoming census, said the Centre, will pose serious challenges to the enumerators who cannot verify the authenticity of information and more particularly, in regard to income. During the 2011 exercise, the government claimed there were thousands of instances when the enumerators spelt the same caste differently, leading to recording each one as a separate caste.In the case of Maharashtra, the Union government pointed out that the analysis of the 2011 caste census showed that more than 428,000 castes were recorded while the state identifies only 494 castes, including SCs and STs.Similarly, while the total number of castes during the first census in India in 1931 was 4,147, the 2011 data recorded more than 4.6 million different castes. “Even assuming that some castes may bifurcate into subcastes, the total number cannot be exponentially high to this extent... for the aforesaid reasons the details available in the record of the census pertaining to caste is not reliable either for the purpose of any reservation, whether in admission, employment or election to local authorities,” said the affidavit.It added that the preliminary exercise for the 2021-22 census is also over following a notification on January 7, 2020 which relates to instructions meant for census officers to ask all such questions from all persons for collecting information. Inclusion of any additional questions in the schedule at this stage is not feasible, said the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2011-caste-census-data-unusable-centre-to-supreme-court-101632429422444.html
24-09-2021||India||Is there space for ‘humiliation and insult’ in Congress, asks Amarinder||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday referred to his “humiliation” by the Congress and asked the party leadership if he is treated like this, what would be the fate of common workers.Singh, who quit as the chief minister after a bitter fight with party colleague Navjot Singh Sidhu for control of the party, was responding to Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate’s “there is no room for anger in the party” remarks in Delhi.“Yes, there’s no space for anger in politics. But is there space for humiliation & insult in a grand old party like @INCIndia? If a senior party leader like me can be treated like this, I wonder what the workers must go through!” Singh said in a tweet posted by his media adviser Raveen Thukral.The former CM, in a statement on Wednesday, lashed out at the Congress leadership for his humiliation, calling party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra “inexperienced”. He also vowed to defeat his bête noire, state Congress chief Sidhu, by pitting a strong person against him in the 2022 state polls.“Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul Gandhi are like my children...this should not have ended like this. I am hurt,” Singh said. “Fact is the Gandhi siblings are inexperienced and their advisors are clearly misguiding them.”Singh said he had tendered his resignation to party president Sonia Gandhi three weeks before he was removed, but she had asked him to continue. “If she had just called me and asked me to step down, I would have,” he said, adding, “As a soldier, I know how to do my task and leave once I am called back.”He also warned that with Sidhu as the CM face, Congress will struggle in elections scheduled for early next year.Singh said he asked the Congress president to ask someone else to take over as CM and lead the party to another sweeping victory. “But that did not happen, so I will fight,” he said, adding that he will leave politics on a high.On Thursday, the Congress refused to comment on whether Singh would leave the party after his “unceremonious” exit as the chief minister of Punjab, and said “if someone wants to leave, we have no comment to offer”.Party spokesperson Shrinate said Amarinder Singh is an elder and may have stated things out of anger.“He is our elder and the elderly often get angry and say a lot of things. We respect his anger, age and experience. We hope he does reconsider his words. But, there is no space in politics for anger, envy, enmity, vendetta and personal attacks and comments against political opponents,” she told reporters.“We hope that he will rethink on his own words while showing prudence, as he has remained a stalwart of the Congress party, which made him the chief minister for nine years and nine months,” Shrinate added.This is the first time Singh has publicly spoken about the Congress leadership since a feud erupted between him and Sidhu in early May. The party attempted to resolve the differences, but the fight raged on, ultimately culminating in Singh’s dramatic resignation on Saturday.A day later, three-time MLA and senior Dalit leader Charanjit Singh Channi took over as CM.In his comments, Singh praised Channi but questioned his lack of experience in tackling border issues. He reserved the sharpest attacks for Sidhu, a former state minister who resigned from the cabinet in 2019 after Singh changed his portfolio. Singh said he would fight any attempt to name Sidhu the party’s CM face tooth and nail, and added that he was ready to make any sacrifices to save the country from such a “dangerous” man. “Will pit a strong person against him to ensure his defeat in the 2022 assembly polls,” Singh said, without adding more details.Meanwhile, Haryana home minister Anil Vij termed Singh’s exit a ”political murder”, which he said was done as the “nationalist” leader was a hurdle in the party’s “gameplan”.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-there-space-for-humiliation-and-insult-in-congress-asks-former-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-101632428340484.html
24-09-2021||India||Odisha pharmacists can prescribe drugs for 12 ailments at primary health centres||Bhubaneswar: The Odisha government on Thursday allowed phramacists at primary health centres managed by a single doctor or without a doctor to prescribe medicines for 12 ailments including malaria, fever, skin diseases like scabies, diarrhoea and superficial burns.Director of health services, Dr Bijoy Mohapatra said the government took the step to address the acute shortage of doctors at primary health centres in rural areas as it has become difficult to treat huge number of patients.“In 2003 under the Panchavyadhi scheme for treatment of five illnesses - fever, dysentery, vomiting, headache and stomach pain - we trained the pharmacists to dispense medicines in the absence of doctors. We just modified the order so that people in rural areas can get treatment,” said Dr Mohapatra.He said the order was necessary as doctors at health centres needed to take a day off and some arrangement was necessary to run healthcare services smoothly in rural areas where the phramacists managed the primary health centres. The ailments for which the pharmacists can prescribe medicines are malaria, fever, upper respiratory tract infection, scabies, ringworm, helminthiasis, acid peptic disease, diarrhoea, minor injuries and superficial burns that are not medico legal cases, diastolic blood pressure, drainage of abscess and non-communicable disease.State president of Indian Pharmaceutical Association Smruti Ranjan Mishra said Odisha government may be the first among all the states of the country to allow the pharmacists prescribe drugs for a wide range of illnesses.“It’s a welcome step. If you go to developed countries, doctors only diagnose the disease while pharmacists prescribe the doses. As pharmacists, we know the composition of drugs better than doctors and can advise the patients much better. In most cases where medicines don’t work, it is because patients have not been prescribed drugs in proper dosages. The decision of the Odisha government is very good,” said Mishra.Odisha has 8,729 sanctioned posts of doctors in Odisha to be deployed across 1,288 primary health centres, 377 community health centres, 30 district headquarter hospitals and 7 government medical colleges and hospitals. But on the ground, the state government has only 7,443 doctors including those on contract. This number keeps changing every month as doctors leave after serving for a few months, often dissatisfied with the rural health infrastructure.The government has tried everything including raising the retirement age of doctors to 65 from 62 years, allowing non-domiciled doctors from other states to apply for posts in state government hospitals and giving special incentive to doctors working in backward areas of undivided districts of Kalahandi-Bolangir-Koraput, but the measurs have not been very successful.In its report this year, the 15th Finance Commission said the doctor to people ratio in the state was 1 doctor for 1,864 people while the national ratio was 1 doctor for 1,161 patients. According to the World Health Organization, there should be one doctor for every 1,000 persons. Last year, a record number of 4403 doctors were registered with Odisha State Medical Council but the shortage of doctors continues.According to the rural health statistics 2019-20 released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare in April this year, the primary health centres have only 827 doctors against the sanctioned strength of 1,288 doctors. At the community health centres, 1,508 surgeons and specialists were required but only 313 were in position. Similarly, there were 1,694 pharmacists in position against the sanctioned strength of 1868. Of the 3,927 posts of nursing staff sanctioned, 2504 were in position.The decision of the state government comes at a time when the BJD government is aggressively pushing its health insurance scheme called Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana under which beneficiaries can get treated in empanelled private hospitals across the state and outside by swiping a smart card. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Wednesday distributed the BSKY smart cards to people of Bolangir district ahead of panchayat polls scheduled less than 5 months away.However, former principal of SCB Medical College, the oldest government medical colleges in Odisha, Dr Siddharth Das said the move may not be well-advised.“If a patients has fever due to Covid, just paracetamol would not work. Pharmacists have studied only about chemical compositions in a drug, but can they diagnose a disease,” asked Dr Das.Incidentally, in July this year, the Union health ministry passed Pharmacy Practice Amendment Regulations 2021 under which pharmacists can practise after a five-year integrated Pharm D course. The clinical pharmacist can provide patient care, evaluate all medicare coverage requirement requests, assist all patients with assessment of patient orders and assist prescription infusion and ensure adherence to all laws and regulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-pharmacists-can-prescribe-drugs-for-12-ailments-at-primary-health-centres-101632427140128.html
24-09-2021||India||Central goverment warns colleges against fake ads to mislead students||The Centre has directed higher education institutions not to publish “misleading” advertisements highlighting categories and ranks which have not been announced by the ministry of education’s National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF), and also warned to debar them from future ranking exercise if found indulging in any such activity.The government raised the red flag days after it announced the sixth edition of the NIRF rankings 2021. Officials at the ministry who are familiar with the matter said the Centre’s direction came in view of several irregularities in some advertisements published by private universities and colleges. In a letter to all higher education institutions last week, the NIRF secretariat said, “It has been observed that many ranked and non-ranked institutions are advertising in newspapers and magazines highlighting the categories and ranks that are not announced by the NIRF and misleading general public, students, parents and other stakeholders. The institutes are highlighting state-wise or district-wise ranks whereas NIRF does not publish ranks in these categories.”Under the NIRF, the institutes are ranked under 11 different categories --- overall, university, colleges, engineering, management, pharmacy, law, medical, architecture, dental and research. These are all India ranks and are not further divided into any subcategories.“It has also been noticed that institutions have published advertisements in categories like private, government and self-financing institutions. However, NIRF doesn’t specify any such categories. It has also been found that some institutions have mentioned ranks on their website but do not specify the year they were ranked in,” a senior official said on condition of anonymity.In its letters, the NIRF secretariat also said that it has been observed that some institutions have been using “imitations” of the State Emblem of India Act, 2005, without an approval from the central government. “Some of the institutions that are ranked by both NIRF and private players are displaying the ranks given by the private players with the NIRF logo,” it said.Directing universities, colleges and other institutes not to bifurcate ranks state-wise or district-wise, the letter said: “Do not create additional categories or disciplines and rank your institutions in these self-made categories... The institutions are requested to comply with the mentioned advisory. Post this email, if any institution is found to advertise misleading advertisements or publish misleading information on their website, it will be barred from future ranking exercise.” When contacted, officials at three central universities and two private universities denied publishing any such advertisement or information on the website. However, they confirmed receiving the letter from the NIRF Secretariat. “We have been asked to submit a compliance report. But it has nothing to do with the public universities,” an official at central university in Delhi said, seeking anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-goverment-warns-colleges-against-fake-ads-to-mislead-students-101632425107038.html
24-09-2021||India||Woman raped, thrown off 10th floor in Kanpur||Kanpur A 19-year-old woman was allegedly raped and pushed to death from the 10th floor of a building by her employer, police said here on Thursday.Accused , a dairy operator, initially tried to mislead police but later confessed to his crime, an official said.The accused took the victim, who worked as his secretary, to his flat in Kalyanpur on Tuesday on the pretext of some official work.He tried to persuade her to have a physical relationship by offering money but when she refused, he raped her, Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) BBGTS Murthy said.After she was raped, the woman threatened to report the matter to police, following which the accused pushed her from the balcony of his 10h floor flat, resulting in her death, he said.The DCP said the accused was arrested on Wednesday and produced before the chief metropolitan magistrate. He was sent to judicial custody by the court, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-raped-thrown-off-10th-floor-in-kanpur-101632424739419.html
24-09-2021||India||Kerala ruling front, Cong support farmer unions’ bandh call on Sept 27||Thiruvananthapuram: The ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) and opposition Congress in Kerala have supported the Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ unions on September 27 in protest against the Centre’s three farm laws.LDF convener A Vijayaraghavan said on Thursday that it will be a total shutdown in the state and some examinations scheduled on September 27 will be shifted to another day. “Farmers have been agitating for almost a year. The union government is ignoring their repeated pleas. The country never witnessed such an indifferent government. We will support their movement whole-heartedly,” he said, appealing to all parties and trade unions to make the bandh a success. Though many merchants’ associations and others asked the LDF to make it a symbolic protest in view of the pandemic situation, the front did not agree. “It is our duty to support such an agitation,” said Vijayaraghavan. The Congress said it will try to make the bandh a grand success as exhorted by party leader Rahul Gandhi. “Farmers are voice of the country. The BJP government ignored their protests. We will try to make the bandh a grand success to open the eyes of the government,” said party state president K Sudhakaran. Such protests usually turn a forced shutdown in the state crippling normal life. At least 40 farmers’ organisations under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) have given the call for the countrywide bandh on September 27 which the protesters said will make their movement stronger. They said many trade unions, banks workers’ associations, transporters and others pledged support to their agitation. Farmers have been protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill passed in parliament last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-ruling-front-cong-support-farmer-unions-bandh-call-on-sept-27-101632424141511.html
24-09-2021||India||Districts in south Bengal receive three times excess rain in last one week||Three districts in south Bengal received more than five to ten times excess rain on Tuesday compared to the climatic normal of three decades, while three other districts in the region, including Kolkata, registered three times excess rain in the last one week, as an intense spell of rain and thundershower, triggered by a cyclonic circulation, hit the state. But if one considers the rainfall amount the same districts received since the starting of the monsoon season on June 1, then the excess is not even more than 50%. “This is because monsoon has been vigorous of late. Back-to-back cyclonic circulations are developing over the Bay of Bengal, which on intensifying and approaching the coast, are triggering intense spells of rain. Kolkata received the heaviest rainfall in one day in September in 14 years this week,” said GK Das, director of the India Meteorological Department’s regional office in Kolkata. In the last one week, Kolkata received 268mm rain. This is 336% extra over the climatic normal of 61.5mm rain, which the city receives between September 16 and September 22. Similarly North 24 Parganas and West Midnapore received 376% and 335% excess rain over the 30-years of climatic normal during the week. While North 24 Parganas gets around 55m rain but received around 261.6mm rain in the last one-week, West Midnapore usually gets around 48.7mm, but last week it received around 211.7mm. Bankura, a district in the western part of the state registered 1052% more rain on Wednesday than it has been usually receiving on September 22 over the past three decades. Purulia and West Midnapore received 574% and 896% excess rain on the same day. But the same districts show very little deviation of the rainfall amount is taken for the period June 1 to September 22. Kolkata has just 31% extra rain, North 24 Parganas registered 48% excess rain and West Midnapore registered 42% excess rain over the climatic normal from June to September. “One of the primary reasons behind these intense spells is climate change. The water holding capacity of the atmosphere increases by around 7% if there is one degree rise in temperature. Across India incidents of heavy rain spells are increasing. This is just one consequence of climate change,” said KJ Ramesh, former director of India Meteorological Department. Data available with the Union ministry of earth sciences reveal that while in 2016 around 1864 IMD stations across India recorded very heavy rain and 226 stations recorded extremely heavy rain, in 2020 at least 1912 stations had registered very heavy rain and extremely heavy rain was recorded in 341 stations. In 2018 and 2019 such events were even higher. The ‘Assessment of climate change over the Indian region’ – a report published by the Union earth sciences ministry in 2020 suggests that there has been a shift in the recent period toward more frequent dry spells and more intense wet spells during the summer monsoon season. The frequency of localized heavy precipitation occurrences has increased worldwide in response to increased atmospheric moisture content. “Our analysis of 100 years of data of rainfall in West Bengal shows that the overall rainfall in the monsoon season has increased but the number of rainy days has dropped resulting in intense spells. What aggravates the situation is that while on one hand alteration of nature is going on in an unbridled way, we also lack the mitigation and preparedness,” said Tuhin Ghosh, director of School of Oceanographic Studies at Jadavpur University in Kolkata. The IMD’s regional office in Kolkata has warned of yet another spell of heavy rain over the coming weekend. A low-pressure system that is likely to form over the sea would trigger rain and thundershower in Kolkata and other districts of south Bengal on September 26 and 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/districts-in-south-bengal-receive-three-times-excess-rain-in-last-one-week-101632424019496.html
24-09-2021||India||No plan to include India and Japan in AUKUS security alliance yet: US||Washington: Though India has opted to publicly downplay the impact of the recently launched security alliance between Australia, the UK and the US (AUKUS) on the Quad – even as both groupings focus on the Indo-Pacific region – it is secretly pleased that the latter has been “de-securitised” as a result, a person familiar with the discussions said on the condition of anonymity.India has been wary about “militarising” the Quad — the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue it conducts with Australia, Japan and the US. However, AUKUS, with its unabashed security bearing, has “de-securitised” the Quad, and this “is what we have wanted”, the person added.“We have no intention of militarising the Quad,” the person said ahead of the crucial talks Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to hold with US officials over the next two days. The person insisted that a lot of people have mistakenly tied the Malabar military exercises — which India has hosted and conducted with Japan and US for years and now Australia joining it — to the Quad as the group’s security and defence aspects. “They are not linked,” the person added.There were some talks towards the end of the Trump administration of giving the Quad a formal structure, something like an Indo-Pacific version of the NATO military alliance.India has enthusiastically welcomed the non-military and non-security direction the Quad has taken in recent months as it has elevated its exchanges to the summit level, driven by President Joe Biden, the person said, pointing to the three working groups launched at the virtual summit of the leaders in March: on Covid-19 vaccines, emerging technologies, and climate.PM Modi will join President Biden, Australian PM Scott Morrison and Japanese PM Yoshihide Suga for the first in-person summit of the Quad leader on Friday. Biden, who will host the summit, indicated in his maiden UNGA speech on Tuesday that the talks will focus on tackling “challenges ranging from health security to climate to emerging technologies”.The Indian side is going into the in-person summit with the expectation of building on the initiatives of the March meeting.PM Modi, who is on his seventh visit to the US as prime minister, has a packed calendar of engagements before and after the Quad summit. On Thursday, he will have a key ceremonial meeting with Vice-President Kamala Harris, the first Indian American to hold the post, in Washington DC.Their discussions could range from the “management of Covid-19 to issues like cooperation in the high-tech sector and the space sector, where the Vice-President has an interest and a number of areas including resilient and secure supply chain, which is something of great interest to both sides,” the person cited before said.There is a possibility of an announcement of an India visit by Harris at some stage, with people familiar with the discussions asked to “wait till tomorrow”.The PM will also take part in a long-overdue bilateral meeting with his Australian counterpart, Morrison, whose last two scheduled visits to India were cancelled. Morrison had given Modi a heads up on the AUKUS announcement.Modi is scheduled to meet Japanese PM Suga for the last bilateral of the day of Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-plan-to-include-india-and-japan-in-aukus-security-alliance-yet-us-101632423848914.html
24-09-2021||India||After Centre’s ex gratia announcement, Kerala to update list of Covid deaths: Health minister||Thiruvananthapuram: After the Union government’s announcement to give a relief of ₹50,000 to dependents of those who died of Covid-19, Kerala health minister Veena Geroge said on Thursday that the state government will update the list of the dead. She said the state will go by the directive of the union health ministry and make necessary changes. Medical experts said the state will have to at least double the existing deaths (24,191) to include all Covid-19-related fatalities. “It is a fact many deaths failed to get into the list due to weird reasons put forward by the state government. No doubt, deaths will go up considerably if the government follows the latest directive in letter and spirit,” said Dr S S Lal, a public health expert. There were complaints that the state was underreporting deaths to maintain the low fatality rate, which is one of the lowest in the country, below 0.5% against the national average of 1.30%. “The state will prepare an updated list of those who succumbed to the pandemic. We will include those who died even after testing negative for the virus after a month,” the minister said, adding the government will help all families who lost their family members to the virus. Many hospitals said they are getting frequent enquires for proper death certificates identifying the exact cause of death. “We are flooded with inquiries. Even relatives of those died due to non-Covid complications are also calling us. It will be a herculean task to go back to many cases and pinpoint exact cause of death,” a senior doctor, who did not want to be named. at the Thiruvananthapuram medical college hospital said. Earlier the union health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research had released fresh guidelines which stated that those who succumbed to Covid-19 at home or hospital within 30 days of testing positive and those who stayed in a hospital beyond 30 days of testing positive and succumbed to the virus will now be counted as Covid-19 fatalities. Later the union government submitted an affidavit to the Supreme Court in this regard. Meanwhile, the state reported 19,682 new cases with a test positivity rate of 16.14% after 121,945 samples were tested, said the state health ministry. It also reported 152 deaths taking total fatalities to 24,191. Active cases are 160,046 and recovered cases stand at 20,510. Thrissur district topped the virus list with 3,033 cases, followed by Ernakulam with 2564 and Kozhikode with 1735. Statistics show cases and TPR are coming down gradually after the state remained the top contributor of cases for more than three months. The second stage of infection aggravated after the Onam festival in August-end. Though it reported high cases, there were no health crisis or shortage of oxygen in any part of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-centre-s-ex-gratia-announcement-kerala-to-update-list-of-covid-deaths-health-minister-101632423842046.html
24-09-2021||India||Opposition parties, activists target Assam govt. over deaths during eviction||The killing of two people during an eviction drive in Assam triggered a political storm on Thursday as Opposition parties and activists targeted the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government and the administration hit back, blaming a thousands-strong mob for the deadly violence.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted that the state of Assam was on “state sponsored fire. “I stand in solidarity with our brothers and sisters in the state- no children of India deserve this,” he said.The Congress party condemned the violence. “Assam, like the rest of India, is burning because of the hatred BJP is spreading,” it tweeted.Chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, however, backed the police action.“Police are doing their duty. As per my information, people attacked police with machetes, spears and other things,” he said, making it clear that the eviction drive will continue on Friday.The political tug-of-war came hours after police bullets allegedly killed two people, and at least nine policemen were injured in clashes during a controversial drive to evict “illegal settlers” in Assam’s Darrang district.Police said a mob of nearly 2,000 people attacked personnel during the eviction drive at Dholpur village in Sipajhar, forcing security men to lathi charge the crowd and open fire, resulting in the deaths and injuries. But local residents and Opposition members blamed the police for the violence and alleged that one villager was shot at point-blank range.The eviction drive was being conducted in a region largely inhabited by Bengali-speaking Muslims.“These residents are mostly cultivators and their source of sustenance is being attacked. A government’s job is to work for welfare of people and not create problems for people by making them homeless,” state Congress president Bhupen Kumar Borah said.Former MP Sushmita Dev, who recently quit the Congress for the Trinamool Congress, said, “Is this really happening in Assam ? @CMOfficeAssam Is this the new model of governance?”All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) condemned the incident and termed it as unfortunate and barbaric. The party said that the government should have given adequate time to the residents and offered them alternate measures before forcing them out.“The process could have been carried out in an amicable manner. But chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma seeks to get sadistic pleasure by targeting innocent civilians. Assam seems to be turning into a police state with no rule of law. People of the state are watching and will give a befitting reply in due time,” said AIUDF organising secretary Md. Aminul Islam.Sivasagar MLA and president of Raijor Dal, Akhil Gogoi, demanded the eviction drive be stopped immediately and alternate housing provided to those evicted earlier.The controversial eviction was first mooted when Sarma visited the area on June 7 and instructed the district administration to clear the area occupied by “illegal settlers” for a community farming project for young people hailing from the state’s indigenous communities.Activists also said that the local residents were living in the area since the 1970s and demanded adequate rehabilitation processes.“Encroachment of government land is illegal. But government should give enough time to residents before carrying out evictions. From a humane point of view, alternate arrangements like a rehabilitation package, housing and other basic necessities should have been ensured before taking drastic measures,” activist Dibyajyoti Saikia said.These families had been residing in the area for 40-50 years, said Saddam Hussain, another activist and local resident.Ainuddin Ahmed, an adviser to the All Assam Muslim Students Union (AAMSU) who was present when violence broke out on Thursday, termed it as pre-planned attack on Muslims by the state’s BJP-led government.“All this was planned and part of communal politics of CM Sarma targeting Muslims. The government must announce a rehabilitation package for all residents or else we will not perform last rites of the deceased and intensify protests. The deputy commissioner of Darrang and the superintendent of police, who is the CM’s brother, should be removed and their roles in Thursday’s incident investigated by an independent agency,” he said.The BJP dismissed the charges and said the police acted in self defence.“We have to understand that these people were staying in government land illegally for years. They were given notice and also assured about some alternate measures. But today they took law into their own hands and police had no option but to resort to firing in self-defence. Government has already ordered an inquiry and it will reveal the truth,” said Assam BJP spokesperson Rupam Goswami.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-parties-activists-target-assam-govt-over-deaths-during-eviction-101632423478708.html
24-09-2021||India||Food stall owner, irked by poop near oven, poisons 20 street dogs; arrested||Bhubaneswar: A food stall owner in Cuttack district was arrested on Thursday on charges of cruelty to animals after local shopkeepers accused him of poisoning at least 20 street dogs over 3 days. Police said he was angry that some dogs pooped near his stall’s oven.Ajay Kumar Sahu, a street food stall owner at Shankarpur village under Choudwar block of Cuttack district, has been arrested for killing the animals and criminal intimidation, said inspector Biranchi Narayan Pati of Choudwar police station.Pati said villagers suspected something was amiss on Wednesday when they realised that 20 street dogs had died in a span of just three days. “Since the dogs usually roamed around Sahu’s shop, the villagers suspected him to be the accused as he had been furious at the dogs pooping around his oven,” said the police officer.When confronted by the villagers, Sahu allegedly admitted that he killed the stray dogs and threatened the villagers. He told them that he mixed an insecticide used by farmers with some sweets and fed them to the dogs.The shocking incident comes days after street food stall owners in Charampa town of Bhadrak district 100km away organised a community feast on Tuesday in memory of a mongrel they had taken care of for 13 years. The dog, who was affectionately called Champi by the stall owners, died on September 10.Sushant Biswal, the stall owner who first adopted her, said Champi was going to be abandoned by her owners when he took her in.“It was like no other dog in the area. I got her from a man 13 years ago when she injured one of his family members. I treated the mongrel as my daughter. It never mingled with other dogs and would prowl around my shop most of the time. At night it slept inside my shop while I downed the shutters. She was like a part of my family,” said Sushant Biswal earlier this week, standing near a framed photograph of the dog in front of his shop. Some other shopkeepers in the area also got their heads tonsured.Biswal said the mongrel would not eat food thrown on the ground. “We would give it biryani, rassagola, roti or rice on a plate. Even if someone gave a biscuit, it would be put on a plate or else the dog would not touch it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/food-stall-owner-irked-by-poop-near-oven-poisons-20-street-dogs-arrested-101632423359825.html
24-09-2021||India||People with disability can get Covid vaccines at home||Differently-abled people, senior citizens and those with restricted or limited mobility across India will soon be administered the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine shot at home if they are unable to go to vaccine centres, the government announced on Thursday.Only 6% of all doses of vaccine shots administered between May 1 and September 22 were done at private hospitals, while the remaining were all at public health facilities, senior health ministry officials said during the government’s Thursday’s media briefing on Covid-19 updates.“I am pleased to inform that the government has made a provision wherein those with restricted mobility, who cannot step out of their house to get vaccinated, such as those who are differently-abled, elderly or those with some special needs, will be administered vaccine shots at home under the supervision of trained vaccinators, following the requisite standard operating procedures (SOPs). The advisory in this regard has been issued to states,” said VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog.“Those who have not been able to take the shot because of this reason will benefit from this. The arrangements we will make for providing the vaccination facility at home will be safe, effective and supportive,” he added, without elaborating when the programme would start.In a letter issued on Thursday, states and Union territories have already been directed to make suitable arrangements for the rollout. The at-home vaccination drive will be in addition to a citizen-friendly intervention for near-to-home vaccination centres for elderly and differently-abled citizens, started in May 2021, which is already in place. Around 162 million doses have been administered under the latter scheme.“…there are still some persons who might be bed-ridden or have extremely restricted mobility or disability and/or special needs that may hamper their accessibility even to near-to-home vaccination centres. It is advised that a line-list of such potential beneficiaries and their care-givers may be prepared in the catchment area of every planning unit and collated at district level. Subsequently, vaccination of such beneficiaries may be facilitated at their place of residence using mobile vaccination teams…,” reads Union health ministry’s letter to states/UTs.“We are urging those who are eligible but have not taken the vaccine (men, women, pregnant women, everybody), more so who are of a higher age above 50 years to make an effort to come forward and get vaccinated. We are there to help,” said Paul.Meanwhile, government data shows that public health facilities have been overwhelmingly favoured by people as their choice of vaccination centre across India, accounting for 94% of all doses administered since May 1.“If we take the figures from the first of May to 22nd of September, roughly 6% doses have been administered in private hospitals, and remaining doses have been administered in public health facilities,” said Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, ministry of health and family welfare. Initially, the private sector was allowed procurement of up to 25% available supplies. However, in one of the earlier press briefings, the Union health secretary said there was no earmarked quota of Covid-19 vaccine supplies for the sector.“There is no earmarked quota for the private sector; there is an indicative percentage of what the government would procure and what would be available for the private sector to procure. This in effect means that if the private sector is either unable to procure or utilise the earmarked percentage, then whatever is the shortfall will also be procured by the government; because at the end of the day, whatever is produced in the country must be utilised,” he said.Nearly two-thirds of country’s adult population (66.2%) has been administered at least one Covid-19 vaccine shot, and just under a quarter (23.2%) of the adults have been fully vaccinated, shows government data. India has administered at least 840 million shots of the vaccine since start of the immunisation drive on January 16, this year.Meanwhile, the health ministry has also shared guidelines with states keeping in mind the expected festive season rush in coming months. The SOP says that mass gatherings should be avoided in areas identified as containment zones and in districts reporting more than 5% case positivity; gatherings with advance permissions and limited people to be allowed in districts with the positivity rate of below 5% and below etc. “The letter was sent on September 21, with detailed SOPs for states to be implemented particularly in the months of October and November when we expect mass public gatherings owing to the festive season. Weekly case positivity must be used to make decisions regarding imposing or lifting movement related restrictions,” added Bhushan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-with-disability-can-get-covid-vaccines-at-home-101632423306719.html
24-09-2021||India||24 arrested for gang rape of Thane girl, SIT to probe case: Police||At least 32 people have been booked on charges of gang-raping a 15-year-old girl several times over a period of nine months in Maharashtra’s Thane district, police said on Thursday. Of the total, 24 have been arrested while two minors have been detained, and a special investigation team (SIT) has been formed to probe the case, they added. In her complaint on Wednesday, Manpada police said, the survivor alleged that it all started in January when a man she was in a relationship with, threatened to leak their private videos and forced her to have physical relations with some of his friends and acquaintances. All the accused raped the girl, a resident of Dombivli (East), at various locations such as Dombivli, Murbad and Badlapur in Thane district and Rabale in Navi Mumbai on multiple occasions, officials familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. The matter, however, came to light earlier this month when the survivor approached a relative over the prolonged sexual abuse. “The girl’s aunt approached a local social worker and decided to nab the accused. On Wednesday, six of the accused called the victim to a lodge in Murbad. While her aunt and the social worker tried to follow her, the auto they were travelling in broke down midway. Since the girl had shared her live location, her aunt immediately informed us,” an officer, who is part of the probe, said on condition of anonymity.A police team immediately rushed to the lodge and managed to arrest two persons as the other four had already left. Based on their and the girl’s statement, police gradually began apprehending the remaining accused from Wednesday night onwards, the official said. “Based on the victim’s statement, a FIR was registered on Wednesday evening. We booked all the accused under various sections of the Indian Penal Code as well as the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,” Sachin Gunjal, deputy commissioner, zone III, Thane police, said. Additional commissioner of police (East region) Datta Karale added that a SIT has been formed to investigate the matter. “Assistant commissioner of police (administration) Sonali Dhole will head the SIT,” he said. While the minors were sent to a remand home, the arrested people -- all in their early twenties -- were remanded in police custody till September 29. The girl, meanwhile, was sent to a government hospital in Kalwa for medical examination. “A few more names came up during the investigation and the total number of accused has now gone up to 32,” senior inspector Dadahari Choure at Manpada police station said. The developments came weeks after a 34-year-old woman was brutally raped and murdered by a 45-year-old man in Mumbai’s Sakinaka area, prompting Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to urge chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to hold a special session of the assembly to discuss women safety in the state. The accused was later arrested in the case.In a statement, Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde said: “The incident of gangrape on a minor girl in Dombivli is extremely unfortunate, reprehensible and a blot on humanity. I have spoken to the Thane Police commissioner and issued instructions to arrest whoever is involved in the offence. In order to ensure that there are no repeats of such a grave crime, not only will the accused be punished in the strictest way possible, but instructions have also been given to handle every single complaint of crimes against women speedily and strictly.” Condemning the alleged gang-rape of the teen, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis demanded that the Maharashtra government make special efforts to prevent such crimes. “An atmosphere of fear is prevailing in the state. The increase in the number of such incidents is worrisome,” the former chief minister told reporters in Nagpur. Maharashtra Navnirman Sena general secretary Shalini Thackeray tweeted: “The gang-rape in Dombivli sends a shiver down the spine. What more needs to happen for the chief minister to realise that Maharashtra is no different than Delhi or Uttar Pradesh?” Meanwhile, police dismissed reports that some of the accused had political connections. “None of the accused come from politically-connected families and there was no political pressure,” Gunjal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/24-arrested-for-gang-rape-of-thane-girl-sit-to-probe-case-police-101632423180297.html
24-09-2021||India||BJP MPs top attendance chart in House panel meets: Data||On average, Rajya Sabha members belonging to the Bharatiya Janata Party attended parliamentary committee meetings more frequently than their Congress counterparts in the last year, according to the data shared by the Rajya Sabha secretariat. This was even as the principal opposition party remained vocal for closer scrutiny of legislation in House panels. Secretariat data shows 92 BJP members of the Upper House had an average attendance of 56.56% while those of the Congress (38 MPs) had 41.86%. A total of 361 meetings were held of various committees between September 2020 and August this year. However, the overall attendance for Rajya Sabha was 46%. Explaining this, some lawmakers said large parts of India were plagued by Covid-19 during this period and virtual meetings were not allowed. Among the smaller parties, Telugu Desam Party’s lone member in the Rajya Sabha, Ravindra Kumar, attended 9 out of every 10 meetings. Delhi’s ruling Aam Aadmi Party had an impressive 77% attendance rate with 3 MPs, followed by Shiv Sena (75%) with 3members and YSRCP (67%) with 6 MPs. The data is part of a review ordered by Rajya Sabha chairman, Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu, in a bid to improve the attendance of MPs in House panel meetings. Higher participation in standing committee meetings is essential for their functioning as these panels have often suffered due to lack of quorum (5 members) in the past, said officials, adding that Naidu has requested all panel heads to ensure a minimum of 50% attendance in all meetings even as the minimum requirement or quorum is much lower. Earlier this week, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, too, sought a report on the attendance of Lok Sabha MPs in parliamentary committee meetings. Meetings with the highest attendance were those of the committee on defence (88%) followed by chemicals and fertilisers (83%); the panel on home affairs saw 78% attendance. The attendance reports also assume significance as the two presiding officers have often spoken about shifting MPs with low attendance to other panels. “This latest exercise also comes ahead of the reshuffle in the House panels,” said a senior Rajya Sabha official on condition of anonymity. There are 16 panels under the jurisdiction of the Lok Sabha and eight under Rajya Sabha. All parliamentarians are entitled to be members of at least one committee. Samajwadi Party’s Ramgopal Yadav, BJP’s Rakesh Sinha, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s P.Wilson, Telangana Rashtra Samithi’s K Keshava Rao and Congress veteran Anand Sharma are among the 16 members in the House of 231 who have 100% attendance. The list includes 10 BJP MPs, 3 from Congress and one each from SP, DMK and TRS. A total of 131 members, accounting for 54% of the Upper House, have attended at least half of the panel meetings. But senior opposition leaders said that insistence on regular attendance during a pandemic is unnecessary. “These average comparison figures may actually be far more misleading than revealing because the period is bang in the middle of Covid-19. Attendance of members, as it must be, was dictated by personal consideration,” said Abhishek Manu Singhvi, senior Congress leader in the Rajya Sabha. “The correct solution would have been to ensure virtual meetings. In the absence of such digital meetings, to expect people of different levels of morbidity, age and other factors to attend more meetings is absolutely unrealistic,” he added. But experts thought regular attendance was crucial in the functioning of democracy. “MPs should be committed to their legislative responsibilities both in the House, whose sittings are televised, and also in committee meetings where important technical work takes place,” said Chakshu Roy, head of outreach of PRS Legislative Research. He said the latest data “highlights the seriousness with which MPs take their legislative responsibilities, in a closed-door setting”. “Such regular release of data is critical in making the working of our parliamentary committees transparent,” Roy added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjpmps-top-attendance-chart-in-house-panel-meets-data-101632422939711.html
24-09-2021||India||Twitter has abided by new rules, Centre tells HC||The Centre has told the Delhi high court that social media company Twitter has complied with the Information Technology Rules, 2021 and has appointed three-tier grievance redressal officers as their employee and not as a contingent worker.In an affidavit filed before Justice Rekha Palli, the Union government has said that IT rules are the “law of the land” and Twitter has to “mandatorily” comply with it, failing which it would lose its protection from prosecution in case content of unlawful nature is posted by its users.“I submit that Twitter has appointed the personnel in compliance to the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 hereinafter referred as IT Rules, 2021,” Centre’s response in the high court said.It said that Twitter has provided the names of the personnel appointed along with their respective positions, date of employment and contracts.“Twitter has clearly acknowledged that the said personnel Chief Compliance Officer (CCO), Nodal Contact Person (NCO), and Resident Grievance Officer (RGO) are appointed as Twitter’s employees and not as ‘contingent workers’. Twitter has provided the names of the said appointed personnel and their respective positions also….”“The said affidavit (Twitter’s affidavit on August 6) mentions their employment start date as August 4, 2021. Twitter has further enclosed their employment contracts along with the said affidavit as proof of such appointments,” the document read.The affidavit was filed on September 22, in a petition by lawyer Amit Acharya who had contended that IT Rules came into effect from February 25 and the Centre had given three months to every social media intermediary, including Twitter, to comply with them.However, even after the lapse of three-month period on May 25, till date no resident grievance officer was appointed by Twitter to deal with complaints regarding tweets on its platform, due which, he could not take action against two alleged offensive tweets by TMC MP Mohua Moitra and journalist Swati Chaturvedi.Twitter had later disposed of his plea saying that the tweets in question were not offensive according to its policies.On August 6, Twitter, through an affidavit, had told the court that it had appointed Vinay Prakash, an Indian resident, as the RGO and CCO on August 4. It further added that Shahin Komath has been employed as the NCO.However, the Centre had said that the position was “yet to be verified” and had sought time to recheck the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-has-abided-by-new-rules-centre-tells-hc-101632422759526.html
24-09-2021||India||PM Modi to roll out National Digital Health Mission on Sep 27||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will announce the nationwide roll-out of the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM), which has been renamed as Pradhan Mantri Digital Health Mission (PM-DHM), on September 27, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Thursday. “PM Narendra Modi ji to announce nationwide rollout of Pradhan Mantri Digital Health Mission on September 27. Under this, a unique digital health ID will be provided to the people, which will contain all the health records of the person,” he tweeted. The id will be created using details such as Aadhaar and the user’s mobile number, people familiar with the matter said. The initiative will be rolled out on the final day of Arogya Manthan, which was kicked off on Thursday to mark the third anniversary of the government’s flagship health insurance scheme — Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana. The project is currently in its pilot phase in the Union territories of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, Ladakh, Lakshadweep, and Puducherry.The mission essentially consists of four main building blocks -- unique digital health id, health care professionals registry, health facility registry and electronic health records. To begin with, three components — unique health id, doctor’s registry and the health facility registry — have been made operational, the officials cited above said. The health id is to standardise the process of identification of an individual across health care providers which aims to ensure that the created medical records are issued to the correct individual or accessed by health information users through appropriate consent. In order to issue the id, the system will collect certain basic details such as demography and location, family or relationship, and contact details that can be updated from time to time. The id will be used for uniquely identifying persons, authenticating them and threading their health records (only with the informed consent of the patient) across multiple systems and stakeholders.The doctors’ registry will carry details of all healthcare professionals involved in the delivery of healthcare services across both modern and traditional systems of medicine.The health facility registry will act as a database of all health facilities across different systems of medicine, including both public and private health facilities such as hospitals, clinics, diagnostic laboratories and imaging centres, pharmacies, etc. The initiative supports Universal Health Coverage in an efficient, accessible, inclusive, affordable and safe manner through provision of a wide-range of data, information and infrastructure services. “The mission has been designed keeping in mind the needs of the future; it will benefit not just patients but doctors, policy makers and researchers alike. Since almost everything will be electronically handled, it will do away with the requirement of paperwork, like Ayushman Bharat PM-JAY is implemented,” a senior government functionary said, seeking anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-roll-out-national-digital-health-mission-on-sep-27-101632422459212.html
24-09-2021||India||India did what no country could: Supreme Court on Covid ex gratia||The Supreme Court on Thursday said it was happy at the Centre’s decision to pay ₹50,000 compensation to families of people who died due to Covid-19, underlining that “we are certain what India has done, no other country in the world has done”.“We are happy that something has been done to wipe out the tears of persons who have suffered due to Covid-19,” said a bench of justices MR Shah and AS Bopanna after reserving orders on two affidavits filed by the Centre in compliance with the top court’s June 30 ruling that families who lost their dear ones due to Covid-19 were entitled to ex gratia payment under the Disaster Management Act 2005.The bench, which has posted the matter for October 4, said its order would clarify some aspects of the guidelines and make the process binding on the states as well.On Wednesday, the Centre informed the court through an affidavit that the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) issued guidelines on September 11 for payment of ₹50,000 ex-gratia for Covid deaths. A second affidavit by the Centre said the government has decided to extend the ex-gratia benefit to those who suffered Covid and died within a month by committing suicide.Lawyer Gaurav Kumar Bansal, one of the two lawyers who filed the petition earlier this year that led the top court to order compensation, also produced a report by the National Institute Of Mental Health & Neuro Sciences (NIMHAS) Bengaluru to underscore that deaths by suicide during the Covid waves exceeded the national average suicide rate reported in the country.At Thursday’s hearing, solicitor general Tushar Mehta and additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati, who appeared for the Centre, said the Centre has agreed to give the ₹50,000 financial assistance to families of people who died by suicide within 30 days of testing Covid positive.Mehta said, “If suicide takes place within 30 days of a person who tested Covid positive, irrespective of the cause of suicide, it will be treated as suicide due to Covid-19.”He added that in cases where the death certificates and hospital records show “heart attack” or any other reason as the cause of death, the family of the deceased could seek rectification of the death certificate if there are contemporaneous records of past 30 days to show that the person had suffered or tested Covid-19 positive.The court appreciated the Centre’s decision to notify the compensation scheme.“We know about the financial constraints that are there as the government is spending money on procuring vaccines, migrants and providing food to vulnerable sections. Despite facing problems of a large population and financial constraints, we are certain what India has done, no other country in the world has done.”The judges asked the Centre about the procedure for families who did not have the death certificate.When the second national wave of Covid-19 peaked, the bench said, “Hospitals considered themselves monarchs. People were under tremendous pressure. And many persons who died in the hospital, their dead bodies were disposed of. Many a times, the hospitals do not give medical papers to the patient’s families.”Mehta said that the guidelines proposed a district-level committee to deal with any dispute arising between the hospital and the family regarding the cause of death. Mehta aso said that the committee can be asked to call for the relevant records from the hospital in such cases.“We will clarify it in our order as it will be in larger interest and will have a binding effect on states,” the Supreme Court said.The Centre also sought another direction from the Court for states to set up the district-level committee within 30 days.While fixing the ex gratia amount at ₹50,000 the stakeholders at the Centre considered the present uncertainty about likely future waves, the financial burden already existing on SDRF and Central government to provide succor to the vulnerable sections of society, and the allocation for timely and effective response to other natural disasters as well.Solicitor general Mehta said, “The SDRF fund is being utilised for various purposes. We do not know about the future.” The bench asked Mehta, the Centre’s second senior-most law officer, if the third wave of the pandemic is over as it came across a statement by AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria in this regard.“Sometimes such a statement creates a wrong impression. You know the people of this country. Everybody will say Covid is gone and there will be no fear. Still there are two to three lakh cases reported in the country. Technically speaking, we cannot say that the third wave has gone.”Mehta said that in other countries even the fourth wave of the pandemic had begun, and unfortunately, people there are resorting to courts to protest wearing of masks and other restrictions associated with Covid-19. The court said that in an earlier decision, it had noted the importance of wearing masks by persons. “It is not your life only that you risk by not wearing masks but the lives of others. You have no right to play with the lives of others,” the bench held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-did-what-no-country-could-supreme-court-on-covid-ex-gratia-101632422280663.html
24-09-2021||India||Three terrorists killed as Army foils another infiltration bid in Uri sector||Three terrorists were killed as security forces foiled an infiltration bid in North Kashmir’s Uri sector on Thursday, Army officials familiar with the development said. A huge cache of arms and ammunition, including grenades and pistols, were also recovered from the terrorists, they added.The incident took place when the troops spotted five terrorists trying to infiltrate into the Uri sector from across the Line of Control (LoC). “The terrorists were challenged and that resulted in an encounter, in which three of them were killed and a large quantity of arms and ammunition were recovered,” a commanding officer of the Army battalion involved in the operation at Hathlanga village, the last village near the LoC, said. The officer added that five AK rifles, seven pistols, one revolver, five AK magazines, 80 grenades, some food items and both Pakistani and Indian currency were among items recovered by the forces. This is the second infiltration attempt that was foiled by forces in the Uri sector in the last five days. On September 18, a combing operation was launched in the sector by the Army after it detected suspicious movement. All telecommunication facilities in the border town were suspended as a precautionary measure but restored later. Briefing reporters at the Army’s Chinar Corps headquarters here, General Officer Commanding Lt General D P Pandey said there has been increased activity at the launch pads on the other side of the LoC recently.“There are credible inputs that there have been large activities going at the launch pads across the LoC for some time and today’s attempt couldn’t have been possible without the help of Pakistan’s army,” he said. Asked about the identity and nationality of the deceased terrorists, the officer said according to the documents recovered from their person, “one of them was a Pakistani while we are not sure about the other two yet”.Inspector general of police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said 97 pistols were recovered from different terrorists in various operations this year. “We have seen that the attacks carried by terrorists this year were either on innocent civilians who were wrongly labeled as informers or policemen who were unarmed or on leave,” he said, adding that peaceful activities in the Valley had left handlers in Pakistan frustrated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-terrorists-killed-as-army-foils-another-infiltration-bid-in-uri-sector-101632422039264.html
24-09-2021||India||Exclusive: CBI seeks nod to prosecute 3 IAS officers in arms licence case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has sought prosecution sanction against Dr Shahid Iqbal Choudhary and two other Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officers in its probe related to alleged irregularities in the issuance and renewal of hundreds of thousands of arms licences to non-residents in Jammu & Kashmir, officials familiar with the development told HT. Choudhary, a 2009 batch officer who was awarded the Prime Minister’s Award for Excellence in Public Administration in 2015, is currently posted as secretary in the tribal affairs department as well as chief executive officer (CEO) of Mission Youth in the Union territory. The central agency’s request for sanction is mandatory to file a charge sheet.The CBI is probing irregularities in the issuance of more than 278,000 arms licences between 2012 and 2016 (out of 449,000 issued in this period in the erstwhile state) in several districts of J&K to non-entitled people by district magistrates (DMs), deputy commissioners and licencing authorities in lieu of monetary considerations by abusing their official positions. Choudhary’s role as district magistrate in three districts, Reasi, Kathua and Udhampur, during this period was probed by the agency. The central agency raided his home in July, along with that of several other IAS officers, Kashmir Administrative Service (KAS) officers, former district magistrates, additional district magistrates, and gun houses or dealers. Apart from Choudhary, two other IAS officers against whom sanction has been sought are Niraj Kumar, who currently holds the charge of additional resident commissioner of J&K in Delhi, and Rajeev Ranjan, posted in the revenue department in J&K. CBI arrested Ranjan in March 2020, after which he was suspended, but the government reinstated him this February. “Sanction for five others from the state services was also sought in the case, which has already been granted to the CBI while sanction request for three IAS officers has been forwarded to the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT),” said an official, requesting anonymity. This officer said a charge sheet will be filed against the three IAS officers as soon as the sanction is granted. “I am not aware of any latest developments in this case. I am absolutely sure of having done no wrong at any stage. Even as DMs are empowered to issue arm licences, I am among those who brought the annual figure to lowest in the erstwhile state. This is suggestive of the fact that we employed strict process of scrutiny. I cannot comment further without knowledge of charges, if any,” Choudhary said. Niraj Kumar, a 2010 batch IAS officer, said: “The CBI had come to my place in July but they didn’t find anything.” His batch mate Rajeev Ranjan declined to comment. Following the raids at his premises in July, Choudhary issued a statement on Twitter saying that in Reasi, Kathua and Udhampur districts, where he was posted, only 56,000 (12.4% of the total 449,000) arms licences were issued during 2012-16. “This is not disproportionate... of the 56,000 licences issued in three districts — Reasi, Kathua and Udhampur — between 2012-16, only 1,720 were issued in my tenure — 3% of all licences issued in three districts in four years or during the period under investigation and 0.38% of all such licences issued in J&K,” he said in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exclusivecbiseeks-nod-to-prosecute-3-ias-officers-in-arms-licence-case-101632421619071.html
24-09-2021||India||12 Indian institutes in QS employability rankings; IIT-B tops the list||As many as twelve Indian higher education institutions, including six Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), figured in the top 500 universities in Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) graduate employability rankings 2022 announced on Thursday, with IIT-Bombay emerging as the best institute in India in the category.IIT-B moved up to the 101-110 group, from the 111-120 bracket in 2020. “India’s national employability leader – those implementing the nation’s strongest employability processes and achieving the strongest employability outcomes – IIT Bombay,” QS, a global higher education analyst, said in a statement.According to over 50,000 employers surveyed by QS, IIT-Bombay produces India’s highest calibre of graduates. IIT-Bombay is followed by IIT-Delhi, which jumped from the 151-160 band in 2020 to the 131-140 group in 2022. IIT-Madras, too, has risen from the 171-180 band to the 151-160 category.Three central universities -- Delhi University (131-140 ), University of Mumbai (250-300) and University of Calcutta (500+) -- have made it to the list. The other institutes were IIT-Kharagpur (201- 250); Birla Institute of Technology and Science (BITS) in Pilani, IIT-Kanpur, both under the ranking 251-300; and Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru, and OP Jindal Global University, both in the 301-500 bracket; and IIT-Roorkee (500+).Ben Sowter, director of research at QS, said, “With students becoming increasingly conscious of the competitiveness of the global graduate jobs market, and of the ever-increasing financial costs of their educational investment, it has become correspondingly crucial that independent data of this sort is available to them, so as to inform evidence-based decisions about their educational futures.”“The data that contributes to this ranking shows that Indian universities are consistently producing high numbers of entrepreneurs, business leaders, and other highly successful individuals. However, with consistently low scores in our Partnerships with Employers indicator, it is also clear that India’s higher education leadership must strive to create stronger links with industry, facilitating more employer-student connection opportunities on campus,” he said.Among the parameters used to calculate employability rankings are: Employer reputation (30%), Alumni outcomes (25%), Partnerships with Employers per Faculty (25%), Employer/Student Connections (10%) and Graduate employment rate (10%).Meanwhile, three institutes were placed in the top 100 scores under the “alumni outcome” parameter. Delhi University ranks 21st globally and number one in India in this metric by scoring 96 out of 100.Subhasis Chaudhuri, director, IIT-Bombay, said that he expected a rank within the top 50. “Training at IIT Bombay emphasises as learning outcomes on developing skills for analytical problem solving, capability to address unseen problems and an appreciation for the constraints that beset a specific problem. These are the terms of endearment for any technology oriented company. Hence I am not at all surprised at this ranking. As a matter of fact, I expect the rank to be within the top 50 if it is truly measured,” he said.IIT-Delhi director V Ramgopal Rao welcomed the rise in its rank. “IIT-Delhi is happy to jump by 20 places in the QS Graduate Employability rankings. We have been consistently improving our rankings in both domestic and international rankings in the last few years. We have taken various measures in the last few years and they are beginning to show their impact,” he said.Naveen Jindal, founding chancellor of Jindal Global University, which entered the QS employability rankings for the first time, said, “It is a true reflection of the vision and imagination that led to the creation of JGU in 2009. It is indeed the result of the outstanding contributions of the faculty members, students and staff of JGU across all these years.This is a commendable accomplishment during this year given the impact of the global pandemic on the employment of students worldwide.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-indian-institutes-in-qs-employability-rankings-iit-b-tops-the-list-101632420844061.html
24-09-2021||India||Brutal eviction drive in Assam, two killed||Police bullets allegedly killed two people, and at least nine policemen were injured in clashes during a controversial drive to evict “illegal settlers” in Assam’s Darrang district on Thursday, sparking condemnation and prompting the government to set up a probe.Police said a mob of nearly 2,000 people attacked personnel during the eviction drive at Dholpur village in Sipajhar, forcing security men to lathi charge the crowd and open fire, resulting in the deaths and injuries.But visuals of the incident showed scores of policemen firing at unseen targets behind a mass of trees, huts and chaff, and a man in vest and lungi chasing a policeman and a photographer -- a man employed with the district administration -- down a dusty slope.Groups of policemen are then seen surrounding the local resident, who suddenly collapses to the ground due to an apparent gunshot, raining him with blows of the stick, with gunfire in the background.When the melee clears, the man is seen lying motionless on the ground with an apparent gunshot wound on his chest even as the photographer, later identified by police as Bijay Shankar Baniya, repeatedly kicks and jumps on the apparently lifeless body. Gunfire rings in the background. Later, visuals show policemen trying to pull Baniya back and carrying the body away.The visuals were tweeted by some state lawmakers and local residents, but their origin was not clear. HT couldn’t independently verify the visuals.The eviction drive was being conducted in a region largely inhabited by Bengali-speaking Muslims. Baniya was arrested late in the evening, said police.Chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma appeared to back the police. “Police are doing their duty. As per my information, people attacked police with machetes, spears and other things,” he said, making it clear that the eviction drive will continue on Friday.Later in the evening, the government instituted an inquiry by a retired Gauhati high court judge. A formal notification detailing terms of reference of the inquiry would be issued later, officials said.Darrang district superintendent of police, Sushanta Biswa Sarma, identified the two dead men as Saddam Hussain and Sheikh Forid. He said that two policemen sustained serious injuries and were shifted to Guwahati while the others were getting treatment at Mangaldai, the district headquarters. The SP is the brother of chief minister Sarma.The killings triggered a political war with the Congress and other Opposition parties pushing for a judicial probe. “Assam is on state-sponsored fire. I stand in solidarity with our brothers and sisters in the state- no children of India deserve this,” tweeted Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.The controversial eviction was first mooted when Sarma visited the area on June 7 and instructed the district administration to clear the area occupied by “illegal settlers” for a community farming project for young people hailing from the state’s indigenous communities.The evictions began at four places in Dholpur on Monday, and nearly 800 families – most of whom were Bengali-speaking Muslims – were removed from 4,500 bighas of land the government claimed ownership. The district administration cleared 602.04 hectares and demolished four “illegally” constructed religious structures at Sipajhar, officials said.But local residents said they were living in the area since the 1970s and had valid government documents to prove their ownership of the plots.Darrang SP Sushanta Biswa Sarma said nearly 1,500-2,000 persons gathered when the eviction drive began on Thursday. “At first there was no issue, but when police started removing encroachments using JCB vehicles, the mob started pelting stones and attacking the police with machetes, spears and other things,” he said.“One police officer was hit with a machete on his head and sustained serious injuries. We had to resort to firing to disperse the crowd and protect our personnel. As per our information, two civilians have been killed and 9 policemen were injured. Additional force was deployed in the area and the situation is under control now,” he added.Local activists contested this version and blamed the government for the violence and deaths. “A total of 246 persons from the area where evictions took place on Thursday had filed a petition in [Gauahati] HC seeking a stay. A hearing was slated today, but it has been deferred. There are nearly 10,000 families in the area who have been residing there for the past 40-50 years,” said Saddam Hussain, a social activist and resident of the area.“Residents were served a notice late on Wednesday night and the evictions started on Thursday. At first, people were protesting peacefully. But when police forcibly destroyed huts the residents turned hostile and the situation turned violent,” he added.State Congress president Bhupen Kumar Borah said the eviction was in violation of the Supreme Court directive not to evict anyone during the pandemic. “Yet the Assam government is behaving in an autocratic manner to evict the residents of Dholpur who have been living in the area since the 1970s. Before eviction government should have arranged for rehabilitation and alternative housing,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brutal-eviction-drive-in-assam-two-killed-101632420779127.html
24-09-2021||India||In Tamil Nadu and Kerala, workers stand up for the ‘right to sit’||Her heels are cracked. All around, in a semi circle along both her feet, are sharp, deep, hardened crevices, the skin peeling off. There is pain along her heel, running through her legs. But V Saraswati is accustomed to the feeling. The hurt is a way of life. “We are treated like machines. Not like women, not like human beings. Like machines,” she says. Earlier this month, the 36-year-old watched on television, as the Tamil Nadu government became the second state in the country to mandate seemingly the most basic of rights, the right to sit, for workers in commercial establishments. Saraswati lauded the motive, but her enthusiasm was tempered by experience. “The owners will never comply.” Saraswati works at a textile shop along Chennai’s East Coast Road. The shop is small, in the basement of a building, has two sales people, but one stool. Even this is an improvement on every other place she can think of. “Because this is a small shop, only two sales people work at a time so we can sit on the stool taking turns,” she says. But these moments of deserved rest are stolen, small acts of rebellion. Saraswati first worked at a saree shop in Puducherry, before she moved to Chennai a few years ago after she was married. “In those years in Puducherry, I used to stand for eight hours straight every day. All of us in the shop were women workers and we used to rest in the toilet for a few minutes without anyone’s knowledge. The owners had strictly instructed us not to sit even if there is no customer. In bigger shops, it is much more crowded, and impossible to sit without the facility being there. But none of us can speak up because we cannot afford to lose our jobs. We need this to survive but as we grow older several health problems are showing up. We have learnt to live with the pain,” Saraswati said. On September 6, the Tamil Nadu assembly tabled a bill that proposes to amend the Tamil Nadu Shops and Establishment Act, which provides for “regulation of conditions of work in shops, commercial establishments, restaurants, theatres and other establishments”. The bill was passed by the state assembly, amidst no opposition, in a voice vote on September 13. The newly introduced section 21B mandates that in every shop and establishment, suitable arrangements for sitting shall be provided for all workers so as to avoid ‘on the toes’ situation throughout the duty time, so that they may take advantage of any opportunity to sit which may occur during the course of their work.The Tamil Nadu Act closely mirrors an amendment in the Kerala Shops and Commercial Establishment Act made in January 2019, when the latter became the first in the country to mandate the right to sit. In Kerala, the struggle for the right to sit, traces its origins to 53-year-old Palithodi Viji, and an insult she bore in response to a mundane question to her employer in 2007. She asked if she could go to the toilet. Then working at the shop of a tailor in a shopping complex at the Sweet Meat Street in Kozhikode, Viji posited the question, and was met with the suggestion to “either control herself or consume minimum water”. By that time, Viji already had a history of social struggles, founding the non-governmental organisation “Anweshi” with former Maoist leader K Ajitha in 1993 for taking up women’s issues. Stung by the comment, Viji began working on rallying support, with more and more women joining the cause, complaining of kidney ailments and infections due to the lack of menstrual hygiene and prolonged delays. In 2010, Viji created a collective of women workers called “Penkootu”, and in the same year forced the Kozhikode Corporation to take note and build a toilet on SM street. A decade later, and all commercial buildings in Kochi now have separate toilets on each floor. By 2012, with women workers constantly in discussion around her, Viji and Penkootu began a struggle for the “right to sit”. “While the struggle for toilets took three years to fructify, the right to sit took six years. Initially merchant associations said that if women wanted to sit, they could sit permanently at home. But we forced them to come around,” Viji said. Viji said that in Kerala at the time, textile shops refused to let women employees sit even if the place was empty, with many developing symptoms like swollen legs and varicose veins. “In 2012, I became furious that I received a complaint that the salary of a sales woman was cut by a textile unit in Kozhikode for leaning against a wall when a group of customers were saree shopping for a wedding. It was a major trigger, and we decided to intensify our stir,” Viji said. For her troubles, in that decade, Viji faced near constant pressure, from court cases to constant summons to police stations and labour offices. At one point, Viji says there were three cases against her, one for forcibly opening a shut toilet, and two on charges of creating unrest among workers, all three of which were later dismissed by court. There were other bureaucratic challenges too, such as the government refusing to engage with “Penkootu”, claiming that it was not a registered union. “I was forced to float another union, Asanghaditha Mekhla Thozilali Union (employees union of unorganised sector). It is still an all-women trade union working among marginalised,” Viji said. As the struggle began gaining traction throughout Kerala, in 2014, support began pouring in from across the state, including a major agitation by women textile showroom employees in Thrissur. The same year, Viji petitioned the state government, the state commission for women and then the human rights commission. Two years later, the National Human Rights Commission sought a report from the state on the poor working condition of women workers in textile shops. By 2018, the state government brought the amendment to bring the right to sit, and in January 2019, the law was passed by the state assembly. In 2018, BBC named Viji on its list of the most powerful women in the world. Gender and labour activists in Kerala say there has been a reduction in complaints after the law was amended. “After the amendment came into force, complaints came down by 80%. With changing times and job patterns we need new laws to end the exploitation of women,” said K Valsala, an activist working among women workers. In the two years that have passed since, senior police officials said that 16 cases of violations of the new law have been registered, of which 8 have been withdrawn and the rest are in court. Despite the genesis of the law in Kerala, the origin story of the bill in Tamil Nadu, is not quite of a sustained movement, but a more happy accident and an enterprising employee representative of a Labour Board that jumped at a bureaucratic stroke of luck. In the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s first tenure in power beginning 1967, when CN Annadurai was chief minister, with M Karunanidhi taking over when he died two years later, the State Labour Advisory Board (SLAB) was formed, a body with representatives of employers, employees and the state government. In the decades that followed, particularly the eighties, the SLAB was a powerful body where the state’s actions, legislations and regulations were discussed threadbare, but then slipped into a sense of redundancy. TM Murthy, general secretary of Tamil Nadu’s AITUC, and a member of the SLAB as a representative of employees, said that ordinarily, the board is meant to meet four times a year, but has had three meetings over the past decade. In 2019, he said, the Tamil Nadu government, then run by the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, received word that a delegation of the International Labour Organisation was visiting the state to “understand the working of the SLAB”. “So they convened a meeting in September 2019 to show that the body is functioning and we made use of that opportunity,” Murthy says. Among the several proposals they made at the meeting was the right to sit. “Though there was no movement or demand for this, we shared with the other members that we should follow Kerala’s direction on the basis of human rights.” Sure enough, the SLAB soon received a response that the proposal had been accepted and the state government was considering it. And that was the end of it until the new government was formed in May. In July, nine trade unions held an informal meeting in July with the new labour minister CV Ganesan. “We submitted 14 proposals including the initiative to provide seating for employees,” said M Shunmugham, Rajya Sabha MP and general secretary of the DMK-represented Labour Progressive Federation. He said that over the years, employee unions fought for the right on an individual case by case basis in the state, such as in the showrooms of The Tamil Nadu Handloom Weavers’ Cooperative Society, popularly known as Co-optex. “We wanted this to be implemented universally across the state,” Shunmugham said. Two months later, the bill was passed. The bill has brought back conversations of a popular 2010 film called “Angadi Theru”(market street) that looked at the exploited lives of workers employed in a textile shop called “Senthil Murugan Stores”, with a vicious and unreasonable shop owner. Director Vasantha Balan said that he happened to observe Ranganathan street one night and was witness to how workers were being treated. “I stayed in a lodge on the street for eight months and brought in the workers to share their bitter experiences with me. It was like doing investigative journalism because they would have been fired if people knew they were speaking out. They had no support then and no support now. It is sad that the government has to bring a law instructing for them to be given stools or fans or water. They have to be treated with respect -- that was the point of the film,” Vasantha Balan said. A senior official of the Tamil Nadu labour department who did not wish to be named said that they received the minutes of last year’s meeting. “The State Labour Advisory Board has representatives from trade unions and employee unions and they had all unanimously agreed that all employees had to be provided with seating. But it didn’t move from that stage and when the new government took over they felt that it was a good initiative and it has to be introduced at the earliest. Once the bill becomes an act by notifying it in the gazette, labour inspectors for each districts would start inspecting shops to check if it’s been enforced,” the official said. Back across the state border in Kerala, Viji says she is overjoyed that Tamil Nadu too is implementing the right to sit. “Such small steps will earn dignity to working women in the unorganised sector. They are the most exploited lot in the country,” she said. But while Viji urges states across the country to similarly legislate for its employees, there is already a new struggle she has embarked on, which she hopes will find legal and administrative acceptance like the right to sit. Parity in pay in the unorganised sector. She says fiercely, “In government service, men and women draw the same salary as in the private sector. Why two payment structures in the unorganised and labour sectors? This has to stop.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-tamil-nadu-and-kerala-workers-stand-up-for-the-right-to-sit-101632420778402.html
24-09-2021||India||SC will set up expert panel on Pegasus row||The Supreme Court will set up an expert committee by itself to inquire into the alleged use of Israeli spyware Pegasus for surveillance on Indian citizens, Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana said on Thursday. The CJI’s statement suggests that the court has virtually rejected the Union government’s plea to let it set up an “independent committee” to look into the controversy. Justice Ramana, who heads the bench which has been hearing a clutch of petitions demanding a court-monitored investigation into the unlawful snooping, added that the order will be passed next week. “We were expected to pass the order this week but it got delayed because some of the members of the technical expert team we contacted expressed personal difficulties in being part of the committee. That is why it is taking time. But we will be able to finalise the members of the committee soon. You please inform the other lawyers too that we will pass the order next week,” justice Ramana told senior advocate CU Singh, who represents one of the petitioners, during the hearing of an unconnected matter. Singh replied in the affirmative. But CJI Ramana did not elaborate on the terms of references of the proposed committee and the areas that it will look into. The detailed order, which is now expected next week, will specify those aspects.Leader of the opposition in the Rajya Sabha and senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge welcomed the court’s decision. “On behalf of all progressive parties, I welcome the Supreme Court’s decision to set up a committee to investigate the Pegasus snooping scam. Given its grave national security and privacy implication, every Indian hopes for an efficient and transparent probe,” Kharge said in a tweet. The court, on September 13, reserved its order in the case after the Union government said that it could not make public whether its agencies used the Israeli spyware as such disclosure will be against national interest. With this statement, the government returned to a position it articulated on August 17, before suggesting on September 7 that it could reconsider its stand. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, said at the time that the government was open to having a committee of independent domain experts who could go into all aspects of the controversy and submit its report before the bench while adding that the use of a particular software “cannot be made a part of the public discourse in the larger national interest and in the interest of the security of the nation”. The SG requested the bench to allow the government to set up an expert committee. But most of the lawyers for the petitioners, including senior counsel Kapil Sibal, Shyam Divan, Rakesh Dwivedi, Dinesh Dwivedi, Colin Gonsalves and Meenakshi Arora, urged the court to reject the government’s proposal, contending that the “wrongdoer” could not be allowed to have the liberty of choosing the forum of inquiry. The lawyers submitted that the court should set up a panel consisting of members of its choice to go into the issue and report back. While reserving its order in the matter on September 13, the bench, which included justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, said the court will pass an interim order shortly on the constitution of an expert committee and on other ancillary issues related to an independent inquiry after considering the materials placed by the petitioners before it and the submissions made by the counsel for the parties. Reiteration of its stand by the government also prompted the court to remark that the Centre was “beating around the bush”. The Pegasus row erupted on July 18 after an international consortium of media outlets and investigative journalists reported that the phones of Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 that were potentially targeted by Pegasus, Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software. According to this consortium, Pegasus can switch on a target’s phone camera and microphone, as well as access data on the device, effectively turning the phone into a pocket spy. Responding to a bunch of petitions filed by lawyers, politicians, journalists and civil rights activists, the Union ministry of electronics and information technology filed a three-page affidavit on August 16 that refused to confirm or deny whether it had used Pegasus spyware for surveillance of Indians. The Centre instead offered to set up an expert committee to look into the controversy and “dispel any wrong narrative spread by certain vested interests”. On August 17, the court observed that it is “not averse” to set up an expert committee but that it expects the government to bring sufficient facts on record regarding the interception regime in India. The government, however, replied that any disclosure on its using or not using Pegasus spyware would come at the cost of national security and insisted that it will divulge such information only before the proposed committee, which, it said, can report to the top court. It also added that all interceptions were being done as per the statutory procedure, and it would not wish to put out in the public domain details of the software used for lawful surveillance by filing any additional affidavit. Following the Centre’s refusal, the court on August 17 issued a formal notice to the government on the batch of pleas filed by petitioners in the case, a list that includes advocate ML Sharma; former minister Yashwant Sinha; Rajya Sabha MP John Brittas; the Editors Guild of India; journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar; journalists Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, Rupesh Kumar Singh, Ipshita Shatakshi, SNM Abdi, and Prem Shankar Jha; and civil rights activists Jagdeep S Chhokar and Narendra Mishra. Deferring the matter for September 7, the bench had once again asked the SG to consider filing a detailed reply while observing that the court would ponder over the future course of action. On September 7, the SG asked for some time to reconsider its earlier stand, following which the matter was fixed for hearing on September 13. However, on September 13, the Centre went back to its previous stance. The SG said the government stands by its August 16 affidavit, which neither confirmed nor denied the use of the military-grade spyware to hack phones of ministers, politicians, businessmen, activists, and journalists, and which offered to set up an expert committee instead. Raising the issue of national security, Mehta added that a facade is sought to be created that the government is hiding the truth whereas its stand is clear that it is not evading any inquiry but is rather willing to have it done on its own through a committee of independent experts. But the bench remained unimpressed with the SG’s submissions on the national security aspect, pointing out that the court has already clarified it several times that it is not interested in details of national security or defence but needs some pertinent information on the surveillance module to ascertain what kind of orders should be passed. “Ultimately it is your prerogative and you have decided not to file anything. We will now pass an interim order what we have to pass,” the bench had said while reserving its order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-will-set-up-expert-panel-on-pegasus-row-101632420718311.html
24-09-2021||India||Is the economy on track to exploit the festive season?||Once the pitru paksha, a fortnight considered inauspicious for new transactions by a lot of Hindus, ends on October 6, India’s much-awaited festive season will begin in earnest. The Indian economy was facing a prolonged slowdown even before the pandemic hit. Then it faced its largest-ever contraction of 7.3% in 2020-21. The sequential recovery which followed was interrupted once again by the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, which peaked on May 9 if a seven-day moving average of daily new cases is taken as an indicator.With new infections under control in most parts of the country, and the pace of vaccination having risen significantly, the festive season is being looked at with anticipation as one that will give a much-needed boost to the economy. To be sure, there are both demand (long-term scars of the pandemic) and supply (such as shortage of microchips) side factors that can generate headwinds for the economy. However, it is also worth asking whether mobility levels and the general state of the economy have recovered enough to place it optimally before the festive season. Here are four charts which explain the situation.Pandemic situation has improved significantly in most parts of the countryThe seven-day average of daily new cases in India was 30,887 on September 22. While cases were declining at a much faster rate earlier, there has been no significant increase in Covid-19 cases in the past few weeks. The national picture, to be sure, is a bit misleading, because more than 60% of the total daily new cases have been coming from just one state, Kerala. While the Kerala situation continues to be critical, it has improved compared to what it was at the start of September, immediately after Onam, the biggest festival in the state. Once Kerala’s numbers are taken out, the nationwide Covid-19 scenario looks more benign. If this trajectory does not reverse itself, it will definitely give a boost to economic activity, including consumer demand, during the festive season. But workplace mobility gains seem to have stagnatedThe period after the second wave saw a significant improvement in high-frequency indicators. The Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI), for example, crossed 100 for the first time after the pandemic in the week ending 15th August. While NIBRI has not fallen below 100 for six weeks now, it has not increased significantly either. Similarly, the Google workplace mobility index has also stagnated to around 85-90% of baseline level of February 2020. Even on these indicators, there are state-wise differences. Mobility levels are the highest in states such as Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand, and especially lower in the North-East states.
24-09-2021||India||New simulator policy seeks to cut defence training costs, preserve military gear||The defence ministry on Thursday came out with a policy for enhanced utilisation of simulators by armed forces to impart safe and cost-effective realistic training while preserving expensive equipment.The policy seeks to reduce live equipment utilisation, ensure capability plans cater for phased induction of simulators, factor in the requirement of simulators when procurements are planned and create a coordination mechanism among various agencies for a combined purchase of simulators, the ministry said in a statement.The use of simulation is expected to reduce defence spending when military budgets are under pressure because of the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the economy.From infantry weapons to air defence systems and tanks to fighter jets, simulators play a critical role in providing training to military personnel in realistic scenarios without exposing them to operational equipment.Welcoming the new policy, former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd) said simulators are an effective way to analyse the prowess of trainees and keep honing their skills without resorting to heavy expenditure on complex operational equipment.“Factoring in that the availability of firing ranges, along with other training infrastructure, is shrinking, men should be trained on simulators and practical on-ground training can follow. All-weather training is the biggest advantage of simulators,” Jaswal said.He added that while simulators have their own benefits, they cannot offset training on actual platforms.The ministry’s statement said the aim of the policy is to transform to simulation-based training across all military domains to achieve cost-effective, safe and smart training. “The emphasis will be indigenous design and development of simulators, with outsourcing of operation and maintenance of simulators by Indian companies,” the statement said.It added that the plan was to switch to simulation-based training across all domains for combatants, leaders, maintainers, administrators, life science experts and, procurement and financial agencies.A detailed action plan with assigned responsibilities will soon be issued to all the constituents of the defence ministry and industrial associations for adequate use of simulators by the three services and the coast guard.The Indian agencies involved in the development, production and maintenance of simulators will be engaged by the armed forces to ensure the highest level of indigenisation in the production, deployment and maintenance of the equipment, officials familiar with the matter said.“The policy will be applicable to all types of simulators in use/to be procured. Avenues of application of simulation technology will be constantly explored to achieve a high level of operational preparedness while reducing expenditure on training and preserving the life of equipment,” the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-simulator-policy-seeks-to-cut-training-costs-preserve-military-gear-101632398262745.html
24-09-2021||India||No technical concerns with India’s vaccine certificate: UK envoy||UK high commissioner Alex Ellis and National Health Authority chairman RS Sharma discussed vaccine certification for Indian travellers on Thursday, with the envoy describing the talks as “an important step forward”.The discussions came a day after the UK government added India’s Covishield to its list of approved Covid-19 vaccines, though the two sides are yet to reach common ground on certification so that fully vaccinated Indian travellers can skip a 10-day quarantine on arrival.Ellis said in a tweet that neither side had raised technical concerns about each other’s certification process.“Excellent technical discussions with @rssharma3 @AyushmanNHA. Neither side raised technical concerns with each other’s certification process. An important step forward in our joint aim to facilitate travel and fully protect public health of UK and India,” Ellis tweeted.Sharma responded with a tweet that said the discussions will help in the resumption of socio-economic activities between the two sides.“Echoing his excellency @AlexWEllis’s views, this will be instrumental in resuming socio-economic activities between India and UK. We also look forward to deepening ties between @AyushmanNHA and @NHSX, as we collaborate to build a digital continuum of healthcare services,” Sharma said.Both countries have stepped up efforts to sort out the vaccine row, which emerged in the open at a time when overall bilateral relations are on the upswing. The vaccine certification issue has become a problem as growing numbers of Indians, especially students, are travelling to the UK.On Tuesday, India had warned it could resort to reciprocal measures as the controversy around UK’s new travel rules, which come into force on October 4, sparked allegations of racism.Ellis had on Wednesday attributed the issue to a significant shift in the UK’s travel policy that was announced only on September 17 and made it clear that Covishield is “not a problem”. He declined to set a deadline for resolving the matter and said things are moving “at a rapid pace” on recognising India’s vaccine certification.Sharma, who supervises the functioning of the CoWIN platform, said on Wednesday that officials from both sides had two meetings this month to discuss technical aspects of each other’s certification systems, and the discussions were now closed.“In the first [meeting], the British high commissioner met me on September 2, and the second one was yesterday (September 21) between the technical teams. We made them understand how our system worked and they explained the functioning of their system to us. Both these meetings were quite fruitful,” Sharma said.People familiar with developments, who asked not to be named, said the discussions had focused on certification done through the CoWIN app, the security of the system, data sharing between the two sides, and reconciling the CoWIN system with the NHS Covid Pass developed by Britain’s National Health Service (NHS).There were also some concerns about the security of the certification system, the people said without going into details.Ellis too had confirmed the NHS was in talks with officials managing CoWIN. The UK has to have confidence in the Indian app as the movement of people from both countries could affect public health, he said.He also told NDTV channel that India continued to be in the UK’s amber list of countries as it still has some cases of Covid-19.“We’re clear Covishield is not a problem. The UK is open to travel and we’re already seeing a lot of people going from India to the UK, be it tourists, businesspeople or students. Over 62,500 student visas have been issued in the year ending June 2021, which is an increase of almost 30% as compared to the previous year. We want to make the process of travelling as easy as possible,” Ellis said in a statement.Britain’s earlier move of recognising AstraZeneca but not Covishield led to allegations of racism since the bio-equivalence between both doses has been established in scientific studies.However, the UK updated its travel guidance on Wednesday to include Covishield among the list of approved vaccines, along with the AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson jabs and their formulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-envoy-talks-to-nha-chief-on-vaccine-certification-101632397242638.html
24-09-2021||India||India expresses concern over continued instability in Myanmar||NEW DELHI: India has expressed concern at the escalating situation and continued instability in neighbouring Myanmar and said it will continue to support efforts aimed at restoring the democratic process in the wake of the February 1 military coup.In a statement made during an interactive dialogue with the special rapporteur for human rights in Myanmar at the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva on Wednesday, India said the developments in Myanmar have direct implications for the country.The special rapporteur, Tom Andrews, told the council that conditions in Myanmar following the coup have worsened and urged a “change of course” to avert further human rights abuses and deaths.The military junta and its forces have murdered more than 1,100 people, arbitrarily detained more than 8,000, and forcibly displaced more than 230,000 civilians, bringing the number of internally placed people in Myanmar to well over half a million, Andrews said.As of July, the junta has also killed at least 75 children, ranging in age from 14 months to 17 years, he said.Also Read | US court orders Facebook to release data related to violence against RohingyaIn response to Andrews’ report, the Indian representative said: “For a country that shares a long land and maritime border with Myanmar, the escalating situation in Myanmar is a matter of concern. Continued instability in Myanmar has direct implications for India. We have also been facing the situation of people crossing over the border into India from Myanmar.”Thousands of Myanmarese nationals have crossed into India’s northeastern states, especially Mizoram and Manipur.“As a democratic neighbour of Myanmar, India remains committed to strengthening the process of democratic transition in Myanmar. We have worked with various stakeholders in Myanmar to develop capacities on democratic systems and practices and we are continuing these efforts,” the Indian representative said.Reiterating India’s support for restoring the democratic process in Myanmar, the Indian representative added: “We urge the international community to work together and lend constructive support to the people of Myanmar.”The Indian side also expressed concern at the Covid-19 situation in Myanmar and in bordering regions, and said the pandemic and political situation had led to a decline in economic activity.India has provided urgent medical assistance to strengthen Myanmar’s Covid-19 response and also contributed to the Asean Coordinating Centre for Humanitarian Assistance to deliver aid to the people.“Our developmental and humanitarian efforts in Myanmar, including in the Rakhine state, have been aimed at the socio-economic development of the country,” the Indian representative said.Referring to efforts to send back displaced Rohingya people to Rakhine state, the Indian side said it was important to speed up ongoing efforts for the “safe, speedy and sustainable repatriation of the displaced persons currently in Bangladesh”. India will continue to support the Bangladesh Government in this regard.India also welcomed the appointment of Brunei’s second minister of foreign affairs Erywan Pehin Yusof as special envoy of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) chair on Myanmar and his call for a peaceful solution through constructive dialogue. “We look forward to the visit of the Asean special envoy to Myanmar and early implementation of the five-point consensus,” the Indian representative said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-expresses-concern-at-continued-instability-in-myanmar-101632390762560.html
24-09-2021||NA||PM in US- Day 1 highlights: In meeting with Harris, PM expresses gratitude for help during Covid crisis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi began his seventh visit to the United States, with his flight arriving in Washington, DC, on Wednesday evening (local time). On the second day of his tour, the Prime Minister's packed schedule had meetings with CEOs of leading companies and US Vice President Kamala Harris. This is PM Narendra Modi's first official visit to US after the Democrats came to power. He held a bilateral meeting with Australian prime minister Scott Morrison and also met CEOs of Blackstone, Qualcomm, Adobe, First Solar and General AtomicsFollow all the updates here:It's incumbent on our nations to protect democracy: HarrisAs democracies around world are under threat, it's imperative that we depend on democratic principles and institutions within our respective countries and around world. It's incumbent on our nations to protect democracy in best interest of people of countries: US vice president Kamala Harris‘Will always remember': PM Modi expresses gratidue to US for help during 2nd Covid wave In a meeting with Harris, Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed his gratitude to the US for extending help when the country was hit by the second wave of Covid-19 earlier this year.Welcome India's announcement regarding resumption of vaccine export: US vice-president Harris"I welcome India's announcement that it will soon be able to resume vaccine exports. It is particular note and admiration that India is currently vaccinating approximately 10 million people a day as of today," says US Vice-President Kamala HarrisIndia is very important partner: US vice-president Kamala HarrisIndia is very important partner to the US, says Kamala Harris after meeting PM Modi‘Closer economic linkages between India, US to benefit' people at both sides: PM ModiThrough the morning, had extensive discussions with top CEOs and business leaders on investment in India. They were appreciative of India’s reform trajectory. Closer economic linkages between India and USA benefit the people of our nations.PM Modi meets Australian PM Scott MorrisonUS | Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Australian PM Scott Morrison hold a bilateral meeting in Washington DC pic.twitter.com/3Our0zC9aGAble to build strong relationships: AghiThis is the 7th visit of PM to the US & he has dealt with Democrats, Republicans, & Democrats again. He has been able to build a strong relationship with whoever has been the President: Mukesh Aghi, President & CEO of US-India Strategic Partnership Forum, to ANI in Washington DC pic.twitter.com/tdYS3MEkZMThe president for US-India Strategic Partnership Forum Mukesh Aghi lauded PM Modi for forging strong ties with the US. PM Modi meets Schwarzman - What was discussed in meeting with Blackstone CEO?"Giving greater momentum to investments in India. Stephen Schwarzman, CEO of Blackstone Group met PM Modi. Various investment opportunities in India, including those arising due to the National Infrastructure Pipeline and National Monetisation Pipeline were discussed," tweets PMO pic.twitter.com/kUvG8IdcDPPM Modi and Blackstone CEO Stephen Schwarzman meet - Lall hails India's policy reformsIt was an outstanding meeting. We spoke about technology & the confidence in the policy reforms that are coming in India and the great potential that India has from an investment perspective: Vivek Lall, CEO of General Atomics on his meeting with PM Narendra Modi in Washington DC pic.twitter.com/B40X1KLyBHGeneral Atomic CEO Vivek Lall said the policy reforms in India brought by the government is beneficial for India from an investment perspective. PM Modi meets CEO of Blackstone Group Stephen SchwarzmanPrime Minister Narendra Modi holds a meeting with Stephen Schwarzman, CEO of the Blackstone Group in Washington DC, the US. pic.twitter.com/w4jLYA0e0uPM Modi met Stephen Schwarzman, CEO of Blackstone, in Washington. 'Outstanding': Widmar after meeting PM ModiCEO of @FirstSolar, Mr. Mark Widmar described his meeting with PM @narendramodi as outstanding and also elaborated on why he is optimistic about closer business relations with India, especially in manufacturing. pic.twitter.com/75ggIKayPUAfter the meeting with PM Modi, Widmar hailed the government's efforts towards ensuring a sustainable future for all. Wish every country could emulate what India has done: WidmarI think if every country could embrace and emulate what India has done, our ability to meet the long-term climate goal objectives won't be a problem: Mark R Widmar, CEO, First Solar after his meeting with PM Modi in Washington D.C.First Solar CEO Mark Widmar said that meeting long-term climate objectives will not be a problem after meeting PM Modi earlier today. PM Modi and General Atomic CEO Vivek Lall meet - What was discussed?"PM Narendra Modi met Vivek Lall, Chief Executive of General Atomics Global Corporation and discussed advancing defence manufacturing, use of emerging technologies & augmenting capacity building in India," tweets MEA Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi. pic.twitter.com/pfQ1zdJXi3During the meeting, General Atomics CEO Vivek Lall and PM Modi discussed - PM Modi and General Atomics CEO Vivek Lall begin meetPrime Minister Narendra Modi holds a meeting with Vivek Lall, CEO of General Atomics in Washington DC, the US. pic.twitter.com/yc10EW3HYiPM Modi and General Atomic CEO Vivek Lall begin discussions. Narayen says Adobe emphasising on education in India#WATCH | "For us, our biggest asset is people. Anything that happens with respect to encouraging education, having digital literacy helps Adobe. We're very supportive of more emphasis&interest in education," says Shantanu Narayen, Adobe Chairman on NEP after meeting with PM in US pic.twitter.com/FBQX50k4oDAdobe CEO Shankar Narayen says Adobe is supportive of more emphasis and interest in education, Narayen said following his meeting with PM Modi. PM Modi and Mark Widmar meet - What was discussed? PM Modi discussed India’s renewable energy landscape with Mark Widmar, CEO, First Solar. The CEO shared plans to use PLI scheme for manufacturing solar power equipment with unique thin-film technology;& integrating India into global supply chains: Ministry of External Affairs pic.twitter.com/PjJSo1S03oWidmar and PM Narendra Modi discussed - PM Modi meets First Solar CEO  Mark WidmarPrime Minister Narendra Modi holds a meeting with Mark R Widmar, CEO of First Solar in Washington DC, the US. pic.twitter.com/D3LlqOmkwPPM Narendra Modi met First Solar CEO Mark Widmar in Washington DC. PM Modi - Adobe CEO Narayen meet - What was discussed? PM Modi and Shantanu Narayen, CEO of Adobe discussed Adobe’s ongoing activities in India and future investment plans. Ideas to leverage Digital India flagship programme in sectors like health, education and R&D were also discussed: Ministry of External Affairs pic.twitter.com/vNZNGtzzBiDuring the meeting PM Modi and Adobe CEO Narayen discussed - PM Modi discussed PM WANI, 5G tech in his meeting with AmonPM had a good meeting with Cristiano Amon, Qualcomm CEO. Mr Amon expressed his desire to work with India on ambitious digital transformation programmes including in 5G, PM WANI & others. He spoke about the incredible opportunities in India and that India is a big market: Sources pic.twitter.com/7wwI1y2JpOPM Narendra Modi discussed 5G technology and its rollout, and PM WANI during his meet with Amon, news agency ANI reported citing people familiar with developments. Amon discussed advancing 5G industry in India with PM ModiIt was a great meeting.We're so proud of a partnership with India.We talked about 5G & its acceleration.We talked about an incredible opportunity to advance the industry not only domestically in India but India as export of technology: President & CEO of Qualcomm,Cristiano R Amon pic.twitter.com/403oOx7l8KThe Qualcomm CEO discussed acceleration of 5G technology, advancing the industry within India and also turning the nation into an exporter of the technology. Regarding his meeting with PM Modi, Amon said that ‘it was a great meeting’, reported news agency ANI. PM Modi meets Adobe CEO NarayenUS | Prime Minister Narendra Modi holds a meeting with Adobe Chairman Shantanu Narayen, in Washington D.C. pic.twitter.com/YDPLDFEH4oPrime Minister Narendra Modi and Adobe CEO Shantanu Narayen begin meetingTalking technology: What did Amon and PM Modi discuss?Talking technology...President and CEO of @Qualcomm, @cristianoamon and PM @narendramodi had a productive interaction. PM Modi highlighted the vast opportunities India offers. Mr. Amon expressed keenness to work with India in areas such as 5G and other @_DigitalIndia efforts. pic.twitter.com/kKcaXhpFtBPM Modi and the Qualcomm CEO discussed - PM Modi and Amon discussed means to strengthen innovation ecosystemToward making 🇮🇳 a global innovation hub! PM @narendramodi in conversation with @cristianoamon, CEO @Qualcomm on investment opportunities in hi-tech sectors in India.Discussed recent electronics & telecom manufacturing PLI schemes; & measures to strengthen innovation ecosystem. pic.twitter.com/Cg3PKmshxNPM Narendra Modi and Qualcomm CEO Cristiano R Amon discussed ‘investment opportunities in hi-tech sectors in India’ among other topics during discussionsPM Modi and Adobe CEO Shantanu Narayen meet - What is on the table? PM Modi's meeting with Adobe CEO Narayen, who is also from the Indian American community, could see discussions regarding India's push towards digitization. The meeting reflects upon India's IT and digital priority, which the Modi-led govt is pushing for. PM Modi's meeting with Adobe CEO to begin shortlyPM Narendra Modi after his meeting with Qualcomm CEO CR Amon will meet Adobe CEO Shantanu Narayen. PM Modi holds meeting with Qualcomm CEO Cristiano R Amon in Washington DCPM Narendra Modi holds a meeting with Cristiano R Amon, President and CEO of Qualcomm in Washington DC, the US. pic.twitter.com/UdIe67yjt6PM Modi held discussions with Qualcomm CEO Cristiano R Amon in Washington DCPM Modi meet with Qualcomm CEO Cristiano R Amon - What is on the table?The meeting with Qualcomm CEO is important as it could spearhead the launch of 5G in India with Reliance. Qualcomm chipsets are also popular choices amongst consumers in India when it comes to 5G as well as mobile gaming. PM Modi to begin his meeting with Qualcomm CEO Cristiano R AmonPM Narendra Modi will meet Qualcomm CEO Cristiano R Amon shortly. Modi-Harris meet could focus on Covid-19, cooperation on space and technologyPM Narendra Modi and US vice president Kamala Harris may discuss means of tackling the Covid-19 pandemic, and greater cooperation between India and US in sectors like space and technology. PM Modi's meeting with each CEO to last for 15 minsPM Modi's meeting with 5 CEOs of major global companies will last for 15 minutes and will be preceded with a briefing of 5 minutes. PM Modi to meet US vice president Kamala HarrisPM Narendra Modi, who is visiting the US for the first-time after the Democrats returned to power, defeating Republicans, will also meet US vice president Kamala Harris for the first time later today. PM Modi to meet Blackstone CEO Stephen A SchwarzmannPM Modi's meet with Blackstone CEO comes amid the company making large investments in India. The company is one of the leading investment firms in the world and last week sold about 5.7 crore units in Embassy Office Parks REIT for over ₹2,000 crore (USD 275 million). The Embassy Office Parks REIT is the country's first real estate investment trust (REIT). PM Modi visit to US - Day 2 - PM to meet Australian PM Scott MorrisonPM Narendra Modi will also hold a bilateral meet with Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison around Thursday afternoon. Issues related to trade, maritime security and bilateral relationships may be discussed. PM Modi visit to US - Day 2PM Modi will meet Shantanu Narayen from Adobe and Vivek Lall from General Atomics, and the three others are Cristiano E Amon from Qualcomm, Mark Widmar from First Solar, and Stephen A Schwarzman from Blackstone today.PM Modi to hold one-on-one meetings with 5 top CEOsPrime Minister Narendra Modi, who is in Washington DC, will be holding one-on-one meeting with top 5 CEOS on Wednesday. Two of them are Indian Americans -- Shantanu Narayen from Adobe and Vivek Lall from General Atomics, and the three others are Cristiano E Amon from Qualcomm, Mark Widmar from First Solar, and Stephen A Schwarzman from Blackstone.PM Modi reaches US, greets Indian-Americans; to meet Kamala Harris, global CEOs on Day 1In meeting with Kamala Harris, PM Modi to discuss strategic ties Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be meeting US Vice President Kamala Harris for the first time since she was elected to Office, on Wednesday. "Landed in Washington DC. Over the next two days, will be meeting @POTUS @JoeBiden and @VP @KamalaHarris, Prime Ministers @ScottMorrisonMP and @sugawitter. Will attend the Quad meeting and would also interact with leading CEOs to highlight economic opportunities in India," the Prime Minister tweeted. PM Modi to meet General Atomics CEOPrime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to meet the head of armed drone manufacturer General Atomics in Washington on September 23. This comes against the backdrop of acquiring 30 Predator drones from the US. Read MoreHow PM Modi spent time ‘long flight’ to USPrime Minister Narendra Modi who is in the US for a three-day visit spent his flight ride going through papers and some file work. "A long flight also means opportunities to go through papers and some file work," he posted on Instagram. Read MorePM Modi meets members of Indian diaspora in Washington DCGrateful to the Indian community in Washington DC for the warm welcome. Our diaspora is our strength. It is commendable how the Indian diaspora has distinguished itself across the world. pic.twitter.com/6cw2UR2uLHPrime Minister Narendra Modi met members of the Indian diaspora in Washington DC on Thursday. He was greeted by groups of Indian Americans at the airport soon after his plane landed and then again at his hotel. PM Modi reaches US, to meet Kamala Harris, global CEOs on packed Day 1Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday (US time) arrived in Washington, DC for his three-day visit to the United States. The Prime Minister has a packed schedule from the very first day of the visit, during which he will meet US President Joe Biden and also address the United Nations General Assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-us-visit-live-updates-september-23-101632360228906.html
