25-09-2021||India||How Mysore cavalrymen led the charge in battle of Haifa||For the average Indian, the Teen Murti Bhavan in New Delhi is the former residence of India’s first prime minister Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru. The building, however, derives its name from the Teen Murti (three statues) memorial designed by British sculptor Leonard Jennings, located at the road junction in front of the building. The Teen Murti narrates the story of India’s triumph in the Battle of Haifa, which was then a part of the Ottoman Empire, on September 23, 1918, during World War 1. The three statues depict the cavalries of three Indian princely states, Jodhpur, Hyderabad and Mysore (now Mysuru). The battle was fought alongside the British 15th Imperial Service Cavalry Brigade to defeat the Ottoman soldiers and liberate a strategically important port town. The battle took place around two months before the end of World War 1. During the battle, the cavalrymen from Mysore, handpicked by Maharaja of Mysore Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar, attacked the town and captured more than 1,350 soldiers. Haifa was a strategically important location for the Allied Powers – led by France, Britain, Russia, Italy, Japan, and the United States – as it had a deep-water harbour and an airfield. Haifa became one of the main supply bases and arms depots, serving the Middle East forces during the war. A large naval depot was established at Haifa Bay. When the Ottoman Empire captured this town, they made sure it was defended heavily as it was a major resupply point. And when the allies began the Sinai and Palestine campaign, recapture of the Haifa was a priority. According to records, the 5th Cavalry Division was assigned the task of capturing Haifa. Since the defenders of the city were well-entrenched, the initial attacks were not successful, which is when the Mysore and Jodhpur Lancers were called in to finish the job. The Mysore Lancers were a personal force of the Mysore Maharaja. After he pledged troops for the war, the lancers were his first choice, said R Ashok Urs, who studied the force. “The king donated ₹50 lakh and 700 soldiers from his cavalry as his contribution to the war. He even wrote a letter to his men telling them that it was their chance to prove that they were the best fighting unit in the world,” said Urs. In October 1914, the Mysore regiment left Bengaluru (then Bangalore) for the Middle East. A convoy of 36 ships carried the troops from India to the Suez Canal. On September 23, 1918, the task in front of the cavalry seemed impossible. Situated between the Kishon River and the slopes of Mount Carmel, the city was well-defended and was supported by artillery guns. While the Jodhpur Lancers were tasked to capture these artillery positions, the Mysore Lancers were ordered to attack the town from the east and north. The Mysore Lancers moved into position by climbing up a steep track to capture and disable the guns. The Jodhpur Lancers launched the main mounted attack on the rear-guard of the German machine gunners, which blocked the 3.2km road leading to the town. This was followed by the final push by both units. At the end of the bloody battle, the two regiments captured 1,350 German and Ottoman prisoners, including two German officers, 35 Ottoman officers, 17 artillery guns, including four 4.2 guns, eight 77mm guns, four camel guns as well as a 6-inch naval gun, and 11 machine guns. Eight cavalrymen from the Mysore Lancers lost their lives in the battle, while 34 were wounded. The Mysore Lancers returned home in 1920 after participating in other campaigns of the British armies. Post-independence, the Lancers units were merged with the Indian Army’s 61 cavalry. While the identity of the Mysore Lancers was lost after the merger, the Indian Army still remembers the history of the unit that did the impossible in World War I. In 2017, during his tour of Israel, Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Haifa and renamed the Teen Murti Chowk to Teen Murti Haifa Chowk on his return. “We remember with pride those Indian troops who, one hundred years ago in Haifa, displayed valour, courage and heroism in the face of seemingly impossible odds,” he said during his visit. In a quiet corner on Bengaluru’s JC Nagar, another stature bears witness to the heroic acts of these brave cavalrymen from Mysore. The statue, which is otherwise a spectator to the regular traffic jams at the junction, is decked once a year when families of the soldiers come together to pay their respects. “It is a shame that brave lancers of the Mysore don’t find a mention in the history textbooks, even though they were heroes,” remarked Urs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-mysore-cavalrymen-led-the-charge-in-battle-of-haifa-101632594563442.html
25-09-2021||India||Gauri Lankesh murder case trial likely to begin in October: Officials||The murder trial of journalist Gauri Lankesh is likely to begin in October, officers of the special investigation team said on Saturday on condition of anonymity, more than four years after she was gunned down in Bengaluru. A local court has directed prison authorities to relocate all accused in the case to Bengaluru to begin framing of charges. “In view of the accused being placed in different jails and one or the other accused not being produced, the framing of charge is being deferred on one or the other reason. Hence, the accused who are placed in Ballari, Tumkur, Mysuru and Shivammoga jail are ordered to be brought to the central prison, Parappana Agrahara, Bengaluru for the purpose of framing charges,” read an order issued by the principal sessions court in Bengaluru.Lankesh, a journalist and activist, was shot dead on the night of September 5, 2017, in front of her Rajarajeshwari Nagar home in Bengaluru.As many as 17 accused in the case -- including murder accused Parashuram Waghmore and main conspirator Amol Kale -- are lodged in different jails in Karnataka and Maharashtra.In October, the Supreme Court is expected to give a verdict in a petition filed by Kavitha Lankesh, Gauri Lankesh’s sister, challenging the dropping of charges under the Karnataka Control of Organised Crime Act 2000 (KCOCA) against one of the accused, Mohan Nayak, in the murder conspiracy. In August, a bench led by justice AM Khanwilkar of the Supreme Court had issued notice to the Karnataka government on the petition filed by Kavitha Lankesh, in which she appealed against the Karnataka high court’s decision in April to quash charges of harbouring the murder accused against Nayak.KCOCA is a law enacted by the state in 2000 to combat organised crime and terrorism. The law was modelled on the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, 1999 (MCOCA). According to police, if charges under KCOCA are dropped against Nayak, it could set a precedence for charges to be dropped against the other accused in the case as well. During the investigation, the SIT found that an unnamed organisation that recruited right-wing activists from various Hindutva organisations was behind the murder. The investigation into the Lankesh murder conspiracy also unearthed a link between the murders of rationalists MM Kalburgi, Govind Pansare and Narendra Dhabolkar. According to SIT officials, the trial of the Lankesh case will have an impact on the investigations into the murder of the other rationalists, which have not progressed. In the initial days of the investigation, the SIT found a connection between the murders of Lankesh and Kalburgi, who was killed on August 30, 2015. The four bullets and cartridges recovered from Lankesh’s house matched with the slugs and cartridges in Kalburgi’s murder. Forensic labs found that the bullets were fired from the same gun.The Maharashtra SIT, which is probing the murder of Pansare, found that the same gun (CHECK) was used in the Lankesh and Pansare murders. The link between the murders of Lankesh and Dabholkar, who was killed on August 20, 2013, emerged during the later stages of the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gauri-lankesh-murder-case-trial-likely-to-begin-in-octoberofficials-101632594560803.html
25-09-2021||India||PM Modi at UN: Come, make vaccines in India||Mourning the loss of lives lost due to the global coronavirus pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday reiterated India’s commitment to start giving vaccines to needy persons in other countries, even as he gave a clarion call to manufacturers to “Come, Make Vaccine in India”. “For the last one-and-a-half years, the whole world is facing the biggest pandemic in 100 years. I pay homage to all those who lost their lives in such a terrible pandemic and extend my condolences to the families,” Modi said, addressing the high-level 76th United Nations General Assembly session here. India’s vaccine delivery platform - COWIN, is providing digital support for hundreds of millions of vaccine doses in a single day, he said. India had stopped the export of COVID-19 vaccines after the second wave of the pandemic hit the country hard in April this year. On Monday, India said it will resume export of surplus COVID-19 vaccines in the fourth quarter of 2021 under the ‘‘Vaccine Maitri’‘ programme and to meet its commitment to the COVAX global pool. “India, which lives on Sewa Paramo Dharma (service is the main duty), is engaged in vaccination development and manufacturing despite limited resources. I want to inform UNGA that India has developed the world’s first DNA vaccine, which can be administered to all people above the age of 12 years,” Modi said at the UNGA. “Another mRNA vaccine is in its late stages of development. Scientists in India are also engaged in the development of a nasal vaccine for Corona. Realising its responsibility towards humanity, India has once again started giving vaccines to the needy of the world. I also invite vaccine manufacturers from all over the world today to- Come, Make Vaccine in India,” the prime minister said. According to Johns Hopkins university data, the deadly virus has so far infected 231,154,501 people and killed 4,737,927 globally. PTI IND AKJ IND||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-at-un-come-make-vaccines-in-india-101632594201403.html
25-09-2021||India||US President Biden backs India’s UNSC permanent seat, entry into NSG||US President Joe Biden has reiterated America’s support for india’s permanent membership on a reformed United Nations Security Council and its entry into the Nuclear Suppliers Group during his first in-person bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the White House.President Biden, in his talks with Prime Minister Modi, applauded India’s “strong leadership” during its UN Security Council Presidency in August 2021, according to the US-India Joint Leaders’ Statement issued after their meeting in the White House on Friday.“In this context, President Biden also reiterated US support for India’s permanent membership on a reformed UN Security Council and for other countries who are important champions of multilateral cooperation and aspire to permanent seats on the UN Security Council,” it said.President Biden’s support provides a big boost to New Delhi’s push for the reform of the powerful UN organ as India has been at the forefront of efforts at the United Nations to push for an urgent long-pending reform of the Security Council, emphasising that it rightly deserves a place at the UN high table as a permanent member.India in June asserted that the Inter-Governmental Negotiations (IGN) on UN Security Council reforms can no longer be used as a smokescreen, as the General Assembly decided to roll over the IGN work to the next UNGA session and agreed to include an amendment proposed by the G4 nations of Brazil, Germany, India and Japan.At present, the UNSC comprises five permanent members and 10 non-permanent member countries which are elected for a two-year term by the General Assembly of the United Nations.The five permanent members are Russia, the UK, China, France and the United States and these countries can veto any substantive resolution. There has been growing demand to increase the number of permanent members to reflect the contemporary global reality.During his meeting with Prime Minister Modi, President Biden also reaffirmed US support for India’s entry to the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG), the joint statement said.The NSG is a 48-member grouping which regulates global nuclear commerce.Ever since India applied for the membership of the NSG in May 2016, China has been insisting that only those countries which have signed the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) should be allowed to enter the organisation.India and Pakistan are not signatories of the NPT. After India’s application, Pakistan too has applied for the NSG membership in 2016.China maintains that there would be no discussion on India’s entry into the NSG before reaching a specific plan on non-NPT members’ participation in the elite grouping, as it declined to give a timeline to reach a consensus among member states on this issue.President Biden’s support to India’s permanent seat in the UNSC assumes significance as last month, State Department Spokesperson Ned Price told reporters at his daily news conference that the US values “working with India at the United Nations, including in the context this month of the Security Council.” Responding to a question on whether the Biden administration thinks that India should be a permanent member of the UN Security Council, Price said that the US supports building a consensus for a “modest” expansion of the Council for both permanent and non-permanent members, provided it does not diminish its effectiveness or its efficacy and does not alter or expand the veto.“We believe that a reformed Security Council that is representative, that is effective, and that is relevant is in the best interest of the United States and all of the UN member states,” Price had said.In their talks on Friday, Prime Minister Modi and President Biden also welcomed the extension of the Statement of Guiding Principles on Triangular Cooperation for Global Development to leverage the combined capacities of India and the US to address global development challenges around the world, particularly in the Indo-Pacific and Africa, the statement said.They renewed their close relationship and charted a new course to advance the partnership between the world’s largest democracies They also affirmed a clear vision that will guide the US-India relationship forward, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uspresident-biden-backs-india-s-unsc-permanent-seat-entry-into-nsg-101632593962027.html
25-09-2021||India||Delhi court gives anticipatory bail to LJP MP Prince Raj||A Delhi court on Saturday granted anticipatory bail to Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) MP Prince Raj who had sought protection from arrest in a rape case.Special judge Vikas Dhull granted the relief to the politician on a bond of ₹1 lakh and one surety of like amount, saying there was “unusual delay” in lodging the FIR against Raj by the complainant. “In the event of arrest of applicant, investigating officer (IO)/ station house officer of Connaught Place police station is directed to release the accused on his furnishing a personal bond of ₹1 lakh with one surety in the like amount,” the judge said.Raj, the nephew of late Ram Vilas Paswan and cousin of Chirag Paswan, is a Member of Parliament from Samastipur in Bihar. The judge also directed Raj to join the investigation as and when required by the IO and not “threaten, pressurize or contact the prosecutrix in any manner whatsoever i.e. through phone, whatsapp, email, Instagram, Facebook, Messenger, etc.”In the application, advocate Nitesh Rana, representing Raj, claimed that the alleged victim and her male friend were extorting money and blackmailing his client since 2020.The Delhi Police had filed an FIR on September 9 under Sections 376 (rape), 376(2) (rape by public servant), 506 (criminal intimidation), 201 (Causing disappearance of evidence) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC, against Raj on directions of a Delhi court.The woman, who claims she was an LJP worker, has accused Raj of raping her while she was unconscious.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-court-gives-anticipatory-bail-to-ljp-mp-prince-raj-101632593901900.html
25-09-2021||India||IMD Alerts: Cyclone Gulab to bring heavy rainfall in 13 states, UTs from tomorrow||The deep depression over Bay of Bengal has intensified into a Cyclonic storm Gulab, and now lies about 370 km east-southwest of Odisha’s Gopalpur and 440km east of Kalingapatnam in Andhra Pradesh, according to the latest update by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) bulletin. It said that the moved nearly westwards with a speed of 7 km/hour in the last six hours to intensify into the cyclonic storm.Earlier in the day, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba chaired a meeting of the National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) in order to review the preparedness of the various agencies and the state governments of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh to combat the approaching cyclone. As many as 18 teams of the National Disaster Response Force have been collectively deployed in the two states where a cyclone alert has also been issued by the IMD. The director-general of NDRF Satya Pradhan said that 13 teams – with 24 sub-teams, were deployed in Odisha while the remaining five teams of the national force have been deployed in the southern state.The Deep Depression over northwest & adjoining westcentral Bay of Bengal moved nearly westwards intensified into Cyclonic Storm Gulab and lay centered at 1730 hrs IST of 25th Sep, over northwest and adjoining westcentral Bay of Bengal near about 370 km east-southeast of Gopalpur pic.twitter.com/Ays0WZwjiQMeanwhile, a heavy rainfall alert has been issued in West Bengal as well till September 26. According to the latest IMD bulletin, fishermen have been alerted not to venture into the Bay of Bengal along the coasts of both Odisha and West Bengal.Also Read | Cyclone Gulab: Impact area, expected trajectory and other details in 10 pointsApart from these three states, nine other states and one Union territory will be affected by Cyclone Gulab, which is expected to make landfall on Sunday evening.Here are the latest IMD alerts on 13 states and UTS for Cyclone Gulab:1.     Light to moderate rainfall at a majority of the places with a downpour in a few and extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places is very likely over south Odisha north coastal Andhra Pradesh on September 262.     The IMD bulletin said that heavy to very heavy rain is expected over Telangana, while very heavy rainfall is likely over Chhattisgarh on September 26.3.     Maharashtra's Vidarbha and north Chhattisgarh will witness light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy, and extremely heavy rain at isolated places. Telangana, Odisha and Maharashtra's Marathwada are expected to see heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places, while coastal West Bengal will likely witness isolated heavy rainfall at isolated places on September 27.4.     The IMD bulletin also stated that fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy rain is likely over east Rajasthan, west Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Konkan and Goa till September 30. Isolated very heavy rainfall is likely over north-central Maharashtra and southwest Madhya Pradesh on September 28 and Gujarat on September 28 and 29.5.     Cyclone Gulab will also impact and increase rainfall activity over Kerala and Puducherry’s Mahe with fairly widespread to widespread rainfall and isolated heavy falls from today onwards, and Lakshadweep from September 26 onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-states-and-uts-to-get-heavy-rainfall-from-tomorrow-due-to-cyclone-gulab-imd-101632592972784.html
25-09-2021||India||Jignesh Mevani, Kanhaiya Kumar to join Congress on September 28||Ahmedabad Gujarat Dalit leader Jignesh Mevani announced on Saturday that he would join the Congress, along with former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student leader Kanhaiya Kumar, in New Delhi on September 28.Setting at rest speculations, Mevani, who is an independent Dalit MLA from Gujarat, told HT over telephone, “Yes, Kanhaiya and I are joining the Congress party in Delhi on September 28.”The confirmation from the youth leader came following hectic parleys with Gandhi for over a month, people familiar with the development said.Asked why he had decided to join the Congress, Mevani said, “This would be explained at a press conference on that day.” On reports that the youth leaders would join the Congress in the presence of party leader Rahul Gandhi, he said: “That would be the party’s decision.” In 2017, Mevani was elected as an Independent from a reserved Scheduled Caste seat of Vadgam in North Gujarat’s Banaskantha district. Held by the Congress party, the seat was vacated for him.The Gujarat Dalit leader had recently inaugurated the state’s largest 13,000-litre oxygen plant by any elected representative, after a struggle in Gujarat high court, where he sought a direction to the state government to allow legislators to use their discretionary MLA funds for Covid care. The Congress later joined him with a similar petition, prompting the state government to give the nod for all 182 MLAs.People close to Mevani claimed that for over a year, he was weighing several options, including joining the Aam Aadmi Party of which he was earlier a spokesperson. He was also exploring national fronts of like-minded youth leaders.He was reportedly in constant touch with Kumar and Patidar leader Hardik Patel, the people cited above added. Leader of Opposition in the Gujarat Assembly Paresh Dhanani said, “All like-minded leaders and people are welcome in the Congress fold. Jignesh and Kanhaiya are natural allies of our party and the party vacated the Vadgam seat and wholeheartedly backed Jignesh.” Gujarat BJP spokesperson Yamal Vyas said, “It doesn’t matter to us who joins any Opposition party. We are always prepared to fight any election on the strength of our development works for the people.” Kumar had joined the Communist Party of India (CPI) ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and had unsuccessfully contested from Begusarai in Bihar against Giriraj Singh of the BJP.According to political scientist Ghanshyam Shah, “The overall political situation in this country is so unfortunate that individuals like Kanhaiya and Jignesh are unable to survive alone. These two are young idealistic politicians who are caught in a bind. Keeping political ambition and simultaneously fighting for ideology create contradictions going further. But they have little option.” Ahmedabad-based political analyst Vidyut Joshi opined, “Jignesh is a natural ally of the Congress and he had no other option, whereas Kanhaiya belongs to the Left ideology and but this is more out of political wisdom to join the Congress.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jignesh-mevani-kanhaiya-kumar-to-join-congress-on-september-28-101632593360700.html
25-09-2021||India||CJI: Reform laws to cut judicial interventions||The judiciary will not have to step into the shoes of lawmakers only when the legislature revisits laws and reforms them to suit the needs of the time and people, Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana said on Saturday. CJI Ramana was emphatic that laws must match with practical realities, and said it is the duty of the legislature and the executive to do the needful. “The Legislature needs to revisit the laws and reform them to suit the needs of time and people. I emphasize, our laws must match with our practical realities. The executive has to match these efforts by way of simplifying the corresponding rules. Most importantly, the executive and the legislature should function in unison in realising the constitutional aspirations. It is only then that the Judiciary would not be compelled to step in as a lawmaker and would only be left with the duty of applying and interpreting the same,” CJI Ramana said. Speaking at the inauguration of a new building of the Odisha State Legal Services Authority at Cuttack, justice Ramana said that the notion about courts making the law requires to be dispelled, but the executive and the legislature need to step up. “At the end of the day, it is the harmonious functioning of the three organs of the State (legislature, executive and judiciary) that can remove the procedural barriers to justice,” emphasised justice Ramana, adding that the legal framework needs to be drastically altered to make the justice delivery mechanism people friendly. There have been some recent instances when the tussle between the government and the Supreme Court over legislative exercise has come to fore. The top court had on September 7 and 15 lashed out at the Centre for re-enacting the very same provisions for the administration of tribunals that were struck down by the court in July. It had commented that the Union government has “no respect” for the judgments of the top court and is “bent upon not honouring” the orders of the Supreme Court. Similarly, the Centre had in August 2018 brought a constitutional amendment to negate the Supreme Court ruling that had come in March that year that apparently diluted the rigours of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Meanwhile, at the event, the CJI also talked about the hurdles for a common man to access the justice delivery system, lamenting that even after 74 years of independence, traditional and agrarian societies that have been following customary ways of life, still feel hesitant to approach the courts. “The practices, procedures, language and everything of our courts feels alien to them. Between the complex language of the acts and the process of justice delivery, the common man seems to lose control over the fate of his grievance. Often in this trajectory, the justice seeker feels like an outsider to the system,” he said. Justice Ramana called it a “harsh reality” that often the legal system fails to take into consideration the social realities and implications and the system is designed in such a way that by the time all the facts and law are churned in the court of law, much gets lost in the process. “People might be bringing their problems to the courts, but what remains at the end of a day is yet another ‘case’... Our constitutional aspirations shall never be achieved until the most vulnerable sections can enforce their rights,” said the CJI. The CJI mentioned the important role that legal services institutions play and commended justice Uday U Lalit, executive chairman of the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA), for putting the processes of providing legal aid and facilitating access to justice to the poor and marginalized and by increasing legal awareness in a “power-drive mode”. “If we want to retain the faith of our people, we need to strengthen not only the judicial infrastructure, but we also need to boost our outreach programs as well... The power and strength of any justice delivery system is derived from the faith of the people in it. The Bar and Bench need to work in conjunction to affirm the faith that a citizen has in the justice delivery system,” said justice Ramana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cjireform-laws-to-cut-judicial-interventions-101632593120643.html
25-09-2021||India||Nations backing terror must know it’ll hurt them too: PM||WashingtonPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday cautioned the UN general assembly about countries with “regressive thinking” that are using terrorism as a “political tool”, and called for efforts to ensure that no country takes advantage of the “delicate situation” in Afghanistan for its own selfish interests.Modi flew to New York from Washington after holding his first bilateral meeting with US President Joe Biden in the White House and attending his first in-person Quad Summit.Addressing the UN general assembly in Hindi, Prime Minister Modi called for the protection of oceans and ocean resources from the “race for expansion and exclusion”, saying they must be used and not abused and they are a lifeline of international trade. He did not name any country, but this appeared to be a reference to China’s increasing aggression in the Indo-Pacific region.He also warned the world body about its own diminishing relevance and credibility, reiterating a theme that he called a “crisis of confidence” in 2020. He said several questions are being raised about the UN and other global institutions, and mentioned specifically the issue of the origin of the Covid-19 epidemic, which the World Health Organization is widely held to have bungled under pressure from the Chinese, and the ease of Doing Business ranking, which has been suspended by the World Bank over data irregularities.An investigation has revealed that World Bank employees changed their data to boost China’s ranking in the 2018 and 2020 “Doing Business” report.Saturday’s speech was Modi’s fourth at the UN general assembly and came after successful bilateral meetings with US President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris, Australia’s Scott Morrison and Japan’s Yoshihide Suga in Washington DC. He also participated in a historic first in-person summit of the Quad group of countries that are focused on protecting the Indo-Pacific from Chinese expansionism.Without naming Pakistan, the Prime Minister said there are “countries with regressive thinking that are using terrorism as a political tool; these countries must understand that terrorism is an equally big threat for them”. Pakistan’s continued support of terrorism also came up for discussion at Modi’s bilateral and Quad meetings in Washington DC.Modi did not respond to charges and allegations leveled by Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan in his speech to the UN general assembly on Friday, when the Indian leader was in Washington. Khan railed against India, alleging, among other things, a “reign of terror” against Muslims. In an official response, Sneha Dubey, a first secretary at the Indian mission to UN, dismissed Khan’s remarks, saying Pakistan was “an arsonist disguising itself as a firefighter”.On Afghanistan, the Indian PM said that it was “absolutely essential to ensure that Afghanistan’s territory is not used to spread terrorism, and for terrorist attacks”. He added once again without naming any country but pointing to Pakistan: “We also need to be alert and ensure that no country tries to take advantage of the delicate situation there, and use it as a tool for its own selfish interests”. Pakistan has made no secret of its continued support for the Taliban and has openly flaunted its influence on the new dispensation in Kabul.Modi called upon the world community to extend help to the people of Afghanistan to ensure, among other things, the rights of women, children and the minorities are protected. “We must fulfil our duty by providing them with this help,” he said.Reminding the assembly that the oceans are a shared heritage, Modi said that “we must only use ocean resources and not abuse them”. And because they are also the lifeline of international trade, the world “must protect them from the race for expansion and exclusion”.“The international community must speak in one voice to strengthen a rule based world order,” he added.Modi did not name any country, but Chinese aggression in the region appeared to be the subject of his appeal and warning. Beijing has unilaterally extended claims into the Indo-Pacific and has shown no regard for rules and regulations to settle its many maritime disputes.The Prime Minister put the world body and the other global institutions under the scanner, citing a warning by Indian historical figure Chanakya against not taking timely action: “When the right action is not taken at the right time, then it is time itself that causes the action to fail.”If the United Nations wants to remain relevant, he further said, “it will need to improve its effectiveness and enhance its reliability. Today, all kinds of questions have been raised about the UN”. He went on to cite the climate crisis, Covid-19 pandemic and “the proxy war” going on in many parts of the world.Pointing to questions raised in regard to the origin of the Covid-19 pandemic and ease of Doing Business report, the Prime Minister said: “Institutions of global governance have damaged the credibility they had built, which was a result of decades of hard work. It is essential that we constantly strengthen the UN, in order to safeguard global order.”India has been campaigning for a permanent seat in the UN Security Council as part of a wider reform of the world body.The Prime Minister began his speech by updating the assembly members about India’s progress on “the path of integrated equitable development”. He said India had brought 360 million people into the banking system; extended health insurance coverage to over 500 million people, giving them free treatment and access to quality health services; and built 30 million homes for the homeless. India has also launched a campaign to bring clean drinking water to those who don’t have access to it and is trying to give clean land and home ownership titles.“When India grows, the world grows; when India reforms, the world transforms,” the Prime Minister said, as translated into English.Modi also detailed India’s battle against the Covid-19 pandemic and its own search for vaccines and contributions to the global effort. He told the member countries that India has decided to resume exporting vaccines and invited manufacturers to make vaccines in India.The Prime Minister also spoke about India’s efforts on battling the climate crisis and the ambitious plan to produce 450 gigawatts of renewable energy and turn India into a hydrogen hub.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nations-backing-terror-must-know-it-ll-hurt-them-too-pm-101632593120025.html
25-09-2021||India||‘What’s the harm?’: Farooq Abdullah says India must initiate talks with Taliban||The National Conference president and the former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Farooq Abdullah, on Saturday reiterated the need to initiate discourse with the Taliban in Afghanistan to protect India’s investment in the war-torn nation.He told news agency ANI that India has spent billions on “different projects” during the previous Ashraf Ghani-led dispensation in Afghanistan. “Taliban is in power in Afghanistan now…We should talk to the current Afghan regime. When we’ve invested so much in the country, what's the harm in keeping relations with them?” Abdullah was quoted as saying.Accepting that terrorism is a global issue, Abdullah said that all “powerful nations have to collectively make sure that no nation is weak” in order to ensure that all countries are safe.He also threw light on who began or has been fueling global terrorism in what appeared like an indirect dig at the US and its president Joe Biden for its recent withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan – which eventually emboldened the Taliban and paved the way for the group to take over the country once again after two decades.“There is no doubt that terrorism is eating the whole world. But who started terrorism? Who attacked Iraq?... Who bombed Libya despite the UN's warning? Which is the terrorist nation that destabilised the other nations,” the NC leader told ANI.This isn’t the first time that Abdullah has been vocal regarding the Taliban’s presence in Afghanistan and pushed the central government to clarify its stand on the group. In the past, he said that the Taliban should try to build “friendly relations” with every nation and hoped that the group would deliver “good governance and follow Islamic principles” in Afghanistan.Also Read | Farooq Abdullah didn't 'back' Taliban: Party says after his Afghanistan remark gets 'twisted'His remarks come on the day Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during his three-day visit to the US, addressed the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA). In his speech, PM Modi said Afghanistan should not be used for terrorism against other countries.“Countries with regressive thinking that are using terrorism as a political tool need to understand that [the same] is an equally big threat for them,” the prime minister said.PM Modi also highlighted that the international community must provide aid to the women, children and minorities of Afghanistan at this time when the country is going through a crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whats-the-harm-farooq-abdullah-says-india-must-initiate-talks-with-taliban-101632592078736.html
25-09-2021||India||PM Modi greets Indian diaspora outside hotel in New York amid ‘Vande Mataram’ and ‘Modi, Modi’ chants||Prime Minister Narendra Modi was greeted by a cheering crowd of members of the Indian diaspora in New York outside the hotel as the PM was leaving for the JFK airport on Saturday, concluding his three-day visit to the US. PM Modi waved at the crowd and also went on to shake hands with some people in the crowd while being surrounded by members of his security detail.The PM was greeted with chants of ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’ and ‘Vande Mataram’ alongside chants of ‘Modi, Modi’, as a video shows. The crowd gathered to meet Modi, who was returning from the United Nations headquarters after delivering his address at the 76th UN general assembly meeting, earlier in the evening (IST). Also, one person could also be heard saying “Thank you Modi ji” to the PM and many others were waving the Indian tricolour.#WATCH | The US: PM Narendra Modi meets people gathered outside his hotel in New York. He is about to leave for John F Kennedy International Airport from where he will depart for India. pic.twitter.com/RCjpZVM9LLEarlier in the day too, several members of the Indian diaspora were seen gathered outside his hotel in New York, before he departed for the UNHQ.Also read | PM Modi concludes 3-day visit, to bring back 157 artefacts US handed overReflecting on his trip, the PM expressed confidence that the ties between India and the US will grow even stronger in the future. He also called the many meetings he had with leaders and CEOs “productive.”“Over the last few days, have had productive bilateral and multilateral engagements, interaction with CEOs and the UN address. I am confident the India-USA relationship will grow even stronger in the years to come. Our rich people-to-people linkages are among our strongest assets,” Modi tweeted.Over the last few days, have had productive bilateral and multilateral engagements, interaction with CEOs and the UN address. I am confident the India-USA relationship will grow even stronger in the years to come. Our rich people-to-people linkages are among our strongest assets.Modi’s address to the UNGA was the last major item on his schedule, before which he had met with several business CEOs, held bilateral meetings with US President Joe Biden and US Vice-President Kamala Harris and also held multilateral meetings with the leaders of Japan and Australia in the first in-person Quad leaders summit hosted by Biden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-greets-indian-diaspora-outside-hotel-in-new-york-amid-vande-mataram-and-modi-modi-chants-101632589028431.html
25-09-2021||India||Covid-19: Hotels, stadiums, swimming pools in Kerala now allowed at 50% capacity for fully vaccinated||The Kerala government on Saturday announced additional guidelines in view of the Covid-19 pandemic in the state, offering some relaxations for those who are now fully immunised against the disease. The guidelines from the government came in the wake of more than 90% of the population in the state being jabbed with at least one dose of the vaccine.Among major announcements, the state government said that its previous order restricting the movement of people who have not taken even one dose of the vaccine has been repealed. “The condition...restricting the movement of persons who have not taken at least one dose of COVID vaccine/ not in possession of RTPCR negative certificate / not in possession of COVID positive test results which is one month old etc. stands withdrawn,” the order from the government said.Further, hotels, restaurants, clubs and bars have now been allowed for in-house dining with only 50% of the seating capacity occupied and only for people vaccinated fully. Also, the relaxation is conditional that all employees there are also fully immunised against the disease.Also read | After Centre’s ex gratia announcement, Kerala to update list of Covid deaths: Health minister“Air conditioning in these places shall not be permitted and windows and doors shall be kept open as far as possible, to ensure ventilation,” the government said in its order, in its directions to the eateries.Meanwhile, similar orders have also been issued for stadiums and swimming pools in the state, which is again conditional that all users of such facilities and the employees are fully vaccinated against the disease.“The restrictions for entry into establishments...shall not be made applicable to those who are below 18 years of age as they are not eligible for vaccination at present,” the order, signed by state chief secretary VP Joy, also said.The state has set itself the target of vaccinating 100% of its eligible population with at least one dose of the vaccine by September 30, a deadline that is fast approaching. Additionally, it is also occupied with the task of reopening educational institutions (higher educational institutes on October 4, classes 1 to 7, 10 and 12 on November 1) and relevant ministries have been discussing the issue regularly, according to the previous updates by state health minister Veena George.On Saturday, 16,671 more people tested positive for the disease and so far, 4,613,937 total confirmed cases have been reported from Kerala. Meanwhile, 24,438 people have succumbed to the illness so far, of whom, 120 fatalities were reported in the last 24 hours, according to a bulletin from the state government. As many as 165,154 active cases are present in the state currently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-hotels-stadiums-swimming-pools-in-kerala-now-allowed-at-50-capacity-for-fully-vaccinated-101632588635748.html
25-09-2021||India||In last 7 yrs, over 43 crore Indians included in banking system: PM Modi at UNGA||Addressing the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi talked about an “all-inclusive” and “universal” development. He stated that during the last seven years, more than 43 crore people have been included into the banking system, who were deprived of the facility earlier.“Today over 36 crore people have an insurance security scheme (Bima Suraksha Kavach) who could not imagine this earlier,” PM Modi told the UN General Assembly.He further stated that India has offered treatment to more than “50 crore people and connected them with quality healthcare service.” “India has constructed three crore pucca (concrete) houses for homeless families and made them homeowners,” the Prime Minister added.Also Read | PM Modi announces world's first DNA vaccine for Covid-19 from global stageWhile highlighting the various flagship initiatives undertaken by the Indian government for its citizens, PM Modi said that the modern-day definition of Antyodaya is one where no individual is left behind. “It is with this principle that India today is moving forward on integrated development,” PM Modi added.Speaking about the issue of polluted water, the Prime Minister said that it doesn’t only plague India but the entire world, especially the “poor and developing countries.” “In order to address this challenge, we are carrying out a very big campaign to ensure clean piped water to more than 17 crore homes,” PM Modi said during his UNGA speech.PM Modi’s UN speech covered several important matters ranging between the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic to the Afghanistan crisis due to the country’s recapture by the Islamist militant group Taliban.Following his speech, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda took to Twitter to hail the “most popular world leader” and said that PM Modi spoke like a true “statesman.” “His speech is going to make 130 crore Indians of the country proud,” Nadda wrote in Hindi.
25-09-2021||India||PM Modi concludes 3-day visit, to bring back 157 artefacts US handed over||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will bring home 157 artefacts and antiquities handed over by the United States during his three-day visit. The prime minister is reported to have conveyed his deep appreciation for the repatriation of antiquities, which include items ranging from exquisite bronze Nataraja from the 12th Century and a one and a half metre bas relief panel of Revanta in sandstone from the 10th Century. “PM Modi and President Biden are committed to strengthen their efforts to combat the theft, illicit trade and trafficking of cultural objects,” according to an official statement.As many as 45 artefacts belong to Before Common Era. About 71 items are cultural artefacts while the rest are figurines related to Hinduism (60), Buddhism (16) and Jainism (9). The material used to create the antiquities range from metal, stone and terracotta. Ornate figurines of Lakshmi Narayana, Buddha, Vishnu, Siva Parvathi and the 24 Jain Tirthankaras are primarily made of bronze. The motifs handed over by the US include religious sculptures related to Hinduism, Buddhism, and Jainism. Some secular motifs like an amorphous couple in Samabhanga, chowri bearer, female playing drum are also included.Three-headed Brahma, Chariot Driving Surya, Vishnu and his Consorts, Siva as Dakshinamurti, Dancing Ganesha among others are part of the religious motifs. Other religious motifs include standing Buddha, Boddhisattva Majushri, Tara, Jain Tirthankara, Padmasana Tirthankara, and Jaina Choubisi.“There are 56 terracotta pieces (Vase 2nd CE, Pair of Deer 12th CE, Bust of Female 14th CE) and an 18th CE sword with sheath with inscription mentioning Guru Hargovind Singh in Persian),” the statement said.On Saturday, the prime minister emplaned for India from John F Kennedy International Airport after concluding his US visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-concludes-3-day-visit-to-bring-back-157-artefacts-us-handed-over-101632584571139.html
25-09-2021||India||‘Suspected woman handler in DRDO espionage case proposed marriage to 2 accused’: CID||The suspected woman handler in the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO0 espionage case had promised to visit the homes of one of the five accused arrested in the case, top CID officials claimed on Saturday.Last week, five people — Basanta Behera, Hemanta Kumar Mistry, Tapas Ranjan Nayak, Sk Musafir and Sachin Kumar— were arrested by police in Balasore district for their alleged links with a woman handler from Pakistan. They were reportedly honey-trapped for information on activities at the missile testing facility at ITR Chandipur.Additional Director General of Police, CID, Sanjeeb Panda said the suspected female operative had proposed marriage to two of the arrested accused and promised to visit the house of another accused located in Chandipur.The woman had 7 Facebook accounts under different names and was in contact with the five accused through social media platforms like WhatsApp and Facebook on regular basis.“She used to video call two of the accused frequently. Claiming that she is a resident of Balasore district, the woman had invited one of the accused persons to meet her at her residence in Chandipur,” Panda said after CID officials completed the interrogation of the accused.Panda said the investigation is underway to get details of the UK phone number and the bank account in Dubai from where one of the accused received a cash transfer of around ₹38,000. He said efforts are underway to know if the accused received more money from any other source and the actual identity and whereabouts of the woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/suspected-woman-handler-in-drdo-espionage-case-proposed-marriage-to-2-accused-cid-101632585800346.html
25-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: 18 NDRF teams deployed in Andhra, Odisha for Cyclone Gulab and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Cyclone Gulab: Cabinet secretary holds meeting, 18 NDRF teams being deployedA deep depression over Bay of Bengal will intensify on Saturday evening and make landfall as a cyclone on Sunday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday. It has issued an alert for Cyclone Gulab for north Andhra Pradesh and adjoining south Odisha coasts. Read more.Covid, terrorism, Pakistan: What PM Modi said at UN | Top 10 quotesPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday spoke at the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA). His speech, which lasted for a little more than 20 minutes, addressed several matters that are currently relevant to the world, including the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, and the situation of Afghanistan following its fall to the hands of Taliban, among others. Read more.‘Proactive synergy among armed forces needed’: Rajnath SinghDefence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday called for greater synergy among the armed forces in future military strategies and responses. While addressing the graduates of the 59th National Defence College (NDC) course during their convocation in New Delhi, Singh noted that the government’s bold approach on border disputes and terrorism has made India stronger. Read more.‘Space? We have a lot to do here’: Bill Gates talks on space explorationBill Gates, during his recent appearance in an American late night talk show, was asked about his thoughts on billionaires investing in space travel and in response, he said that he has become obsessed with eradicating diseases here on earth rather than with space. Read more.iPhone 13 Pro, iPhone 13 Pro Max not using 120Hz to their fullestThe most headlining feature on the new iPhone 13 Pro and iPhone 13 Pro Max models is Apple’s much hyped ProMotion. The feature has been around on the iPad Pro since 2018, offering smoother display experiences with a refresh rate of 120Hz. On the new iPhones, the higher refresh rate makes for smoother scrolling and better gaming experiences. However, there is an issue with this feature early on. Read more.IPL 2021: 'If not the best, it is one of the best' - Rishabh Pant's big remark on Delhi Capitals' bowling attackDelhi Capitals' bowlers performance in the Indian Premier League 2021 match against Rajasthan Royals was tremendous. Coming on to defend a total of 155, there were doubts whether RR might have an easy task of completing the chase - especially with the side having big hitters like David Miller, Sanju Samson, Riyan Parag and Rahul Tewatia. Read more.Sooryavanshi vs Eternals: Akshay Kumar-Katrina Kaif starrer to clash with Marvel film on DiwaliAkshay Kumar’s much-awaited film, Sooryavanshi is all set for a theatrical release this Diwali. Directed by Rohit Shetty, Sooryavanshi will feature Akshay alongside Ranveer Singh, Ajay Devgn, Katrina Kaif and Gulshan Grover. Read more.Smoking can give you this fatal disease. Know all about Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary DiseaseIf you are one of those who are increasingly getting bothered about leading an unhealthy lifestyle, quitting smoking is a great way to improve your quality of life. A single puff of a cigarette exposes the smoker to millions of free radicals. Besides the toxic habit can also increase your chances of getting lung cancer, blood cancers, chronic bronchitis, cardiac diseases and stroke. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-18-ndrf-teams-deployed-in-andhra-odisha-for-cyclone-gulab-101632581325670.html
25-09-2021||India||Sneha Dubey is not the first. These young diplomats took on Pakistan at UN||As First Secretary Sneha Dubey's speech at the UN in which she took on Pakistan and Pakistan PM Imran Khan, a look into the previous speeches made by India's young diplomats on the international platform reveals that it is a tradition that India has been maintaining at the UN: Fiery and young diplomats replying to Pakistani leaders.Reports said that the tradition began during the tenure of former Indian envoy Syed Akbaruddin. From that time, India started to field young diplomats to deliver the Right of Reply to Pakistani leaders. The message is India does not need senior diplomats to take of Pakistan Prime Ministers at the UN. Young diplomats are enough, an analysis by news agency PTI said.Eenam Gambhir, 2016 and 2017In September 2016, then First Secretary in the Indian Mission to the UN Eenam Gambhir delivered India's Right of Reply to Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif's UN General Assembly address. "The world has not yet forgotten that the trail of that dastardly attack led all the way to Abbottabad in Pakistan. The land of Taxila, one of the greatest learning centres of ancient times, is now host to the Ivy League of terrorism. It attracts aspirants and apprentices from all over the world. The effect of its toxic curriculum is felt across the globe."In 2017 too, Gambhir replied to then Pakistan Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi. "In its short history, Pakistan has become a geography synonymous with terror. The quest for a land of pure has actually produced 'the land of pure terror'. Pakistan is now Terroristan... Its current state can be gauged from the fact that Hafiz Mohammed Saeed, a leader of the United Nations designated terrorist organisation Lashkar-e-Taiba, is now sought to be legitimised as a leader of a political party."Vidisha Maitra, 2019In 2019, Vidisha Maitra's speech received applause as she addressed Imran Khan and 'Imran Khan Niazi' from the UN floor. "We would request you to refresh your rather sketchy understanding of history. Do not forget the gruesome genocide perpetrated by Pakistan against its own people in 1971 and the role played by Lt. Gen A A K Niazi. A sordid fact that the Hon’ble Prime Minister of Bangladesh reminded this Assembly about earlier this afternoon," she said.Mijito Vinito, 2020Last year, Mijito Vinito said Pakistan's "only crowning glory" that Pakistan can show to the world is terrorism, ethnic cleansing, majoritarian fundamentalism and clandestine nuclear trade.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sneha-dubey-is-not-the-first-these-young-diplomats-took-on-pakistan-at-un-101632583284359.html
25-09-2021||India||Modi at UNGA: PM announces world's first DNA vaccine for Covid-19 from global stage||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday announced the world’s first DNA vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from the global platform. Addressing the 76th United Nations General Assembly in New York, PM Modi said that the DNA vaccine can be administered to everyone above the age of 12."India, which lives on Sewa Paramo Dharma (service is the main duty), is engaged in vaccination development and manufacturing despite limited resources,” Modi said at the UNGA.“I want to inform UNGA that India has developed the world's first DNA vaccine, which can be administered to all people above the age of 12 years," he added.The prime minister was referring to Zydus Cadila's Covid-19 DNA vaccine which received emergency use approval from the Drugs Controller General of India last month. The company expects to administer the first licensed shot from October but, according to the government, the price remains a “clear issue”.
25-09-2021||India||‘Excellent, historic’: Union ministers, CMs hail PM Modi’s address at UNGA||Following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address at the United Nations 76th general assembly on Saturday, many leaders including Union ministers reacted to his speech at the global stage. Modi’s address at UNGA was among the last important items in his visit to the US, where he had previously met with several business leaders, US President Joe Biden, US Vice-President Kamala Harris and also the leaders of Japan and Australia in the first in-person summit of Quad leaders.Modi’s speech covered several key issues such as the Covid-19 pandemic, the rising threat of terrorism, the situation in Afghanistan and also included a pitch for 'make in India'.Union defence minister Rajnath Singh hailed the PM’s speech as “excellent” and said it highlighted India’s resolve to build a safer planet. “Excellent speech by PM Shri @narendramodi in the UNGA today. His speech encapsulates the spirit of 1.3 billion people of India. He successfully highlighted the aspirations of the largest democracy in the world and our strong resolve to build a prosperous India and a safer planet,” Singh tweeted.Excellent speech by PM Shri @narendramodi in the UNGA today. His speech encapsulates the spirit of 1.3 billion people of India. He successfully highlighted the aspirations of the largest democracy in the world and our strong resolve to build a prosperous India and a safer planet. https://t.co/epHmKyI3wzBJP’s national president JP Nadda in his message said, “The speech of our Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi in the 76th General Assembly of the United Nations is going to make 130 crore people of the country proud. I congratulate the Prime Minister for hoisting the flag of India all over the world.”Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman shared an excerpt from the PM’s address and said that his speech highlights the need to address the issues of poverty, Covid and terrorism. Modi, at UNGA, said, “Democracy can deliver, democracy has delivered.” Sitharaman highlighted this part of his speech and said, “⁦@PMOIndia⁩ address to the United Nations General Assembly highlights the need to address issues of poverty, Covid and terrorism. Quotes Chanakya, Deendayal Upadhyay and Tagore."⁦@PMOIndia⁩ address to the United Nations General AssemblyHighlights the need to address issues of poverty, Covid and terrorism. Quotes Chanakya, Deendayal Upadhyay and Tagore. “Democracy can deliverDemocracy has delivered.”https://t.co/7RsANSia7Lvia NaMo AppMansukh Mandaviya, the Union health minister, also shared excerpts from the PM’s speech where he spoke about healthcare and the Covid-19 pandemic in India. Further, Mandaviya thanked Modi for introducing the world to the principle of Antyodaya of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya.PM @NarendraModi जी ने आज UNGA में दुनिया को पंडित दीनदयाल जी के अंत्योदय के सिद्धांत से परिचित करवाया।उन्होंने कोरोना प्रबंधन व वैक्सीन निर्माण को लेकर भारत का दृष्टिकोण दुनिया के सामने रखा व उन्हें आमंत्रित किया। इसके लिए मैं प्रधानमंत्री की का धन्यवाद करता हूं। #PMmodiAtUNGA“Integral humanism is the expansion of the self; moving from individual to the society, the nation and the entire humanity. Antyodaya is known as where no one is left behind. This philosophy inspires India to move on the path of integrated, equitable development,” Modi had said.Among chief ministers, Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma congratulated the PM for his address. The entire world is looking at India with great hope.PM Shri @narendramodi Ji gave a historic speech today at the #UNGA which will be remembered for generations to come.It will also strengthen the position of our nation and will help creating a new world order. #PMModiatUNGA https://t.co/GHIRMUHHDY“The entire world is looking at India with great hope. PM Shri @narendramodi Ji gave a historic speech today at the #UNGA which will be remembered for generations to come. It will also strengthen the position of our nation and will help creating a new world order,” Chouhan said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/excellent-historic-union-ministers-cms-hail-pm-modi-s-address-at-unga-101632582706617.html
25-09-2021||India||Why PM Modi mentioned Deendayal Upadhyaya, Chanakya and Tagore in his UNGA speech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi delivered a power-packed speech at the United Nations General Assembly on Saturday touching upon crucial issues the world is facing today. Significantly, he mentioned Deendayal Upadhyaya, Chanakya and Rabindranath Tagore during the speech to send across three messages to the world. While two of the messages were directed at the United States, one was on the philosophy which direct's India's development.As PM Modi talked about India's democracy, he remembered the teaching of Deendayal Upadhaya whose birth anniversary also falls on September 25. He said the philosophy of Antyodaya, where the development of the end-user is the most crucial is a teaching of Deendayal Upadhaya. "Integral humanism is the expansion of the self; moving from individual to the society, the nation and the entire humanity. Antyodaya is known as where no one is left behind. This philosophy inspires India to move on the path of integrated, equitable development," PM Modi said.PM Modi does not mention Pakistan, China in his speech, says this insteadAfter addressing issues like Covid-19, terrorism, Prime Minister Narendra Modi offered a piece of advice to the United Nations as he said that the UN system has to focus on improving its effectiveness and relevance. In this regard, PM Modi quoted Chanakya and said, "Chanakya had said when the right work is not done at the right time, time itself destroys the success of that work. I the UN has to keep itself relevant, it has to improve its effectiveness and increase its reliability."In the same vein, PM Modi quoted Rabindranath Tagore as he concluded his speech. "Be fearless as you are doing something noble. All weakness and apprehension will disappear. This is significant for the UN and all responsible countries at the present time," PM Modi said.The United Nations is facing several questions today, PM Modi said. "Such questions have been raised over Covid, climate change, proxy war, terrorism and now the issue of Afghanistan," PM Modi said asking the UN to act fearlessly and when it is the time to act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-india-to-world-why-pm-modi-mentioned-deendayal-upadhyaya-chanakya-and-rabindranath-tagore-in-his-unga-speech-101632580110935.html
25-09-2021||India||Covid, terrorism, Pakistan: What PM Modi said at UN | Top 10 quotes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday spoke at the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA). His speech, which lasted for a little more than 20 minutes, addressed several matters that are currently relevant to the world, including the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, and the situation of Afghanistan following its fall to the hands of Taliban, among others.In his speech, he spoke about India's work towards developing different kinds of coronavirus vaccines, and said that the country has developed the world’s first “DNA vaccine” – safe for any individual above 12 years of age to be administered. He also mentioned Bharat Biotech’s ongoing work in developing the first intranasal Covid-19 vaccine.In matters of Afghanistan, PM Modi emphasised on the need to ensure that the war-gripped nation’s land is not used for terrorism against other countries. He added that during this time, it is important that the global community extends aid to the women, children and the minorities of Afghanistan.Here are all the top quotes of PM Narendra Modi at UNGA:1.     In the last 1.5 years, the entire world has been facing the worst pandemic in 100 years, I pay tribute to all those who have lost their lives in this deadly pandemic and I express my condolences to their families.2.     Yes, democracy can deliver. Yes, democracy has delivered. Today is the birth anniversary of Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyaya, the proponent of 'Ekatma Manav Darshan', meaning integral humanism or the development journey taken together, the expansion from self to universe.3.     I would like to inform the UNGA that India has developed the world's first DNA vaccine. This can be administered to anyone above the age of 12. An mRNA vaccine is in the final stages of development. Indian scientists are also developing a nasal vaccine against COVID19.4.     Today, I extend an invitation to all vaccine manufacturers from across the world to make vaccines in India.5.     The Corona pandemic has taught the world that the global economy be further diversified. That is why the expansion of global value chains is very important. Our 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan' is inspired by this sentiment.6.     On the occasion of 75 years of independence, India is going to launch 75 satellites into space made by Indian students.7.     We have also started work on making India the world's largest green hydrogen hub. We are answerable to our future generations. Today, the world is facing an increased threat of regressive thinking and extremism.8.     Our oceans are also the lifeline of international trade. We must protect them from the race for expansion. The international community must speak in one voice to strengthen a rule-based world order.9.     Countries with regressive thinking that are using terrorism as a political tool need to understand that terrorism is an equally big threat for them. It has to be ensured that Afghanistan isn't used to spread terrorism or launch terror attacks.10.We also need to ensure that no country tries to take advantage of the delicate situation in Afghanistan & use it for its own selfish interests. At this time, people of Afghanistan, women & children, minorities need help. We must fulfill our duties by providing them with help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-terrorism-pakistan-what-pm-modi-said-at-un-top-10-quotes-101632579956250.html
25-09-2021||India||75 student satellites to launch into space on 75th Independence Day: PM Modi at UNGA||Addressing the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) in New York on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi set forth India’s ambitious mission of launching 75 satellites into space built by students of Indian universities on the occasion of the 75th Independence Day on August 15 in the upcoming year.“On the occasion of 75 years of independence, India is going to launch 75 satellites into space made by Indian students in schools and colleges,” said PM Modi at the high-level UNGA session this evening.The ‘75 satellites’ mission to launch student satellites into space was initiated by the Indian Technology Congress Association (ITCA) in collaboration with the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) and other tech-space organisations.According to the official website, the objective is to develop 75 small student satellite systems network by 2022 in order to improve the efficiency of communications. The initiative is inspired by the prime minister’s ‘Gaganyaan Space mission 2022’.Expressing his views on the importance of a science-based approach for learning at UNGA, PM Modi said, “Regressive thinking and extremism is increasingly threatening the world. In these circumstances, the entire world will have to make science-based rational and progressive thinking the basis of their development programmes.”“To strengthen science-based approach, India is promoting experience-based learning. We have opened thousands of Atal Tinkering Labs across schools,” he added.Besides, PM Modi also paid his tributes to the lives lost in the COVID-19 pandemic and expressed his views on terrorism and the crisis situation in Afghanistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/75-student-satellites-to-launch-into-space-on-75th-independence-day-pm-modi-at-unga-101632578805613.html
25-09-2021||India||PM Modi talks about Covid, Afghanistan, terrorism at UNGA. Watch full speech||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday called on the world to make science-based rational and progressive thinking the basis of their development programmes, saying regressive thinking and extremism are increasingly threatening the world. Speaking at the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly, PM Modi said that India is promoting experience-based learning in a bid to strengthen the science-based approach.He also took a veiled dig at Pakistan for using terrorism as a political tool. The prime minister warned that such countries have to understand that terrorism is an equally big threat to them. Pakistan has been long accused of supporting the Taliban militarily, financially and with intelligence. Several reports suggest that Pakistan has been meddling in the government formation in Afghanistan and wanted the Haqqani Network to play a major role. But the rise of the Afghan Taliban can also provide momentum to Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan, a terrorist group banned in Pakistan. Also Read | At UNGA, PM Modi sends tough message to Pakistan, asks for collective voice against expansionismIn his about 22-minute long address, PM Modi also touched upon the ongoing political and humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan, saying the world needs to ensure that the war-torn country is not used to spread terrorism.The prime minister wrapped up his speech by quoting Rabindranath Tagore and said efforts of all is required to bring peace and prosperity to the world.Here's PM Modi's full address at UN General Assembly:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-talks-about-covid-afghanistan-terrorism-at-unga-watch-full-speech-101632579058747.html
25-09-2021||India||‘Proactive synergy among armed forces needed’: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday called for greater synergy among the armed forces in future military strategies and responses. While addressing the graduates of the 59th National Defence College (NDC) course during their convocation in New Delhi, Singh noted that the government’s bold approach on border disputes and terrorism has made India stronger. “Threats to internal and external security will no longer be tolerated. Our actions in Balakot and Galwan are clear signals to all aggressors,” the minister said.Singh mentioned that the world is currently witnessing destabilizing implications of terror, including the threat posed by radical forces attempting to gain legitimacy. Now, there is a greater realisation amongst nations to come together and combat terrorism, he said. The NDC, he said, can play a key role in fostering a common understanding among friendly countries against terrorism and finding long-term solutions to deal with it.Highlighting the uncertainty of current geopolitics, specifically in reference to the latest developments in Afghanistan, Singh said, “The only certainty about evolving geopolitics is its uncertainty. Changes in state boundaries may not be as frequent today. However, the fast-transforming structure of states and the influence that external powers can have on it is clearly evident.” The minister also emphasised the need to draw lessons from the situation in Afghanistan.“Injustice, however powerful, cannot and will not defeat the collective power of the goodness that is inherent to human existence. This sentiment is evident from an increasing number of world capitals which have lent their voice in favour of liberalism, inclusivity and respect for international norms of governance and behaviour,” Singh said.The minister urged the NDC to focus more on new and fast-emerging areas such as cyber, space, artificial intelligence and big data analytics. “The world has witnessed a rapid transformation in all these areas of scientific knowledge. This technological progression must be accompanied by its military interpretation within the strategic community,” he said. In addition, he reiterated the government’s resolve to achieve ‘Atma Nirbharta’ in the defence sector, saying that “no country that aspires to develop as a knowledge-based economy can sustain such reliance on defence imports.”Singh highlighted the relevance of NDC’s guiding principles —knowledge, wisdom and statecraft— in the rapidly changing regional scenario. “Knowledge allows us to understand the historical, social, geopolitical and economic realities of a country and a region. Wisdom helps interpret this factual understanding to facilitate far-sighted decision-making. And, statecraft brings to bear the understanding of strategic thought and culture to everyday realities. It facilitates decision-making in pursuit of long-term interests,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proactive-synergy-among-armed-forces-needed-rajnath-singh-101632579859717.html
25-09-2021||India||At UNGA, PM Modi sends tough message to Pakistan, asks for collective voice against expansionism||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday addressed the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) in New York on Saturday in which he paid condolences to families of those who lost their lives in Covid-19 and called for the UN to stay relevant.Without directly naming Pakistan, the Prime Minister also said that countries using terrorism as political tool need to understand that it is an equally big threat to them.Watch PM Modi's full speech at UNGA:"India is a great example of a vibrant democracy. The strength of our democracy is demonstrated by the fact that a little boy, who was helping his father at a tea stall in India, is addressing the UNGA for the fourth time as Prime Minister of India," PM Modi said.He said that India is making great strides on the path of development. "We believe in a development process which is all-pervasive, universal and one that nurtures all," said the Prime Minister.Highlighting India's achievements in the fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), PM Modi said, "India has developed world's first DNA vaccine for Covid-19 which can be administered to everyone above the age of 12."He further said that Indian scientists are also developing a nasal vaccine for Covid-19.The Prime Minister then turned his focus on terrorism and extremism, which he said are threatening the world. "Regressive thinking and extremism are increasingly threatening the world. In these circumstances, the entire world will have to make science-based rational and progressive thinking the basis of their development programmes."He also said that it is very important to ensure that the territory of Afghanistan is not used to spread terrorism and for terror attacks.Also Read | Top 10 quotes from PM Modi's UNGA speechMaking a veiled attack on China, PM Modi said that the resources available in the oceans are meant to be used and not abused."We have to protect our oceans are lifeline of international trade. We have to protect them from race for expansionism and exclusion. The world will have to raise collective voice against such moves for a rule-based world order," said PM Modi. His comments were in reference to China's expansion efforts in the South China Sea, which have led to many regional disputes.The Prime Minister had some advice for the United Nations as well, which has come under criticism from many countries for not adapting to changing times. He quoted famous Indian philosopher Chanakya to say “when the right work is not done at the right time, time itself destroys the success of that work”. Former US President Donald Trump had called the UN an organisation where people "just talk and have a good time".“If the UN has to keep itself relevant, it has to improve its effectiveness and increase its reliability,” said PM Modi.The theme for this year's General Debate is 'Building Resilience through hope to recover from Covid-19, rebuild sustainably, respond to the needs of the planet, respect the rights of people, and revitalise the United Nations.'The high-level segment of the 76th UNGA began in New York on Tuesday. The UNGA meeting this year is in a hybrid format but a large number of leaders have arrived in New York.Modi arrived in Washington on Wednesday for a three-day visit to the United States, his first beyond neighbourhood since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic.Before addressing the UNGA, the Prime Minister held bilateral meetings with US President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris. He also met his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison and Japanese PM Yoshihide Suga. PM Modi also participated in the first in-person Quad Summit in Washington after Covid-19.He also held meetings with five global CEOs for potential investment in India on Thursday.PM Modi will be wrapping up his visit today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-unga-pm-modi-takes-a-dig-at-pak-asks-world-to-unite-against-expansionism-101632577707909.html
25-09-2021||India||Little boy who helped his father at tea stall is addressing UNGA for 4th time: PM Modi||Highlighting the strength of the Indian democracy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday noted how a little boy who at one time used to help his father at his tea stall, is today addressing the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) for the fourth time.Speaking at the 76th session UNGA, PM Modi said that he represents a country that is known as the 'mother of democracy.' "We have a great tradition of democracy that goes back thousands of years."India's diversity is the identity of the country's strong democracy, he added. "It is a country that has dozens of languages and hundreds of dialects, different lifestyles and cuisine. This is the best example of a vibrant democracy.""The strength of the democracy is demonstrated by the fact that a little boy who at one time used to help his father at his tea stall is today addressing the UNGA for the fourth time," PM Modi said.He also paid tribute to all those who have lost their lives in the deadly COVID-19 pandemic.The theme for this year's General Debate is 'Building Resilience through hope to recover from COVID-19, rebuild sustainably, respond to the needs of the planet, respect the rights of people, and revitalise the United Nations.'The high-level segment of the 76th UNGA began in New York on Tuesday. The UNGA meeting this year is in a hybrid format but a large number of leaders have arrived in New York.Modi had arrived in Washington on Wednesday for a three-day visit to the country. This was his first visit beyond neighbourhood since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic.The Prime Minister held bilateral meetings with US President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris here. He also met his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison and Japanese PM Yoshihide Suga. PM Modi also participated in the first in-person Quad Summit in Washington.He also held meetings with five global CEOs for potential investments in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/boy-who-helped-his-father-at-tea-stall-is-addressing-unga-for-4th-time-pm-modi-101632577427783.html
25-09-2021||India||HT This Day: September 26, 1966 — Over 300 dead, 700 injured in Japan typhoons||More than 300 Japanese were dead or missing today after two typhoons within 24 hours hit central and western Japan. Police headquarters, gathering casualty figures from damaged prefectures, listed 174 dead, with the figure mounting, and 140 missing. More than 700 were injured. More than 4,000 homes were destroyed and 40,000 suffered from flood damage. It was Japan’s worst typhoon disaster in six years. By this evening both typhoons Ida and Helen-had lost most of their fury and been reduced to tropical storms. Ida hit just south of Tokyo last night with 68-mile an hour winds, swung north over the length of Honshu, the main island, then burst into the Pacific again late today. Helen struck Shikoku island today with 55-mile an hour winds, passed across the narrow waist of Honshu just south of Osaka then pushed into the Japan Sea. It was expected to curve eastwards and hit northern Honshu or Hokkaido early tomorrow. Ida struck central Japan at high tide last night and caused most of the deaths and damage. In a night of howling winds and driving rains, thousands of Japanese fled from their flooded low-lying homes for safer ground. The typhoon caused serious damage at Tachikawa, U.S. Air Force base, 20 miles west of Tokyo, add AP, AFP. Hardest hit were the provinces of Shizuoka on the Pacific seaboard and Yamanashi, south-west and west of Tokyo. In Saiko, Yamanashi prefecture at the foothills of Mount Fuji, 23 villagers were killed and 40 others were missing when two villages were entombed in a massive landslide. Defence forces and police were engaged in frantic rescue operations, digging into the mountainous heaps of earth for survivors.Elsewhere in the basin area of Yamanashi, a number of landslides and floods were reported destroying houses and roads. President Radhakrishnan has sent a message of sympathy to the Emperor of Japan on the loss of life and property caused by typhoons there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-september-26-1966-over-300-dead-700-injured-in-japan-typhoons-101632577398584.html
25-09-2021||India||India rubbishes Imran Khan’s references to J&K, says Pakistan using terror as state policy||India has rubbished Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s criticism of the situation in Jammu and Kashmir at the UN General Assembly and said the neighbouring country has misused global forums to spread false propaganda while openly using terrorism as an instrument of state policy. As in recent years, India fielded a young woman diplomat – Sneha Dubey, the first secretary at the mission to the UN in New York – to exercise the right of reply to respond to allegations made by the Pakistani premier at the General Assembly. Dubey described Pakistan as “an arsonist disguising itself as a fire-fighter”. India said in its response that Khan’s recorded video message to the General Assembly was another attempt to tarnish the image of the UN by bringing in India’s internal matters and to “spew falsehoods on the world stage”. “Regrettably, this is not the first time the leader of Pakistan has misused platforms provided by the UN to propagate false and malicious propaganda against my country, and seeking in vain to divert the world’s attention from the sad state of his country where terrorists enjoy free pass while the lives of ordinary people, especially those belonging to the minority communities, are turned upside down,” Dubey said. Pakistan, she added, has been globally recognised as a country that is “openly supporting, training, financing and arming terrorists as a matter of state policy”, and holds the “ignoble record of hosting the largest number of terrorists proscribed by the UN Security Council”. UN member states are also aware that Pakistan has an “established history and policy of harbouring, aiding and actively supporting terrorists”. The world has not forgotten that the mastermind behind the 9/11 attacks in the US, Osama Bin Laden, got shelter in Pakistan, and that “even today, Pakistan leadership glorify him as a ‘martyr’”, Dubey said. “Regrettably, even today we heard the leader of Pakistan trying to justify acts of terror...We keep hearing that Pakistan is a ‘victim of terrorism’. This is the country which is an arsonist disguising itself as a fire-fighter,” she said. Pakistan’s policy of nurturing “terrorists in their backyard in the hope that they will only harm their neighbours” has affected the region and the world, and it has even tried to “cover up sectarian violence in their country as acts of terror”, she added. India’s response reiterated that the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh “were, are and will always be an integral and inalienable part” of the country, and this includes “areas that are under the illegal occupation of Pakistan”. Dubey said: “We call upon Pakistan to immediately vacate all areas under its illegal occupation.” Outlining India’s position, Dubey said: “We desire normal relations with all our neighbours, including Pakistan. However, it is for Pakistan to work sincerely towards creating a conducive atmosphere, including by taking credible, verifiable and irreversible actions to not allow any territory under its control to be used for cross-border terrorism against India in any manner.” India’s response also referred to Pakistan’s “despicable record” of having executed a religious and cultural genocide against the people of Bangladesh, and said the minorities of Pakistan, including Sikhs, Hindus and Christians, live in “constant fear and state-sponsored suppression of their rights”. “Dissenting voices are muzzled daily and enforced disappearances and extra-judicial killings are well documented,” Dubey said, adding that pluralism is “very difficult to understand for Pakistan which constitutionally prohibits its minorities from aspiring for high offices of the State”. In his recorded message to the General Assembly, Prime Minister Khan had spoken about issues such as the need for a global dialogue to counter Islamophobia and steps to promote inter-faith harmony, but a majority of his address was focused on India and Afghanistan. He alleged that the “worst and most pervasive form of Islamophobia now rules India” and criticised the BJP government, referring to what he said were incidents of mob lynching and a discriminatory citizenship law. Khan was particularly critical of the Indian government’s handling of the Jammu and Kashmir issue, and referred to “illegal and unilateral measures” imposed since August 2019, including the jailing of political leaders, clampdown on the internet and suppression of protests. Khan said: “Pakistan desires peace with India, as with all its neighbours. But sustainable peace in South Asia is contingent upon resolution of the Jammu and Kashmir dispute in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions and the wishes of the Kashmiri people.” He said Pakistan had reaffirmed the 2003 ceasefire on the Line of Control (LoC) in the hope that it “would lead to a rethink of the strategy in Delhi”. He added, “Sadly, the BJP government has intensified repression in Kashmir and continues to vitiate the environment by these barbaric acts. The onus remains on India to create a conducive environment for meaningful and result-oriented engagement with Pakistan...It is also essential to prevent another conflict between Pakistan and India.” While speaking on Afghanistan, Khan referred to a fake news item that said former US president Ronald Reagan had compared Afghan mujahideen to the “founding fathers of the US”. His remarks that Pashtun people in Pakistan’s tribal belt had “strong sympathies” with the Afghan Taliban and that Afghan refugees have affinity with the Taliban were widely criticised on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rubbishes-imran-khan-s-references-to-j-k-says-pakistan-using-terror-as-state-policy-101632574757969.html
25-09-2021||India||PM Modi addresses 76th session of UN General Assembly | Watch Live||Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived in New York on Friday night (EST) to address the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly. PM Modi, who is on a three-day visit to the US, is expected to highlight the issues related to coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, climate change, and global terrorism.The prime minister spent the first two days of the three-day visit in Washington DC where he participated in the Quad Leaders' Summit and held separate bilateral meetings as well. On Thursday, PM Modi met US vice president Kamala Harris followed by meetings with Australian and Japanese counterparts. Apart from the meeting with the Quad leaders, PM Modi also met CEOs of five multinational companies.The visit will now be capped with his address at the UN General Assembly.Watch PM Modi's UN General Address here:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-addresses-76th-session-of-un-general-assembly-watch-live-101632572942785.html
25-09-2021||India||Cyclone Gulab: Cabinet secretary holds meeting, 18 NDRF teams being deployed||A deep depression over Bay of Bengal will intensify on Saturday evening and make landfall as a cyclone on Sunday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday. It has issued an alert for Cyclone Gulab for north Andhra Pradesh and adjoining south Odisha coasts.Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba, meanwhile, chaired a meeting of the National Crisis Management Committee (NCMC) today evening to review the preparedness of various ministries and agencies to deal with the approaching deep depression.The IMD said on Twitter that the storm is about 410 km eastsoutheast of Gopalpur and 480 km eastnortheast of Kalingapatnam.Here are the latest developments:• In the meeting, the Director General of IMD informed government officials that the cyclone is expected to cross the north Andhra Pradesh and South Odisha coasts by the evening of September 26, with wind speeds ranging from 75-85 km per hour, gusting to 95 km per hour.• It is likely to affect the districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Vishakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh and Ganjam and Gajapati in Odisha, the IMD chief said.• The Cabinet Secretary assured the state governments that all Central agencies are ready and will be available for assistance with the aim to keep the loss of lives to near zero and minimize damage to property and infrastructure.• The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has begun deploying a total of 18 teams in Odisha and Andhra Pradesh in view of a cyclonic storm forming over the Bay of Bengal.• NDRF director general S N Pradhan tweeted that the teams - 13 in Odisha and five in Andhra Pradesh - will be in place by Saturday night.• The NDRF teams in Odisha will be deployed in Balasore, Ganjam, Gajapati, Rayagada, Koraput, Nayagarh and Malkangiri districts. In Andhra Pradesh, the teams will be deployed in Vishakhapatnam, Srikakulam, Yanam and Vizianagaram.• Rescue and relief teams of the Army and Navy along with ships and aircraft have also been deployed.• The weather department has issued a yellow alert for area around Kalingapatnam - Vishakhapatnam and Gopalpur - from where the cyclone is expected to cross.• During the next three days, the sea condition will be rough in the coastal areas of Odisha, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh.• The Coast Guard has alerted the fishermen in the area by broadcasting weather warnings against the low-pressure area. They have been advised not to venture into deep sea from September 25 onwards till further notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-gulab-latest-developments-cabinet-secretary-holds-meeting-18-ndrf-teams-being-deployed-101632573388045.html
25-09-2021||India||Centre denies permission to Mamata for trip to Rome next month||The Centre has denied permission to West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee for a visit to Rome next month where she was scheduled to attend a world peace conference. “Central government denied permission for Didi’s Rome trip! Previously they’ve cancelled the permission of China trip too. We accepted that decision keeping international relations and India’s interests in mind. Now why Italy Modi ji? What is your problem with Bengal? Chi!” tweeted Debangshu Bhattacharya, a Trinamool Congress spokesperson.. In August this year, Banerjee was invited to attend a program by Macro Impagliazzo, the president of Community of Sant’Egidio, a Catholic association based in Rome. She was the only Indian invited to attend it. Pope Francis, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Grand Imam of Egypt’s Al-Alzhar HE Ahmad al-Tayyib among others are expected to attend the conference scheduled on October 6 and 7, 2021. “In the letter the Union ministry of external affairs has stated that the event is not commensurate in status for participation by chief minister of a state,” said another TMC leader. The TMC reacted sharply and mounted an attack on the Centre alleging that the BJP was playing vindictive politics. “This is nothing but vindictive politics. The BJP has suffered a humiliating defeat in the West Bengal elections and is now desperately trying to stop Mamata Banerjee and her growing popularity in whatever way they can. They can’t digest the defeat,” said Tapas Roy, TMC spokesperson. The TMC returned to power for the third consecutive time after a thumping victory in the assembly polls. Out of the 292 assembly seats where elections were held in March – April this year, the TMC won 213 seats. The BJP, which aimed to win more than 200 seats and form the government, could win only 77 seats. Even the invitation letter from Rome had congratulated the Trinamool Congress supremo for her “significant election” victory in the recently held assembly polls and “for the important work for social justice, for the development of your own country, and therefore, for peace, which you have been doing for over ten years now.” On September 15, the West Bengal chief minister along with Prime Minister Narendra Modi was listed in the Time magazine’s 100 most influential people of the year. Earlier in September 2016, the chief minister had attended the canonization of Mother Teresa at Vatican City. The then external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj also attended it. In 2018, Banerjee had alleged that the Centre had denied her permission to visit Chicago to attend the world Hindu conference. The Centre had, however, refuted the allegations saying that it never received any request. “The TMC doesn’t know that such decisions are not taken by the Bharatiya Janata Party. India has a foreign policy and it is the ministry of external affairs which takes the call,” said Jay Prakash Majumdar, vice president of BJP in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-denies-permission-to-mamata-for-trip-to-rome-next-month-101632573497938.html
25-09-2021||India||Delhi court grants anticipatory bail to LJP MP Prince Raj in rape case||A Delhi court on Saturday granted anticipatory bail to Lok Janshakti Party MP Prince Raj who had sought protection from arrest in a rape case.Special judge Vikas Dhull granted the relief to the politician on a bond of ₹1 lakh and one surety of like amount.Raj, nephew of the late Ram Vilas Paswan and cousin of Chirag Paswan, is a Member of Parliament from Samastipur in Bihar.In the application, Raj's advocate Nitesh Rana had claimed that the alleged victim and her male friend were extorting money and blackmailing his client since 2020.The Delhi Police had filed an FIR on September 9 against Prince Raj on the directions of a court here.The woman, who claims that she was an LJP worker, has accused Raj of raping her while she was unconscious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-court-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-ljp-mp-prince-raj-in-rape-case-101632565060172.html
25-09-2021||India||Assam eviction drive violence: CM Sarma says PFI visited spot day ago||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Saturday members of the Islamic outfit Popular Front of India (PFI) had visited a day ago the village where an eviction drive turned violent leading to death of at least two people in police firing. Facing flak over the handling of the controversial eviction of “illegal settlers” in Assam’s Darrang district on Thursday, Sarma said various pieces of evidence were emerging with time implicating certain people, including a lecturer.“We have the names of six persons. Prior to the day of incident, the PFI visited the site in the name of carrying food items to evicted families. Various evidence are now emerging, implicating certain people, including a lecturer,” Sarma told reporters.Evictions were done as per their consent. I had told them about evictions and that they should ensure no resistance, which they promised. I explained same thing to Congress. They agreed with me & appreciated the decision. They created mayhem the next day: Assam CM Himanta B Sarma pic.twitter.com/bv0lw6AwDdOn Friday, the BJP had alleged that various forces, including the PFI, could have instigated protesters to attack Assam Police personnel, a charge denied by the outfit. Sarma had asked who could have instigated the violence as discussions were were held for four months before going ahead with the eviction drive.“There was an intelligence report that certain people collected ₹28 lakh during the last three months saying that there will be no eviction. When they couldn't resist eviction, they mobilised public and created havoc on that day,” the chief minister added.Also read | ‘We got notice just hours before the eviction drive,’ claim residents of Assam’s DholpurHe reiterated that evictions were done with the consent of all and that he had explained the same to the Congress, but mayhem followed. “I had told them about evictions and that they should ensure no resistance, which they promised. I explained the same thing to the Congress. They agreed with me and appreciated the decision. They created mayhem the next day,” he added.On Friday, he said 11 policemen were injured in the clashes that took place at Sipajhar in Darrang district, adding a judicial enquiry would be held into the incident.Also read | Killed in Assam eviction drive, boy who went to collect Aadhaar cardA video of a man slinging a camera and hitting an apparently dead person with a bullet wound on his chest during the clashes has sent shockwaves across the state, following which the man was arrested. Sarma had said on Friday the state government cannot be demeaned by one video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-eviction-drive-violence-cm-sarma-says-pfi-visited-spot-day-ago-101632569896330.html
25-09-2021||India||Tina Dabi, parents biggest pillar of support, says Ria Dabi after ranking 15th in UPSC||A day after the UPSC announced the final results of the 2020 exam in which IAS officer Tina Dabi's younger sister Ria Dabi ranked 15th, Ria took to her social media account to post a photo with the parents and wrote there is nothing better than making parents happy.Among the top rank holders of UPSC 2020, Ria Dabi grabbed much attention as her elder sister Tina Dabi was the UPSC topper of 2015. "I am delighted to share that my younger sister Ria Dabi has got rank 15 in UPSC 2020 exam," the IAS officer posted on social media.Both the sisters went to Lady Shri Ram College of Delhi University.On her 15th all-India rank, Ria Dabi said her parents and sister have been the biggest pillars of support. "I’m taken over by a wave of emotions. So happy, so overwhelmed, so grateful. My parents and sister have been my biggest pillars of support. I couldn’t have done it without them. A big shoutout to my mother who has always been my role model. Lastly, thank you for all the kind wishes!" Ria Dabi posted on Instagram.Sharing about her preparation, Ria Dabi said she started preparing soon after she graduated from Lasy Shri Ram. The 23-year-old used to study for 10 hours a day as she was preparing for the UPSC. In several interviews that she has given after ranking 15th, Ria Dabi admitted that her sister's rank put her under pressure but it was more motivation than pressure, she said. There was no pressure from the family, she said.Tina Dabi was the first Dalit to have topped UPSC and that was the first reason why she became a celebrated IAS officer. Her marriage with another IAS topper Athar Ahmed was hailed as a symbol of communal harmony. The two IAS officers got divorced this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tina-dabi-parents-biggest-pillar-of-support-says-ria-dabi-after-ranking-15th-in-upsc-101632570007374.html
25-09-2021||India||‘Shared apprehension’: Tejashwi writes to 33 non-BJP leaders for support on caste census||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader and Leader of Opposition in Bihar Assembly Tejashwi Yadav on Saturday gave a fresh push to the demand for holding a caste census in the country by reaching out to politicians across the country. He wrote a letter to 33 politicians, who are not from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Tejashwi took to Twitter to share a copy of the letter addressed to Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav. He also shared two images with the names of 32 other opposition political leaders to whom he has written the letter. The list includes Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati, Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) president Arvind Kejriwal.The purpose of the letter, Tejashwi wrote on the micro-blogging site, is about the political leaders’ “shared apprehension and responsibilities” in the demand for socio-economic and caste census, and the “apathy of the ruling party (BJP) at the Centre towards the same.”In the letter, the RJD leader cited that sample surveys by National Family Health Survey and other enquiry commissions established by different state governments over the years show that “caste plays a persistent role in creating disadvantages for communities.” “These sample surveys underline the importance of a comprehensive national caste census,” the letter added.
25-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Covid vaccine certificates to have birth date of fully jabbed going abroad and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid certificates to mention date of birth of fully vaccinated people travelling abroadAmid the India-UK tussle over the vaccination status of Indians, it has been decided that the CoWin certificate will have the full date of birth of people who are fully vaccinated and want to travel abroad. Read moreUP crosses 100 million Covid vaccination mark, CM praises health workersUttar Pradesh crossed a major milestone on Saturday when the number of people who have received coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine crossed 100 million (10 crore) mark. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath attributed the success to the health workers and citizens of Uttar Pradesh. Read moreI-T raids Gujarat diamond trader, unearths ₹518 cr worth sale-purchase deedsThe income tax department recently conducted raids on a leading diamond merchant in Gujarat after receiving inputs about tax evasion. According to a release from the Union finance ministry, the assessee made unaccounted purchases and sales of small polished diamonds of about ₹518 crore in the last five years. Read moreRajasthan Royals drop Chris Morris and Chris Lewis, ‘really surprised' Gautam Gambhir reacts‘A really surprised’ Gautam Gambhir could not fathom the reasons behind Rajasthan Royals' decision to drop Chris Morris and Evin Lewis for their important IPL 2021 encounter against Delhi Capitals in Abu Dhabi on Saturday. Read moreSonu Sood said ‘I’ll miss you' to taxmen after raid, reveals plans for remaining ₹17 crore raisedActor Sonu Sood has said that he took great care of tax officials who arrived at his house for raids recently. According to Income Tax Department, Sonu and his associates were involved in ₹20 crore tax evasion and violation of Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) while raising funds from abroad. Read moreiPhone 13 Mini vs iPhone 12 Mini: Power on speed? Find outThe iPhone 13 Mini went on sale in India alongside the iPhone 13, the iPhone 13 Pro and the iPhone 13 Pro Max earlier this week. And while the device, that is, the iPhone 13 Mini brings incremental changes over its predecessor, that is, the Apple iPhone 12 Mini, there are some things that have remained unchanged. Read moreCrawling cat reminds people of Toothless from How to Train Your Dragon. WatchA video of a cat shared by Instagram on their own platform has now reminded people of the fictional dragon Toothless from the animated movie How to Train Your Dragon. There is a chance that the video will remind you of the same character too and also make you giggle. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-covid-vaccine-certificates-to-have-birth-date-of-fully-jabbed-travelling-abroad-and-all-the-latest-news-101632567821037.html
25-09-2021||India||UP crosses 100 million Covid vaccination mark, CM praises health workers||Uttar Pradesh crossed a major milestone on Saturday when the number of people who have received coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine crossed 100 million (10 crore) mark. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath attributed the success to the health workers and citizens of Uttar Pradesh.“It is the result of Respected Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s guidance and the tireless efforts of the UP government that the state has delivered more than 10 crore vaccine doses against Covid-19. This achievement is dedicated to committed health workers and disciplined citizens. You should also get 'Teeka Jeet Ka'," Adityanath said on Twitter.आदरणीय प्रधानमंत्री श्री @narendramodi जी के मार्गदर्शन व @UPGovt के अथक प्रयासों का सुफल है कि प्रदेश में 10 करोड़ से अधिक कोविड टीके का सुरक्षा कवच प्रदान किया जा चुका है।यह उपलब्धि प्रतिबद्ध स्वास्थ्यकर्मियों व अनुशासित नागरिकों को समर्पित है।आप भी लगवाएं 'टीका जीत का'...The state government said in a release that Uttar Pradesh is administering Covid-19 vaccines faster not only than some states in India, but also a few countries of the world. It also said that the state is on its way to vaccinating the entire adult population soon.The UP government said that as per census and electoral data, around 15 crore people in the state are eligible for vaccination. Of these, 8,15,25,547 crore - or 54.33 per cent - have received at least one dose and 1,85,10,688 crore people are fully vaccinated.The state government said that Uttar Pradesh took almost 100 days to reach the 10 million vaccination mark. It then took 45 days to cross the 20 million and 59 more days to reach 50 million mark, said the government. In the next 14 days, the figure reached 60 million and 70 million in the next 11 days on August 28. In just nine more days, the state reached 80 million mark, and by September 15, it had administered 90 million Covid-19 vaccine doses.The 100 million mark was crossed at 2pm on September 25, the UP government further said.नंबर 1 बना लगाकर 10 करोड़ वैक्सीनयूपी ने बनाया देश में रिकॉर्ड बेहतरीन#BJP4UP pic.twitter.com/amyCwbRVmyThe UP government also said that out of the 2,15,209 samples tested in the last 24 hours, merely 14 samples tested positive for the Covid-19 infection. The positivity rate has slumped to 0.01 per cent, the lowest in the country, it added.In the same period, another 26 patients recovered from the infection. The active caseload in the country's most populous state has been reduced to just 177 from a high of 3,10,783 in April pushing up the recovery rate to 98.8 per cent, it added.The government said that as many as 30 of the state's 75 districts reported zero active cases. These include Amethi, Amroha, Auraiya, Ayodhya, Azamgarh, Baghpat, Ballia, Banda, Bahraich, Bijnor, Farrukhabad, Gonda, Hamirpur, Hapur, Hardoi, Hathras, Kanpur Dehat, Kasganj, Mahoba, Mirzapur, Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, Pilibhit, Rampur, Sant Kabirnagar, Shahjahanpur, Shamli, Shravasti, Sitapur and Sonbhadra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-crosses-100-million-covid-vaccination-mark-cm-praises-health-workers-101632567600061.html
25-09-2021||India||On Pakistan, Rajnath Singh says 'growing realisation' of what India has been saying||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said that there has been a growing realisation of Pakistan’s support to “violent radical and terror groups.” Further, Singh also said that India has been voicing its concerns about the same for long. The minister made the remarks during his address to the convocation ceremony at the National Defence College (NDC).“There is growing realisation of what India has been voicing for long, with regard to the active support of Pakistan to violent radical and terror groups,” Singh said. He made the comments referring to the recent events in Afghanistan, where Taliban have taken over the reins following the withdrawal of US troops, with experts pointing towards the role of Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI).There is growing realisation of what India has been voicing for long, with regard to the active support of Pakistan to violent radical and terror groups: Raksha MantriCalling “uncertainty” as the only certainty in evolving geopolitics, Singh said that the recent events in Afghanistan have “reinforced the reality of our times.” “Changes in state boundaries may not be as frequent today. However, the fast-transforming structure of states and the influence that external powers can have on it is clearly evident. These events raise questions regarding the very role of power politics and the use of terrorism as a tool to change state structures and behaviour,” he added. The minister also called on the students to draw lessons from the events in Afghanistan to beyond what was felt in the region.Also read | Young Indian diplomat Sneha Dubey rips Pakistan apart at UN forum: Top 5 quotesSingh said that the world is witness to the destabilising effects of terrorism and the dangerous precedence of violent radical forces that are attempting to gain legitimacy. “The turmoil caused in the region has been brought about by aggressive designs and the active support to non-state players, by irresponsible states,” he added, without naming any particular country.While India is “totally committed” to peace and goodwill amongst all nations, it has also displayed its resolve that security threats would not be tolerated. “Our actions in Balakot and Galwan are clear signals to all aggressors, that any attempt to threaten our sovereignty will be given a swift and befitting response,” Singh said.The remarks from the defence minister also came as US Vice-President Kamala Harris earlier on Friday called upon Pakistan to act on terrorist groups operating from the country during her meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is in the US on an official visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-pakistan-rajnath-singh-says-growing-realisation-of-what-india-has-been-saying-101632565460071.html
25-09-2021||India||Feminist activist Kamla Bhasin passes away after prolonged battle with cancer||Renowned feminist activist Kamla Bhasin passed away in the early hours of Saturday after battling cancer. She was 75. Born in 1946 in Shahidanwaali village in Punjab (now in Pakistan), Bhasin’s appeal lay in her ability to talk to a roomful of “anybodys”, as she once said — diplomats, television audience, feminists or children. The underlying message — imparted to suit the audience listening to her — was always one of gender justice. After working with a rural non-governmental organisation called Seva Mandir based in Udaipur for four years, Bhasin joined the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations in 1976 — a job she retired from in 2002. In 2004, she set up Sangat, a South Asian Feminist Network supported by Delhi-based feminist resource group Jagori that Bhasin set up with other feminists including Abha Bhaiya, Runu Chakravarty, Gauri Choudhury, Sheba Chhacchi, Manjari Dingwaney, and Joginder Panghaal in 1984. Through the 1980s and ’90s, Bhasin was part of key feminist struggles in the country, from the protests against dowry deaths to demonstrations that led to changes in the way rape and sexual assault were prosecuted in the country. She also contributed to the movement by creating booklets on feminism, patriarchy, violence, which were translated into multiple languages and formed the basis of Women’s Studies in several organisations. In the past decade, she also became associated with One Billion Rising, a movement started by Eve Ensler to end violence against women. Bhasin’s FAO work took her across South Asia where she forged lifelong friendships with other feminist activists. Part of Bhasin’s significant contribution to the feminist movement was to expand its scope beyond national boundaries — in doing so, Bhasin and other feminists from the Global South ensured that the movement also critiqued the military-nationalist complex that they identified as part of patriarchal oppression. Bhasin first visited Pakistan, after the Partition, in 1983 at the invitation of the Family Planning Association of Pakistan to help them structure their work on women’s empowerment. She met noted feminist lawyer Asma Jahangir (who passed away in 2018) and other activists of the Women’s Action Forum. Through the 1980s, Bhasin and Nighat Said Khan from Pakistan, among others, helped women across the border forge connections: they met for workshops, discussed pertinent issues and strategies of protest that drove the feminist movement in both countries, and importantly, exchanged and re-wrote songs that would often be sung in these protests. “Kamla was one of the pioneers of the women’s movement in not only India but also South Asia. She had the amazing ability to communicate through, verse, song, poetry, visuals, and texts, the toughest concepts like patriarchy, feminism, masculinity, peace, non-violence, development from the women’s point of view. She worked inter-generationally and a whole lot of young feminists have been inspired by her all over South Asia,” said Jaipur-based Kavita Srivastava, general secretary of the People’s Union of Civil Liberties, Rajasthan. Bhasin’s ability to forge and maintain connections across borders was aided by her ability to versify and story-tell. She soon gained a reputation as a song-writer, and children’s rhyme-maker. Bhasin’s feminism was activism in practice; how it was done was as important: women must meet, talk, sing and laugh with each other; the change, she once said in an interview to this writer, had to happen on the inside. One of the songs that Bhasin wrote in the late ’70s-early ’80s — “Tod tod kay bandhanon ko dekho bahnain aati hain...Ayengi, zulm mitaengi (breaking the shackles that hold them back, look, the women have risen… They will be the ones who end oppression)” — was inspired by popular Punjabi folklore and soon became a staple in most feminist gatherings. Bhasin also brought chants from feminist protests across the border. In an interview with the Hindustan Times in 2018, she recalled learning the slogan ‘‘Meri behane maange Azaadi” from Pakistani feminists. She later improvised the words, she said. “The words would change many times depending on what we were protesting against, discrimination on the basis of caste, injustice to tribals or violence against women,” Bhasin said. Bhasin’s rhymes —including the well-known Dhammak Dham, a children’s book brought out by UNICEF, and the poem, “Kyunki mein ladki hun mujhe padhna hai/Padhne ki mujhe manahi hai so padhna hai (It’s because I’m a girl, I want to study/ It’s because I’m not meant to study, I want to study)” — challenged gender stereotypes and norms. These rhymes were put to music and sold as audio cassettes and later, CDs by Jagori. “Looking back at my thirty-plus years in the women’s movement, what I recall instantly are Kamla’s songs. These songs made me feel anger at patriarchy and the joy of sisterhood. Kamla’s songs broke binaries. They were not about victimhood or agency. These were angry songs, sad songs, fun songs, and songs of passion. They showed us that we were not alone, that change was possible. Kamla was passionate, a real ‘zinda dil’,” said queer feminist activist Jaya Sharma. Bhasin’s appearance in Satyamev Jayate, a show on social issues hosted by Aamir Khan, where she talked about the need for a paradigm shift in understanding rape – not as the survivor’s loss of honour, but the perpetrator’s — was as significant as her path-breaking speech at the Beijing Women’s Conference in 1995: both were received with a standing ovation. Bhasin is survived by a son, Jeet, who is a person with a disability, and four siblings including former Rajasthan politician Bina Kak. She lost her daughter, Meeto Bhasin Malik, who died by suicide in 2006. Bhasin’s funeral will be held on the evening of September 25 at the Lodi Road crematorium in New Delhi. Hyperlinks:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/feminist-activist-kamla-bhasin-passes-away-after-prolonged-battle-with-cancer-101632565278884.html
25-09-2021||India||I-T raids Gujarat diamond trader, unearths ₹518 cr worth sale-purchase deeds||The income tax department recently conducted raids on a leading diamond merchant in Gujarat after receiving inputs about tax evasion. According to a release from the Union finance ministry, the assessee made unaccounted purchases and sales of small polished diamonds of about ₹518 crore in the last five years.The raids were conducted at 23 premises located in connected to the diamond exporter in Surat, Navsari, Morbi, Wankaner in Gujarat and Mumbai in Maharashtra, the finance ministry release said. The operation was carried out on September 22, it added.The ministry said that the company is also in the business of manufacturing tiles."The highlight of the search includes seizure of large volume of unaccounted data seized in the paper as well as digital form, which was kept at secret locations under the custody of its trusted employees at Surat, Navasari, Mumbai," the release from the ministry read.It further said that the data includes proof of unaccounted sale and purchases, taking accommodation entries for purchases against which cash is received, the movement of such cash and stock through angadia firms, keeping the unaccounted cash with angadias, investment of such unaccounted income for purchase of property and stock etc for the last five years."The assessee, over these years, has accounted for sale of about ₹2,742 crore of small diamonds in its books, against which, substantial part of purchases were made in cash, but the purchase bills were taken from accommodation entry providers," the release said.Furthermore, as per the ministry, the assessee was also making its major purchases of rough diamonds through imports and making export sales of finished bigger diamonds through its company registered in Hong Kong, which is effectively controlled and managed from India only."The data reveals that the assessee has made purchases of ₹189 crore and sale of ₹1040 crore in the last two years through this entity," they said."During the search, the complete financial transactions of real estate deals were found which led to the detection of unaccounted income of ₹80 crore. Further, the sale transactions of shares pertaining to the business of tiles were examined, which led to the detection of ₹81 crore of unaccounted income," they added.The income tax department, during the search operation, also seized unaccounted cash and jewellery worth ₹1.95 crore, and unaccounted diamond stock of 8,900 carat worth ₹10.98 crore has been detected so far.The search operation is still continuing and further investigations are in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-raids-gujarat-diamond-trader-unearths-rs-518-cr-worth-sale-purchase-deeds-101632564275699.html
25-09-2021||India||Woman constable allegedly gang-raped in Madhya Pradesh, act shot on video; 2 arrested||A woman police constable has alleged that she was gang-raped by three men in Madhya Pradesh’s Neemuch district who then filmed the act and threatened to kill her, news agency PTI reported on Saturday.According to the police, the incident took place earlier this month but the 30-year-old lodged a complaint on September 13 after which a probe was conducted and a case registered against five persons. The accused included the mother of the main accused.In her complaint, the woman claimed she was raped by the main accused, his brother and another man at a birthday party, the police said. The main accused's mother further blackmailed her and a relative also threatened to kill her and tried to extort money from her, they further said.“The accused had befriended the victim on Facebook and had been interacting with her on WhatsApp since April. He invited the victim to his younger brother's birthday party, where she was raped by three men,” said Anuradha Girwal, in-charge of the women police station, as quoted by PTI.The constable and victim, who was earlier posted in Neemuch, is currently working in Indore district, the official said, adding that further probe is underway.The main accused and his mother were arrested in connection with the crime, Girwal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-constable-allegedly-gang-raped-in-madhya-pradesh-act-shot-on-video-2-arrested-101632560782933.html
25-09-2021||India||Covid certificates to mention date of birth of fully vaccinated people travelling abroad||Amid the India-UK tussle over the vaccination status of Indians, it has been decided that the CoWin certificate will have the full date of birth of people who are fully vaccinated and want to travel abroad. This is to comply with the WHO standards and will be in the dd-mm-yy format, a PTI report said. As of now, the certificates only mention the age of the beneficiary based on the year of birth, apart from other details like the name, place of vaccination. The report said that this new feature is likely to be available from next week. "It has been decided that a new feature will be added to the CoWin under which those who are fully vaccinated and want to travel abroad will have the full date of birth on their vaccination certificates," an official source said to PTI. Also Read: ‘Not because of CoWIN’: RS Sharma on UK quarantine rule for IndiansThe UK government has recently revised its travel guideline in which it has recognised Serum Institute of India's Covishield but UK government officials expressed doubt over India's certification process. The move drew strong criticism from India, which pushed for the recognition of its vaccine and vaccine certificate through diplomatic channels. India also clarified that if the UK refuses to consider Indian travellers vaccinated with Covishield as fully inoculated, then the same will be done to UK travellers in India. British High Commissioners Alex Ellis met National Health Authority chairman RS Sharma and the outcome of the meeting was that Covishield, which is a formulation of Oxford-Astrazeneca vaccine, manufactured in India and also exported to the UK is not the problem. "We're clear Covishield is not a problem. The UK is open to travel and we're already seeing a lot of people going from India to the UK, be it tourists, business people or students," British High Commissioner Alex Ellis had said in a statement on Wednesday.What was the controversy over UK's treatment of Covishield?Though the UK government recognised Covishield, it did not accept the vaccine certification in India. In such a case, a fully vaccinated Indian will also have to be quarantined in the UK, like a non-vaccinated traveller. India termed this treatment as discriminatory. While both sides discussed the issue, RS Sharma reiterated that there was no problem with the certificate that India gives. "This is a completely baseless controversy raised by some people," RS Sharma said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-certificates-to-mention-date-of-birth-for-fully-vaccinated-people-travelling-abroad-101632559493900.html
25-09-2021||India||Modi in US: Prime Minister to address UNGA session today; When and how to watch||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is on an official three-day visit to the United States, will address the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) at New York on Saturday evening (Indian time). PM Modi, in his UNGA speech, is expected to highlight pressing global issues – including the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the need to combat international terrorism, climate change, and the likes. Multiple Indian and international news channels and media outlets will be live-streaming Prime Minister Modi's speech at the UN forum; while viewers can also watch the address live on official Twitter handles of the central government's media wing.PM Modi's UNGA speech: Here's when and how to watch the Prime Minister’s United Nations address on Saturday, September 25 –When to watch PM Modi's UNGA speech?The UNGA proceedings will begin at 6:30pm IST at the UN General Assembly hall, while Prime Minister Modi's address is expected to take place at approximately 7:30pm, according to the Indian Standard Time (IST).The high-level segment of the 76th UNGA has already begun in New York on Tuesday, and international leaders and diplomats have been addressing the world forum at the key session.Also Read | PM Modi set to address UNGA session today, focus on ‘pressing global challenges’For viewers watching in the United States, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's speech will occur at 10am on Saturday (local time in New York), since the United States is exactly 9 hours and 30 minutes behind the Indian clock. The UNGA proceedings are expected to begin at 9am for US audiences.How and where to watch PM Modi's UNGA speech?Prime Minister Narendra Modi's UNGA speech will be on live-stream across multiple media outlets. Twitter is holding a live event of the entire UNGA session, where hundreds of heads of state are taking their turns to keep their statements before the annual assembly.Prime Minister Modi's official YouTube channel is also likely to conduct a live stream of his speech.Moreover, the live updates from PM Modi's UNGA speech will also be tweeted in real-time by the official Twitter handles of the Press Information Bureau (PIB) and also the PTI and the ANI news agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-in-us-prime-minister-to-address-unga-session-today-when-and-how-to-watch-101632557031552.html
25-09-2021||India||NCPCR chief writes to Gehlot on Rajasthan child marriage bill, cites central act||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has written to Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot urging him to reconsider and review provisions of the Rajasthan Compulsory Registration of Marriages (Amendment) Bill, 2021, that was passed by the Assembly last week. Child rights body chairperson Priyank Kanoongo said the amendments may have serious physical, psychological and social impact on the minor and her education.The NCPCR had earlier written to governor Kalraj Mishra expressing concern over the bill that was passed on September 18 amid a walkout by Opposition members from the Assembly. National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) writes to Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot to reconsider & review provisions of Rajasthan Compulsory Registration of Marriages (Amendment) Bill, 2021, citing serious impact on physical,psychological, social & education of minors pic.twitter.com/nE2k47TaTRThe bill has made it mandatory for family members and guardians to register marriages, including those of minors, within 30 days of the event. The NCPCR said the bill legitimised child marriages in Rajasthan and it went against the centrally passed Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, that prohibited solemnisation of such unions. The central Act constituted child marriages by a male adult with a girl child as offence and whoever performed, conducted and abetted such weddings were liable to rigorous imprisonment and fines.Also read | Bhanwari Devi: Justice eluded her, but she stands resolute for othersAccording to the Act, every such marriage would be voidable at the option of the contraction party who was a child at the time of the marriage, the NCPCR further said.Demanding a withdrawal of the bills, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has said its passage was a black day for the Assembly.The Congress government has, however, defended the move stating it had only made “technical changes” to the existing legislation.Citing a Supreme Court ruling that mandated registration of all marriages, including those of minors, parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Kumar Dhariwal has said the bill would bring simplicity and transparency to the work. “If the district collector wants, he or she can still take action against child marriages...The bill says that after marriage, only registration is necessary. It does not imply that child marriage is valid,” he said in the Assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncpcr-chief-writes-to-gehlot-on-rajasthan-child-marriage-bill-cites-central-act-101632556897342.html
25-09-2021||India||Cyclone Gulab: Impact area, expected trajectory and other details in 10 points||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned that a low-pressure system in the Bay of Bengal, which intensified as a deep depression on Saturday, will turn into a cyclone by Sunday evening. Cyclone Gulab is likely to cross north Andhra Pradesh and its adjacent south Odisha in the next 12 hours, the IMD said.The wind speed is expected to be 70 to 80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph in the area, as per IMD's forecast. The weather department has issued a yellow alert for area around Kalingapatnam - Vishakhapatnam and Gopalpur - from where the cyclone is expected to cross.The cyclone is likely to move initially west-north-westwards during the next 24 hours and west-south-westwards.Here are the latest on cyclone movement and government's advisory:• The deep depression lay centred 470 km east-southeast of Gopalpur and 540 km east of Kalingapatnam in Andhra Pradesh on Saturday, the IMD said on Twitter.• According to IMD forecast, the system will bring widespread and heavy rain to parts of east and central India.• During the next three days, the sea condition will be rough in the coastal areas of Odisha, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh.• The Coast Guard has alerted the fishermen in the area by broadcasting weather warnings against the low-pressure area. They have been advised not to venture into deep sea from September 25 onwards till further notice.•The IMD also predicted localised flooding of roads, waterlogging in low-lying areas due to torrential rain over coastal Andhra Pradesh on September 26 and Odisha and Chhattisgarh over the next two days.• The Special Relief Commissioner (SRC), Odisha, has asked all district collectors to remain alert in view of the weather forecast.• This is the second depression of the season and also the second in September. No depressions were formed between June and August.• Normally five to six depressions form during the monsoon season and bring extensive rainfall to central and west India.• The IMD has forecast another cyclonic circulation around September 28, which is expected to bring a fresh spell of rain to east and central India.• The weather department has said that there is now only a two per cent deficiency in monsoon rain since June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-gulab-area-of-impact-expected-trajectory-and-other-details-in-10-points-101632557333887.html
25-09-2021||India||SOPs to be revised, says official after Odisha scribe drowns covering rescue op||A day after a local TV journalist drowned while covering a botched Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) operation to rescue an elephant from the Mahanadi river, the state government on Saturday said the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for such operations will be reviewed.In a tweet, Odisha State Disaster Management Authority managing director Pradeep Jena said he has requested the police chief to review the SOPs. ODRAF members are drawn from the Odisha Police.“No outsider, civilian or media should be part of any rescue mission,” Jena tweeted.Two journalists accompanied a five-member ODRAF team that was deployed to rescue the elephant stranded at Mundali barrage in the Mahanadi.Arindam Das downed when an inflatable boat carrying them overturned.His colleague, cameraman Prabhat Sinha, who was rescued, was recovering at a local hospital.On Saturday, another body was recovered from the Mahanadi river, a few km away from Mundali barrage. The body was believed to be that of Sitaram Murmu, an ODRAF diver, who was part of the rescue operation. But Murmu’s family said it was his body.The operation has faced criticism with officials questioning why the ODRAF jawans were sent to rescue the elephant while their mandate is to operate in disaster situations.Forest officials separately said the elephant was not seen in the river on Saturday and they suspect it may have been washed away as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sops-to-be-revised-says-official-after-odisha-scribe-drowns-covering-rescue-op-101632557298508.html
25-09-2021||India||Fit India movement: Union minister Anurag Thakur cycles at 11,000 ft in Leh||Union sports minister Anurag Thakur took up the Fit India challenge, cycling at 11,000 feet with Ladakh MP Jamyang Tsering Namgyal. He reached the union territory on Friday to inaugurate a Himalayan film festival and also flagged off a bicycle rally in Kharoo."Get up! Go for a run, jog, or cycle! 11,000 ft Leh, Ladakh With the young and energetic MP Sh @jtnladakh Ji and the people of the Leh this morning! Btw have you checked your fitness score on the Fit India Mobile App?" Thakur said in a tweet which also had a video that showed the minister participating in the rally.Get up! 🌞 Go for a run, jog or cycle ! 🚴 11,000 ft Leh, LadakhWith the young and energetic MP Sh @jtnladakh Ji and the people of the Leh this morning!Btw have you checked your fitness score on the Fit India Mobile App ?Download: @FitIndiaOff pic.twitter.com/vxp2kJ4Y2xThe Fit India movement was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2019, who said that the initiative was the need of the hour and will take the country towards a healthier future.On the second anniversary of the Fit India Movement, Thakur launched the Fit India mobile application, integrating technology with the mission to keep the people of the country fit. At that event, he skipped rope and demonstrated his fitness.The cycle rally, meanwhile, was flagged off under the aegis of 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav'. The event was organised by Ladakh Police in collaboration with Ladakh Cycling Association to promote fitness in the country."Prime Minister Narendra Modi started this Fit India campaign in 2019 to make aware people of health and fitness. Today, I am glad to see that people in Leh are ready with their cycles to participate in the rally, even though it is located at more than 11,000 ft height," Anurag Thakur said while speaking at the event.On Friday, Thakur, who is also the minister for information and broadcasting, inaugurated the Himalayan Film Festival at Leh. The five-day-long film festival is also a part of 'Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav' celebrations commemorating 75 years of India's Independence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fit-india-movement-union-minister-anurag-thakur-cycles-at-11-000-ft-in-leh-101632555827864.html
25-09-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to start Congress’ UP poll campaign with Varanasi rally||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will start the party’s campaign for the upcoming Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh with a rally in Varanasi on October 9, a senior party official said. Congress city unit president Raghvendra Choubey held a meeting on Friday for the preparations of the rally. Congress national secretary Rajesh Tiwari said, “Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi will sound the poll bugle from the city of Baba Kashi Vishwanath on October 9. She will expose the anti-people government.” Varanasi is Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Parliamentary constituency and the electoral battle for its assembly segments is considered politically important.Tiwari asked party workers to make the rally a success and said efforts will be made to ensure maximum possible participation from people of every community. Ward level, city-level office bearers, All India Congress Committee (AICC), Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) members, frontal organisation office bearers will lead the efforts for making Priyanka’s rally a success, he added. Congress leader Ajai Rai said, “Party workers have started preparations for the rally to be held in Rohania area of Varanasi.” Congress leader Shailendra Singh claimed voters will give a befitting reply to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the upcoming election for allegedly failing to fulfil promises. The BJP on Friday announced that it will fight the elections under UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath in alliance with Apna Dal and Nishad Party. In an interview with a news agency, UP deputy CM Dinesh Sharma claimed that the Congress, led by Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in UP, was a “political tourist” with little chance of success on the ground.Congress Seva Dal state president Pramod Pandey, Anil Srivastava, Durga Prasad Gupta, Ritu Pandey, Manoj Dwivedi, Hassan Mehdi Kabban, Safak Rizvi, Pankaj Singh and several other members of the party were present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-vadra-to-start-congress-up-poll-campaign-with-varanasi-rally-101632555795261.html
25-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: India, US say 26/11 perpetrators must be brought to justice and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India, US call for perpetrators of 26/11 Mumbai attacks to be brought to justiceIndia and the United States on Saturday condemned cross-border terrorism and called for perpetrators of 26/11 Mumbai attacks to be brought to justice. Both the countries issued a joint statement after a first in-person bilateral meeting under Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden. Read moreSneha Dubey: Meet the IFS officer who gave fiery response to Imran Khan at UNIndia again castigated Pakistan as it gave blistering retort to Prime Minister Imran Khan raking up the issue of Kashmir in his address to the UN General Assembly. India said in its response that Pakistan, where terrorists enjoy free pass, is an "arsonist" disguising itself as a "fire-fighter". Read moreNo decision yet on reopening of schools in Mumbai: Mayor Kishori PednekarMumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said on Saturday a decision on reopening of schools in the country’s financial capital was yet to be taken as it was a question of the safety of children. She said several factors would have to be considered before coming to a conclusion on the matter. Read moreKaun Banega Crorepati 13: Jackie Shroff reveals how Suniel Shetty gave him his house for dad's treatmentActors Jackie Shroff and Suniel Shetty were the latest guests on Shandaar Shukravaar episode of Kaun Banega Crorepati, season 13. The two have been great friends for almost 50 years, and spoke about their bond on the show, including how they supported each other through difficult situations in life. Read moreParineeti Chopra picks sizzling bikini and chic jumpsuit for Maldives: Which look is the best?The Maldives is currently a favourite holiday destination for Bollywood celebrities. Parineeti Chopra is the latest star to escape city life for a holiday in the island nation. She is there with her family and has been sharing stunning pictures from her vacay. However, it is her wardrobe from the beach destination that has caught our eye. Read more‘I call him my brother, always fight whether he should bowl slower balls': Dhoni praises Bravo's bowling show vs RCBChennai Super Kings skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni lavished massive praise on Caribbean all-rounder Dwayne Bravo from his match-winning performance against Royal Challengers Bangalore on Friday. Read moreDifferently abled man creates record for walking fastest 20 m on handsA video shared by Guinness World Records (GWR) on Instagram showcasing a record created by a differently abled man named Zion Clark has amazed people – and inspired them too. The video showcases Clark creating a record for walking fastest 20 m on hands in 4.78 secs. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-us-say-26-11-perpetrators-must-be-brought-to-justice-and-all-the-latest-news-101632552717861.html
25-09-2021||India||Pralhad Joshi hits out at Rahul Gandhi after '56-inch' jibe, calls him 'part-time politician'||Union minister of parliamentary affairs Pralhad Joshi has called Congress leader Rahul Gandhi a “part-time politician”, who has no knowledge about the past or the future of the country. Pralhad Joshi’s remarks came hours after Rahul Gandhi criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi with a jibe referring to him as “Mr 56-inch” who is “afraid of China” on Friday. Hitting back, Joshi said that “India is growing as a global power” and that statements from a “non-serious” politician like Rahul Gandhi should not be taken seriously by anyone."I have said before that Rahul Gandhi should not be taken seriously," Prahlad Joshi told the ANI news agency on Friday. “He does not know anything about the history or the future of this country. India is emerging as a global leader and every Indian should be proud of it.”Sharing the news article from his official handle on Twitter, the minister reiterated, “Rahul Gandhi is a part-time politician.”Rahul Gandhi is a part-time politician. https://t.co/7pMkIJnSV6Continuing his retort, Joshi said: “Whenever there is a serious crisis, he (Rahul Gandhi) goes out of the country on a foreign tour. It is just not worth reacting to his statements. They are of the most childish and immature sort.”Also Read | China blames India for Galwan Valley clashCongress leader Rahul Gandhi hit out at the central government over India's standoff with China. Tweeting out a video clip from his official handle on Twitter, the former Congress president said that “Mr 56-inch is scared of China”.Mr 56” is scared of China. Mr 56” चीन से डरता है। pic.twitter.com/taRfoRzMElThe video, titled 'chronology samajhiye' (understand the chronology), is a compilation of news reports on the Indo-China military standoff that erupted in Eastern Ladakh on May 5 last year.However, this is not the first time that Rahul Gandhi has attacked PM Modi and the central government over the military standoff between India and China. Earlier in July, the Congress leader slammed the Narendra Modi government over reports of China's action in Demchok, stating that the central government is clueless on how to handle Beijing and is ignoring actions that will later cause problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pralhad-joshi-hits-out-at-rahul-gandhi-after-56-inch-jibe-calls-him-part-time-politician-101632550389407.html
25-09-2021||India||4.5 magnitude earthquake hits Arunachal Pradesh's Pangin||An earthquake of magnitude 4.5 on the Richter scale, struck Arunachal Pradesh's Pangin on Saturday.The tremors were felt around 10:11 am at the depth of 100 kilometres."Earthquake of Magnitude: 4.5, Occurred on 25-09-2021, 10:11:10 IST, Lat: 30.20 & Long: 94.63, Depth: 100 Km, Location: 237km NNW of Pangin, Arunachal Pradesh," said National Centre for Seismology (NCS) in a tweet.Earlier on September 19, an earthquake of magnitude 4.4 on the Richter scale hit near Changlang district of Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/45-magnitude-earthquake-hits-arunachal-pradesh-s-pangin-101632552945238.html
25-09-2021||India||Sneha Dubey: Meet the IFS officer who gave fiery response to Imran Khan at UN||India again castigated Pakistan as it gave blistering retort to Prime Minister Imran Khan raking up the issue of Kashmir in his address to the UN General Assembly. India said in its response that Pakistan, where terrorists enjoy free pass, is an "arsonist" disguising itself as a "fire-fighter".Khan in his address spoke about the 2019 decision of India to abrogate Article 370 as well as the death of pro-Pakistan separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani. "The worst and most pervasive form of Islamophobia now rules India," Khan said in an address, delivered by video due to Covid precautions.In a sharp retort, first secretary Sneha Dubey said the entire world has suffered because of Pakistan's policies as the country nurtures terrorists in its backyard. The young diplomat, who has won praise globally, reiterated that the entire union territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh "were, are and will always be an integral and inalienable part of India"."This includes the areas that are under the illegal occupation of Pakistan. We call upon Pakistan to immediately vacate all areas under its illegal occupation,” said Dubey.Who is this dynamic officer?Sneha Dubey is an Indian Foreign Service (IFS) officer of 2012 batch and completed her schooling from Goa. She went to Pune Fergusson College for higher studies and finally to Delhi's Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) for MPhil in international Studies.She nurtured a dream of becoming an IFS officer from the age of 12. She cleared the civil services examination in her first attempt in 2011. Dubey is an avid traveller and believes that as an IFS officer, she has received a great opportunity to represent her country. Dubey is the first person in her family to be working as a government servant; her father works in a multinational company, while her mother is a school teacher.Dubey's first appointment after being selected in the IFS was in the ministry of external affairs. In 2014, she went to Indian embassy in Madrid.Praise on social mediaAs soon as her fiery response at the United Nations appeared on social media, it went viral with many users hailing Dubey for her replies. Some marvelled at the "young age" at which she has been given this responsibility and the way she handled it.“What a way to shut the mouths of the jokers in Pakistan… every word was so carefully chosen... full of facts... brilliant," said a user on Twitter."Isn't she brilliant. I am impressed. So happy to see young guns do so well," said a user with Krushna.Isn't she brilliant. I am impressed. So happy to see young guns do so well.Excerpts from Sneha Dubey's speech at UN"This is also the country that still holds the despicable record in our region of having executed a religious and cultural genocide against the people of what is now Bangladesh. As we mark the 50th anniversary this year of that horrid event in history, there is not even an acknowledgment, much less accountability,” the young diplomat said.Watch the full video of Sneha Dubey's response at UNGAWith the international community marking this month the solemn occasion of the 20th anniversary of the “dastardly” 9/11 terror attacks, Dubey said the world has not forgotten that the "mastermind behind that dastardly event, Osama Bin Laden, got shelter in Pakistan. Even today, Pakistan leadership glorify him as a 'martyr'."Dubey said it is regrettable that this is not the first time the leader of Pakistan has "misused" platforms provided by the UN to "propagate false and malicious propaganda against my country, and seeking in vain to divert the world’s attention from the sad state of his country where terrorists enjoy free pass while the lives of ordinary people, especially those belonging to the minority communities, are turned upside down."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sneha-dubey-meet-the-ifs-officer-who-gave-fiery-response-to-imran-khan-at-un-101632551532881.html
25-09-2021||India||Centre's warning ahead of festivals, Maha to reopen schools: Top Covid updates||India has recorded 33,624,419 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) since the beginning of the pandemic last year, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday. Of these, 32,876,319 patients have recovered, 446,658 have died and the active cases stand at 301,442, the health ministry data shows.The country’s daily tally saw a fall with 29,616 infections in the last 24 hours while over 28,000 recoveries and 290 deaths due to Covid-19 were reported on Saturday. Several restrictions have been lifted across states and Union Territories (UTs) to revive the overall economic activity and the vaccination drive is accelerating. However, experts have been warning about the threat of the probable third wave of Covid-19, especially because of the upcoming festive season.Here are the top Covid-19 updates across India during this week:> The highest infections reported this week were on Thursday when 31,923 people were detected as Covid-19 positive. The lowest single-day tally on Tuesday with 26,115 new cases.> The most number of deaths this week was on Wednesday at 383 while the lowest was on Tuesday at 252.> The Union health ministry is planning to celebrate the administration of a billion vaccine doses to eligible beneficiaries by next month.> The Centre once again requested citizens to exercise caution in view of the festive season. States and UTs have been requested to announce restrictions or relaxations after analysing the weekly Covid-19 positivity rate.> The Centre is likely to allow a smaller gap between two doses of Serum Institute of India’s vaccine Covishield.> As India and the United Kingdom are yet to reach a consensus on recognising the former’s vaccination certificate, a UK envoy said on Friday that there are no technical concerns with India’s vaccine certificate.How are states faring?Kerala, Maharashtra and Karnataka are still continuing to report a high number of cases and are contributing the most towards the country’s daily Covid-19 tally. Kerala, the worst-hit state in India, on Friday reported 17,983 new Covid-19 cases, 127 more related deaths and 15,054 recoveries. The caseload due to the viral disease is nearing 4.6 million with 162,846 active cases in Kerala. Despite the worsening health crisis, the state government has allowed the reopening of schools in a staggered manner from November.In Maharashtra, the cumulative infection count stands at 6,537,843 including 6,357,012 recoveries and 138,776 deaths. The active cases in Maharashtra have further declined to 38,491. On Friday, 3,286 cases, 51 deaths and nearly 4,000 recoveries were reported. The Maha-Vikas Aghadi (MVA) led state government is set to reopen religious places across Maharashtra from October 7. The government will also reopen schools from October 4. “In rural areas classes will resume from classes 5 to 12 and in urban areas from classes 8 to 12,” Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad said.Karnataka, which is currently at risk of increased spread of Covid-19 due to the situation in neighbouring Kerala, has so far reported over 2.97 million cases which include 13,306 active cases. On Saturday, Karnataka saw a slight fall in daily cases at 789. The state government has allowed 100% occupancy in cinemas and auditoriums starting October.Tamil Nadu, another state in the southern part of India, has been reporting an increase in Covid-19 cases for the past few weeks. On Friday, the state recorded another high of 1,745 infections and 27 deaths. As many as 1,624 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours. Tamil Nadu will launch its third mega vaccination drive on Sunday with an aim to inoculate 1.5 million beneficiaries. The first and second drives were held on September 12 and September 19 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centres-warning-ahead-of-festivals-maha-to-reopen-schools-top-covid-updates-101632542355512.html
25-09-2021||India||Young Indian diplomat Sneha Dubey rips Pakistan apart at UN forum: Top 5 quotes||The United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) witnessed fiery clashes in a war of words between India and Pakistan on Friday, depicting the precarious state of affairs in the diplomatic ties of the neighbouring countries. After Pakistan prime minister Imran Khan raked up the Kashmir issue once again at the global forum, India drew a strong rebuke – highlighting that Pakistan, where terrorists enjoy a free reign, has been sponsoring militancy in its backyard hoping that it discomfort its neighbours. India's first secretary Sneha Dubey, a young diplomat, slammed Pakistan in a strongly-worded retort and said that Pakistan is actually an “arsonist” disguising itself as a “fire-fighter”.Also Read | Pakistan acts like a ‘firefighter’ but is actually the ‘arsonist’: India's strong retort at UNGAHere are the top five quotes from the Indian side at the UNGA session:1. “Pakistan is globally recognised for openly supporting and arming terrorists. It holds the ignoble record of hosting the largest number of terrorists proscribed by the United Nations Security Council (UNSC).”2. “Pakistan nurtures terrorists in its backyard in the hope that they will only harm its neighbours. Osama Bin Laden got shelter in Pakistan. Even today, the Pakistan leadership glorify him as a ‘martyr’”.3. “We keep hearing Pakistan is a ‘victim of terrorism’. It is a country which is an arsonist disguising itself as a firefighter.”4. “Entire Union territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh were, are, and will always be an integral and inalienable part of India.”5. “Pluralism is very difficult to understand for Pakistan which prohibits its minorities from aspiring for high offices of state.”Watch the UNGA address of India's first secretary Sneha Dubey, where she exercises India's ‘Right of Reply’ at the global forum:Watch: India exercises its right of reply at the #UNGA @AmbTSTirumurti @MEAIndia @harshvshringla pic.twitter.com/YGcs28fYYaPakistan's prime minister Imran Khan in his UNGA address spoke about India’s August 5, 2019, decision to abrogate Article 370 of the Indian constitution and bifurcate Jammu and Kashmir into two Union territories. He also talked about the death of pro-Pakistan separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani.This was, however, not the first time that Khan brought up the Kashmir issue in international fora. His attempts have gained little to no traction so far from the global community and the UN member states, who maintain that Kashmir is a bilateral matter between the two countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/young-indian-diplomat-sneha-dubey-rips-apart-pakistan-at-un-forum-top-5-quotes-101632544294987.html
25-09-2021||India||These states have eased curbs as Covid-19 cases fall: Check details here||Several states across the nation have started relaxing coronavirus-induced restrictions and curfews with marginal dips being registered in daily cases. From Maharashtra to Karnataka -- the process of gradual unlocking has begun.India on Saturday recorded 29,616 new Covid-19 cases and 290 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. The daily tally is 5.6 per cent lower than Friday’s figures.States like Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Assam have reopened schools for certain classes so that students can come and attend offline classes. In Odisha, colleges have reopened for some students.Following are the states where Covid-19 curbs have been eased so far:1. The Karnataka government on Friday allowed full house shows in theatres and the opening of pubs from October with restrictions, especially for pregnant women and children. Classes from six to 12 will operate from Monday to Friday with full strength in districts that have a Covid positivity rate of less than 1 per cent.2. The Maharashtra government has announced reopening of schools and places of worship from the first week of October.3. Uttar Pradesh has allowed a maximum of 100 people to gather at a place outside Covid-19 containment zones in the state. The state has relaxed night curfew timings by an hour. The new curfew timings are 11pm to 6am every day.4. The Delhi government has lifted the 8pm deadline for shops. This applies to all stores, including those located in shopping complexes and malls. Restaurants in the city can now remain open beyond 10pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-states-have-eased-curbs-as-covid-19-cases-fall-check-details-here-101632542063542.html
25-09-2021||India||Kamla Bhasin, noted activist and author, passes away at 75||Kamla Bhasin, noted feminist activist and author, passed away on Saturday morning. The author and poet, 75, was battling cancer.Bhasin, who had emerged as one of the most charismatic and prominent leaders of the women’s movement in India and other south Asian nations in the 1970s, always held that feminism was not a war between men and women but a war of ideologies. “One that elevates men and gives them power, and the other, that advocates for equality!” she said.Also read | Long live the anthem writer of women’s movementHer fellow activist Kavita Srivastava said Bhasin “celebrated life whatever the adversity”. “Kamla Bhasin, our dear friend, passed away around 3am today 25th Sept. This is a big setback for the women's movement in India and the South Asian region. She celebrated life whatever the adversity. Kamla you will always live in our hearts. In Sisterhood, which is in deep grief,” Srivastava wrote on Twitter.Also read | The personal is politicalMost noted for work with Sangat: A Feminist Network and her poem ‘Kyunki main ladki hoon, mujhe padhna hai’, Bhasin wore multiple hats and her achievements were many. She was also a social scientist and developmental professional and south Asia coordinator of the One Billion Rising Of Women.In an article for Hindustan Times, she wrote, “Changing this mindset requires a cultural tsunami. Before we stop violence against women, we need to demolish innumerable religious, cultural, and linguistic practices that are considered normal. For example, words like ‘pati’ and ‘swami’ for husbands must go. These words mean ‘master’ or ‘owner’. In free India, an adult woman cannot — and should not — have an owner. There are many more similar words and expressions that demean and insult women. They, too, need to be purged from our consciousness."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kamla-bhasin-noted-activist-and-author-passes-away-at-75-101632545307925.html
25-09-2021||India||Pakistan acts like a ‘firefighter’ but is actually the ‘arsonist’: India's strong retort at UNGA||In a strong retort against Pakistan prime minister Imran Khan’s comments at the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA), India said on Friday the neighbouring country is actually an “arsonist” disguising itself as a “fire-fighter”. Exercising the right of reply, the blistering retort was put forward at the UNGA session by India's first secretary Sneha Dubey, moments after Imran Khan raked up the Kashmir issue in his own address at the UN summit.Watch: India exercises its right of reply at the #UNGA  @AmbTSTirumurti @MEAIndia @harshvshringla pic.twitter.com/YGcs28fYYa“We keep hearing that Pakistan is a ‘victim of terrorism’. This is the country which is an arsonist disguising itself as a firefighter,” the young Indian diplomat said, slamming Pakistan's Imran Khan for highlighting the Kashmir issue in his speech. “While such statements deserve our collective contempt and sympathy for the mindset of the person who utters falsehood repeatedly, I am taking the floor to set the record straight,” Dubey said.Also Read | PM Modi set to address UNGA session today, focus on ‘pressing global challenges’Pakistan prime minister Imran Khan in his UNGA address spoke about India’s August 5, 2019 decision to abrogate Article 370 of the Indian constitution—which led to the bifurcation of Jammu & Kashmir into two Union territories—as well as the death of pro-Pakistan separatist leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani.This was not the first time that Khan had tried to rake up the Kashmir issue in international forums. His attempts, however, have gained little to no traction so far from the global community and the UN member states, who maintain that Kashmir is a bilateral matter between the two countries.India, said Dubey, was exercising its right of reply to “one more attempt” by the Pakistani prime minister to “tarnish the image of this august forum by bringing in matters internal to my country”. She said that Khan was even going so far as to “spew falsehoods on the world stage”.Continuing the strong retort, India said that Pakistan, where terrorists get a free pass, is a country that nurtures such militancy “in their backyard in the hope that they will harm their neighbours”. “Our region, and in fact the entire world, has suffered because of their policies. On the other hand, they are trying to cover up sectarian violence in their country as acts of terror,” she added.Also Read | At UNGA, Imran Khan tries to paint Pakistan as a victim of US ungratefulnessDubey highlighted that under such a backdrop, where the entire global community has been under strict vigil Pakistan's role in sponsoring terrorism, its prime minister Imran Khan's comments on terrorism are uncalled for. In this context, the Indian diplomat said that the Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh “were, are and will always be an integral and inalienable part of India.” “This includes the areas that are under the illegal occupation of Pakistan. We call upon Pakistan to immediately vacate all areas under its illegal occupation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-acts-like-a-firefighter-but-is-actually-the-arsonist-india-s-strong-retort-at-unga-101632537853094.html
25-09-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9am: Delta sub-lineage spotted in 10% of Covid-19 samples and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delta sub-lineage spotted in 10% of Covid-19 samplesThe Delta variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus is the most common in Delhi, although one the variant’s sub-lineages, the so-called AY.12 variant, is being seen in around 10% of the samples, according to a doctor at one of the four centres sequencing viral genomes in the Capital. Read moreCanadians, arrested in China, released after Huawei CFO, US reach dealTwo Canadians detained in China on spying charges have been released from prison and flown out of the country, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced Friday, hours after a top executive of Chinese communications giant Huawei Technologies resolved criminal charges against her in a deal with the US Justice Department. Read moreSoha Ali Khan's beast mode during high-intensity workout at gym will inspire you: WatchBollywood actor and mother-of-one Soha Alia Khan is the latest celebrity to join the fitness bandwagon and motivate fans to hit the grind. Taking to Instagram on Friday, the actor kickstarted her weekend on a high note with an intense workout routine that included core-strengthening, bodybuilding, and endurance building exercises. Read moreRaqesh Bapat on ex-wife Ridhi Dogra being ‘happy’ for him and Shamita Shetty: ‘I will be happiest if she finds love’Raqesh Bapat found someone special inside the Bigg Boss OTT house - Shamita Shetty. ShaRa, as the two are called by fans, quickly became the talk of the town, thanks to their hugs, kisses and sweet displays of affection. When his ex-wife Ridhi Dogra was asked about their closeness, she said that she is happy if he is. Read more'We were on top but gave it away, that's not acceptable': RCB captain Kohli rues missed chances against CSKChennai Super Kings' (CSK) fifth consecutive IPL victory on UAE soil once again proved why experience truly matters. The MS Dhoni-led side defeated Royal Challengers (RCB) by six wickets at the Sharjah Cricket Stadium on Friday to atop the IPl 2021 points table. Read moreIPL 2021: Experience reigns supreme as CSK beat RCBAfter being taken to the cleaners by Royal Challengers Bangalore openers Virat Kohli and Devdutt Padikkal, conceding 90 runs in the first 10 overs, Chennai Super Kings bowlers scripted a remarkable comeback to restrict the opposition to just 156/6 in 20 overs. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-delta-sub-lineage-spotted-in-10-of-covid-19-samples-and-all-the-latest-news-101632536510789.html
25-09-2021||India||UPSC woman topper Jagrati Awasthi fulfils childhood dream, lists her mantra for success||For Jagrati Awasthi, it is a childhood dream come true and she now wants to work for the development of rural areas when she joins the country's bureaucracy. Awasthi has said hard work and self-confidence have helped her achieve success as she cleared the coveted civil services examination (CSE) in her second attempt. She secured the second rank in the Civil Services Examination 2020, results of which were declared by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) on Friday.“After completing my BTech from Maulana Azad National Institute of Technology (MANIT) in Bhopal, I joined Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd (BHEL). I worked there from 2017-2019. But since childhood, I had a dream of becoming a district collector and work in social areas,” Awasthi, who is also the topper among women UPSC candidates, told PTI.Also read | Exciting, satisfying career awaits: PM Modi says as UPSC declares resultsThe 24-year-old Bhopal resident said that even after getting a job in her chosen field of engineering, she continued to work towards becoming a civil servant. “When I was not selected for civil services in the first attempt, I decided to leave the job (at BHEL) and focused on my preparations for the CSE,” she said.She said that quitting her job was a risky move however it was all worth it. “I left my job in 2019 and started working hard. Then the coronavirus pandemic struck (in early 2020), but it gave me some more time for preparations. I finally got success in my second attempt,” Awasthi said.Also read | 24-year-old from Bihar tops UPSC civil services exam"During Covid times, coaching centres were all closed, yet maintaining motivation at home was really crucial,” Awasthi told ANI. "Initially, I studied for 8 to 10 hours. Eventually, I increased it to 10 to 12 hours and about two months before the exam, I further pushed it to 12 to 14 hours," she said, according to the news agency.Asked to give a message to civil services aspirants, she said, “They should work hard, have confidence in themselves and this will help them achieve success.”According to UPSC, 761 candidates—including 545 men and 216 women—have cleared the civil services examination 2020 and engineering graduate Shubham Kumar ranked first. Ankita Jain has achieved the third rank in the prestigious exam, considered one of the toughest in the country.Also read | Dream to join IAS and serve underprivileged realised: UPSC topper Shubham KumarAs many as 10,40,060 candidates applied for the exam, out of whom 4,82,770 appeared in it, the commission said in a statement. There were 10,564 candidates who qualified for appearance in the written to the main examination held in January this year. It added that 2,053 candidates qualified for the personality test (interview).UPSC conducts the civil services examination in three stages—preliminary, main and interview—to select officers for the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Foreign Service (IFS) and Indian Police Service (IPS), among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upsc-woman-topper-jagrati-awasthi-lists-her-mantra-for-success-101632539299226.html
25-09-2021||India||‘Vande Mataram’, ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’ chants outside New York hotel. PM Modi waves at crowd||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is on a three-day official visit to the United States, was on Friday night (local time) seen waving at a crowd outside his hotel in New York, where Indian-Americans and members of the diaspora gathered to meet him. Loud chants of “Vande Mataram” and “Bharat Mata Ki Jai” rang through the New York neighbourhood as the Prime Minister turned to the people cheering for him and joyously waved at them, before going inside the hotel. PM Modi landed in New York moments earlier, after concluding a series of key meets in Washington—including a Quad Leaders' summit hosted by US president Joe Biden at the White House.#WATCH | PM Narendra Modi meets people as they cheer for him & chant 'Vande Mataram' & 'Bharat Mata ki Jai' outside the hotel in New York.He is scheduled to address at the 76th session of UNGA pic.twitter.com/hafLDBSimCThe Prime Minister's three-day US tour will now be capped by his schedule in New York, where Modi is set to address the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA). He is expected to highlight a host of pressing global issues – including the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the need to combat terrorism, and climate change, among others.Also Read | PM Modi set to address UNGA session today, focus on ‘pressing global challenges’The warm greeting with which the Prime Minister was met outside his New York hotel is a signifier of his high popularity among the Indian diaspora abroad. Modi was welcomed with similar gusto by the members of the Indian community at the Joint Andrews Base in Washington, DC when he arrived at the US capital two days ago. More than a hundred people from the community abroad gathered at the airport to welcome the Indian leader, who is on his first foreign visit since the Covid-19 outbreak.People chanted the Prime Minister's name and waved the Indian national flag amid light showers; while Modi, in turn, was seen smiling and shaking hands with members of the community.In a recent survey assessing the popularity index of 13 world leaders, Prime Minister Narendra Modi ranked the highest, outracing US president Joe Biden and German Chancellor Angela Merkel, among others. According to the survey conducted by The Morning Consult, PM Modi is the “most popular and accepted global leader” in the entire world. He received a stellar approval rating of 70 per cent, while Biden was fifth in the list with an approval rating of 48 per cent.Also Read | Why Modi’s visit to the US mattersPrime Minister Modi's visit to New York assumes a special significance now in light of the recent developments in Afghanistan, where the rapid offensive of the Taliban insurgents surprised the world and forced the global community to come together to find an ideal diplomatic solution to the situation. According to top diplomats in New York and Washington, the western embarrassment over Afghanistan with the Taliban throwing the entire Doha political commitments out of the window will be the main theme of speakers in the UNGA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vande-mataram-bharat-mata-ki-jai-chants-outside-new-york-hotel-pm-modi-waves-at-crowd-101632535892126.html
25-09-2021||India||Deendayal Upadhyaya's birth anniversary today. Know more about the RSS thinker||September 25 is the birth anniversary of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya, who is regarded as one of the most prominent faces in the history of Indian politics. Upadhyaya was a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) thinker and co-founder of the Bharatiya Jana Sangh (BJS), which is the forerunner of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Upadhyaya was born in 1916 in Nagla Chandrabhan village, now called Deendayal Dham, near the town of Farah in Uttar Pradesh's Mathura district. His father, Bhagwati Prasad Upadhyaya, was an astrologer while his mother was a homemaker.Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya lost his parents at an early age and was brought up by his maternal uncle. He attended high school in Sikar. Being regarded as a brilliant student, the Maharaja of Sikar gave Upadhyaya a gold medal, ₹250 for books and a monthly scholarship of ₹10.After passing his intermediate exams with distinction in Pilani, Upadhyaya left for Kanpur to pursue a Bachelor of Arts (BA) and joined the Sanatan Dharma College and graduated in 1939. He then joined St John's College in Agra to pursue a master’s course in English but could not appear for the examinations due to issues in his family.प्रखर राष्ट्रवादी, उत्कृष्ट संगठनकर्ता, एकात्म मानववाद और अंत्योदय के प्रणेता एवं हमारे पथ प्रदर्शक पंडित दीनदयाल उपाध्याय जी की जयंती पर शत्-शत् नमन। #SevaSamarpan pic.twitter.com/PfQLSwerEXHe first became associated with the RSS in 1937 while studying at Sanatan Dharma College. According to deendayalupadhyay.org, he attended a 40-day summer vacation RSS camp in Nagpur where he underwent training in Sangh Education. From 1942, he started working for the RSS full time. He was the president of the BJS from 1967-68. He contested the Lok Sabha elections from the Jaunpur constituency in 1963 but lost.In the 1940s, Pandit Upadhyaya started the monthly Rashtra Dharma publication from Lucknow, for spreading Hindutva ideology. He also started a weekly magazine Panchjanya and a daily Swadesh from Lucknow itself. He came up with 'Integral humanism' which was adopted in 1965 as the official doctrine of the Jan Sangh.Pandit Upadhyaya died under mysterious circumstances in February 1968. His body was found near the Mughalsarai Junction railway station in Uttar Pradesh.Last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi unveiled a 63-feet tall statue of Pandit Upadhyaya while inaugurating the Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya Memorial Centre in Padao on the Varanasi-Chandauli border. The ‘pancha loha’ statue is the tallest statue of the BJP ideologue in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deendayal-upadhyaya-s-birth-anniversary-today-know-more-about-the-rss-thinker-101632535821187.html
25-09-2021||India||Earthquake of 5.2 magnitude strikes Andaman and Nicobar Islands||An earthquake of magnitude 5.2 on the Richter scale struck near Campbell Bay in Andaman and Nicobar Islands on Friday night, as per the National Centre for Seismology (NCS).The tremors were felt around 8:35 pm at the depth of 63 kilometres."Earthquake of Magnitude:5.2, Occurred on 24-09-2021, 20:34:27 IST, Lat: 9.22 and Long: 93.92, Depth: 63 Km, Location: 246km North of Campbell Bay, Andaman and Nicobar island," said the NCS in a tweet.Andaman and Nicobar Islands are prone to frequent earthquakes.Earlier on September 22, an earthquake of magnitude 3.9 on the Richter scale jolted the islands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/earthquake-of-5-2-magnitude-strikes-andaman-and-nicobar-islands-101632533857262.html
25-09-2021||India||‘Exciting, satisfying career in public service awaits’: PM Modi to candidates who cleared UPSC civil services exam||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday congratulated the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) aspirants who cleared the civil service examination and also wished those who were not able to get through, saying “India is full of diverse opportunities waiting to be explored.” "Congratulations to those who successfully cleared the UPSC Civil Services examination. An exciting and satisfying career in public service awaits. Those who have cleared the exam will go on to have key administrative roles during an important period of our nation's journey," PM Modi tweeted."To those young friends who did not clear the UPSC examination, I would like to say- you are very talented individuals. There are more attempts awaiting. At the same time, India is full of diverse opportunities waiting to be explored. Best wishes in whatever you decide to do," the Prime Minister, who is in the US, said in another tweet.To those young friends who did not clear the UPSC examination, I would like to say- you are very talented individuals. There are more attempts awaiting. At the same time, India is full of diverse opportunities waiting to be explored. Best wishes in whatever you decide to do.Bihar's Shubham Kumar and Madhya Pradesh's Jagrati Awasthi got the first and second ranks respectively in the coveted civil services examination, results of which were announced on Friday by the UPSC. As many as 761 candidates, including 545 men and 216 women, have cleared the test, conducted annually to select the country's bureaucrats, diplomats and police officers, among other civil servants.Also read | Dream to join IAS and serve underprivileged realised: UPSC topper Shubham KumarShubham Kumar, 24, topped the civil services examination in his third attempt. He was selected in the Indian Defence Accounts Service (IDAS) after qualifying for the civil services examination in 2019. "My dream was to get into the IAS as it gives a wider platform to work for the betterment of the people. It has been realised and I would like to work for the underprivileged people, especially in rural areas," he told PTI.Also read | UPSC Civil Services Result 2020: 10:10 Perfect gender balance in top 20 listAwasthi said she would also like to join the IAS and work for rural development, besides women and child development. "I have opted for IAS. I got motivated by the people around me. I would like to work for thedevelopment of rural areas besides women and child development,” the 24-year-old Bhopal resident told PTI.Ankita Jain achieved the third rank. The civil services examination is conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) in three stages—preliminary, main and interview—to select officers of Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Foreign Service (IFS) and Indian Police Service (IPS), among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exciting-satisfying-career-awaits-pm-modi-says-as-upsc-declares-results-101632531279626.html
25-09-2021||NA||Fire breaks out in Delhi's Dabri area; 14 fire tenders at spot||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Fire breaks out in cardboard go-down in Delhi's Dabri area; 14 tenders presentFire has broken out in a cardboard go-down in Delhi's Dabri area. As many as 14 fire tenders are currently at the spot, and operations are underway to bring the situation under control, news agency ANI reported.Patna villagers construct temporary bridge across seasonal stream to reach polling booth for elections slated on Sept 29Bihar | Villagers of Shankar Bigha, Gaya have constructed a temporary bridge across a seasonal stream to reach polling booth to cast their vote in local body polls on Sept 29We built this bridge to cross the stream safely.We had requested govt,but nothing was done, said a local. pic.twitter.com/gplU3soLgsThe villagers of Shankar Bigha in Patna's Gaya have constructed a temporary bridge across a seasonal stream to reach a polling booth to cast their vote in the local body elections slated on September 29, news agency ANI reported.Kerala allows hotels, restaurants to reopen with 50% capacityKerala govt issues new set of COVID-19 guidelines; restriction of movement for people who have not taken at least one dose of COVID vaccine stands withdrawn. In-house dining for hotels, restaurants & bars will be opened with 50% seating capacity. Staff should be fully vaccinated pic.twitter.com/LrcwNXJk9yAs per the order, usage of air conditioner in hotels will not be allowed. Also, indoor stadiums and swimming pools can be opened for persons who are vaccinated with both doses of ovud-19 vaccine.29 Delhi Police officers transferred, reports ANIAs many as 29 Delhi Police officers have been transferred, news agency ANI reported on Saturday. The list includes Jasmeet Singh, DCP, Central District, Ingit Pratap Singh, DCP South West Dist and Rajeev Ranjan, DCP Outer North District - who all have been transferred and posted as DCPs in the Special Cell.West Bengal govt cancels leave of all state govt staff till Oct 5 due to heavy rainfall alertThe West Bengal government has decided to cancel the leaves of all state government employees till October 5 due to very heavy rainfall alert from deep depression in the Bay of Bengal, ANI reported citing the government.13 teams deployed in Odisha and five in Andhra for cyclone alert: NDRF director-general Satya Pradhan🔸Ref @Indiametdept #CycloneAlert🔸for nrth AP & sth Odisha coasts🔸Now Deep Depression 🔸abt 410 km ESE of Gopalpur 🔸480 km ENE of K-patnam🔸@NDRFHQ depl starts🔸13 tms(24 sub-teams)-Odisha🔸5 tms-AP🔸All be in place late tonite@HMOIndia @PIBHomeAffairs @ANI pic.twitter.com/q5xk4BLh73As many as 13 teams - with 24 sub-teams, and five teams have been deployed by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) in Odisha and Andhra Pradesh, respectively, in view of cyclone alert, said NDRF director-general Satya Pradhan.Taliban hanged dead body from crane in Afghanistan's Herat, reports AP citing witnessAccording to a report by the Associated Press, a witness has said that the Taliban have hanged a dead body from a crane in the main square of Herat city in western Afghanistan. Wazir Ahmad Seddiqi, who runs a pharmacy on the side of the square, told AP that as many as four bodies were brought to the square, while three were moved to other squares of Herat city to be hanged.‘Cabinet meeting every Tuesday’: Punjab CM Channi says on TwitterI will meet Ministers, MLAs and other political office bearers at my office every Tuesday from 11:30 am to 2:30 pm and a Cabinet meeting will be held every Tuesday at 3:00 pm. I’ve also directed all the officers not to leave the office till the cabinet is going on. pic.twitter.com/eKQyNL5QgFPunjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday took to Twitter to mention that going forward, he will meet all ministers, MLAs and other political office bearers at his office “every Tuesday from 11.30 am to 2.30 pm” and a cabinet meeting will take place every Tuesday at 3.00 pm. “I’ve also directed all the officers not to leave the office till the cabinet is going on,” his Twitter post read.Cinema theatres and auditoriums to reopen in Maharashtra from October 22 onwardsMaharashtra government on Saturday decided to reopen cinema theatres and auditoriums from October 22 onwards. The decision was made by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.Rajnath Singh says there's ‘growing realisation’ with regard to Pak's active support to radical and terror groups#WATCH | "...There is growing realisation for what India has been voicing for long, with regard to active support of Pakistan to violent radical & terror groups...," says Defence Minister Rajnath Singh at National Defence College Convocation ceremony pic.twitter.com/13jntTemKtSpeaking at the National Defence College Convocation ceremony, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday said that there is “growing realisation” now for what “India has been voicing for long” pertaining to Pakistan's “active support” to “violent radical and terror groups."Punjab cabinet expansion at 4.30pm on Sept 26The Punjab cabinet expansion will take place on Sepetmber 26 (Sunday) at 4.30pm. Punjab cabinet finalised, CM Channi reaches Guv's residencePunjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi  on Saturday arrived at Governor Banwarilal Purohit's residence as the list of for the new Punjab cabinet has been finalised. The oath-taking ceremony for the new ministers is likely to take place Sunday, sources told news agency PTI.Centre's warning ahead of festivals, Maharashtra to reopen schools: Top Covid updatesIndia has recorded 33,624,419 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) since the beginning of the pandemic last year, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday. Of these, 32,876,319 patients have recovered, 446,658 have died and the active cases stand at 301,442, the health ministry data shows. Read more3 Tamil Nadu fishermen attacked mid sea by Lankan fishersThree fishermen from Tamil Nadu's Nagapattinam district were seriously injured after they were allegedly attacked by a group of Sri Lankan fishers off Kodiakarai coast early on Saturday.Quad to pledge 1.2 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses globallyThe Quad countries—the United States, Japan, India and Australia—said on Friday that they will pledge more than 1.2 billion doses of the vaccines against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) globally. Read moreIndia sees fall in daily Covid-19 tally with 29,616 new casesIndia's daily tally of the coronavirus disease saw a fall on Saturday as 29,616 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours. Over 28,000 patients recovered in the same period and the total number of recoveries has climbed to 32,876,319. As many as 290 deaths due to the viral disease were reported on Saturday. ED summons Maharashtra minister in money laundering caseThe Enforcement Directorate has summoned Shiv Sena leader and Maharashtra minister Anil Parab for Tuesday, in connection with a money laundering case, news agency ANI reported on Saturday. Exciting, satisfying career awaits: PM Modi says as UPSC declares resultsPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday congratulated the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) aspirants who cleared the civil service examination and also wished those who were not able to get through, saying “India is full of diverse opportunities waiting to be explored.” Read moreJ-K, Ladakh will be an integral part country, says India at UNGAEntire Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh were, are and will always be an integral and inalienable part of the country, said India at UNGA.Earthquake of 5.2 magnitude strikes Andaman and Nicobar IslandsAn earthquake of magnitude 5.2 on the Richter scale struck near Campbell Bay in Andaman and Nicobar Islands on Friday night, as per the National Centre for Seismology (NCS). Read moreAmit Shah to address first-ever National Cooperative Conference in DelhiUnion home minister Amit Shah, who is also the first minister of co-operation of India, will on Saturday address the first-ever National Cooperative Conference in Delhi, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said on Friday, adding, millions of people linked to these collective bodies around the world will join the programme virtually. Read moreFrom October 1, K'taka to allow 100% occupancy in cinemas, auditoriums Cinema halls and auditoriums in Karnataka will be allowed to operate at 100% capacity from October 1, months after being run at half capacity due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-september-25-2021-101632529975290.html
25-09-2021||NA||Modi in US highlights: ‘Music has inherent ability to unite’, says PM in address to Global Citizen Live programme||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on September 25 concluded his US trip and departed for India from the John F Kennedy international airport. Earlier in the evening, he addressed the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA), where he touched upon several pressing global issues such as the Covid-19 pandemic, the need to combat terrorism and the need to strengthen the United Nations.  His trip to the US included bilateral meetings with US President Joe Biden, multilateral meeting with Quad leaders and he also held discussions with US Vice-President Kamala Harris and the CEOs of some international companies.Follow all the updates here:'India only G20 nation on track with Paris commitment': PMIndia is the only G20 nation that's on track with its Paris commitments. India also proud to have brought the world together under banner of Int'l Solar Alliance&coalition for disaster resilience infrastructure. We believe in development of India, for development of humankind: PM pic.twitter.com/uIwC1Syt9TPM Modi said that India is the only G20 country that is on track with its Paris commitment. “India also proud to have brought the world together under banner of International Solar Alliance and coalition for disaster resilience infrastructure. We believe in development of India, for development of humankind,” he added.‘Poverty can be fought when poor sees governments as trusted partners’: PM Modi“Poverty cannot be fought by making the poor more dependent on governments. Poverty can be fought when the poor start seeing governments as trusted partners. Trusted partners who will give them the enabling infrastructure to forever break the vicious circle of poverty,” PM said.‘Shared experience of fighting Covid together taught us we are stronger and better together’, says PM ModiPM Modi said that fighting Covid-19 together has taught the world to be together. “For almost two years now, humanity is battling a once in a lifetime global pandemic. Our shared experience of fighting the pandemic has taught us - we are stronger and better when we are together,” PM said.'Music has inherent ability to unite': PM"The Global Citizen Movement uses music and creativity to bring the world together. Music, like sports, has an inherent ability to unite," Modi said in his address to the Global Citizen Live programme.Watch | PM Modi's address at Global Citizen Live programmePM @narendramodi’s address at the Global Citizen Live programme. https://t.co/VpFI5bUGMXPrime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the Global Citizen Live programme, his office tweeted.PM Modi concludes US visit, emplanes for India from JFK airportPM Narendra Modi emplanes for India from John F Kennedy International Airport after concluding his US visit pic.twitter.com/i3Pm2kbjvXPM Modi, concluding his US visit, emplaned for India from the John F Kennedy international airport in New York, reports ANI.'Confident that India-USA relationship will grow': PM Modi ahead of wrap to US tripOver the last few days, have had productive bilateral and multilateral engagements, interaction with CEOs and the UN address. I am confident the India-USA relationship will grow even stronger in the years to come. Our rich people-to-people linkages are among our strongest assets.Modi said that he held many productive meetings and expressed confidence that the India-USA relationship would grow even stronger in years to come. “Our rich people-to-people linkages are among our strongest assets,” he tweeted.PM to bring home 157 artefacts, antiquities from the USAs many as 157 artefacts and antiquities were handed over by the US during PM Modi’s visit. PM conveyed his deep appreciation for the repatriation of antiquities to India.While half of the artifacts (71) are cultural, the other half consists of figurines which relate to Hinduism (60), Buddhism (16) and Jainism (9). Jaishankar calls PM's address ‘historic and impactful’, shares 12 policy takewaysA powerful and impactful address by PM @narendramodi to the UN General Assembly today. 12 big policy takeaways: 1. Representing the Mother of Democracy and based on his own experiences, PM affirms that democracy can deliver, democracy has delivered.External affairs minsiter S Jaishankar called PM Modi's UNGA address as historic and impactful and shared 12 big policy takeaways from the speech.‘Excellent, historic’: Union ministers, CMs hail PM Modi’s address at UNGAFollowing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address at the United Nations 76th general assembly on Saturday, many leaders including Union ministers reacted to his speech at the global stage.Click here to know who said what.PM Modi meets people outside hotel in New York, set to depart for India#WATCH | The US: PM Narendra Modi meets people gathered outside his hotel in New York. He is about to leave for John F Kennedy International Airport from where he will depart for India. pic.twitter.com/RCjpZVM9LLPM Modi met with and greeted people outside his hotel in New York as he is about to leave for the John F Kennedy international airport, from where depart for India, reports ANI. He was greeted by chants of ‘Vande Mataram’ and ‘Modi, Modi’‘PM Modi has motivated world to come along on several issues’: BJP's JP NaddaThe way PM Modi has highlighted every issue of India and attracted the world's view over it is appreciable. The PM has motivated the world to come along on the issues of COVID management, COVID vaccination, terrorism & even oceanic boundaries: BJP President JP Nadda pic.twitter.com/td0U8YcIvcPM Modi has motivated the world to come along on several issues such as Covid-19, terrorism and even oceanic boundaries, said BJP president JP Nadda, reports ANI. From Covid-19 to terrorism, here are highlights from PM Modi's address at UNGAPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday spoke at the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA).  He addressed several issues such as the Covid-19 pandemic and the situation of Afghanistan, among others.Click here for all the top quotes of PM Narendra Modi at UNGA.Watch PM Modi's full speech at UNGA: Terrorism, China, climate, Covid highlightsPrime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the United Nations General Assembly on Saturday in New York. The PM spoke on a host of issues from India's democracy, covid vaccine, climate change, ease of doing business, terrorism and Afghanistan and the role of United Nations.Watch his full speech here‘Comprehensive and useful’: Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla on PM Modi's US visitNew York | It has been a comprehensive and useful visit which allowed for high-level interactions: Foreign Secretary Harsh V Shringla on PM Modi's US visit pic.twitter.com/FtzZvdHmu8With PM Modi completing his UNGA address, the last major item in his US visit, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said that his visit has been a “comprehensive and useful visit which allowed for high-level interactions,” reports ANI.MP CM says Jal Shakti Abhiyan started under PM Modi's leadership to provide clean drinking waterPM Shri @narendramodi Ji, during his speech at #UNGA emphasized on the need of providing clean drinking water to the citizens. Under his leadership, @JalShaktiAbhyan has been started with a motive to provide clean drinking water as well as rejuvenating our rivers. #PMModiatUNGAMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that the Jal Shakti Abhiyan has been started under PM Modi's leadership to provide clean drinking water as well as to rejuvenate rivers, referring to the PM's mention of clean drinking water in his UNGA address.At UNGA, PM Modi takes a dig at Pakistan, asks for collective voice against expansionismPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday addressed the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) in New York on Saturday. “We have to protect our oceans are lifeline of international trade. We have to protect them from race for expansionism and exclusion. The world will have to raise collective voice against such moves for a rule-based world order,” he said.Click here to read more.‘Essential to strengthen UN to protect global order’: PM ModiPM Modi said that it is essential to strengthen the United Nations to protect the global order, global laws and global values.'India promoting experience-based learning to strengthen science-based approach': PM“To strengthen science-based approach, India is promoting experience based learning. We have opened thousands of Atal Tinkering Labs across schools,” PM said.'Dangers of regressive thinking and extremism increasing in world': PM आज विश्व के सामने Regressive Thinking और Extremism का खतरा बढ़ता जा रहा है। इन परिस्थितियों में, पूरे विश्व को Science-Based, Rational और Progressive Thinking को विकास का आधार बनाना ही होगा। pic.twitter.com/re85tdNpfePM Modi said that the dangers of regressive thinking and extremism are increasing in the world. “In these circumstances, the whole world has to make science-based, rational and progressive thinking, the base of their development programmes,” PM added.PM says India understood its responsibility, started exporting Covid vaccines“Indian scientists are also developing a nasal vaccine for Covid-19. India understood its responsibility, started exporting Covid-19 vaccines,” says PM Modi.‘World’s first DNA vaccine for Covid-19 for everyone above 12 developed in India': PM“India has developed world's first DNA vaccine for Covid-19 which can be administered to everyone above the age of 12,” PM says in his UNGA address.PM Modi calls for vaccine makers to ‘Come, make vaccines in India’PM Modi calls for Covid-19 vaccine makers to come and make their vaccines in India.'When India grows, world grows': PM Modi"When India grows, world grows. When India reforms, world transforms," PM Modi said.'India is moving on the path of development', says PM Modi“India is moving on the path of development. We believe in a development process which is all-pervasive, universal and one that nurtures all,” PM Modi said.PM Modi recalls his past during UNGA address“The strength of our democracy is demonstrated by the fact that a little boy, who was helping his father at a tea stall in India, is addressing the UNGA for the fourth time as Prime Minister of India,” PM Modi says.'World grappling with worst disease in 100 years': PM ModiPM Modi said, “For the last 1.5 years, the world has been grappling with the worst disease in 100 years.”PM Modi's address at the 76th UN general assembly | Watch LivePrime Minister Narendra Modi arrived in New York on Friday night (EST) to address the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly.Click here to read morePM Modi arrives at UN HQ to address 76th general assembly#WATCH | Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrives at the United Nations Headquarters in New York. He will address the 76th session of the UN General Assembly shortly. pic.twitter.com/Cgw4qbdAkpPM Modi arrived at the United Nations headquarters in New York to address the 76th general assembly, reports ANI. He is set to begin his address shortly.PMO says Modi to address UNGA in a short whileIn a short while from now, PM @narendramodi will be addressing the @UN General Assembly. pic.twitter.com/cSUxG49JXMThe Prime Minister's Office said that PM Modi will address the United Nations general assembly in a short while from now.Members of Indian diaspora await PM Modi before he departs for UNMembers of the Indian diaspora gather outside the hotel in New York from where PM Narendra Modi will depart for the United Nations.The PM will address the United Nations General Assembly today. pic.twitter.com/HtbsE9Dq9QMembers of the Indian diaspora were seen outside the hotel in New York from where PM Modi will depart for the United Nations, reports ANI. PM Modi scheduled first to address UNGA todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi has been scheduled the first world leader to address the 14th plenary meeting of the UNGA today, according to the UN's meeting schedule.What to expect from PM Modi's address at UNGA today ?With PM Modi set to address the UNGA today, several “pressing issues” like the Covid-19 pandemic and other global issues such as climate change, sustainable development goals, economic recovery, equitable vaccine access, women's empowerment and combating terrorism are expected to be a part of his speech.Click here to read more.PM Modi to address UN general assembly. Here's how to watch livePM Modi is scheduled to address the United Nations general assembly at 6.30pm today and click here to know how to watch it live.India welcomes US’ efforts to fight climate change, its return to Paris AgreementIndia has welcomed America’s efforts to combat climate change and its return to the Paris Agreement as Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden held their first in-person bilateral meeting at the White House.US, India affirm to promote shared interests in Indo-Pacific region and beyondPresident Joe Biden and Prime Minister Narendra Modi have welcomed increased cooperation between the US and India under the Quad grouping, including in the multilateral domain given their shared vision of a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region with respect to territorial integrity and sovereignty, and international law.Quad leaders press for free Indo-Pacific, with wary eye on ChinaLeaders of the United States, Japan, India and Australia vowed on Friday to pursue a free and open Indo-Pacific region "undaunted by coercion" at their first in-person summit, which presented a united front amid shared concerns about China.Biden reiterates US support for India’s permanent seat in UNSC, entry into NSGUS President Joe Biden has reiterated America’s support for india's permanent membership on a reformed United Nations Security Council and its entry into the Nuclear Suppliers Group during his first in-person bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the White House.India, US looking forward to reconvening trade policy forum this yearIndia and the US are looking "forward" to reconvening the India-US Trade Policy Forum before the end of 2021 with an aim to enhance the bilateral relationship by addressing trade concerns, said an official joint statement.Quad Infrastructure Coordination Group launched during Summit in USBuilding on existing leadership from Quad partners on high-standards infrastructure, a senior Quad infrastructure coordination group has been launched by the partner countries, said a White House statement.US, India call for a swift return of democracy in MyanmarTaking a firm stand against the coup in Myanmar, the US and India have called for a swift return to democracy in the country, an end to the use of violence and release of all political detainees.US reaffirms 'unwavering commitment' to India as Major Defence PartnerUS President Joe Biden has reaffirmed his "unwavering commitment" to India as a Major Defence Partner through close engagements, including information sharing and strengthening cooperation in advanced military technologies.Quad nations to join forces to tackle climate crisisThe leaders of Australia, India, Japan, and the US in their first in-person Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (Quad) Summit on Friday (local time) announced that they are combining their forces to "tackle the climate crisis."India, US call on Taliban to adhere to commitments, say Afghan soil mustn’t be used to attack any countryIndia and the US have called on the Taliban to adhere to its commitments and respect the human rights of all Afghans, including women, children and minority groups, and asked the new rulers in Kabul to make sure that the war-torn country’s territory is never again used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter or train terrorists.Modi, Biden express 'deep pride' on close cooperation between India, US to fight Covid pandemicPrime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden have expressed "deep pride" and appreciation about their nations' close cooperation to fight the deadly Covid-19 pandemic, as they noted that all sections of the society were mobilised in unprecedented ways to share emergency relief supplies during each country’s times of need.India, US condemn cross-border terrorismIndia and the US have said that they will take concerted action against all terrorist groups, including groups proscribed by the UN as they condemned cross-border terrorism and called for the perpetrators of the 26/11 Mumbai attacks to be brought to justice.India-US to forge closer ties, expand cooperation in aviation security, joint capacity buildingForging closer ties between two leading Indo-Pacific powers, the US and India on Friday committed to advance security in the Indo-Pacific by expanding cooperation on terrorist screening, information sharing, aviation security, terrorist use of the internet, terrorist designations, and joint capacity building.Quad leaders pledge to ensure 'free' and 'inclusive' Indo-PacificThe Quad leaders have pledged to ensure a "free and open" Indo-Pacific, which is also "inclusive and resilient", as they noted that the strategically vital region, witnessing China's growing military manoeuvring, is a bedrock of their shared security and prosperity.US lawmakers welcome Biden's first bilateral meeting with Modi, Quad summitTop American lawmakers have welcomed the first bilateral meeting between Joe Biden and Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the maiden in-person Quad summit hosted by the US President to enhance America's cooperation with its allies to ensure security and stability in the Indo-Pacific region.Addresses in the general debateAbout 109 heads of state and government will address the general debate in person and nearly 60 will deliver speeches through pre-recorded video statements, according to the second provisional list of speakers for the UNGA.Many other issues to dominate UNGAOther issues like the global economic slowdown and financing for development, terrorism and related issues, climate change, ongoing conflicts going internationally, recent developments in Afghanistan, United Nations Security Council (UNSC) reform etc may dominate the UNGA.PM Modi will speak on various important issuesPrime Minister Modi will speak on various important issues including cross-border terrorism, regional situation and United Nations Security Council (UNSC) reforms, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla had said earlier.PM Modi's speech at UNGA ‘most awaited’India's permanent representative to United Nations TS Tirumurti said on Monday PM Modi's speech at UNGA is “one of the most awaited among the world leaders.”PM Modi meets people as they cheer for him#WATCH | PM Narendra Modi meets people as they cheer for him & chant 'Vande Mataram' & 'Bharat Mata ki Jai' outside the hotel in New York.He is scheduled to address at the 76th session of UNGA pic.twitter.com/hafLDBSimCPM Narendra Modi meets people as they cheer for him and chant 'Vande Mataram' and 'Bharat Mata ki Jai' outside the hotel in New York.India, US committed to taking on toughest challenges together, says BidenIndia and the US are the world's largest democracies and the two countries are committed to taking on the toughest challenges together, President Joe Biden said after his first-ever in-person meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the White House.Theme of this year's 76th session of UNGAThe theme for this year's 76th session of the UNGA is ‘Building Resilience through hope to recover from Covid-19, rebuild sustainably, respond to the needs of the planet, respect the rights of people, and revitalise the United Nations’.‘Stronger, closer, tighter’: US heralds new India paradigmUS President Joe Biden on Friday said at a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the relationship between the two countries is “destined to be stronger, closer and tighter”, and the Indian leader rolled out a 10-year road map for growing ties based on Four Ts — talent, technology, trade, and trusteeship. Read MorePM Modi arrives in New York after key meets in Washington#WATCH | United States: Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrives at the airport in New York.He is scheduled to address at the 76th session of UNGA. pic.twitter.com/YEn0nflfOxPrime Minister Narendra Modi has arrived in New York, in time for the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA), where is scheduled to address the global community on a number of pressing issues.After marathon meetings, PM Modi leaves for New York; to address UNGAPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Saturday address the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) in New York and focus on the “pressing global challenges”, including the coronavirus pandemic, terrorism, and climate change among other important issues. Modi flew to New York from Washington after holding his first bilateral meeting with US President Joe Biden in the White House and attending his first in-person Quad Summit on Friday. Read More‘A force for global good’: PM Modi on Quad Leaders' summit after China calls it ‘closed clique’Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said Quad will work as a 'force for global good' since the cooperation among the four countries will ensure peace and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific as well as the entire world. During the opening remarks ahead of the first in-person Quad Leaders' Summit, PM Modi said the four nations met for the time after the disastrous Tsunami of 2004 to help the Indo-Pacific region and now they are meeting when the world is fighting against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Joe Biden meets PM Modi, says ties destined to be ‘stronger, closer and tighter’US president Joe Biden on Friday said at a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the relationship between the two countries is “destined to be stronger, closer and tighter” and the Indian leader rolled out a 10-year roadmap for growing the ties based on four Ts - talent, technology, trade, and trusteeship. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-us-visit-live-updates-september-25-saturday-101632529099791.html
25-09-2021||India||SC sets aside Madras HC order on 10% EWS quota||The Supreme Court on Friday said that the Union government does not need its approval to implement the 10% quota for students from economically weaker sections (EWS) in the All India Quota (AIQ) seats for post-graduate and undergraduate medical and dental courses, as indicated in a Madras High Court order. Separately, since the government’s July 29 decision introducing the 10% EWS quota along with 27% reservation for other backward classes (OBCs) in AIQ seats from the current academic session is already under challenge in the top court, it directed the Centre to file its response by October 6.The Court order was passed in two separate proceedings. In one, the Union government was before the court challenging an August 18 order by the Madras High Court which stopped it from proceeding with the 10% EWS reservation without prior approval from the Supreme Court’s Constitutional Bench which is looking into the legal validity of the 103rd amendment passed by Parliament that provides reservations for those belonging to EWS. In the other, the top court was considered four writ petitions questioning the constitutional validity of the July 29 order. One of the four also raised an interim prayer seeking a stay on the implementation of the order for this academic session.Additional Solicitor General (ASG) KM Nataraj appearing for the Union government submitted that the Madras High Court order was wrong and should be set aside. On the second set of petitions challenging the July 29 notification, he sought time to file a reply.The bench of Justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna allowed the Centre to respond to the four petitions by October 6 and agreed to consider on October 7 whether the proposed reservation must be implemented from this year onwards. Senior advocates Arvind Datar and Shyam Divan, representing doctors from across the country, claimed urgency as the results of National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET) for undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) medical courses were expected soon.On the Madras high court order, the bench felt that the direction to the Centre for seeking prior approval of the top court was “unnecessary”. That Madras HC order was passed on a contempt petition moved by the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), the ruling party in Tamil Nadu, which was seeking implementation of an earlier order of the High Court passed on July 27, 2020 by which the Union government was directed to form a committee and prepare a plan for rolling out OBC quota in All India Quota seats from 2021-22.The HC in its August 18 decision held that no contempt was made out against Centre in the light of the July 29 notification issued by it. While noting that the 10% EWS was introduced under the 103rd Constitution (Amendment) Act 2019, which is being examined by a Constitution Bench of five judges of the Supreme Court, the HC order said, “The additional reservation provided for economically weaker sections in the notification of July 29, 2021 cannot be permitted, except with the approval of the Supreme Court in such regard.”The SC bench knocked off this direction of the HC order and said, “We are of the view that the High Court has transgressed the limits of its contempt jurisdiction by entering into areas alien to the consideration before it on whether there was any breach of its direction of July 27, 2020….The direction issued by the High Court is alien to the exercise of contempt jurisdiction and is accordingly set aside.”The top court clarified that it has not expressed any opinion on the July 29 notification which is still under consideration before it. ASG Nataraj told the Court that in the petitions challenging the OBC and EWS quota, the petitioners have also challenged the 103rd Constitution Amendment. He said, “Our July 29 notification of providing reservation is in terms of the 103rd Constitution Amendment Act. This Act has been referred to a Constitution Bench. Till a decision is taken, the EWS quota is to be held valid.”Datar appearing for some of the doctors in one of the petitions said, “Till the 103rd Amendment Act is set aside, we have to assume it is valid. But we are on its implementation. How do they justify classifying a person with annual income of ₹8 lakh as economically weaker section when the income tax exemption limit in the country is ₹five lakh. The determination of economically weaker category is legally flawed and unconstitutional, and we want the Government to tell us how they settled on this figure.”Divan appearing in another petition told the Court, “The Information Brochure for the PG medical exam was out in February this year and the date of examination was announced on July 13. The reservation was announced only on July 29. At least for this year, there ought not to be any reservation in AIQ seats as it sucks away 2500 seats from the general quota students.”Both Datar and Divan represented 35 doctors who have moved separate petitions against the move to reserve seats under AIQ, which already provides reservation for Scheduled Castes (15%), Scheduled Tribes (7.5%) and persons with disability (5%).The July 29 decision applies to 50% PG seats and 15% UG seats under All India Quota seats. The Government had said, “This decision would benefit every year nearly 1500 OBC students in MBBS and 2500 OBC students in PG and also around 550 EWS students in MBBS and around 1000 EWS students in PG.”“The impugned decision is manifestly arbitrary as it is in complete breach of Article 14 (right to equality), 15 (non-discrimination), 16 (equality of opportunity in public employment) and 21 (right to life) of the Constitution of India and also bypasses ceiling of reservation of 50 per cent (fixed by SC in the 1992 Indra Sahwney case),” the petitions filed through advocates Malak Manish Bhatt and Charu Mathur said. Senior advocates Kapil Sibal and P Wilson appearing for DMK pointed out that the states also need to be heard in these petitions as the July 29 circular applies throughout the country with states being necessary stakeholders. The Court said it will consider this aspect on the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-sets-aside-madras-hc-order-on-10-ews-quota-101632528629128.html
25-09-2021||India||Delta sub-lineage spotted in 10% of Covid-19 samples||The Delta variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus is the most common in Delhi, although one the variant’s sub-lineages, the so-called AY.12 variant, is being seen in around 10% of the samples, according to a doctor at one of the four centres sequencing viral genomes in the Capital.The numbers present a stark difference from national data (excluding Delhi’s) which show that another Delta lineage, AY.4, was seen in 53% of the samples sequenced by India’s genomic sequencing consortium, INSACOG. The increase was driven by AY.4’s presence in Maharashtra and Kerala, states that together account for nearly 34% of all the samples sequenced in the country till August. Delhi’s data for August hasn’t been uploaded on the INSACOG dashboard. Data for September hasn’t been uploaded for any of the states.“In Delhi, we find Delta and its sub-lineages in almost 99% of the samples, with the other 1% being the Alpha variant. The Delta variant (B1.617.2) which caused the fourth wave in the city, is the most common, followed by the AY.12 variant, which accounts for about 10% of delta variant in August and early September,” said Dr Ekta Gupta, professor of virology at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, which is one of the four labs sequencing viral genomes in the city.Samples from Delhi are sequenced at ILBS, Lok Nayak Hospital, National Centre for Disease Control, and Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology.“Samples are collected from the district and hospitals and sent to the lab for genomic analysis. Maybe all of the labs are not receiving samples right now because the number of cases is very low in Delhi at the moment. However, from the report that we have received so far, there is no need to worry (about AY.12),” said a senior official from Delhi’s health department.Dr Gupta said Delhi is unlikely to see a surge of AY.12. “The antigen is more or less the same as the Delta variant that led to the huge surge in cases in April. A huge proportion of the population has already been exposed to delta, hence the similar AY.12 is unlikely to cause a surge in cases again in the city.”According to a September 20 bulletin from INSACOG: “AY.12 has lost some of the mutations seen in Delta parent lineage. No new mutations of concern are noted in the spike protein.”Mutations in the spike protein are of significance as the Sars-CoV-2 virus uses the protein to enter human cells. There were several mutations on the spike protein of the Delta variant that made it highly transmissible and increased its ability to evade immunity from a previous infection or the current vaccines.Despite no significant mutations on the spike protein, AY.12 is the second most commonly sequenced variant in Israel that is seeing a surge in cases despite over 60% of the population being vaccinated.The most common variant is AY.4 (48%); AY.12 was found in 17% samples, and the original Delta variant in 9%, according to data from outbreak.com that aggregates data from the global database GISAID. To be sure, Israel did not see a previous outbreak on account of Delta like India did.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-sub-lineage-spotted-in-10-of-covid-19-samples-101632527746919.html
25-09-2021||India||After marathon meetings, PM Modi leaves for New York; to address UNGA||After holding marathon meetings in the last two days, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday evening (local time) left for New York, where he is scheduled to address at the 76th session of UNGA.PM Modi arrived in Washington for a three-day visit to the country on Wednesday, his first beyond neighbourhood since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic.The Prime Minister held bilateral meetings with US President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris here. He also met his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison and Japanese PM Yoshihide Suga. PM Modi also participated in the first in-person Quad meeting after Covid-19.He also held meetings with five global CEOs for potential investment in India on Thursday.PM Modi's US visit will conclude on September 25 with an address at the United Nations General Assembly focusing on the pressing global challenges including the Covid-19 pandemic, the need to combat terrorism, climate change and other important issues.The theme for this year's General Debate is 'Building Resilience through hope to recover from Covid-19, rebuild sustainably, respond to the needs of the planet, respect the rights of people, and revitalise the United Nations'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-marathon-meetings-pm-modi-leaves-for-new-york-to-address-unga-101632526523334.html
25-09-2021||India||Delhi HC refuses to give interim relief to Google||The Delhi high court on Friday refused to grant interim relief to Google against further media leaks of “confidential” business information.The judge posted the matter for Monday after noting that the September 8 order of the CCI was not on record and she would need to read it before passing any orders.The court was hearing a plea by Google against the leak of sensitive information including revenue, payments made to partners, key agreements with phone makers, and market shares to the press from an ongoing investigation by the Competition Commission of India (CCI) into its agreements with phone companies using its Android OS.The company’s plea came after details of the investigation by CCI’s Director general (DG) were reported in some sections of the media. The reports said Google was guilty of abusing its dominant position with Android to stifle competition to its Play Store.Justice Rekha Palli expressed displeasure after a submission by Additional Solicitor General (ASG) N Venkatraman who said that one Google official wrote to the CCI Chairperson threatening legal action against “those who may have facilitated the unlawful release of the DG report”.“Advise your client. Just because he is there… he should know that if you want to function in a country, he has to know the law. I don’t appreciate this... If he felt so strongly, he should have addressed the letter to the registrar (of CCI),” Justice Palli told Google’s counsel while posting the matter for September 27.On Thursday, Google moved the high court seeking an ex-parte injunction directing CCI to ensure that there is no further publication of any part of the DG report.The plea sought that CCI write to all media outlets or others that claim to have a copy of the DG Report or have reported on it requesting them to return all copies and materials in relation to the case and to confirm to CCI that they have destroyed all written or electronic copies.Additionally, it has also sought that an order of September 8, passed by CCI rejecting Google’s plea to reconsider the confidentiality issue, be set aside.Opposing this plea, CCI, through ASG N Venkatraman, told the court that the plea was “misplaced”, and an attempt to “frustrate” and “thwart” the ongoing probe . The watchdog refuted all allegations of the leak and said that no evidence has been produced to show that CCI leaked the report.“There are accusations against a government body and there is not a word (in Google’s affidavit) showing when and how it was done... They are trying to frustrate the proceedings. If they are aggrieved, they should file a suit against (the media),” he said.Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, appearing for Google, said the leaks happened while the report was in CCI’s custody and that it is the body’s statutory duty to protect confidential information.“Please see the habitual defaulter. Everyday leakage is happening... Give a dog a bad name and hang him by selective leakage,” the senior lawyer said, urging the court to pass an order protecting his client from further prejudice.He contended that CCI order’s of September was passed without following the principles of natural justice.“Let them say till Monday they will not allow further leak,” said the senior counsel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-refuses-to-give-interim-relief-to-google-101632515164563.html
25-09-2021||India||Odisha TV journo chasing elephant story drowns as boat capsizes, 2 others critical||An operation to rescue a tusker trapped in the swirling waters of a flooded Mahanadi river near Cuttack ended in tragedy on Friday when a journalist of a local TV channel who was in a rescue boat of the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force drowned while his cameraman colleague is fighting for his life.Arindam Das and Prabhat Sinha, chief reporter and cameraman of popular TV channel OTV respectively, were rescued in a serious condition with 4 personnel of ODRAF after the inflatable dinghy they were in capsized in the strong current of water near the pillars of the barrage. Five ODRAF personnel along with the OTV journalists in the inflatable dinghy were attempting to go near a tusker that was trapped in the swirling waters of Mahanadi River when the boat capsized throwing all of them into the furious river.Das, who was rushed to SCB Medical College and Hospital soon after his rescue was declared brought dead, said Dr Bhubanananda Maharana, emergency officer of the hospital. “Prabhat Sinha, the cameraman and ODRAF personnel are in very serious condition. We are trying our best to save them,” said Dr Maharana. One ODRAF staff is still missing.Soon after the news of Das’s death poured in, a shocked Jagi Mangat Panda, managing director of OTV tweeted that it was a terrible loss. “He was a brave and ethical journalist who fearlessly chose to go after breaking news. This is a terrible loss despite taking safety precautions & ODRAF’s best efforts. Om Shanti,” she tweeted.Colleague and editor of OTV, Radha Madhav Mishra broke down while talking about the death of Das. “As reporters we often make on-the-spot risk assessment of doing particular news. Arindam has done several such reporting assignments including covering cyclones in the past in difficult circumstances. I am too shocked and sad to say anything more,” he said. Das left behind a 3-year-old son and wife.Hours before the tragedy, around 80 officials of Odisha forest department including two divisional forest officers had started a rescue operation of a sub-adult tusker, part of a 17-member herd from Sukasen forest of Athagarh to Chandaka elephant sanctuary, that was trapped in the floodwaters of Mahanadi. While 8 elephants managed to cross the river and reach Chandaka, 8 others moved towards Dhabaleswar leaving one elephant trapped in the middle of the river. “Though elephants are good swimmers, the level of water was a little too high for the elephant and it was stuck,” said Sangram Behera, assistant conservator of forest of Chandaka forest division.The rescue operation did not make much headway as the elephant was slowly wading its way through the waters to the banks returned back, probably scared by a large number of people who were watching it over the barrage. A team of 5 ODRAF personnel from its 6th Battalion then decided to go near the elephant to check its condition when the two reporters of OTV hopped into the boat.Bhubaneswar-Cuttack police commissioner Soumendra Priyadarshi said though the inflatable dinghies are easy to manoeuvre and not difficult to balance in floodwaters, the current seemed to be too strong. “Though the journalists and others in the boat were wearing lifejackets the force of the water was too strong for them. The journalists carrying video cameras and other reporting materials may have found it difficult to balance themselves in such a situation,” said Priyadarshi.Meanwhile, the elephant that was trapped in the floodwaters is yet to be rescued. It has, however, found itself a vantage position in the river where the water level is little less.Wildlife expert and member of Odisha State Biodiversity Board, Jayanta Mardaraj said though elephants are good swimmers and regularly cross rivers without any problem, the water current may have been the stumbling block. “After floodwaters were released from the Hirakud Reservoir over last week, Mahanadi has been in spate. The elephant may have become weak after standing in the water for over 9 hours. It needs food so as to regain its strength,” said Mardaraj.Several prominent people including Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan condoled Das’s death. “I’m deeply saddened at the passing of OTV journalist and my friend Arindam Das. He had created his own identity with his daring news reportage in challenging circumstances. His demise has created a void in the Odia media fraternity,” tweeted Dharmendra Pradhan.BJP vice-president Baijayant Panda described Das as a hero. “He was and is a hero. Deeply anguished by boat tragedy which, despite safety precautions, took life of OTV’s intrepid chief reporter Arindam Das while covering an ODRAF elephant rescue. Deepest condolences to his family & prayers for injured & missing,” tweeted Panda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-tv-journo-chasing-elephant-story-drowns-as-boat-capsizes-2-others-critical-101632513730128.html
25-09-2021||India||Three injured in boiler blast at a chemical factory in Bengaluru||Three workers sustained injuries in a blast at a boiler unit in a chemical factory in Attibele area in Bengaluru rural district on Friday. The incident comes just a day after two people were killed in a suspected cracker explosion at a godown at a godown at New Thagaratpet near KR Market. According to officials of the department of fire and emergency services, the explosion was reported around 1 pm and four fire tenders were dispatched to the location to bring the fire under control. “This is not the first time such an incident has happened here. We had told them that chemical factory was causing skin rashes and other problems for the local residents,” Vinod, a resident told the media. “Even today after the blast, the area is covered with smoke from the factory fire. People are concerned,” he said. Bengaluru rural police have registered a complaint and have started investigation. Meanwhile, senior police officers probing the explosion which occurred at a godown on Thursday that killed 2 people said that even though crackers were found to be the reason behind the blast, police have sought a report from the Forensic Sciences Labs (FSL). “The intensity of the blast is much higher than that of the usual cracker blast. So, we have asked for a report of what explosive material was used in these crackers and how the intensity was so high,” said a senior officer .Officers also said that the FSL report will clarify what triggered the blast. Explaining the events that triggered the blast, police said that it took place when boxes were being unloaded. “Usually, they are distributed among retailers and the godown was used to temporarily store them. When Manohar one of the workers didn’t handle a package of crackers correctly, the explosion took place, in which a person standing nearby died as well,” said a police officer. The godown owner, identified as Ganesh Babu, who was arrested on Thursday for not having the required permission to store firecrackers have been booked under the Explosive Substances Act, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-injured-in-boiler-blast-at-a-chemical-factory-in-bengaluru-101632512650567.html
25-09-2021||India||Cinemas, pubs can operate at 100% from Oct 1: Karnataka govt eases Covid curbs||The Karnataka government on Friday said that it would further relax restrictions in parts of the state from October 1 to allow more activities to continue with full fledged operations. “The positivity rate in the state it is around 0.66% other than 4 to 5 districts and is in control. From October 1, districts which have lower than 1% positivity rate will have permission to operate cinema halls at 100% capacity. If it more than 1%, then 50% capacity will be allowed and places where it is more than 2%, these cinema halls will be shut,” chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said in Bengaluru on Friday. He shared this development after a meeting with Covid-19 experts, ministers and other officials in Bengaluru. Bommai said that the same parameters would be applied to pubs in the state as well but pregnant women will not be allowed due to health concerns. The chief minister also stated that students of classes 6 to 12 can now attend school five days a week. He also informed that the night curfew has been relaxed by one hour and will now be enforced from 10pm to 5 am. Bommai, however, said that separate guidelines will be issued for Dasara (how its spelt and pronounced in Karnataka)The borders, Bommai said, would be closely monitored to contain the possibility of infections spreading in Karnataka. The relaxations come at a time when Karnataka’s Covid-19 infection rate appears to have stabilised. However, the threat of the impending third wave of infections continues to loom large over the state. The state recorded 789 new infections on Friday, which takes its active case load to 13,306, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department. The positivity rate stood at 0.58% while the case fatality rate continues to be on a high at 2.91%. The death toll rose to 37,706 with 23 more deaths, the health department said on Friday. There were 285 cases in Bengaluru city and 273 recoveries that takes it active caseload to 7443, according to government data. There were eight more deaths in Bengaluru that takes its toll to 16,125. Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu, Mysuru, Tumakuru and Udupi among other places continued to see an uptick in cases, data shows. The government further added that they would take up special vaccination drives in Yadgir, Kalaburagi, Raichur and Mysuru whose averages are below that of the state and that ministers, elected representatives would create awareness in these regions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cinemas-pubs-can-operate-at-100-from-oct-1-karnataka-govt-eases-covid-curbs-101632512290259.html
25-09-2021||India||Karnataka government has ‘best managed’ Covid in state, says minister||The Karnataka government has “best managed” the Covid-19 pandemic in the state, and opposition Congress which ruled for long, is to be blamed for any deaths due to lack of medical facilities like oxygen, Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Friday.The minister said this while replying to the debate on Covid-19 second wave in the assembly, amid protest by Congress members from the well of the House, forcing him to cut short and table his answer for record.“The opposition has targeted and criticised the government on its Covid management, but they are not ready to listen to my reply. People of the state are watching. They are indulging in hit and run politics, they don’t care for the people,” Sudhakar said.During his reply amid chaos due to sloganeering by Congress MLAs against the implementation of National Education Policy and demanding extension of the monsoon session, he alleged that Congress has no commitment or responsibility to fight against Covid, and only wants to indulge in politics.The Congress is aware that the Covid has been effectively managed in the state, he claimed, adding that “the whole world has praised India’s Covid control and management, also Karnataka has best managed the pandemic in the whole country. That’s the reason the opposition party doesn’t have the patience to listen to the answer,” the minister said.Initiating the debate, Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah on Thursday had targeted the BJP government for its handling of the second wave, and said the government got into a relaxed mode after the first wave.Bringing up the Chamarajanagar tragedy, pointing out that 36 patients had died at a state-run hospital due to lack of oxygen supply, he sought an explanation on why no action was taken against the officials concerned for the deaths.Hitting out at the Congress for criticising the government’s Covid management, the minister, during his reply, said “the sixty years of Congress rule was such that before the first wave, 725 ICU beds and ventilators were there, in one year we have got 3,887 of them. There were only 4,847 oxygenated beds, we have made about 28,400 such beds available.” The oxygen storage facility in the state before Covid was only 320 tons, he said. “If there has been any deaths in the state (due to lack of oxygen), Congress is to be directly blamed for it, it is because of their misrule,” the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-government-has-best-managed-covid-in-state-says-minister-101632511989770.html
25-09-2021||India||Ruckus over NEP ends 10-day Karnataka assembly session||The Karnataka legislative assembly witnessed a ruckus on Friday, the last day of the 10-day monsoon session, with the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) trading charges over the National Education Policy (NEP) and the opposition party demanding an extension of the session to discuss issues.The Congress accused the BJP of trying to saffronise education by imposing the NEP, calling it calling it an “RSS or Nagpur Education Policy.” “(The) New National Education Policy is an attempt to enable upper caste and RSS to enslave marginalised sections, Dalits & women. If we try to oppose, Speaker jumps to justify the government,” Siddaramaiah said. Siddaramaiah said that the assembly speaker who is supposed to be above politics and unbiased does not behave in this manner. “Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai has no faith in democracy and parliamentary system of governance. The entire government, including CM, is behaving like a puppet of RSS and working on their orders. Speaker had adjourned the session indefinitely based on the direction by the government. The session was being held after 6 months and there were many issues to discuss. I had recommended the business advisory committee to call for a 20 days session as there were pressing issues concerning common man. Speaker had promised to consider the request but it was not extended,” he said. Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said there is nothing wrong if the NEP is an RSS agenda, emphasising that the policy is meant for “nation building”. “The NEP is to prepare our children for the 21st century and to the global standards.”Bommai said, “The Congress believed in bringing an education policy based on slavery while the one by the BJP was of self-respect.” Stating that the country doesn’t want Macaulay’s education policy brought in by the English, he said, “It has been detrimental to our country and has not given enough opportunity for our children, especially from rural areas, to compete at the global level.”Karnataka has already announced to become the first state in the country to implement the NEP. Assembly speaker Vishweshawara Hegde Kageri was trying to rush members to finish speaking on issues to end the session at 1 pm, but the opposition demanded an extension. “The session has been called after six months. The government finished their business but we have to discuss the problems of the people,” leader of the opposition Siddaramaiah said. The Congress had demanded that the monsoon session from September 13-24 be extended by at least a week to discuss the problems the people of the state are facing. Siddaramaiah said there has to be a discussion on the NEP as the policy would impact the lives of children and future generations; he was shouted down by ruling party legislators.The Congress then stormed to the well of the House, chanting slogans against the BJP which was reciprocated by the ruling party, even as health minister Dr K Sudhakar tried to provide his responses to earlier discussions on Covid-19 in Karnataka. At least two BJP legislators rushed to the well of the House to protest against the government’s inaction on the reservation demand by Panchamasali, the largest sub-sect within the dominant Lingayat community. The Congress also boycotted the addressed by Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla to the joint session of the legislature. Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education lashed out at the Congress. “The Congress party politicised the issue of Covid management and made false allegations in the House yesterday but did not have the decorum to listen to the State government’s reply today, he said.The Congress party created ruckus in the House today because it did not have the courage to let the people of the State know the truth. This exposes the double standards of the Congress, “ the minister said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ruckus-over-nep-ends-10-day-karnataka-assembly-session-101632511690038.html
25-09-2021||India||Minor raped, five molested in Chattisgarh govt training centre: Police||A 17-year-old girl was raped by allegedly a caretaker of a government-funded residential training centre for differently-abled children, police said on Friday, adding that a security guard at the facility, along with the caretaker, allegedly molested five other minor inmates at the centre in Chhattisgarh’s Jashpur district. According to the police, both the accused were arrested and booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. The training centre was funded by District Mineral Fund (DMF) and has been running since last few years in the district. “We got a complaint at around midnight on Thursday from a woman sweeper that some staffers are using abusive language and harassing the minors of the centre. On Friday morning, I constituted a team, led by additional superintendent of police (ASP), Pratibha Pandey, and started investigation. During the investigation, police found the two accused have molested five minors and one of the accused raped one minor of the training centre,” said Superintendent of Police, Jashpur, Vijay Agarwal. The SP added that the incident took place on September 22 inside the training centre when the warden of the facility was on leave. “One accused, 32-year-old caretaker, raped the minor while one security guard (33) of the centre along with caretaker molested five minors aged between 14 and 16 years,” said Agarwal. Inspector General of Police, Surguja, Ajay Yadav, said the girls were sent for medical examination and interrogation of the accused is going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minor-raped-five-molested-in-chattisgarh-govt-training-centrepolice-101632511150905.html
25-09-2021||India||UP woman teaches Malayalam to migrant workers’ kids in Kerala||A woman from Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh, who learnt Malayalam during her studies in Kerala, is now voluntarily teaching the language to children of migrant labourers at a special training centre in Kothamangalam in Ernakulam district.Arshi Salim (21), daughter of a woodwork designer, is teaching 40 children belonging to other states at the centre started by Samagra Siksha Kerala (SSK) during the pandemic. These children do not have access to online classes and face economic hardships because of job loss of their parents due to pandemic-induced recession.When SSK started 40 such centres to help children of migrant workers in Ernakulam, Arshi Salim chipped in. As a daughter of a migrant worker, she understands their pain.“My father came to Kerala when I was 9-year-old. Enrolled in a local school I was a mute spectator as the medium of instruction was Malayalam. One day, I mustered courage and approached the Malayalam teacher with a strange request -- I want to speak like a Malayali. The teacher was moved and started teaching me well,” she said. Arshi bagged distinction in both Malayalam papers in Class 10 examination.She is the eldest daughter of M Salim who has four children. “Life was really tough in initial days of pandemic. My father even thought of going back. But many people helped us and the SSK selected me as an educational volunteer to teach migrant children,” she said, adding she was really happy when she got the first salary of ₹6,000. Arshi is pursuing a computer course now after completing her Plus 2 in humanities with distinction. Not a trained teacher, she imparts basic lessons in all subjects other than maths. Most of her students are from the north-eastern states.“Malayalam is a beautiful language very close to Sanskirt but some words are really tongue-twisting. But once you learn it, the flow will come naturally. Now I read Malayalam novels and poems,” she said, adding that her first priority is to help ease burden of her father after assuming a permanent job. Arshi said she will pursue her studies after her siblings get basic education. “My idols are father of nation Mahathma Gandhi and former President A P J Abdul Kalam,” she said.Praising Arshi’s teaching skills, Biman Sarkar, a Class 8 student belonging to Manipur, said, “She is committed, and her flow in three languages (Hindi, English and Malayalam) impresses us. For us, it is easy to connect with her.” SSK co-ordinator Siju Jacob said, “Arshi is hard working and she handles children well. She takes teaching as a passion.” SSK, an overarching programme for school education, aims at ensuring equal opportunities for schooling and equitable learning outcomes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upwoman-teaches-malayalam-to-migrant-workers-kids-in-kerala-101632511089671.html
25-09-2021||India||Caretaker at Chhattisgarh training centre rapes 17-yr-old, joins guard to molest 5 more||RAIPUR: A 17-year-old girl at a government-funded residential training centre for children with disabilities was raped by a caretaker earlier this week, police said on Friday after arresting the staffer and the security guard at the facility in north Chhattisgarh.Police said the caretaker and the guard also molested five other minor girls while the warden was on leave.Both have been booked under the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.Jashpur superintendent of police Vijay Agarwal said a woman sweeper at the complained at around Thursday midnight that some staffers were using abusive language and harassing the minors at the centre.“On Friday morning, I constituted a team led by additional superintendent of police (ASP) Pratibha Pandey and started investigation. During the probe, the police team found the two accused have molested five minors and one of them raped a minor girl at the training centre,” said Agarwal.The rape took place on September 22 inside the facility when the centre’s warden was on leave. Aggarwal said the caretaker, 32, raped the 17-year-old girl and along with the security guard, 33, molested five teenagers aged between 14 and 16 years.Inspector-General of Police, Surguja, Ajay Yadav said the girls have been sent for medical examination and the accused are being interrogated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/caretaker-at-chhattisgarh-training-centre-rapes-17-yr-old-joins-guard-to-molest-5-more-101632510970791.html
25-09-2021||India||Modi’s net worth ₹3.07 crore, rises by ₹22 lakh, as per his latest declaration||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s net worth is ₹3.07 crore as per his latest declaration, a rise of ₹22 lakh from last year’s ₹2.85 crore, according to official data.PM Modi, like many ministers, doesn’t have any stock market exposure and his investments continue to be in the form of National Savings Certificate ( ₹8.9 lakh), life insurance policies ( ₹1.5 lakh) and L&T infrastructure bonds, which he bought in 2012 for ₹20,000.The increase in wealth is primarily due to his fixed deposits in a Gandhinagar branch of the State Bank of India. According to the self-declaration filed by the PM, the fixed deposit amounts to ₹1.86 crore as on March 31 as against ₹1.6 crore last year.Modi doesn’t own any vehicle. He has four gold rings worth ₹1.48 lakh. His bank balance ( ₹1.5 lakh) and cash in hand ( ₹36,000) as on March 31, 2021 are less than that of last year.Modi has not bought any new property since he became the PM in 2014. His only residential property, bought in 2002, is valued at ₹1.1 crore. It’s a joint property and the PM has only one-fourth share in it.Out of the total 14,125 square feet property, Modi’s rights are over 3,531 square feet.During Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s term, the government had decided that all Union ministers will have to voluntarily declare their assets and liabilities at the end of each financial year for greater transparency in public life. The declarations are available in the public domain and can be accessed through the PM’s website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prime-minister-narendra-modi-s-net-worth-3-07-crore-rises-by-22-lakh-as-per-his-latest-declaration-101632510551397.html
25-09-2021||India||Assam government orders judicial probe into violence that left two dead||The Assam government on Friday ordered a judicial inquiry into the violence that left two civilians dead and 11 policemen injured in Darrang district even as chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma defended the administrative action but said that action will be taken against anyone involved. According to the official notification issued by the Assam government, an inquiry will be conducted under the chairmanship of a retired judge of the Gauhati high court. “The government in the home and political departments have decided to institute an inquiry into the circumstances leading to the death of two civilians and injury of several others including police personnel in the firing incident that took place at Dhalpur area in Sipajhar revenue circle, under Darrang district on September 23, 2021,” it stated. A 30-seconds video that went viral on social media on Thursday showed a group of policemen surrounding the local resident, who suddenly collapses to the ground due to an apparent gunshot, raining him with blows of the stick, with gunfire in the background. Later, the man is seen lying motionless on the ground with an apparent gunshot wound on his chest even as the photographer, later identified by police as Bijay Shankar Baniya, repeatedly kicks and jumps on the apparently lifeless body. Baniya was later arrested and sent to 14-days judicial custody. The visuals were tweeted by some state lawmakers and local residents, but their origin was not clear. HT couldn’t independently verify the visuals.Responding to the video on Friday, Sarma said he would take action against the police, but that a “holistic view” should be taken. “I think you cannot demean the government of Assam by some six to thirty second video...Take a holistic view. If any of our police people are involved, I am going to take action. No doubt on that. But how can 27000 acres of land can be encroached by two or three thousand families? People are dying for want of land. The landless people, people who are affected by floods. They are requesting government for land,” he said.The chief minister also said, “Since 1983, that area is known for killings. Otherwise, normally people do not encroach on temple land. I have seen encroachments all around. Peaceful eviction drive was agreed upon, but who instigated?”EXPERT COMMENTThe controversial eviction was first mooted when Sarma visited the area on June 7 and instructed the district administration to clear the area occupied by “illegal settlers” for a community farming project for young people hailing from the state’s indigenous communities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-government-orders-judicial-probe-into-violence-that-left-two-dead-101632510071533.html
25-09-2021||India||Killed in Assam eviction drive, boy who went to collect Aadhaar card||Sheikh Farid wasn’t supposed to be there.The 12-year-old was on his way back home from the local post office on Thursday after collecting his Aadhaar card. He had left home in the morning, happy at the prospect of receiving his first identity card.The youngest of four siblings, Farid lived 2km from where government evictions had begun on Monday. The family hadn’t been served any eviction notice.By evening, his lifeless body laid outside the family’s house in Assam’s Darrang district, the Aadhaar card peeking out of his pocket. “My son was excited about getting his Aadhaar card. I have no idea how he got killed,” said Khalek Ali, his father.Farid was caught in the violence that broke out during a drive to evict allegedly illegal settlers near the Brahmaputra banks on Thursday afternoon, and was one of two people felled allegedly by police bullets. “When his body was brought home, there was a bullet injury on his right chest,” added Ali.Another 20 people, including 11 policemen, were injured in the clashes.Hasna Banu was one of them. The 15-year-old, whose family had also not received an eviction notice, heard the commotion on Thursday and went to see what was happening. In the evening, she was brought home unconscious with a broken left arm.“I went to see what was happening. Suddenly there was panic and people were fleeing. Someone hit my arm from behind and I fell unconscious. I was picked up some locals and brought home,” said the student of Class 7.Banu’s father, Sayeed Ali, a farmer, said they didn’t take her to the local hospital because they were afraid of the district administration. Instead, they wrapped the injured hand with cloth and applied some herbs and traditional medicine.The deaths of Farid and Mainul Haque – a 35-year-old resident who was seen chasing policemen before being apparently shot and collapsing to the ground – triggered widespread condemnation on Thursday and forced the government to set up a judicial probe.Visuals of the incident showed a government photographer repeatedly jumping and kicking the apparently lifeless body of Haque. The photographer, Bijay Shankar Baniya, was arrested on Thursday night.The eviction drive started on Monday in a remote region roughly spread over 25,595 acres – roughly five times the size of state capital Guwahati –a massive sandbar with the Brahmaputra on one side and several small distributaries crisscrossing the area. In the area, roads are scarce and so is electricity supply.Many of the residents are Bengali-speaking Muslims, who are mainly farmers and use motorcycles, horse-drawn carts or bullock carts, or ferry their produce to nearby markets. To reach Dholpur-3, where the violence occurred on Thursday, one has to cross a stream and walk for nearly an hour or hitch a hike on a motorbike to reach the area.On Friday, many evicted residents --- who took shelter in makeshift houses made of tin sheets, jute and bamboo -- contested the government’s claim that they were given adequate warning.Thirty-one-year old Ful Chand said he got the eviction notices on Wednesday evening – less than 24 hours before the government drive began. The vegetable vendor’s family collected their belongings and moved to a new location located nearly a kilometer away, across a small stream. They are now living in a cramped temporary shed made of tin-sheets.“We got the notice on Wednesday evening and by Thursday morning police and district officials had arrived to evict us. We managed to collect most of our belonging and shift to this new place. We haven’t cook any meals and are eating whatever is being provided by generous relatives living on other parts of Dholpur who haven’t been served eviction notices yet,” said Chand.The evictions started on Monday – when 800 families were removed – under the Assam government’s Garukhuti Project, which aims to remove encroachers from 25,595 acres of land on a massive sandbar close to the Brahmaputra river and start agricultural and other allied activities for indigenous people.But local residents said they had lived in the area for decades.Seventy -year-old Kot Banu’s family was among those evicted on Thursday. The family said it had lived in the village since 1985 but had no land documents.She said they had three plots at different locations in Dholpur-3. Many residents of the area have had to shift house several times as the rising waters of Brahmaputra and its distributaries erode their agriculture plots and houses.“Instead of forcing us to leave our houses at such short notice and resorting to violence, the government should have first allotted us some alternate land where we could have shifted. What was the hurry to remove us from a place that we have called home for decades?” questioned Sattar Ali, a smalltime businessman.The government, for its part, blamed a large mob for attacking the policemen with sticks and stones. A senior police official present at the scene said on condition of anonymity that there were nearly 4,000 people present at the eviction site and suddenly attacked the police party.“There was discussion with the residents and after assurances of alternate measures for those evicted, the crowd had started dispersing. But suddenly hundreds of them rushed at us with spears, sticks and machetes. We fired tear gas shells and rubber bullets, but when it didn’t deter them we had to start shooting to protect ourselves,” he said.Constable Apurba Ronghang, 35, who sustained head injuries, said a mob of 700-800 people attacked the police team. “I was hit on my head with a bamboo stick or wood from behind as I was trying to flee from the mob. My helmet got removed and I fell on the ground. But they kept on hitting me. Luckily, my colleagues were able to rescue me,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/day-after-many-recall-horror-of-eviction-drive-in-assam-101632509889813.html
25-09-2021||India||Odisha TV journalist dies, another critical, after boat to rescue elephant capsizes||BhubaneswarA journalist with a local TV channel died while his colleague was battling for life after an Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) boat, which was sent to rescue an elephant stranded in the swirling waters of the Mahanadi, overturned near Mundali bridge of Cuttack on Friday. Arindam Das, 40, the chief reporter of OTV, his cameraman colleague Prabhat Sinha, along with five personnel of the ODRAF were in the inflatable dinghy that capsized due to strong current of water near the pillars of Mundali barrage during the rescue operation. Das, who along with Sinha and four ODRAF personnel were rushed to SCB Medical College and Hospital, was declared brought dead, said Dr Bhubanananda Maharana, emergency officer of the hospital. “Prabhat Sinha, the cameraman, and an ODRAF personnel are in very serious condition. We are trying our best to save them,” said Dr Maharana, adding that three other ODRAF personnel were also in serious conditions. One ODRAF official is still missing. Additional Director General (law and order) RK Sharma, said an investigation into the boat tragedy will be done to find out the circumstances that led the dinghy to capsize and why journalists were allowed to board the boat.An ODRAF official, who was rescued from the river, said the boat was sucked into a whirlpool. “As the boat capsized, we tried to restore its position, but the water current was very strong. As the boat got sucked into the whirlpool, the motor stopped working. We tried to come out of the whirlpool but it was tough...,” he said.Jagi Mangat Panda, managing director of OTV, said it was a terrible loss. “He was a brave and ethical journalist who fearlessly chose to go after breaking news. This is a terrible loss despite taking safety precautions & ODRAF’s best efforts. Om Shanti,” she tweeted. Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik, Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national vice-president Baijayant Panda and National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF) DG Satya Narayan Pradhan condoled the journalist’s death. While Patnaik said the death of Das was a huge loss for journalism, the Union minister said the journalist had created his own identity with his daring news reportage in challenging circumstances. “He was and is a hero. Deeply anguished by boat tragedy which, despite safety precautions, took life of OTV’s intrepid chief reporter Arindam Das while covering an ODRAF elephant rescue. Deepest condolences to his family & prayers for injured & missing,” tweeted Panda. Saying he was extremely disturbed and saddened by untimely death of Das, NDRF DG said: “Can’t forget he took my first TV interview at Mundali soon after I joined as NDRF DG. Always active and stayed in touch. May your soul be forever blessed dear Arindam.”Editor of OTV, Radha Madhav Mishra said, “As reporters we often take on-the-spot risk assessment of doing a particular story. Arindam has done several such reporting including covering cyclones in the past in difficult circumstances. I am too shocked and sad to say anything more.” Das is survived by his wife and a three-year-old son. Hours before the tragedy, a team of 80 forest officials from two forest divisions of Odisha launched a major operation to rescue the adult tusker that was trapped inside the swirling floodwaters of the Mahanadi on Friday morning, officials said. Assistant conservator of forest of Chandaka forest division, Sangram Mohanty, said the tusker, part of a 17-member herd that was trying to cross the river from Chandaka side to Banki late Thursday night, got swept by strong water current in the river that is now in spate. “All other elephants, except the tusker, could cross the river. The level of water was a little too high near the spot where the elephant got stuck. Though elephants are good swimmers it got tired and was looking for ways to get out,” said Mohanty. The rescue operation did not make much headway as the elephant that was slowly wading its way through the waters to the banks returned back, probably scared by a large number of people who were watching it over the barrage. A team of five ODRAF personnel from its 6th Battalion then decided to go near the elephant to herd it towards the shore when the two reporters of OTV hopped on the boat. Bhubaneswar-Cuttack police commissioner Soumendra Priyadarshi said though the inflatable dinghies are easy to manoeuvre and not difficult to balance in floodwaters, the current seemed to be too strong. “Though the journalists and others in the boat were wearing lifejackets, the force of the water was too strong for them. The journalists carrying video cameras and other reporting materials may have found it difficult to balance themselves in such a situation,” said Priyadarshi. Officials said on Friday locals found the tusker trumpeting and converged over the Mundali barrage as fire brigade personnel thought of ways to rescue the elephant. They first put a net around it to stop it from getting swept away and then planned to bring a crane to lift it out of the swirling waters.“A couple of hours later, the elephant slowly regained its strength and started wading through the water though the water level kept on rising covering half its body. It had almost reached the shore when it decided to turn back and head into the swirling waters again annoyed by hundreds of people shouting and taking pictures in the mobile camera. We tried telling people to move away, but nobody would listen to us,” said Mohanty.It was then that the ODRAF officials were requisitioned by the forest department and they arrived within 15 minutes. A former ODRAF commandant said the team should never have gone into water as its mandate is to save human beings not wildlife. “In disaster situation the first principle is ensure own safety first and then attempt to rescue as many people as possible. There was no need of rescuing elephants that are known to be good swimmers. The team should have waited instead of taking the boat in the swirling waters. There was also no need of taking journalists unless they can tell the team about the topography of the area,” said the former commandant.Another senior police official who has trained with ODRAF, said Friday’s operation was a complete botch up till the end. “Though ODRAF claims to be very good in rescue, I was appalled to see its personnel being rescued from the waters through rope ladder. The personnel must be totally drained out of any energy and disoriented after the boat capsized and they should have been winched up through a crane. One needs biceps of steel to climb up the ladder,” said the official.By late Friday evening, the elephant was still in the riverwater, but was in a better position. DFO of Chandaka wildlife division, Mohd Jamil said he expected the elephant to swim its way through once the water level receded a little bit. “The crowding and the constant hooting on the barrage is still troubling the animal,” he said.Noted conservationist and former member of National Board for Wildlife, Biswajit Mohanty said the the mishap could have been avoided had the forest officials been a little more patient. “I don’t know what the forest officials were thinking, but the idea of herding away an elephant is ridiculous. Elephants can swim and in this case it would have found its way had the crowd been driven away by the forest officials,” he said.Wildlife expert and member of Odisha State Biodiversity Board, Jayanta Mardaraj said the elephant may have been forced to take the new path as the riverbanks are now encroached. “The riverbank has been encroached by farmhouses and elephants are now taking longer routes to cross rivers. In my youth, I have seen elephants regularly crossing the river from Chandaka to Banki effortlessly. But encroachment on the riverbanks is a major issue which is playing havoc with the elephant corridors,” he said.In August this year, the National Green Tribunal had ordered the Odisha government to notify 14 elephant corridors in the state within the next two months culminating in the realisation of the long-standing demands of elephant conservationists for declaration of the same that would give legal sanctity to the elephant paths.Responding to a petition by wildlife conservationist Biswajit Mohanty the Eastern Zonal bench of the NGT said that the 14 corridors identified by Asian Nature Conservation Foundation, a non-profit public charitable trust involved in the conservation of Asian elephants in 13 of the 30 districts be notified within two weeks.Mohanty had alleged that that though the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) had submitted details of elephant corridors in Odisha to the forest and environment department in 2012 for identification of 14 corridors with a length of 420.8 kms and a width of 0.08 km to 4.6 kms, no action was being taken for their formal notification under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-tv-journalist-dies-another-critical-after-boat-to-rescue-elephant-capsizes-101632509531945.html
25-09-2021||India||‘We got notice just hours before the eviction drive,’ claim residents of Assam’s Dholpur||Thirty one-year-old Ful Chand and his family of eight members haven’t cooked any meals since Wednesday night when he along with most of his neighbours in Dholpur-3 village got a notice from the Darrang district administration of Assam to vacate their houses and move away. The vegetable vendor’s family had to collect all their belongings and move to a new location nearly a kilometre away across a small stream. They now live cramped inside a temporary shed made of tin-sheets waiting for a better place to shift to or a government rehabilitation deal allotting a new plot. “We got the notice on Wednesday evening and by Thursday morning police and district officials had arrived to evict us. We managed to collect most of our belonging and shift to this new place. We haven’t cooked any meals and are eating whatever is being provided by generous relatives living in other parts of Dholpur who haven’t been served eviction notices yet,” said Chand. Two civilians were killed and nearly 20 others including 11 policemen were injured in violence during Thursday’s drive to evict around 500 families residing on government land for decades. A similar drive was carried out on Monday in which 800 families residing in other parts of Dholpur were evicted. There was no violence on that day. The areas where the eviction drives are taking place are part of the Assam government’s Garukhuti Project, which aims to remove encroachers from 77,420 ‘bighas’ (25,595 acres) of land located on a massive sandbar close to the Brahmaputra river and start agricultural and other allied activities for indigenous youth there. This year’s state budget mentioned that the government plans to “develop this cluster as a beacon of resurgent Assam” and earmarked ₹9.6 crore for it. Residents of these areas mostly comprise of Bengali speaking Muslims many of whom are engaged in agriculture. Though they have been living in the area for decades, none of them possess any land documents. 70-year-old Kot Banu’s family was also among those evicted on Thursday. The family, which has been residing in the area since 1985 has no land documents and have no clear idea how much land they possess. She said they have three plots at different locations in Dholpur-3. Many residents of the area have shifted house several times as the rising waters of Brahmaputra and its distributaries that crisscross the sandbar erode away their agriculture plots and houses. “Instead of forcing us to leave our houses at such short notice and resorting to violence, the government should have first allotted us some alternate land where we could have shifted. What was the hurry to remove us from a place that we have called home for decades?” questioned Sattar Ali, a small-time businessman. “The Darrang district administration had earlier assured to provide us plots, but the areas where we were asked to relocate to get flooded during monsoon. How can we stay there? We want the government to relocate us somewhere better. The size of the plot doesn’t matter much, but it should be in a place where we can stay without worries,” he added. Despite repeated attempts Darrang deputy commissioner Prabhati Thaosen and BJP MLA Padma Hazarika, who has been made chairman of the Garukhuti Project and given a cabinet rank, didn’t respond to calls seeking details of the government’s proposed package for the evicted families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-got-notice-just-hours-before-the-eviction-drive-claim-residents-of-assam-s-dholpur-101632509169598.html
25-09-2021||India||Quad leaders agree to scale up collective strategic cooperation||Leaders of India, the United States, Japan, and Australia gathered on Friday for their first in-person summit as partners of the Quad alliance, promising to use their shared values as democracies to work on COVID-19 vaccines, infrastructure and technological cooperation.The meeting is likely to be watched closely in Beijing, which criticised the group as “doomed to fail”. The four leaders each offered brief comments ahead of their meeting, which was likely to last about two hours.“I am honoured to welcome the first in-person meeting of democratic partners, who share common values, coming together to take on key challenges of Covid, climate and emerging tech,” said US President Joe Biden, describing the grouping as a collective of nations that “know how get things done and are up to the challenge”.The US President said the Quad is cooperating on a host of issues to work on its commitment to build a free and open Indo-Pacific, and said a new Quad fellowship for students pursuing advanced STEM courses will now be rolled out.Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke next. “Our four countries first came together in 2004 to extend support in the aftermath of the Indian Ocean tsunami. Today, as the world grapples with Covid-19, we are meeting once again and working in the interest of humanity,” he said, while adding that the Quad vaccine initiative will greatly help countries in the Indo-Pacific.Modi said he looked forward to the Quad partners working together on issues spanning supply chains, global security, climate action and Covid-19 response.The Quad vaccine initiative, announced in March, involves manufacturing of a billion doses with the partners chipping in with funding and logistics.Australian PM Scott Morrison said the Quad grouping was about “demonstrating how democracies such as ours get things done”. “We are liberal democracies, which believe in a world order of freedom,” he said.His Japanese counterpart said the alliance demonstrates the strong solidarity between the four nations and their unwavering commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific.The group is expected to announce several agreements aimed directly at China, including one to bolster supply chain security for semiconductors and to combat illegal fishing and boost maritime domain awareness, a senior US official said, according to Reuters. It will also roll out a 5G partnership and plans for monitoring climate change.The meeting comes just over a week after the United States, Britain and Australia announced an AUKUS security pact under which Australia will be provided with nuclear-powered submarines, a move that has been roundly denounced by Beijing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quad-leaders-agree-to-scale-up-collective-strategic-cooperation-101632508928748.html
25-09-2021||India||BJP hits out at opposition over caste census, calls them nepotistic||Amid growing demands from Opposition parties for a nationwide caste census, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday hit back at them and asked how much representation they have given to different social groups in their organisations and among elected representatives.The development comes a day after the Union government, in its affidavit filed in the Supreme Court, termed the 2011 caste census “unusable” for any official purpose on account of grave “inaccuracies”, and asserted that it was also against collecting any information on castes or backward classes, other than Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs), during the upcoming population census in 2022.At a press conference on Friday, BJP spokesperson Sudhanshu Trivedi criticised parties calling for a caste census and accused them of nepotism“Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav used to be called dharti putra (son of the soil) but he ended up promoting his son. Mayawati, addressed as behanji (sister) by her admirers, spoke of the deprived communities but only thought of her brother,” Trivedi said.He added that, unlike other parties that only speak about the empowerment of people from backward castes, the BJP has walked the talk on development for all. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s policy is clear. He believes in Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas…and welfare measures have been extended to all irrespective of their castes,” he said.Asked about the government’s stand on the issue, he said it has taken a position on “technical grounds”.Apart from the opposition parties, BJP allies -- the Janata Dal (United) and Apna Dal -- too have been at the forefront of seeking caste-based enumeration.On August 23, an 11-member delegation led by Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to demand caste-wise enumeration of OBCs in the 2021 census. Most advocates say that not knowing the numbers of the various OBC communities prevents the creation of targeted interventions for their welfare. However, in July, Nityanand Rai, the minister of state for home affairs, stated in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha that the Union government has decided as a matter of policy not to enumerate caste-wise populations other than SCs and STs in the census.A BSP leader who does not wished to be named said the BSP has appointed a leader coming from backward community Bhim Rajbhar as BSP state unit president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-hits-out-at-opposition-over-caste-census-calls-them-nepotistic-101632508571212.html
25-09-2021||India||Health ministry to celebrate 1 billion Covid vaccine doses in October||The Union health ministry is making plans to celebrate India administering 1 billion coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine doses by early October – a milestone that is likely to coincide with Narendra Modi completing 20 years as the head of a government over his 13 years as Gujarat chief minister and his second term as Prime Minister.People familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity that the ideas being floated among senior functionaries to mark the occasion include, among others, felicitating the 100 beneficiaries who took the shot, or those who participated in clinical trials.“India is conducting the largest vaccination drive in the world, and it will be a momentous occasion when we complete administering one billion vaccine shots which is more than the population of some countries. Therefore, it is only fitting to celebrate the occasion as several agencies and people across the country have worked really hard to make this happen,” one of the officials in the ministry said.“Several interesting ideas are being floated such as whether to felicitate Covid warriors, or first 100 beneficiaries who took the shot, or those having participated in clinical trials among others or all of them on the occasion,” a second government functionary said.With over 7.4 million doses administered on Friday, a total of 848 million vaccine doses have been administered across India, according health ministry data till Friday night. Of the roughly 940 million adults eligible for shots, nearly 67% (626.7 million people) have received at least the one dose of Covid-19 vaccine, and about 23.6% (221.5 million people) have got both jabs in the drive that started on January 16.An average of 9 million doses have been administered daily in the past five days. At this rate, India appears set to touch the 1 billion dose mark in the second week of October.Modi took over at Gujarat chief minister for the first time on October 7, 2001.“It is incidental that the PM will also be completing 20 years as the head of a government; even though the date for both the events may not exactly be the same. It is likely to be close but likely not the same date. As per the trends, one billion jabs should complete around second week of October,” added the second official quoted above.Last week, on September 17, India set a world vaccination record for a single day by delivering 25 million doses to mark Modi’s 71st birthday – an achievement that was hailed for the numbers hit but the Opposition questioned linking the boost in numbers with a personal milestone for the PM.There is also a possibility of a small event being held offline to commemorate the achievement.At pace of vaccination in the past five days (7.5 million doses /day), all Indian are likely to be fully vaccinated by early February. This would mean that, unless the daily rate is upped to 10.4 million daily doses, India will miss the December 31 target set by the Union government in a statement to the Supreme Court.So far, six states and Union territories have completed administering at least the first dose to all adults – Lakshadweep, Chandigarh, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Andaman & Nicobar Islands, and Sikkim. Four states and Union territories have administered first dose to at least 90% of the adults – Kerala, Uttarakhand, Ladakh, and Dadra and Nagar Haveli.At the bottom end of the spectrum, lie Jharkhand (first doses administered to 52.9% adults), West Bengal (53.7% adults having received a single dose) and Uttar Pradesh (55.2%).To be sure, the vaccination rate has increased manifold over the past five months – from an average of 1.9 million doses a day in May, when the drive was opened up for all adults to 8.14 million doses a day in September.“We have reached the stage where government is able to provide states the volume of doses they demand based on their vaccine administration capacity. No state can now be seen complaining that they were in a position to administer more vaccine doses than what they were administering in a single day but were not doing that because of the short vaccine supply from the centre,” said the first official cited above.Experts say government would need to focus on states that are lagging to be able to meet the year-end target.“We have seen north and central Indian states exhibit vaccine hesitancy even for traditional vaccines, which needs to be dealt with for the vaccine coverage to expand as per requirement. However, there is no denying that the overall vaccination rate has seen significant improvement which is a good sign,” said Chandrakant Lahariya, senior public health and vaccine expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-ministry-to-celebrate-1-billion-covid-vaccine-doses-in-october-101632508029567.html
25-09-2021||India||Disruptions in house not good: Birla as Karnataka Cong boycotts special address||New Delhi: Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Friday said that planned disruptions are not good in parliamentary democracy after the Congress legislators decided to boycott his special address to a joint session of the Karnataka legislature. State Congress president DK Shivakumar questioned, “Why the Speaker wants to talk about democracy in Karnataka assembly? If he wants to talk about democracy, he should do it in Parliament.” Shivakumar also claimed that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government set a “bad precedent” by calling the Lok Sabha Speaker to the assembly. “Vidhana Soudha (the assembly) shouldn’t have been used for a political angle,” he said and justified the boycott saying except the President and governor, no one else has ever addressed the assembly. Birla, during his speech, remarked that “disruption of proceedings in a planned manner is not good anywhere” and maintained that “courtesy and mutual respect must be maintained during protests.” Addressing the issue of disruption of proceedings and disorderly conduct, Birla said, “As public representatives are directly connected to the people and understand their wants, issues and difficulties, their active participation in the legislative process is required. For this, they must ensure that the valuable time of the Assembly is not wasted due to disruption.” The Speaker’s comments were also seen by many in the backdrop of the continuous protests during the monsoon session of Parliament. The Lok Sabha could use only 23% of its time due to disruptions in that session. Birla said once again there is a need for wide-ranging discussions to maintain discipline, decorum and dignity in state legislatures. While he maintained that “differences and debates are the defining feature of our democratic system”, he emphasised that protest must be dignified and remain within parliamentary norms. Birla was addressing a special joint session of the Karnataka legislature on the last day of the monsoon session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/planned-disruptions-not-good-in-parliamentary-democracy-om-birla-as-karnataka-congress-boycotts-special-address-101632507669240.html
25-09-2021||India||Govt inks ₹22k-cr deal with Airbus for 56 jets||The Union defence ministry on Friday announced that it has signed a ₹22,000 crore contract with Airbus Defence and Space for 56 C-295 medium transport aircraft to modernise the India Air Force’s transport fleet, with the development coming a fortnight after India’s Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) cleared the purchase to give push to the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (self-reliant India campaign).The C-295s will replace the IAF’s fleet of ageing Avro-748 planes that entered service in the early 1960s. Airbus Defence and Space and Tata Advanced Systems Limited (TASL) will jointly execute the programme under which Airbus will deliver the first 16 aircraft in flyaway condition from Spain while TASL will assemble the rest in India. IAF will become the 35th C-295 operator worldwide.“The aircraft is capable of operating from semi-prepared strips and has a rear ramp door for quick reaction and para-dropping of troops and cargo. It will give a major boost to the tactical airlift capability of IAF, especially in the northern and north-eastern sectors and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands,” the defence ministry said in a statement.The C-295 can carry up to nine tonne of payload or 71 personnel (or 50 paratroopers) and has a maximum speed of 480 kmph. It has a light footprint and can operate from short or unprepared airstrips.The Avro replacement project was in the works for almost a decade. The defence acquisition council -- India’s apex defence procurement body -- accorded its acceptance of necessity (AoN) to replace the Avro planes with 56 new aircraft in 2012. Under India’s defence procurement rules, AoN by the council is the first step towards buying military hardware.“The C-295 is a good aircraft. I hope we start manufacturing it in India soon to boost Atmanirbhar Bharat. The Avro was overdue for replacement,” said former IAF chief Air Chief Marshal PV Naik (retd).The first 16 aircraft will be delivered to IAF in flyaway condition between September 2023 and September 2025, and the remaining 40 will be inducted by September 2031.Airbus Defence and Space and TASL are yet to announce where the aircraft will be assembled in India.“More than 100 locations across the country have been looked at and evaluated over the years. We have looked at aspects such as length of the airstrip, availability of infrastructure, social indicators and weather. A decision has not yet been made,” TASL CEO Sukaran Singh said at a media briefing after the contract was signed.The final assembly line in India will have a capacity of 12 aircraft per year. After the contract has been fully executed, subsequent aircraft manufactured in India can be exported to countries cleared by the government, the defence ministry said in its statement.Export opportunities could be there, but the current priority is to execute the project to the satisfaction of IAF, said Jean-Brice Dumont, executive vice president, military aircraft, Airbus Defence and Space. “Export potential is there, but we don’t want to divert attention from this project (for 56 C-295s),” Dumont said. The project is expected to boost India’s aerospace ecosystem and generate 15,000 skilled and 10,000 indirect jobs in the country.“It is the first ‘Make in India’ aerospace programme in the private sector involving the full development of a complete industrial ecosystem; from the manufacture to assembly, test and qualification, to delivery and maintenance of the complete life cycle of the aircraft,” Airbus Defence and Space and TASL said in a joint release.This is the first time that an Indian private company will be manufacturing a military aircraft in India. “This endeavour demonstrates TASL’s capabilities as a defence manufacturer to build globally competitive complex platforms in India,” Singh said.While the C-295s are meant to replace the Avro-748 planes, the new aircraft will also be suitable for demanding roles that the AN-32 currently undertakes.The contract will also have an offset clause. India’s offset policy stipulates that in all big-ticket capital purchases, the foreign vendor has to invest at least 30% of the value of the purchase in the country to boost indigenous capabilities. Airbus Defence and Space will discharge its offset obligations through direct purchase of eligible products and services from Indian offset partners, officials said.“The clearance of the joint project between Airbus Defence and Tata Advanced Systems is a great step forward in the opening up of aviation and avionics projects in India…It will create a domestic supply chain capability to international standards, which has never been undertaken before,” Tata Sons chairman emeritus Ratan Tata said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-ministry-inks-22-000-cr-deal-with-airbus-for-56-c-295-medium-transport-aircraft-101632507013413.html
25-09-2021||India||24-year-old from Bihar tops UPSC civil services exam||The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) on Friday announced the final results of the civil services examinations 2020 with Shubham Kumar, a resident of Bihar’s Katihar district, securing the all India rank one.According to a statement issued by the UPSC, a total of 761 candidates, including 545 men and 216 women, have been recommended for various services including the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Foreign Service (IFS) and Indian Police Service (IPS), among others.Kumar, 24, who qualified with anthropology as his optional subject, received his BTech degree in civil engineering from IIT-Bombay. It was his third attempt and he is currently undergoing training at the Indian Defence Account Services in Pune. He had secured 290th rank last year.“I was not expecting this jump. Neither I nor my family could believe it when we first saw the rank list. It took us some time to realise that this had actually happened. My parents are thrilled with my success... As an IAS officer, I will work with a focus on rural development. I will be really happy if I get Bihar cadre,” he said.Kumar’s father Devanad Singh, who works as a manager in a bank in Bihar, said: “His aim was to clear IAS from the very beginning and hence he never gave up and even after 290th rank he continued to prepare and today he made all of us proud. I got the news through my son who called me from Delhi to inform me about the result.”Kumar’s sister is a scientist at the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre.Jagrati Awasthi, who has completed her BTech in electrical engineering from Bhopal, secured the all India rank 2 and emerged as the topper among women candidates. Ankita Jain secured the third position. Among the top 20 candidates was Ria Dabi, younger sister of all India 2015 topper Tina Dabi. Ria secured the 15th rank.The civil services examination is conducted annually in three phases -- preliminary, main and interview -- to select candidates for the country’s premier civil services. The preliminary exam was held on October 4, 2020, with 1,040,060 candidates applying for it, of which 482,770 appeared.As per UPSC, a total of 10,564 candidates appeared in the written, or main exam, held in January, and of them, 2,053 qualified for the personality test.Of the successful candidates, 263 were from the general category, 86 from the economically weaker section (EWS), 220 from other backward classes (OBC), 122 Scheduled Castes (SC) and 621 from the Scheduled Tribe (ST) category. The recommended candidates also include 25 people with disabilities, UPSC said.Among the top 25 candidates, 13 are men and 12 women. According to the commission, the common subjects opted by the top 25 candidates were anthropology, civil engineering, commerce & accountancy, economics, geography, mathematics, mechanical engineering, medical science, philosophy, physics, political science & international relations, public administration, and sociology as their optional choices in the written (main) examination.The commission said that the educational qualification of the top 25 candidates ranged from graduates in engineering; humanities; commerce and medicine from some of the country’s premier institutions such as IITs, NITs, BITS, St. Xavier’s College, University of Mumbai, Delhi University, among others.Meanwhile, about 150 candidates have been placed under the reserved category.With inputs from Aditya Nath Jha in Purnia||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/24yearold-from-bihar-tops-upsc-civil-services-exam-101632506769125.html
25-09-2021||India||Changing gears: Three phases of the farm law protests||“It’s simple. Let me say this clearly, just smash their heads. Can you do it?” The chilling instruction, heard in a viral video on the morning of August 29 was from Ayush Sinha, an official in Haryana’s Karnal area, to policemen in full riot gear. It was to be a spark for a political firestorm.The orders left “no doubt” in the mind of farmers resisting the Modi government’s three liberalising farm laws since 2020 that the government wanted them “killed”, one farmer said.The controversial instructions not only ignited a fierce standoff between thousands of farmers and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Haryana government, but also served as a springboard for a full-scale political war against the ruling party by the mostly landed peasantry who are now preparing to fight the entire gamut of the Union government’s economic policies.And it marked the third phase of the farm protests.Seven days later, on September 5, Rakesh Tikait, the influential 59-year-old farm union leader leading the ongoing uprising of farmers against the three farm laws, announced an all-out campaign against the BJP, especially its economic agenda pivoted towards second-generation reforms and privatisation in Asia’s third largest economy.“The government of Modi has put India on sale. We will not allow India to be sold off,” he told tens of thousands of cultivators at a rally in Muzaffarnagar, a sugarcane belt in the politically important state of Uttar Pradesh which is governed by the BJP and goes to polls early next year.It was in Muzzaffarnagar that the political objective of the farm protest – dislodging the BJP – was officially articulated for the first time.Days later, Tikait and others led a similar march of cultivators into Karnal and laid siege to the mini secretariat there, only relenting after the government agreed to a probe. Sinha, the subdivisional magistrate, has since been transferred and claimed that the video showing his instruction to the policemen was doctored. Last week, the state government, too,in proceedings in the Punjab & Haryana high court, blamed the agriculturists for the violence .Muzzaffarnagar and Karnal marked a new phase in the farm agitation, which has waxed and waned over the last 10 months and took a firm footing only after a series of moves by leaders of the agitation, an analysis of their movement, agendas and speeches of farm leaders show.BEFORE THE LAWSThe first protests began well before the government brought three ordinances – laws promulgated when Parliament is not in session – in June 2020, which were later signed into regular laws in September 2020.Cultivators in Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra were the first to protest against their sliding fortunes, as farm-gate prices steadily crashed in a slew of food items, in 2015 onwards. By 2016, poor returns began hurting cultivators bad.Farmers blame several reasons for low prices. But one came abruptly, and hit them the hardest at the time, they say.“When demonetisation happened, traders began saying they couldn’t buy too much because they did not have cash to pay. This led to a price crash,” Sukhchain Singh, a farmer, said in Hindi. He was talking about the situation at the time in the Shahabad agricultural market, one of the largest in Haryana. Singh has been a participant in the ongoing protests.Demonetisation refers to the Modi government’s 2016 decision to withdraw high-value banknotes from India’s monetary system, accounting for about 85% of total currency in value terms.The government has said demonetisation hadn’t shocked the farm economy, citing food output as evidence. Official estimates of total foodgrain production in 2016-17 stood at an all-time high of 272 million tonnes, 8% higher than the 251.6 million tonnes in the previous year.Singh said the cancelling of currency notes, which spelt chaos, didn’t affect farm output that summer because farmers had met cultivation costs through informal loans to be paid later.A BJP official who oversees economic affairs of the party, Gopal Aggrawal, rejected claims of demonetisation affecting the farm economy. He said there were initial shocks to the informal manufacturing sector, but the move to withdraw high-value currency was necessary to formalise the economy.“We agree farmers have problems,” Agrawal said. “But farm laws are not the cause of problems farmers are facing. The solution needs big changes. It is our conviction the farm-reform laws are the only solution. Farmers haven’t been able to show any alternative.”In June 2017, five farmers among a large group protesting low prices of milk and vegetables were killed in Mandsaur, Madhya Pradesh, when police opened fire as the unrest turned violent. Protests soon spilled over to Maharashtra, where dairy farmers dumped milk on roads, rather than sell at throwaway prices.This first phase quickly coalesced into an organised agitation, when a platform of over 200 farmer unions set up in 2017, the All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), called a big rally in Delhi on November 26-27. The demands were still about better prices and a farm-loan waiver.And there things stood for a few uneasy years.‘BLACK’ LEGISLATIONThen, the government brought in three farm laws. One law was meant to allow big businesses and supermarkets to buy produce from farmers outside heavily regulated state-backed wholesale markets.A second law would allow private traders to stockpile large quantities of food for future sales. A third law laid down a framework for contract farming.Allowing food businesses to stock large quantities is aimed at spurring private investors to build modern silos, according to the government.“If one looks at the overall public resources being spent on agriculture, one is amazed that three-fourths of the resources go primarily as subsidies on things like fertiliser, power and irrigation, while only one-fourth goes into investment,” said economist Uma Kapila, editor of the series ‘Indian Economy Since Independence’.Farmers in Punjab, who benefit heavily from the state-backed markets where government buys wheat and rice at assured prices, were weary. The move sought to change a system that had benefited them for long because the government was an assured buyer.With the state playing an outsize role as buyer of crops and provider of big subsidies, there were little of growth-enhancing investments, either public or private.A concrete step to launch a sustained agitation came when, under the aegis of the AIKSCC, several farmer leaders from Punjab and Haryana met at the Gurdwara Rakab Ganj, a Sikh temple in Delhi, led by influential farm union leaders such as Balbir Singh Rajewal and Gurnam Singh Chaduni in October 2020.“Instead of giving us relief, the government gifted us three anti-farmer laws,” said Gurnam Singh Chaduni, a farm leader.These changes, however, riled farmers, who say the new laws will expose them to exploitation by big buyers. In Bihar, they argue, where farm trade is entirely in private hands, some similar reforms have already ruined farmers.Bihar’s agricultural reforms of 2006, which saw the state liberalise agricultural trade by abolishing state-regulated markets, resulted in better prices for produce such as rice, wheat and maize, but the changes also brought greater price volatility, ultimately hurting farm growth, a study by the National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER) showed last year.The government has stated that these new laws would boost capital investment in the farm sector.More than 100,000 farmers have been camping at key border points of Delhi since November last year, which marked the first phase of the protests.TURNING POINTA turning point came on a cold night of January 28 this year, when news began to spread that authorities in Uttar Pradesh would descend on Ghazipur, a protest camp on Delhi’s border with UP, to vacate the site.The Ghazipur site was under the supervision of Rakesh Tikait, the son of legendary farm leader Mahendra SIngh Tikait who faced off with the then Congress government in 1986.Tikait cried before TV cameras, saying he would rather die than give in, which steeled the resolve of the Jats, a landed agrarian community that had benefited from the Green Revolution of the 1970s. Overnight, groups of young Jat men assembled at the Bharatiya Kisan Union headquarters in Sisauli village, and marched to the Ghazipur protest site. It brought the Jats of western UP, who were until then lukewarm to the agitation, into the protest fold. That set off the second phase of the protest, which appeared to be losing momentum -- the protest camps around Delhi continue to thrive, though -- till Sinha’s comments and events in Karnal and Muzzaffarnagar galvanised the farmers.They are now targeting the very core of the government’s economic agenda because they see a common threat: privatisation. “This government wants to sell off India. We have to give them ‘vote ka chote’ (hurt them with votes),” Tikait said in the September 5 rally.“After attending a protest which the police quelled with force, a farmer had died. These strong-arm tactics are worsening the situation on the ground. The farmers see this as oppression, which it is,” said Sudhir Panwar, a professor with Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/changing-gears-three-phases-of-the-farm-law-protests-101632505508450.html
25-09-2021||India||Rahul and Priyanka meet Pilot amid Raj rumblings||In a signal that the Congress has started moving fast to resolve the Rajasthan tangle, party leader Rahul Gandhi met the state’s former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot in New Delhi on Friday, their second meeting in a week.While both sides remained tight-lipped about what transpired during the meeting, two senior Congress leaders maintained that it was a “good meeting” and went in the “right direction”.“We expect the effects of the meeting can be visible in next few days,” said a senior Congress functionary indicating that some of Pilot’s sympathisers might be relocated in different governmental positions in Rajasthan soon, as the first step.A senior leader familiar with the development said Rahul and Priyanka want Pilot (44) to take charge of Gujarat campaign before moving back to Rajasthan. Gujarat is facing elections in late 2022. A second Congress leader expressed doubt over Pilot taking charge of managing all aspects of the Congress in Gujarat. “He (Pilot) can go there for campaigning. But giving Pilot full charge of Gujarat is unlikely. He needs to go back to Rajasthan to improve our prospects for the next Lok Sabha polls,” said the leader.The meeting went for an hour and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also joined the meeting at Rahul’s residential office at Tughlaq Lane. Rahul Gandhi and Pilot also met on September 17. That meeting, too, went on for an hour and the two leaders discussed both the Rajasthan situation as well as the larger goals of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls.On Friday, too, the two leaders went into a huddle to discuss the political situation in the state as well as the larger 2024 goals.A senior Congress leader said that after the Punjab crisis is resolved, Gandhi’s main focus in Rajasthan as it is one of the six states where the Congress and BJP will fight in a bipolar election and the party needs to improve its tally if it wishes to form an alternative government in the next national elections.According to Congress leaders in Rajasthan, Rahul also met state health minister Raghu Sharma, who is considered close to chief minister Ashok Gehlot, who has been homebound for some months now; first because of Covid and then heart ailment.Pilot did not respond to text messages or calls.A state minister close to chief minister Ashok Gehlot said meetings with senior leaders are a general affair. “What the leadership did in Punjab cannot be implemented in Rajasthan due to different political scenarios. Certainly, the long-pending political appointment and changes in the cabinet will be happening – hopefully after October 5,” he said, requesting anonymity.For a year, chief minister Ashok Gehlot and former deputy CM Sachin Pilot have been at loggerheads. A compromise formula worked out by the party’s central leadership is yet to bring in a thaw in the relationship, with many lawmakers upset about a promised cabinet reshuffle, which is the lynchpin of the compromise formula, taking longer to materialise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-meets-sachin-pilot-to-iron-out-rajasthan-tangle-their-2nd-meeting-this-week-101632501310073.html
25-09-2021||India||After SC judgement, UPSC invites application from women candidates for NDA exam||The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) on Friday sought applications from women to appear in the November 14 examination for entry into the National Defence Academy (NDA) and Naval Academy, a move that came two days after the Supreme Court rejected the Centre’s request to allow women to be admitted to the elite military institutions from 2023. The court on Wednesday stressed that it “cannot belie the aspirations of young girls” while directing women shall be allowed to sit for the exam as per schedule.“In compliance with the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India’s interim direction permitting the women candidates to take part in the National Defence Academy and Naval Academy Examination (II)…the Union Public Service Commission has decided to open the online portal of application on its website (upsconline.nic.in) for this Examination to enable the unmarried women candidates ONLY (to take it)...,” UPSC said in a statement. It added the application window will remain open for women candidates till 6 pm on October 8. The eligibility criteria is the same for men too, although women candidates are exempt from paying the exam fee of ₹100. CHECKThe Centre on Monday, September 20 sought exemption for this year’s admission. It said women can take the entrance exam in April-May next year to join NDA in January 2023. But the court wasn’t amenable to this. The court directed UPSC to issue a revised notification for the entrance exam after consultation with the ministry of defence to indicate tentative requirements for women candidates if standards for admission cannot be finalised by the time of issuance of the notification. The Centre argued in favour of a deferral in view of the sweeping changes that have to be brought about before women cadets are inducted and start their training at the joint defence service training institute.On August 18, the top court said that women should also be admitted to NDA . Following this interim directive, the government on September 8 said it has taken an in-principle decision to open doors of NDA to women cadets, but sought an exemption for this year’s admission. In an affidavit submitted on September 20, the government said it proposes to have the necessary mechanism in place by May 2022 -- the time by which UPSC is required to publish the first notification of the entrance examination for NDA next year. The affidavit added there were various amenities pertaining to accommodation, training capacity that needed to be worked out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-sc-judgement-upsc-invites-application-from-women-candidates-for-nda-exam-101632478628337.html
25-09-2021||India||In tweet to President Biden, Rakesh Tikait seeks US help on farm laws||Rakesh Tikait, a leader of the ongoing farmers’ agitation against three new agricultural laws, on Friday, tweeted up a storm by appealing to US president Joe Biden, seeking his intervention to get India to scrap the legislation. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is visiting the US currently. Tikait’s tweet tagging @POTUS, the Twitter handle of the US president, came several hours ahead of an all-important meeting between the leaders of the US and India. “These black laws should be repealed to save us. Please focus on our concern while meeting PM Modi,” Tikait, the leader of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Indian farmers’ union) and a key face of the agitation, tweeted. The tweet, which had the hashtag “Biden_SpeakUp4Farmers”, began trending in India. Friday’s meeting was the first in-person meeting of the leaders of the Quad grouping of countries whose members are the United States, Japan, Australia and India. Tens of thousands of farmers are campaigning against three laws enacted in September 2020 to liberalise domestic agricultural trade. Farmers say the new laws will leave them at the mercy of big corporations who will dictate prices and wean them off state support. The government has argued the changes will not alter an existing state-backed market system but would free up farm trade, boost investments in the farm economy and raise incomes. The year-old farmers’ protests have now broadened into a larger political movement against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s economic policies. Garnering global support is a key agenda of the protesting farmers. “International support for a movement this large rests on mobilising support at all levels. I personally think there is nothing wrong,” said Kavitha Kuruganti, a key member of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a platform of farm unions. Tikait could not immediately be contacted for comment. Kuruganti, the only woman representative of the farmers to take part in talks with the Modi government on the laws, said “the UN had a special role to play” because India was a signatory to the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Peasants and Other People Working in Rural Areas. Early in the movement, farm leader Darshan Pal made a video appeal to the UN. Farm leaders say they command a lot of support among the Indian diaspora. People have protested against the laws in many cities, from Vienna to Melbourne, Kuruganti said. The ruling BJP slammed Tikait for the tweet. “To ask the US president to intervene on a domestic issue like agriculture really creates doubt over Tikait’s credibility,” said Gopal Krishna Agarwal, BJP spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-tweet-to-biden-farm-leader-rakesh-tikait-seeks-us-help-on-farm-laws-101632474547194.html
25-09-2021||NA||Modi in US- Day 2 highlights: PM says Quad leaders gathered for welfare of humanity||Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived at the White House for the first in-person Quad Leaders' Summit. Earlier today, PM Modi held a bilateral meeting with US President Joe Biden. PM Modi is on a three-day visit to the United States, his first official visit to the country since Biden took the office. On Thursday, the Indian prime minister held separate meetings with US vice-president Kamala Harris, Australian counterpart Scott Morrison, Japanese PM Yoshihide Suga, and the CEOs of five multi-national companies. On the final day of the three-day visit, PM Modi will address the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly before leaving for India.Follow all the updates here:Biden announces 'Quad fellowship' at Leaders' Summit in WashingtonUS President Joe Biden announced Quad fellowship for students from each of our Quad countries to pursue advanced degrees in leading stem programs in the United States.PM Modi says Quad leaders have come together for welfare of humanity"Our four nations met for the first time after 2004 Tsunami to help the Indo-Pacific region. Today, when the world is fighting against Covid-19 pandemic, we have come here once again as Quad for the welfare of humanity," PM Modi said.Indian delegation arrives at White House' East Room for Quad Leaders' SummitThe Indian delegation has arrived at the East Room of the White House for the first in-person Quad Leaders' Summit.First in-person Quad Leaders' Summit to begin shortlyQuad Leaders' Summit is expected to begin shortly where the leaders are expected to discuss various issues including climate change, critical infrastructure, supply chains and regional security.Biden lauds Kamala Harris' mother during bilateral meetWhen I showed the PM to his seat, I pointed out that the seat is occupied almost every day by an Indian American (US Vice President Kamala Harris). Vice President's mother was from India - a scientist & a remarkable woman: US President Joe Biden at the bilateral meet with PM Modi pic.twitter.com/E1rqP164PSBiden called Kamala Harris' mother ‘a remarkable woman’. Outstanding: PM Modi tweets after bilateral summit with BidenHad an outstanding meeting with @POTUS @JoeBiden. His leadership on critical global issues is commendable. We discussed how India and USA will further scale-up cooperation in different spheres and work together to overcome key challenges like COVID-19 and climate change. pic.twitter.com/nnSVE5OSdLPM Modi lauds US president Joe Biden's ‘leadership on critical global issues’. PM Modi leaves White House after bilateral meeting with Biden endsPrime Minister Narendra Modi has left for his hotel after the bilateral meeting with Biden ended. He will return to the White House for Quad Summit later today.PM Modi signs visitor book in Roosevelt Room of White HousePrime Minister @narendramodi signs the visitor book in the Roosevelt Room of the White House. Registering the spirit of 🇮🇳 🇺🇸 friendship in ink. pic.twitter.com/E2revXyrUKPrime Minister Narendra Modi signed the visitor book in the Roosevelt Room of the White House, said the ministry of external affairs. PM says seeds sown for stronger India-US friendshipPM Modi said that Biden's leadership will certainly play an important role in shaping this decade. “The seeds have been sown for an even stronger friendship between India and USA,” he added.PM Modi thanks Biden for warm welcome, recalls earlier interactions“I would like to thank you for the warm welcome. I recall our interactions in 2014 and 2016. That time you had shared your vision for ties between India and the United States. I am glad to see you are working to realise this vision,” says PM Modi in his opening remarks.PM Modi says India-US trade will continue to play a major rolePrime Minister Narendra Modi said that trade will continue to play a major role.PM Modi quotes Mahatma Gandhi during meeting with Biden“Mahatma Gandhi always used to say about trusteeship of the Planet. This sentiment of trusteeship is the need of the hour globally, ” said PM Modi during the meet.Bilateral meeting between PM Modi-Biden beginsThe bilateral meeting between PM Modi and US President Joe Biden has started. The meeting is expected to be an hour long.Look forward to strengthening deep ties, tweets POTUSThis morning I’m hosting Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the White House for a bilateral meeting. I look forward to strengthening the deep ties between our two nations, working to uphold a free and open Indo-Pacific, and tackling everything from COVID-19 to climate change.PM arrives at White House for bilateral meeting with Joe BidenPM Modi has arrived at the White House for a bilateral meeting with US President Joe Biden.PM Modi to arrive at White House shortlyPrime Minister Narendra Modi will arrive at the White House shortly for a bilateral meeting with US President Joe Biden. Upon his arrival, the White House Acting Chief of Protocol will greet the prime minister at the West Wing door. The two leaders are expected to hold an hour-long meeting at the Oval Office.Supporters gather outside White House ahead of PM Modi's arrival#WATCH Members of the Indian community gathered outside the White House ahead of PM Narendra Modi arrival for a bilateral meeting with US President Joe Biden pic.twitter.com/1uT8nJdQsXAhead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's bilateral meeting with US President Joe Biden, supporters have gathered outside the White House to welcome the leader.  "We feel privileged to welcome him here. He's a promising leader, can take India to greater heights," news agency ANI quoted a supporter as saying.PM Modi gifted copy of old notifications to Kamala HarrisPrime Minister Narendra Modi, during their first in-person meeting as part of the US visit, gifted US Vice President Kamala Harris a copy of old notifications in a handcrafted wooden frame, related to her grandfather, who was a senior Indian government official, along with a 'meenakari' chess set, government officials said on Friday. Read more…PM Modi, Biden to hold bilateral meeting at White HousePrime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden are set to hold a bilateral meeting at the White House, the first meeting between the two leaders before the Democrat took the office in January earlier this year.September 25 'will be an eventful day for PM Modi in US': BJPVijay Chauthaiwale, In-Charge of BJP's foreign affairs department, told ANI September 25 is slated to be a very important day for Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the US and it will “send an unambiguous message to the world that India and US not only remain strong strategic partners but they are in sync on several global issues."‘Top CEOs appreciative of India’s reform trajectory’: PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi, who is on a three-day tour to the United States, said on Wednesday that top American CEOs appreciated India's reform measures. The Prime Minister held meetings with American CEOs and business leaders on investment in India. "Through the morning, had extensive discussions with top CEOs and business leaders on investment in India. They were appreciative of India’s reform trajectory. Closer economic linkages between India and the USA benefit the people of our nations,” PM Modi tweeted.PM Modi meets his Japanese counterpart Yoshihide Suga in Washington PM Narendra Modi met Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga in Washington to review the multi-faceted relationship between the two countries and and exchanged views on global issues like the developments in Afghanistan, reported ANI.Kamala Harris talked to PM Modi about Pakistan's role in terrorism: ReportUS vice president Kamala Harris, during her maiden meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, ‘suo moto’ referred to Pakistan's role in terrorism. According to the PTI news agency citing the ministry of external affairs, Harris mentioned that there were terror groups working in Pakistan and that she had asked Islamabad to take action so the matter does not threaten the security of India and the United States. Read MoreOn second day of US visit, PM Modi to meet President BidenPrime Minister Narendra Modi will meet US president Joe Biden on Friday during his packed three-day trip to the United States and the two leaders are expected to discuss the situation in Afghanistan at length along with other bilateral issues.This will be Modi's first meeting with Biden after he became the US president in January this year. Read More‘Source of inspiration’: Modi praises US vice president Kamala HarrisPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday praised US vice president Kamala Harris as a “source of inspiration” while extending an invitation to her to visit India.“Your election as vice president of USA has been an important and historic event,” he told the Indian-origin US veep. “You are a source of inspiration for many across the world. I am confident that under President Biden and your leadership our bilateral relations will touch new heights.”PM Modi, US vice-president Kamala Harris discuss shared concerns on democracy, climate change, and the Indo-Pacific  Prime Minister Narendra Modi met US vice-president Kamala Harris on Thursday and stressed the importance of a free and open Indo-Pacific region at a time when the United States is trying to solidify its pivot toward Asia and strengthen ties with allies to take on China's growing influence in the region.The meeting was also a celebratory moment for the four-million-strong Indian diaspora in the United States and Indians back home who take pride in Harris's Indian roots and her ascent.Why PM Modi ‘specially invited’ Kamala Harris to visit India after her ‘historic win’ as US VPPrime Minister Narendra Modi met United States vice-president Kamala Harris at the White House during his trip. The two addressed the media before holding bilateral talks. Modi hailed Harris' ‘historic’ electoral victory which saw her become America's first female vice-president, also the first woman of colour to hold the office.Tête-à-tête between PM Modi and US vice-president Kamala Harris ahead of delegation-level talksTête-à-tête between PM @narendramodi and @VP Kamala Harris before commencing delegation level talks. This is their first in-person meeting. pic.twitter.com/siKcVe88c3||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-us-visit-live-updates-september-24-friday-101632440217170.html
25-09-2021||India||Defence ministry places order for 118 Arjun Mk-1A tanks worth ₹7,523 crore||The defence ministry on Thursday placed an order worth ₹7,523 crore with Heavy Vehicles Factory, Avadi, for 118 locally made Arjun Mk-1A tanks to sharpen the army’s combat edge, a fortnight after India cleared projects worth ₹33,000 crore to equip the Indian Air Force with new medium transport aircraft and airborne early warning systems in a push to the government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India campaign).The order came seven months after the Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) - India’s apex procurement body – accorded its acceptance of necessity (AoN) for the tanks. The Arjun Mk-1A is an upgraded version of the Arjun Mk-1 main battle tank (MBT), which is currently in army service.The new tank will come with 72 upgrades over the existing variant including 14 major improvements, officials familiar with the development said, adding that the upgrades significantly enhance the tank’s lethality, mobility and survivability.“The Mk-1A is equipped with accurate and superior firepower, all-terrain mobility and invincible multi-layered protection provided by an array of advanced technology systems. It can take on the enemy during day and night. By virtue of these capabilities, this indigenous MBT will be on a par with any contemporary in its class across the globe,” the defence ministry said in a statement on Thursday. The execution of the order is expected to involve 200 Indian vendors and generate 8,000 jobs.Five Mk-1A t tanks will be delivered within 30 months, followed by 30 tanks every year. Prime Minister Narendra Modi handed over a prototype of the Arjun Mk-1A tank to the army chief, General Manoj Mukund Naravane, in Chennai on February 14. The army’s existing fleet consists of T-90, T-72 and the Arjun Mk-1 tanks.The improvements on the new tank include better firepower, auto target tracker, remote-controlled weapon system, explosive reactive armour, advanced laser warning and countermeasure systems, containerised ammunition bin, advanced land navigation systems and improved night vision capabilities, as previously reported by HT.The tank has been configured and designed for Indian conditions and is suitable for deployment to protect the frontiers, defence ministry officials said.However, some experts have flagged concerns about the bulky tank, saying its weight (68 tonne) could limit the army’s deployment options.The Defence Research and Development Organisation’s Chennai-based Combat Vehicles Research and Development Establishment (CVRDE) has designed and developed the tank. The Mk-1A tanks will be manufactured at the Ordnance Factory Board’s (OFB) Heavy Vehicles Factory at Avadi, outside Chennai.The tank order comes at a time when the OFB - India’s main producer of weapons and military equipment - is being corporatised to boost its efficiency and competitiveness in a long-awaited reform in the country’s defence manufacturing sector. The Union Cabinet, headed by PM Narendra Modi, had in June cleared the corporatisation of the board.The OFB, which controls 41 ordnance factories, is being split into seven government-owned entities that will produce ammunition and explosives, vehicles, weapons and equipment, troop comfort items, optoelectronics gear, parachutes and ancillary products.Ordnance factories are currently engaged in the production of tanks, armoured personnel carriers, mine-protected vehicles, bombs, rockets, artillery guns, anti-aircraft guns, parachutes, small arms, clothing and leather equipment for soldiers.The development of the Mk-1A tank began in June 2010 and it was fielded for user trials two years later. Extensive trial evaluation was conducted in various phases covering 7,000 km and substantial firing of various ammunitions during 2012-2015, the defence ministry statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atmanirbhar-bharat-defence-ministry-places-order-for-118-arjun-mk-1a-tanks-worth-7-523-crore-101632428940835.html
