26-09-2021||India||SKM-called Bharat Bandh today to mark one year of 3 farm laws||The 10-hour Bharat Bandh on Monday may disrupt road and rail traffic in states ruled by opposition parties as they are supporting the call for a general strike by Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a collective of over 30 farmer organisations protesting the three farm laws. In the states ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), elaborate security arrangements have been made to prevent farmer bodies and opposition parties to disrupt normal life. Additional security forces have been deployed in all districts in Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Bihar.The strike will start at 6am and end at 4pm. “More than 605 farmers have been martyred, including two deaths related to police brutalities. The Modi government is behaving in an extremely undemocratic and inhuman way against farmers, and BJP will certainly bear the consequences of this,” SKM said in a statement on Sunday.Congress general secretary KC Venugopal on Sunday asked all state party chiefs to join the Bharat Bandh. Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati extended her party’s support. In Kerala, the Left parties have called for a complete shutdown along with the Congress. In West Bengal, chief minister Mamata Banerjee has extended her support for the strike and has asked police to ensure there are no untoward incidents.In Tamil Nadu, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and Congress will protest at district headquarters against the Centre refusing to withdraw the three farm laws notified a year ago. In several states, various labour, lawyer and traders bodies have extended support to the call for a general strike. The biggest impact of the strike is expected in Haryana, Punjab, parts of Rajasthan and western Uttar Pradesh, which have been at the centre of the 10-month long farmer protest. Farmer bodies in Meerut said committees have been formed to block traffic at every state and national highway in Uttar Pradesh. Bharatiya Kisan Union’s media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said national highways would be blocked at 14 places in Bijnor, eight places in Meerut, three places in Ghaziabad, 10 places in Muzaffarnagar and in various places in other districts across Uttar Pradesh. “We are committed to ensuring there is no law and order problem in the state during the bandh. All arrangements have been done and different police units have been put on alert in advance,” said Prashant Kumar, Additional Director General, Law and Order, Uttar Pradesh Police.In Punjab and Haryana, farmer bodies have announced that they would block all national and state highways and will not allow trains to run. In the two states, all political parties except BJP are supporting the strike and have asked workers to ensure that it is successful. In Haryana, protests are planned at the Delhi-Ambala rail link and national highway, apart from the ones at all district headquarters. In Rajasthan, farmers have requested all market associations and traders keep the markets closed, said Sanjay Madhav, spokesperson of SKM. “Besides farmers and traders’ organisations, the Left and Congress are supporting the bandh,” he said.In Bihar, authorities have instructed all superintendents of police (SPs) in districts to take prompt action against protestors disrupting road and rail traffic or blocking roads that cause inconvenience to commuters. Lawbreakers would be dealt with firmly, said JS Gangawar, additional director general of police (headquarter). “All SPs have been directed to take action against protestors and ensure that law and order is maintained,” he said. All political parties in West Bengal, including the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and except the BJP, are supporting the strike. “Our government does not support bandhs, but the TMC fully supports the issue. The Centre must withdraw the three draconian farm laws immediately,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who is contesting the September 30 assembly bypoll at Bhawanipore in Kolkata. The Tripura government-imposed curfew in East and West Agartala areas from September 21 till November 4 to prevent any procession or meetings during the period, even though SKM has given a call to disrupt traffic.In Odisha, Congress and Left unions will try to disrupt rail traffic. State government officials have been asked to attend office by Santosh Bala, special secretary, home.The strike is not expected to have an impact in Goa, Gujarat, most parts of Maharashtra, Assam, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/skmcalled-bharat-bandh-today-to-mark-one-year-of-3-farm-laws-101632678642208.html
26-09-2021||India||Bharat Bandh on Monday: All you need to know||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) called for a Bharat Bandh on Monday in protest against the three farm laws passed by the Centre during the monsoon session last year. The SKM, an umbrella body of more than 40 farmer organisations, appealed to political parties and citizens alike to support the call for the bandh.Congress was among the political parties which asked all its workers, state unit chiefs and heads of frontal organisations, to extend full support to the bandh call. Delhi Police on the other hand said that it has taken all efforts to ensure that no farmers enter the state. Here is all you need to know about Monday’s Bharat Bandh:1. Along with the Delhi police, the Haryana Police said that elaborate arrangements have been put in place in order to maintain peace and order. It appealed to farmers to raise their issues peacefully without disturbing the law and order situation in the protest sites.2. The Karnataka government also asked the state police to ensure elaborate security measures are put in place to avoid any untoward incident or disturbance to daily activities. The government asked the police to maintain a special vigil to see no incidents happen in Bengaluru.3. Aam Aadmi Party, Samajwadi Party, Telugu Desam Party, Bahujan Samaj Party, Left parties and Swaraj India have joined Congress in extending support to the Bandh call. “We believe in the rights of our farmers and we will stand by them in their fight against the black farm laws,” Congress leader KC Venugopal said in a tweet. Bahujan Samajwadi Party chief also tweeted in support of farmers. “The farmers of the country do not endorse the three farm laws brought in a hurry by the Centre, and are sad about it,” Mayawati said.4. The SKM asked trade unions, transporters, businessmen, students, youth and women and all social movements to show solidarity with their call for the nationwide strike. The group has appealed for peace during the nationwide 10-hour strike on Monday.5. The bandh will start at 6am and last until 4pm. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh could be joined by many more farmers at Delhi’s borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-on-monday-all-you-need-to-know-101632678026627.html
26-09-2021||India||Jharkhand CM Soren leads delegation to meeting with Shah||An all-party delegation from Jharkhand led by chief minister Hemant Soren met home minister Amit Shah on Sunday and demanded that a caste-based census be conducted in the country.The visit came close on the heels of the Centre telling the Supreme Court that a caste census of backward classes is “administratively difficult and cumbersome” and excluding such information from the purview of Census is a “conscious policy decision.”The delegation led by Soren included the Congress’ Jharkhand unit president Rajesh Thakur, BJP state president and Rajya Sabha member Deepak Prakash, Congress’ legislature party leader Alamgir Alam, AJSU president and ex-deputy chief minister Sudesh Mahato, RJD leader Satyanand Bhoka and representatives of all other parties from the state.“All of us met Home Minister Amit Shah and urged him to ensure that a caste-based census is conducted. We apprised him of our state’s sentiments in support of the caste census,” Soren told reporters after the meeting.The Congress’ state president said the Union home minister gave the delegation a patient hearing and assured that he will “look into the matter”.BJP’s Deepak Prakash evaded a direct reply to reporters question as to whether his party supports caste-census.“The BJP was also part of this all-party delegation. We all know that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government is a well-wisher of the people belonging to backward classes.“The Modi government gave constitutional status to the OBC Commission and also provided for 27 per cent quota to OBCs in medical and dental colleges. The BJP and its government stand by the people belonging to backward classes,” he said.Prakash added that his party is consistently working for the welfare of the OBCs.CPI-ML leader Vinod Singh, CPI’s Buvaneshwar Mahato, CPI-M’s Suresh Munda NCP MLA Kamlesh Singh and MCC leader Arup Chatterjee were also part of the all-party delegation led by Soren.Soren handed over to Shah a letter addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding that a caste-based demographic survey be carried out during the proposed 2021 census. The letter was signed by all members of the delegation.It stated, “Due to lack of caste data in census surveys conducted since Independence, people from backward classes are facing difficulties in getting special benefits.””In the proposed census in 2021, the Union government has informed Parliament through a written record that it will not conduct caste census, which is very unfortunate,” it said and underlined it is unfair for people belonging to the backward and extremely backward classes and they are not able to make the expected progress.”If caste census is not conducted now, then neither educational, nor social, political or economic conditions of the backward/extremely backward castes will be properly assessed. This will hamper the formulation of a right policy for their betterment.”In the letter, the all-party delegation said a caste-based census will help remove disparities in society.“In India, people belonging to SC, ST and Backward Classes have faced the brunt of economic and social backwardness for centuries. After Independence, different classes have developed at varied pace as a result of which the gap between rich and poor has widened.”The delegation noted in the letter that economic inequality in India has “a very strong” relationship with caste. Generally, those in the socially backward category are also economically backward, they said.“In such a situation, caste-based data is needed to remove these disparities. By conducting the caste-based census, there will be many benefits in the policy-making of the country,” the letter added.The Centre had a couple of days back filed an affidavit in the apex court saying it has already issued a notification in January last year prescribing the series of information to be collected during Census 2021 and it covers many areas including the information relating to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes but does not refer to any other category of caste.It said the exclusion of information regarding any other caste from the purview of Census is a “conscious policy decision” taken by the Central government.Enumeration of OBCs/BCCs (Backward Class of Citizens) has been always adjudged to be administratively “extremely complex” and even when Census of castes were taken in the pre-independence period, the data suffered in respect of completeness and accuracy, the affidavit stated.The government has also stated that the caste enumeration in Socio-Economic and Caste Census (SECC) 2011 was “fraught” with mistakes and inaccuracies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-cm-soren-leads-delegation-to-meeting-with-shah-101632677741827.html
26-09-2021||India||PM Modi visits construction site of new Parliament building||Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the construction site of the new Parliament building in New Delhi on Sunday evening and spent almost an hour at the site, inspecting the ongoing constructions, news agency ANI reported.The new Parliament building is expected to be completed by November 2022, just in time for the Winter Session next year, officials have projected. Along with this, Central Vista avenue is also being redeveloped and is expected to be completed just in time for the G-20 summit for world leaders. These projects, a flagship scheme of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre, have been subjected to much criticism.The new Parliament building is expected to cost around Rs.971 crore, and till the beginning of August a total of Rs.238 crore has been spent on it, the Union government told Parliament during the monsoon session. The Central Vista revamp is expected to cost around Rs.608 crore, with ₹301 crore being spent till August. Documents accessed by the Hindustan Times in the past have shown that the government aims to complete construction for the new Parliament building and the Vice President’s residence first.The Prime Minister's visit comes a week after he inaugurated the defence office complexes of the Central Vista project at Kasturba Gandhi Marg and Africa Avenue that will together accommodate more than 7,000 defence officials, on September 16.He also hit out at the critics of this project, saying that those who are forcefully opposing the Central Vista project will very cleverly stay quiet on this aspect of the project that offices have been created for 7,000 defence officials because they know that their agenda of spreading lies will be exposed. "But today the country is seeing what we are doing under the project," he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prime-minister-narendra-modi-visits-construction-site-of-new-parliament-building-101632676494203.html
26-09-2021||India||Trinamool Congress likely to formally announce entry into Goa on Monday||The re-entry of the Trinamool Congress into Goa’s political landscape is likely to be formally announced on Monday with former Goa Chief Minister and former Goa Congress President Luizinho Faleiro scheduling a press meet “to make an important announcement”. Faleiro, who has been heavily linked with a move to lead a breakaway group of Congressmen, had earlier remained tight-lipped on his political plans only revealing that he had met members of the Indian Political Action Committee (IPAC) led by political strategist Prashant Kishor as part of their regular surveys in Goa. Faleiro, it is understood, is upset with the decision of the Congress high command to stick with the incumbent state Congress president Girish Chodankar, who succeeded him back in 2017. Late last week, Congress members loyal to Faleiro, as if on cue, addressed the media to say that their leader was treated shabbily by the Congress party. “In 2017 we came to a figure of 17 under Luizinho’s leadership plus one independent. On the night of the counting we had 21 MLAs with us. A letter was made ready to be given to the Governor to stake claim to form the government. Digvijay Singh who was in-charge stopped the letter from being given to the Governor. He wanted at least 24. Digvijay and Chella Kumar stopped Luizinho from giving the letter. All these repeated insults, humiliation must be working on him. I do not know what his decision is. Evidently, he is not happy with what is happening in the Congress,” Agnelo Fernandes, a former MLA and Faleiro loyalist said. He went on to allege that the Congress was manipulated by one or two people. “Loyalists are being side-lined. This might lead to a revolt. Anything can happen. If leaders like this are on the side-lines, for how long can you take this humiliation? People of Goa had given a mandate when Luizinho was president of the party. Those people who demanded his resignation in 24 hours have quit the Congress and joined the BJP,” Fernandes added. Similarly, Surendra Furtado, a former mayor of Panaji too alleged that the Congress was being controlled by a close group of a few people and loyalists were being side-lined. The TMC’s entry into Goa’s political space is likely to further splinter an already crowded political space in Goa. Besides the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress, the Goa Forward Party with three MLA, the NCP and the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) with one MLA each are also vying for a slice of power. Besides the MGP, which competes with the BJP for largely the same set of voters, the other political parties are likely to vie for what has traditionally been the Congress vote share. Added to the mix is the Aam Aadmi Party, the Shiv Sena, Goencho Avaaz, a group of civil society activists who have announced plans to contest the upcoming polls, the Revolutionary Goans, a group of youthful activists seeking Goa be reserved for Goans have also announced plans to contest the upcoming polls. Trinamool MLA Derek O’Brien was in Goa over the weekend and announced that the party was “very serious” about contesting the upcoming polls in Goa but didn’t divulge any detailed plans.This will be the second time the TMC enters Goa having unsuccessfully contested the 2012 assembly elections, under the leadership of Dr Wilfred de Souza, a former Chief Minister. The party also unsuccessfully contested one of Goa’s two Lok Sabha seats in the 2014 polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trinamool-congress-likely-to-formally-announce-entry-into-goa-on-monday-101632676540150.html
26-09-2021||India||Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai: What is the present Covid-19 situation in 4 metros?||India recorded 28,326 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Sunday, marking the second consecutive day of the country reporting cases below the 30,000-mark. Cases and fatalities have been declining in most states and their capitals in the country. Even Kerala seems to be over the wave of increased positive cases brought by Onam celebrations.The country is also accelerating its vaccination drive and the union health ministry said it has been assisting states and union territories with the required number of vaccine doses to help inoculate the masses against Covid-19. Detailed below is an overview of the Covid-19 situation prevailing in different places of the country.Delhi- The national capital reported 29 fresh Covid-19 cases of coronavirus and zero deaths on Sunday. The total number of cases in the national capital now stands at 1,438,714. Sunday’s tally marks an increase from the 27 cases Delhi reported just a day before, and the 24 cases it reported on Friday. Currently, there are 371 active cases in Delhi, of which 118 are in home isolation. A total of 62,546 tests, including 45,525 RT-PCR ones were conducted in the last 24 hours, bringing the test positivity rate to 0.05%. So far, in the month of September, three deaths have been recorded.Mumbai- Financial hub Mumbai reported 477 new cases and five deaths, taking the tally of infections to 741,237 and the death toll to 16,084. The city currently has a case doubling rate of 1,208 days and a case growth rate of 0.06% (calculated between September 19-25). 481 people have made complete recoveries in the last 24 hours and the recovery rate now stands at 97 per cent.Kolkata- The city recorded 139 cases contributing the most to West Bengal’s single-day tally of 748. Kolkata also reported one death on Sunday. The state currently has 7,683 active cases, while 15,39,974 people have been cured of the disease so far, including 730 in the last 24 hours, the state health department said. The recovery rate amongst Covid-19 positive patients now stands at 98.31per cent.Chennai- Capital city of Chennai reported 194 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, contributing the second-highest number of cases to Tamil Nadu’s tally of 1,724, right after Coimbatore which recorded 198 cases. The state also recorded 22 more fatalities in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-mumbai-kolkata-chennai-what-is-the-present-covid-19-situation-in-4-metros-101632672019026.html
26-09-2021||India||Bharat Bandh on Monday, road and rail traffic disruptions likely||The 16-hour Bharat Bandh call given by farmers on Monday is likely to have a major impact on road and rail traffic in the states ruled by the opposition parties as these parties and their frontal organisations have decided to support the bandh given by Sankyut Kisan Morcha, an organization of over 30 farmer bodies protesting the enactment of three farm laws. In the states ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), elaborate security arrangements have been made to prevent the farmer bodies and opposition political parties from disrupting normal life. Additional security forces have been deployed in all districts in Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Bihar to prevent any law and order issues.The Bandh will be in force from 6 am to 4 pm on Monday. “More than 605 farmers have been martyred, including two deaths related to police brutalities. The Modi government is behaving in an extremely undemocratic and inhuman way against farmers, and BJP will certainly bear the consequences of this,” the SKM said in a statement on Sunday.On Sunday, Congress general secretary KC Venugopal asked all its state party chiefs to join Bharat Bandh. Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati extended her party’s support. In Kerala, the Left parties have called for a complete shutdown along with Congress. In West Bengal, chief minister Mamata Banerjee supported the bandh and has asked police to ensure that there is no untoward incident.In Tamil Nadu, the DMK and the Congress would hold protests at district headquarters against the Centre refusing to withdraw the three farm laws notified a year ago. In several states, various labour, lawyer and traders bodies have extended support to the call.However, the biggest impact of the bandh is expected in Haryana, Punjab, parts of Rajasthan and western Uttar Pradesh, which had been an epicentre of the 10-month long farmer protest. Farmer bodies in Meerut said that committees have been formed to block traffic at every state and national highway in Uttar Pradesh. Bharatiya Kisan Union’s media in charge Dharmendra Malik said the national highways would be blocked at 14 places in Bijnor, 8 places in Meerut, three places in Ghaziabad, 10 places in Muzaffarnagar and also other districts across the state. “We are committed to ensuring that no law and order problem takes place in the state during the Bandh. All arrangements have been done and different police units have been put on alert in advance,” UP police Additional Director General, Law and Order Prashant Kumar said. The bandh is not likely to have much impact on the rest of Uttar Pradesh.In Punjab and Haryana, the farmer bodies have announced that they would block all national and state highways and will not allow trains to run. In the two states, all political parties, except BJP, have supported the bandh call and have asked workers to ensure bandh is successful. In Haryana, major protests are planned at the Delhi-Ambala rail line and national highway in Ambala, apart from ones at all district headquarters. In Rajasthan, spokesperson, Sanyukt Kissan Morcha, Sanjay Madhav said all the market associations, traders and others are appealed to keep the markets shut. “Besides farmers and traders organisations, the Left and the Congress are supporting the bandh,” he said, adding that the protest will continue till the demands are met, even after the Bandh.In Bihar, the police have instructed all SPs in districts to take prompt action against protestors disrupting road and rail traffic or putting up road blockades causing inconvenience to commuters. Additional director general of Police (headquarter), JS Gangawar, said lawbreakers would be dealt with firmly. “All SPs have been directed to take action against protestors and ensure that law and order is maintained,” he said. All political parties in West Bengal, except BJP, supported the bandh call. Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday denounced the call for Bharat Bandh by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws on September 27, saying disrupting economic activities post Covid-19 was not in the interest of the nation.People have just now started performing various tasks after suffering for one-and-half years due to the pandemic, he said. “They have started their business activities. It is our duty to make sure that people should not face hardship,” Bommai told reporters.“Our government does not support bandhs but the TMC fully supports the issue. The Centre must withdraw the three draconian farm laws immediately,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who is contesting the September 30 assembly bypoll at Bhawanipore in Kolkata. The Tripura government imposed Section 144 in East and West Agartala areas from September 21 till November 4 to prevent any procession or meeting during the period even though Sanyukt Kisan Morcha has given a call to disrupt traffic.In Odisha, Congress and the Left union have given a rail roko call across the state. Special secretary home Santosh Bala has asked all employees working in Lok Seva Bhawan, Kharavela Bhawan, Rajiv Bhawan and in the Heads of Department Building of Bhubaneswar to reach Office latest by 9.30 am as gates would close by 10.15 am.The bandh is not expected to have an impact in Goa, Gujarat, most parts of Maharashtra, Assam, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-on-monday-road-and-rail-traffic-disruptions-likely-101632671742329.html
26-09-2021||India||Bharat Bandh: Will shops, markets, banks remain closed tomorrow?||In the 10-month-long ongoing protest of the farmers against the three farm laws passed by Parliament exactly a year ago, the protesting farmers have called for several Bharat bandhs, chakka strike and other types of protest. Apart from the Republic Day tractor rally of the protesting farmers, the earlier all-India strikes called by the farmers have remained peaceful. However, the Bharat Bandh on September 27 is going to be a major one as it marks the one year of President Ram Nath Kovind's assent for the three agriculture laws. But the Samyukt Kisan Morcha has said no force will be deployed.In its statement, the farmers' organisation said that between 6am to 4pm, central and state government offices, markets, shops, factories, schools, colleges and other educational institutions will not be allowed to function. Private and public transport are also to be affected. However, the impact will vary from state to state as several political parties have supported tomorrow's bandh.Will shops, markets be closed?Traders, shopkeepers are not part of the bandh, Bhartiya Udyog Vyapaar Mandal has said. Hence, markets are not likely to be closed. However, in states where state governments are supporting the Bharat Bandh, the impact is likely to be intense.Kerala to come to a standstill as LDF, UDF support bandhLeft parties and the Congress have supported the Bharat bandh. Kerala is likely to come to a standstill as it has the support of both the LDF and the UDF, INTUC state president R Chandrasekharan told PTI.No APSRTC bus to ply in Andhra PradeshThe Andhra Pradesh government has supported the strike and decided to stop the APSRTC bus service from tonight to tomorrow evening.No emergency service will be stalled during the bandh markets are likely to remain open in states where the bandh will not be observed at full force. However, as trade unions have supported the strike, disruptions are likely in transport services. All India Bank Officers Confederation has also decided to join the bandh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-will-shops-markets-banks-remain-closed-tomorrow-101632670976185.html
26-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: People moved to relief centres as Cyclone Gulab landfall continues and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.1,100 people shifted to relief centres in Andhra’s Srikakulam as Cyclone Gulab continues landfall processAs forecasted by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Cyclone Gulab’s landfall process began at 6pm on Sunday over north coastal Andhra Pradesh, and south coastal Odisha. According to latest visuals shared by news agency ANI, strong winds and heavy rainfall have been witnessed in Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh – which was one of the three districts that have been put on high alert in the state. Srikakulam’s joint collector Sumit Kumar told ANI that two teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and four squads of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have arrived in the district for rescue operations. Read more.Bharat Bandh: No farmers to be allowed in Capital; Delhi Police tighten securityAhead of the Bharat Bandh tomorrow, called by Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the Delhi Police said that it made adequate arrangement to ensure security in the Capital. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella organisation of all 40 farmers’ groups protesting against the Centre's three contentious farm laws, called for a Bharat Bandh on Monday. The farmers have been protesting for more than 10 months at Delhi’s borders against the farm laws passed by the government during the monsoon session in 2020. Read more.Nitish Kumar reiterates demand for caste census, plans to call all party meet soonBihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday reiterated his demand for caste-based census and announced that he would soon discuss the issue with all political parties in the state in light of the Centre’s affidavit to the Supreme Court reasoning that conducting a caste enumeration exercise for backward classes was not feasible. Read more.'SKM will campaign in poll-bound states if farm laws not taken back’: Rakesh TikaitSamyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body of farmer unions, will hold protests in every part of the country against the three contentious farm laws introduced by the Centre, hold meetings, and campaign in poll-bound states if they are not rolled back, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait told reporters on Sunday. Read more.How Ujjayi breathing can be good for your heart, a cardiologist explainsWorld Heart Day 2021: Stress is one of the primary causes behind heart problems. Being constantly under stress releases hormones which could change the way our blood clots that may increase the chances of a heart attack, as per health experts. "Fear, anxiety, sadness, stress, there are a lot of negative emotions people experience in today's lifestyle, especially in Covid era which could make you prone to infections and heart ailments," says Dr Prasan Prabhakar, Cardiologist at Laxmi Hospital in Kochi and volunteer with Dhyan Foundation. Read more.IPL 2021, RCB vs MI: Virat Kohli becomes first Indian batsman to achieve rare milestone in T20 cricketVirat Kohli, the Royal Challengers Bangalore captain, on Sunday added a huge feather to his cap during their Indian Premier League 2021 clash against Mumbai Indians on Sunday. Kohli, who opened the innings alongside Devdutt Padikkal reached his individual score of 16* in the 4th over. Kohli smashed MI pacer Jasprit Bumrah for a four and a six to reach the mark. Read more.Kapil Sharma says he was tricked by Neha Kakkar's fake pregnancy post: 'I got so emotional'Kapil Sharma revealed that like many Neha Kakkar's fans, he was also tricked into believing that the singer was pregnant when she shared the poster of her song Khyaal Rakhya Kar. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-people-moved-to-relief-centres-as-gulab-landfall-continues-101632668828225.html
26-09-2021||India||Amit Shah holds meet with CMs; sets 1-year deadline to end Maoist violence||In a bid to end Left Wing Extremism in Maoist-affected states, Union home minister Amit Shah asked chief ministers of the states facing Maoist insurgencies to take steps to ensure that the problem can be eradicated within a year.He said that there should be a joint strategy to choke the flow of funds to Maoist insurgent groups. Shah was addressing the chief ministers of Odisha, Telangana, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Jharkhand.The home minister said that the fight against the Maoist groups is now in its final stages and a decisive move must be made to end the insurgencies. He said the death toll due to Left Wing Extremism violence dropped to 200 in a year. He urged all chief ministers to take the issue on priority for the next year so that a permanent solution can be found to the problem.The meeting was attended by chief ministers Naveen Patnaik (Odisha), K Chandrashekar Rao (Telangana), Nitish Kumar (Bihar), Shivraj Singh Chouhan (Madhya Pradesh), Uddhav Thackeray (Maharashtra) and Hemant Soren (Jharkhand). Union ministers Ashwini Vaishnaw, Giriraj Singh, Arjun Munda and Nityananda Rai also were present.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan did not attend the meeting. These states were represented by either a minister or senior officials.‘Neutralise their source of income’Amit Shah said that there should be efforts in neutralising the sources of income of the Maoist groups. He suggested that building pressure, increasing speed and better coordination among Centre and state governments could help achieve this objective.Shah discussed means of intensifying operations against the Maoists, action against their frontal organisations, filling up the security vacuum, choking the flow of funds to extremists and concerted action by the Enforcement Directorate, the National Investigation Agency and the state police, people familiar with the developments told news agency PTI.He suggested that regular review meetings be conducted at a chief ministerial, chief secretary level and the DGP level, which could help in resolving several problems. He said the Centre is optimistic of reducing the menace to an insignificant level at the earliest.Record drop in incidents of violenceAmit Shah highlighted that incidents of Maoist violence have come down by 70% from an all-time high of 2,258 in 2009 to 665 in 2020. He said deaths also dropped by 82% from an all-time high of 1,005 in 2010 to 183 in 2020. Shah said that areas under Maoists' influence also dropped with its geographical spread shrinking from 96 districts in 2010 to just 53 in 2020.Amit Shah said the elimination of Maoist insurgency is necessary for spreading democracy to every level and developing underdeveloped areas.“Instead of being satisfied with what we have achieved so far, we need to increase the speed to get what is left,” Shah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-holds-meet-with-cms-sets-1-year-deadline-to-end-maoist-violence-101632668751270.html
26-09-2021||India||HT This Day: September 27, 2018 — Aadhaar Public, Limited||A majority judgment of a Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court on Wednesday upheld the constitutional validity of Aadhaar, but restricted its use to government welfare schemes funded by the Consolidated Fund of India, in a verdict that the government and the Opposition immediately owned.The judgment, however, scrapped, wrote down, or amended key clauses in the UIDAI Act to protect the rights of individuals and prevent misuse of their details, ensuring a partial victory for petitioners.Bank accounts and mobile phone numbers now no longer need to be linked to Aadhaar; and transaction details will now only be kept for six months, as against five years as the law originally mandated.Both the majority and the minority judgments also said decisions of the Speaker could be reviewed judicially, a response to one petition against the government’s definition of the UIDAI bill as a money bill, thereby ensuring that it needed to be passed only by the Lok Sabha, where the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) has a majority.The majority judgment, however, refused to overturn the government’s decision to define this bill as a money bill.The five-judge Constitution Bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) Dipak Misra in a 4:1 verdict also added that children cannot be denied school admissions for want for Aadhaar, and asked for ways to deal with exclusions, but said the number would be required for filing income-tax returns, making it necessary to link it with PAN cards.Justice AK Sikri, who authored the main verdict on behalf of CJI Misra and justice AM Khanwilkar, held: “The whole architecture of Aadhaar is devised to give unique identity to the citizens of this country.”Human dignity, he said, is to be treated as a fundamental right and the scheme envisaged under Aadhaar ensures dignity to the marginalised sections of society.“This facet of dignity cannot be lost sight of and needs to be acknowledged,” he said.The court also struck down section 57 of the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and other Subsidies, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016, that permitted corporate entities such as telecom companies to avail biometric Aadhaar data. Such a provision had no rationale nexus to the objective of the law, the court said.Union law and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said in an interview that the telecom andfinance ministries would work with banks and telcos to ensure they erased the data of those who have already completed the linkages. However, Prasad also left a window open for the government and said its understanding wasthat it could, with legislative backing, insist on such linkages.This view was separately echoed by Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) CEOAjay Bhushan Pandey.The court said Aadhaar intends to plug loopholes and stem corruption while reaching out to the poor and underprivileged.To this extent, the court said, the law also qualified the test of proportionality because the aim behind the programme was legitimate. Government claims it saved ₹90K crore , a number disputed by activists.Keeping in view the larger public interest, collection of biometrics such as iris scan and fingerprints under the program was a minimal invasion into the privacy rights, the court held. “By no means it can be said that it has disproportionate effect on the right holder,” the order said.Identity bestowed by Aadhaar is unparalleled and “we find that the Aadhaar Act has struck a fair balance between the right of privacy of the individual with right to life of the same individual as a beneficiary,” said the judgment which relied heavily on the Right to Privacy judgment delivered last August.The sole dissenting judge on the bench, justice DY Chandrachud, declared the law as unconstitutional. Clearing it as a money bill was a fraud played on the Constitution, he said. Justice Ashok Bhushan, who wrote a separate ruling, endorsed the view taken in the majority verdict.The SC verdict, running into 1,448 pages, came on batch of 31 petitions with the first one being filed in 2012 when the executive order introducing Aadhaar was challenged before the court. The first petition was filed by former Karnataka high court judge KS Puttaswamy. Subsequently, several activists joined the fray.In 2016, the NDA government brought in a law and pushed Aadhaar enrolment in a big way for its welfare programmes. The hearing continued for 38 days, spanning over four months,before the judgment was reserved on May 10.Advocates say the hearing was the “second longest” one in terms of days of hearing after the Kesavananda Bharati case of 1973.Still, even as it found no fault with the Aadhaar law, the court insisted on safeguards. It ordered data cannot be stored for more than six months and also directed the government not to give Aadhaar to illegal immigrants. The provision that allowed access of data for national security, too, was struck down.The court said that if the government wants to reformulate this provision then a joint secretary-level officer and a judicial officer should be members of the oversight committee to hear complaints against sharing of data.The court rejected the argument that Aadhaar could lead to real-time surveillance, calling it‘far-fetched’. Information of an individual can’t be released with-out hearing him or her, it said.Finance minister Arun Jaitley hailed the verdict as historic, while law minister Prasad said it“empowered democracy”.Welcoming the verdict, Congress leader Kapil Sibal told reporters his party supports theviews of justice Chandrachud. Sibal said it will certainly move court if amendments in the Aadhaar Act brought after this verdict are not brought in Rajya Sabha for discussion. Bengalchief minister Mamata Banerjee welcomed the verdict and termed it as a victory of the people.Advocate Udayaditya Banerjee, who represented the petitioners before the court, said thejudgement will enable citizens to de-link their Aadhaar from their bank accounts or mobile phone accounts. “Although the judgment does not say it expressly, the consequence is that one can de-link Aadhaar now,” he said.The petitioners’ demand to delete data collected prior to the enactment of the law in 2016 was also turned down. The court said the problem can be solved by eliciting “consent” of all those persons enrolled prior to passing the act. “Since, we have held that enrolment is voluntary, those who specifically refuse to give the consent, they would be allowed toexit from the Aadhaar scheme. Those who need to avail any subsidy, benefit or service wouldneed Aadhaar in any case. It would not be proper to cancel their Aadhaar cards,” the courtsaid.The court did not concur with the petitioners’ concern that Aadhaar should be shelved sinceauthentication failure of biometrics resulted in the exclusion of the needy. “We are only highlighting the fact that the government seems to be sincere in its efforts to ensure that no such exclusion takes place and in those cases where an individual who is rightfully entitled to benefits under the scheme is not denied such a benefit merely because of failure of authentication. In this scenario, the entire Aadhaar project cannot be shelved,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-september-27-2018-aadhaar-public-limited-101632668619510.html
26-09-2021||India||1,100 people shifted to relief centres in Andhra’s Srikakulam as Cyclone Gulab continues landfall process||As forecasted by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Cyclone Gulab’s landfall process began at 6pm on Sunday over north coastal Andhra Pradesh, and south coastal Odisha. According to latest visuals shared by news agency ANI, strong winds and heavy rainfall have been witnessed in Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh – which was one of the three districts that have been put on high alert in the state. Srikakulam’s joint collector Sumit Kumar told ANI that two teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and four squads of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have arrived in the district for rescue operations.“Heavy rainfall could lead to floods, which is another challenge. [As many as] 19 mandals in the district are flood prone,” Kumar was quoted as saying by ANI.
26-09-2021||India||Bharat Bandh: No farmers to be allowed in Capital; Delhi Police tighten security||Ahead of the Bharat Bandh tomorrow, called by Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the Delhi Police said that it made adequate arrangement to ensure security in the Capital. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella organisation of all 40 farmers’ groups protesting against the Centre's three contentious farm laws, called for a Bharat Bandh on Monday. The farmers have been protesting for more than 10 months at Delhi’s borders against the farm laws passed by the government during the monsoon session in 2020A police official familiar with the developments told news agency PTI that adequate security arrangements will be made to maintain the law and order situation in the Capital. “No protester will be allowed to enter Delhi from the three protest sites at the city's borders,” the official said.The official said that the police are ‘fully alert’ and there will be preventive security measures. “There is no call for 'Bharat Bandh' in Delhi, but we are watching the developments and an adequate number of personnel will be on the ground,” Delhi Police said. However, the Aam Aadmi Party has extended support to the Bharat Bandh call.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) also sought support from the political parties and asked them to stand with farmers. “As this historic struggle completes ten months, the SKM has called Monday to be observed as 'Bharat Bandh' against the anti-farmer government,” the farmers’ group said.Leaders of the SKM appealed to citizens to make the bandh a ‘resounding success’. “In particular, we appeal to all organisations of workers, traders, transporters, businessmen, students, youth and women and all social movements to extend solidarity with the farmers that day,” the group said in a statement.The SKM said that the bandh will be held for 10 hours and asked to halt work in all government and private offices, educational and other institutions, shops, industries and commercial establishments as well as halt public events and functions all over the nation.It, however, has exempted emergency establishments and essential services, including hospitals, medical stores, relief and rescue work and people attending to personal emergencies.Farmers from different parts of the country are expected to reach Delhi’s borders on Monday. Farmers from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh are also expected to reach in larger numbers to extend support to those already protesting at Delhi borders since November last year.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-no-farmers-to-be-allowed-in-capital-delhi-police-tighten-security-101632667840745.html
26-09-2021||India||PM Modi has 3 secrets to keep jet lag at bay||Prime Minister Narendra Modi had three days in hand as he embarked on his recently concluded US trip. Several timezones later, PM Modi landed in the US and spent 65 hours in the country, with the rest of the time spent travelling, and he managed to attend 20 meetings, including the crucial bilateral meeting that he had with US President Joe Biden. Sources told news agency PTI that PM Modi has some secrets that help him fight jet lag.And the first is to keep back-to-back meetings on a foreign trip so that there is no time to feel fatigued which is common after a long flight. In the recent trip, PM Modi has five meetings on September 23 with the CEOs, followed by talks with US vice president Kamala Harris, bilateral interactions with Japanese PM Yoshihide Suga and Australian PM Scott Morrison. Then there were some internal meetings. On September 24, he held his bilateral meeting with Biden and attended the Quad meet. On September 25, he addressed the United Nations General Assembly. Every day, he held many other internal meetings.The second secret is to accommodate some meetings on the flight itself. The PTI report said that on this trip, he held four meetings on the way to and back from the US.The third secret, as PTI reported, is to tune the body and the sleep cycle to the time zone of the destination. That's why he does not sleep on the flight even if it's night in India. "He does the same thing when returning to India and tunes his body and sleep cycle according to the Indian time, ensuring that he is fresh and ready to go when he lands during the day time," the PTI report added.PM Modi also drinks a lot of water s doctors suggest that the air in the plane sucks out moisture in the body, sources told PTI.On his way to the United States, he posted a photo from the flight where he was seen going through some paper inside the flight. As a matter of fact, PM Modi always prefers night flights which is a habit that developed in the 1990s. The report said that when he used to visit the US in the 1990s, an airline used to give a discounted monthly pass. "To make the most of it, Modi would always travel in the night as this ensured that he could visit most places while not having to spend a penny on hotels. His night would be invariably spent at the airport and in the plane," a source told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-has-3-secrets-to-keep-jet-lag-at-bay-101632665468147.html
26-09-2021||India||Cyclone Gulab: 6 fishermen from Andhra Pradesh reported missing||Six fishermen from Srikakulam district in north coastal Andhra Pradesh were reported missing in Bay of Bengal on Sunday evening as the cyclonic storm Gulab moved closer to the shore and is likely to make landfall around midnight. Six fishermen from Palasa, who returning to their native village by sea in a new boat they purchased in Odisha two days ago, were feared missing in the storm. One of the six called his village over phone and informed that their boat lost balance and five of his fellow fishermen were lost in the sea. Subsequently, his mobile phone too went silent, indicating that he too might have gone missing. The villagers brought this to the notice of fisheries minister S Appala Raju, who immediately called the Navy authorities for help to trace and rescue the missing fishers.The three north coastal districts of Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam had been receiving moderate to heavy rain under the influence of Gulab. Andhra Pradesh state Disaster Management Authority commissioner K Kanna Babu said Gulab lay centred around 85 km from Kalingapatnam in Srikakulam district and likely to cross the coast between Kalingapatnam and Gopalpur (in Odisha) around midnight. He reviewed the situation with the district Collectors and other officials in Visakhapatnam and directed them to be on high alert. Meanwhile, the South Central Railway informed in a release that eight trains on the Vijayawada-Howrah route were diverted via Kharagpur, Jharsuguda, Bilaspur and Balharshah. Two other trains that were supposed to begin journey on Sunday, have been rescheduled for Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-gulab-6-fishermen-from-andhra-pradesh-reported-missing-101632664058267.html
26-09-2021||India||Will take ‘sensible’ step to reduce discrimination: Odisha CM Patnaik on caste census||Biju Janata Dal (BJD) supremo and Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Sunday said that the state government will do whatever is “sensible” for its people in order to cut down discrimination in the region. His remarks were in response to his move on the caste census in the state. “Our government stands by it and we are fighting for it,” he told news agency ANI.The caste census has caused a tiff between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Centre and several non-BJP leaders. Earlier in the day, Union home minister Amit Shah chaired a review meeting on Left-wing extremism with 10 states that saw the attendance of Patnaik and his Jharkhand and Bihar counterparts Hemant Soren and Nitish Kumar, respectively.Kumar on Sunday said that caste census is a “legitimate demand” and is the need of the hour. “It is pro-development and will help policymakers frame targeted welfare policies for backward castes. Caste census must take place. We'll hold an all-party meeting over this matter in Bihar,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.Patnaik and Kumar’s statements come after Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Tejashwi Yadav on Saturday wrote a letter to 33 non-BJP leaders – including Patnaik, Soren and Kumar —seeking their support on the demand for caste census. In the letter, which Tejashwi shared on his Twitter profile, he mentioned that the purpose behind seeking the support of the leaders were the “shared apprehension and responsibilities” due to the “apathy of the ruling party (BJP) at the Centre towards the same.”Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav – who was among the 33 non-BJP leaders who received the letter from Tejashwi —also took to the micro-blogging site on Saturday to share his displeasure over the Centre’s recent affidavit to the Supreme Court against conducting a caste census in 2022.“By rejecting the long-standing demand for enumeration of ‘OBC’ society, the BJP government has proved that it does not want to count the ‘Other Backward Classes’ because it does not want to give rights to the OBCs in proportion to their population,” Yadav tweeted.The first caste census was conducted in 2011 when the Congress was ruling at the Centre. However, the BJP-led central government recently informed the apex court that the data of the 2011 census has been rendered “unusable” as it is laden with “mistakes and inaccuracies.”The ruling dispensation further stated that inclusion of any other backward caste apart from Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) under the ambit of the upcoming census would be “administratively difficult” and against the government’s policy decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-take-sensible-step-to-reduce-discrimination-odisha-cm-on-caste-census-101632660736726.html
26-09-2021||India||UP Cabinet: Ex-Congress leader Jitin Prasada now a minister of Yogi govt||Former Congress leader Jitin Prasada, who was once close with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, is now a minister in the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh as the BJP on Sunday announced a sudden Cabinet expansion with a few months left for the state assembly election. Reports said the ministers were not even aware that they are being accommodated in the Cabinet. The induction of Jitin Prasada will consolidate the Brahmin votes for the BJP in the upcoming election. Brahmins constitute over 10 per cent of UP's voters and the community has already tilted from the Congress towards the BJP over the years.This expansion was announced hurriedly on Sunday indicating that it is the party's emergency move to maximise the representation of castes that matter for the vote bank, though Yogi Adityanath's Cabinet can only include seven new faces as there are already 53 ministers in the UP cabinet. While Jitin Prasada is a Brahmin, Palturam, Dinesh Khatik are SC, Chhatarpal Gangwar represents Kurmi, Sangeeta Balwant Bind,  Sanjeev Kumar Gond ST.  Apart from the six new ministers, Dharamveer Prajapati has also been inducted into the cabinet. The BJP has already announced a pre-poll alliance with Nishad (Nirbal Indian Shoshit Hamara Aam Dal) party. Hence the induction of Sanjay Nishad, who wanted to be projected as the deputy CM face in the upcoming election, into the Cabinet was being speculated. Another speculated name was former Uttarakhand governor Baby Ranu Maurya, but they have not been accommodated.The Uttar Pradesh Assembly has 403 seats. In the 2017 UP Assembly elections, the BJP won 312 seats while its ally Apna Dal (Sonelal) won nine seats. The Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) too had contested the 2017 assembly polls in alliance with the BJP and won four seats but it walked out of the alliance in 2019.Commenting on the Cabinet expansion, Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav said, "It won't help BJP. Even if there are a few new faces, the government ultimately is of BJP...and the people have made up their mind to change the government".(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cabinet-ex-congress-leader-jitin-prasada-now-a-minister-of-yogi-govt-101632658708703.html
26-09-2021||India||Punjab gets a new cabinet. Check portfolios of the new ministers||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi inducted 15 ministers into his cabinet on Sunday, a week after Punjab saw a change of guard with Captain Amarinder Singh resigning from his post and Charanjit Singh Channi became the new chief minister of the poll-bound state. The Punjab Congress also saw a change of guard a few months ago as Navjot Singh Sidhu was tasked with the role of the Punjab Congress president.MLAs Razia Sultana, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Aruna Chaudhary, Manpreet Singh Badal and Brahm Mohindra took oath in presence of Governor Banwari Lal Purohit.Other MLAs who took oath were - Vijay Inder Singla, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Gurjit Singh Rana and Randeep Singh Nabha. Raj Kumar Verka, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Pargat Singh, Amarinder Singh Raja Warring and Gukrirat Singh Kotli also took oathCongress MLA Rajkumar Verka who took oath as a cabinet minister said that he will work to fulfil the hopes of the electorate. “We have less time and have many things to do. We will work to fulfill the hopes of people. I will start working after taking the oath to deliver my duties, whatever is given to me,” Verka was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Punjab chief minister Channi’s cabinet reshuffle came after several rounds of meetings between him and the Congress high command. There was some controversy around the inclusion of Kapurthala MLA Gurjit Singh Rana into the cabinet. Rana was dropped from former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s cabinet due to his alleged connection to the sand mining auction.Channi last week said that he would meet the newly appointed minister every Tuesday along with other MLAs and party functionaries. His office said that a meeting would be held every Tuesday at 3 pm, news agency PTI reported.However, opposition Shiromani Akali Dal said that the new ministers are here to loot the state and make money. Party president Sukhbir Singh Badal said that they will review every decision taken by the new cabinet. Badal also called the ministers ‘dacoits’ and said ‘tainted’ leaders were part of the cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-gets-a-new-cabinet-check-portfolios-of-the-new-ministers-101632658984528.html
26-09-2021||India||Cyclone Gulab: Storm less than 100km from Odisha, Andhra; landfall process to begin shortly||Cyclone Gulab, which is expected to cross between the coasts of Andhra Pradesh’s Kalingapatnam and Odisha’s Gopalpur is less than 100km from both the regions, according to the latest updates by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The landfall process will start from 6pm onwards on Sunday, and the storm will hit by midnight, the IMD added.“Cyclonic storm Gulab centered at 4.30pm IST of September 26 about 85 km east-northeast of Kalingapatnam and 95 km south of Gopalpur,” IMD tweeted.
26-09-2021||India||Gadkari says newly opened AIIMS will rectify regional imbalance||The new All India Institutes of Medical Sciences built in the country are destined to correct the longstanding regional imbalance in the health sector, according to Union minister Nitin Gadkari, who also said doubling the number of AIIMS will better serve people's aspirations.The minister of road transport and highways was speaking at a digital event to mark the 3rd Foundation Day of AIIMS, Nagpur. The programme was also attended by Bharati Pravin Pawar, the Minister of State for Health among others, a health ministry statement said."Keeping in view the requirements of the Vidarbha region, with the establishment of an institute of repute like AIIMS, Nagpur, at Nagpur, the patients of all the bordering states of Central India will have access to affordable and modern medical facilities."However, we have to ensure that the benefits of these facilities reach not only to the cities but also to the people of the remote villages of our region," Gadkari was quoted as saying in the statement.Highlighting that the recently built AIIMS institutions are destined to correct the longstanding regional imbalance, the minister said that doubling the number of present AIIMS will better serve the aspirations of the country, the statement said.Pawar said, "We all know that even after so many decades of independence, only 6 AIIMS were built in the country. Thereafter, in the year 2014, the government developed a policy to develop AIIMS in every state under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi Ji." she was quoted as saying in the statement.Pawar advised medical students and the community that like medical treatment, empathy and emotional care of patients are equally importantTraining and encouraging staff to ensure patient care with empathy will significantly impact the overall patient experience, she said.She expressed hope that AIIMS Nagpur will play an important role in effective implementation of various health initiatives of the government.The inaugural issue of the institute's magazine "Abhigyanam" was also released on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gadkari-says-newly-opened-aiims-will-rectify-regional-imbalance-101632658543880.html
26-09-2021||India||'SKM will campaign in poll-bound states if farm laws not taken back’: Rakesh Tikait||Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body of farmer unions, will hold protests in every part of the country against the three contentious farm laws introduced by the Centre, hold meetings, and campaign in poll-bound states if they are not rolled back, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait told reporters on Sunday.“The Government of India should repeal the three farm laws at the earliest. If not, Samyukt Kisan Morcha will go to every part of the country, hold meetings and protests against the Central government and campaign in poll-bound states,” Tikait said.SKM has called for a 10-hour long Bharat Bandh on Monday to mark a year of the three controversial farm laws. "A Bharat Bandh has been called on September 27. The top priority is to ensure the success of this bandh. After this, the SKM will take a call on the future course of action for the protest. The BKU will continue its fight for the farmers," SKM spokesperson Saurabh Upadhyay told reporters.The Centre has held 11 rounds of talks with the farmer but the talks have brought forth no solution as the farmer unions insist on repeal and the government continues to claim that the laws are pro-farmer.Tikait also reached out to US President Joe Biden and the Indian American diaspora living abroad seeking their support for the farmers' stir. Tikait claimed that the protests have so far claimed the lives of 700 farmers but the government is not ready to repeal the laws.“We appeal to all Indians living in the US. India's prime minister will be there on September 25 in New York for a programme. All Indians in the US should place a 'farmers' flag on their vehicles and raise banners of 'No Farmer No Food' and register your protest in support of farmers,” Tikait said in a video message.BKU declared their intentions to campaign in poll-bound states in early March, right before the 2021 legislative elections commenced. “We'll send teams to poll-bound states — to West Bengal and Kerala. We will not support any party but appeal to people to vote for the candidates who can defeat BJP. We will tell people about the Modi govt's attitude towards farmers,” BKU leader Balbir S Rajewal had said at a press conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/skm-will-campaign-in-poll-bound-states-if-farm-laws-not-taken-back-rakesh-tikait-101632658441793.html
26-09-2021||India||PM Modi attended 20 meetings during his 65-hour stay in US: Govt||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's three-day trip to the United States was packed with meetings as he attended 20 of them during the around 65 hours he spent in the country, government sources said on Sunday. He also had four long meetings in flights with officials on the way to and back from the US, they added. Sharing details, sources said PM Modi had two meetings in flight on Wednesday on the way to the US and three in the hotel upon his arrival.On September 23, he had five meetings with as many CEOs followed by talks with US Vice President Kamala Harris and bilateral interactions with his Japanese and Australian counterparts Yoshihide Suga and Scott Morrison respectively. He also chaired three internal meetings. He had a bilateral meeting with US President Joe Biden the next day and then attended the Quad meet. Sources said PM Modi also held four internal meetings on September 24.As Modi left the US for India on September 25, he held two meetings in the flight back, sources said. The prime minister is known to keep a busy schedule on his overseas trips, packing his stay with important meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-attended-20-meetings-during-his-65-hour-stay-in-us-govt-101632658117360.html
26-09-2021||India||Four students drown in Brahmaputra at Guwahati; 3 bodies recovered||Four teenaged students have drowned in Brahmaputra River at Guwahati on Sunday. Authorities have recovered three bodies and efforts are underway to trace the fourth student. The teenagers, all students of Class 10, had reportedly gone for a swim in the river near Pandu Port while returning from their tuition classes. Mobile phones, bags, shoes and clothes of the students were found on the banks of the river by rescue personnel. The deceased have been identified as Dayal Sheikh, Avinash Das and Jeet Das. Four teams of SDRF, NDRF and the river police are engaged in efforts to trace Deep Sarkar, the fourth student. “We got information at around 1:30 pm about the missing students and immediately engaged teams to rescue them. The river is swollen these days and there’s a strong current. We request people not to venture out for swimming and parents to keep an eye on their children,” a local police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-students-drown-in-brahmaputra-at-guwahati-3-bodies-recovered-101632658118762.html
26-09-2021||India||Kerala teacher pushes for constitutional education in schools||As India gets ready to complete 75 years of independence, a teacher from Kottayam in Kerala has started a movement to set up Constitution clubs in schools to make youngsters aware of their duties and obligations.Last year, Binu PG wrote about this to Kerala governor Arif Mohammad Khan, who lauded his initiative and forwarded the letter to President Ram Kovind. Someone who has travelled throughout the country, the 40-year-old freelance teacher says that constitutional values should be taught to children at a young age and citizenship education should be included in curriculum. He said it will help groom a generation that cherishes civic values and responsibilities.“If you ask our students about the freedom movement and our Constitution they will only tell you about some dates or tall leaders. I have been teaching students about Constitutional values for more than one and a half decade and I am sure that by imbibing its spirit, they will become better citizens,” he said, adding youngsters should be groomed about how to respect the law of the land.“I am not saying that all articles and rights should be taught in schools. What we need is literacy in the Constitution. Youngsters should be made aware of their rights, duties and obligations,” he said, adding that citizenship education was taught as a subject in many countries like Singapore and Japan.Binu PG is initially planning to tour Kerala to mobilise support and later take his mission to the national level.“We have around 450 million youth in the country. We don’t have an effective mechanism to groom and channelise their energy for the country. I am sure good lessons will make them good citizens and we don’t need high doses of nationalism at a later stage,” he said, adding that he had prepared a blueprint for constitution clubs.In his letter to the governor, he also mentioned that the contribution of BN Rau, a civil servant and jurist, who played a key role in drafting the Constitution, was not properly recognised and wanted a befitting memorial for him. “Binu is a committed social activist who dreams of a better country. A motivational speaker and teacher, he has been inspiring youth for many years,” said Dr V Reghu, former assistant director of the Centre for Adult Education Board of Kerala University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-teacher-pushes-for-constitutional-education-in-schools-101632657942289.html
26-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Monday's Bharat Bandh likely to affect public transport and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bharat Bandh tomorrow from 6am to 4pm; public transport likely to be affectedThe Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has called a 10-hour Bharat Bandh on Monday, September 27, to mark a year of the three controversial farm laws that were passed by Parliament in September last year. Read MoreAll educational institutions in Odisha to be closed on Monday as cyclone Gulab nears coastOdisha on Sunday announced that schools and educational institutions in the 11 coastal and adjoining districts will remain closed on Monday (September 27) as cyclone Gulab is all set to hit the coast in Andhra Pradesh on Sunday night. Read MoreKabul residents struggling due to price rise, medicine shortage under Taliban rule: ReportResidents of Kabul, Afghanistan's capital city, are facing issues such as rising food and fuel prices, shortage of medicines, restrictions on cash withdrawal etc. Read MoreIPL 2021: DRS saves Shubman Gill, but Ambati Rayudu gets him run out next ball with sensational direct hitThe first over of the Indian Premier League 2021 match between Kolkata Knight Riders and Chennai Super Kings saw a lot of drama unfolding. Read MoreShah Rukh Khan's Pathan missing as YRF announces release dates for Akshay Kumar's Prithviraj, Ranbir Kapoor's ShamsheraShah Rukh Khan's upcoming film Pathan will not be releasing in the first quarter of 2022. Read MoreAnanya Panday is Gen-Z trendsetter in ₹32.6k green blazer, shorts setSummer 2021's breakout fashion trend has undoubtedly been of co-ord sets and Bollywood actor Ananya Panday gave it her own sexy twist as she turned Gen-Z trendsetter in a green blazer and matching shorts set. Read MoreWith five electric variants on offer, Audi India calls for lower EV import dutyWith the launch of the Audi e-tron GT and RS GT electric sports cars in the country last week, the German auto giant has as many as five electric e-tron variants in its line-up for India. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-monday-s-bharat-bandh-likely-to-affect-public-transport-and-all-the-latest-news-101632654142003.html
26-09-2021||India||Punjab Cabinet: 15 ministers take oath amid row over Rana Gurjit Singh||A total of 15 ministers to be part of the new Cabinet of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi took oath on Sunday at the Raj Bhavan in Chandigarh, a week after Channi's name was announced as the new chief minister of the poll-bound state. After Channi's swearing-in on Monday, rounds of discussion were held to finalise the names of the new ministers. Sunday's Cabinet expansion and swearing-in follow the chief minister's recent visit to New Delhi where the new inclusions have been vetted by the high command. However, at the last moment, a controversy erupted with six MLAs objecting to Rana Gurjit Singh's inclusion in the Cabinet. Rana Gurjeet Singh was dropped from the Cabinet in January 2018 because of his alleged involvement in the mining scandal. The leaders demanded that the cabinet berth should go to a clean Dalit leader.The ministers who took oath on Sunday are Brahm Mohindra, Manpreet Singh Badal, Tripti Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Rana Gurjit Singh, Aruna Chaudary, Razia Sultana, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Vijay Inder Singla, Randeep Singh Nabha, Raj Kumar Verka, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Pargat Singh, Amarinder Singh Raja Warring, Gukrirat Singh Kotli.Congress leader in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat said the Cabinet, which has seven new faces and eight from Amarinder Singh's Cabinet is a balanced one. Among the new faces inducted, only Rana Gurjit Singh has been a minister before. The rest six are ministers from the first time.Follow live updates of Punjab Cabinet expansion“Those who could not be made ministers today will be accommodated in government setup and organisation. This exercise has been done to bring in young faces and strike a social and regional balance,” Rawat said. The Cabinet expansion has drawn the ire of the ministers of the Amarinder Singh government, who have been dropped from the Channi government. Balbir Singh Sidhu and Gurpreet Singh Kangar held a joint news conference here shortly before the cabinet expansion and asked what was their fault that they had been dropped. Congress leader Manish Tewari waded into the controversy and said it is the chief minister's prerogative to decide who should be a minister. But he said that former health minister Balbir Singh worked exemplarily during the worst days of Covid. https://t.co/ajfRHOBNIZWho should be a Minister or should not be is CM’s prerogative.However I am constrained to point out that @BalbirSinghMLA ( Sidhu Sahib) as Health Minister went way beyond call of duty during the worst days of COVID-19.His selflessness was unparalleled.The new Cabinet has been designed keeping an eye on the upcoming election that the Congress is likely to contest under the leadership of Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, instead of Channi, who is Punjab's first Dalit chief minister. Caste calculation has played a significant role in the new Cabinet as there is a representation of Valmiki, OBC, Jat Sikhs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cabinet-expansion-new-mlas-take-oath-amid-row-over-rana-gurjit-singh-101632653304679.html
26-09-2021||India||Odisha club polls turn interesting as 2 former chief secretaries face off||For decades, Bijay Patnaik, a 1976-batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer and Asit Tripathy, a 1986-batch IAS officer not only worked in tandem in the Odisha government but also rose to the highest seat of power in state bureaucracy, becoming chief secretaries. The two bureaucrats were not done after retiring from the Indian Administrative Service and are now locking horns for the post of president of Bhubaneswar Club, the two-day long elections to which began on Saturday. Results will be declared on Monday.While the preparations for the bye-elections in Pipili assembly constituency scheduled next month is a staid affair, elections for the top post of the 71-year-old club, otherwise known as a watering hole of the IAS officers and businessmen in Bhubaneswar, has become rather interesting with Tripathy and Patnaik sending video messages, recorded audio messages and e-fliers to over 1800-odd members eligible to vote.“I am getting so many messages from the candidates that my mailboxes are jammed. I wonder if this has become a college union election with candidates pushing it a bit too much,” chuckled a club member, unwilling to be named.For the last decade or so, elections to Bhubaneswar Club were very dull affairs with its former president Priyabrat Patnaik single-handedly running the show. Patnaik, a former IAS officer, was known more as the president of the club as he paid greater attention to its affairs resulting in retention of its presidency for the last 9 years. He died last year after a long battle with liver cancer.What may have turned an otherwise staid club election to find Patnaik’s replacement interesting is the subtle official support to Tripathy, now principal advisor to chief minister Naveen Patnaik. Finance secretary Vishal Dev standing for the post of secretary of the club has triggered rumours that the government wants to develop an otherwise ordinary-looking club so that business investors can look for some recreation after a hard day’s work in the state capital.“The club is a living heritage of our dynamic city and deserves a beautiful facade and better physical amenities. The premier clubs in other cities are dynamic places where members and their families enjoy warm camaraderie and companionship. I have come forward to contest the election for president of our club along with a group of highly motivated colleagues who are committed to my vision of transformation of our club,” said Tripathy.“I want the club to grow like the India Habitat Centre,” he added.Patnaik, who retired as chief secretary 8 years ago and worked in the CM’s office for 6 years, said he wanted to repay some of his debt to the club. “I have been enjoying the hospitality of the club for more than 30 years. For me, the post of president is not another empire to be conquered or a trophy to be won,” said Patnaik, who was close to Priyabrat Patnaik, former president of the club. Patnaik is backed by outgoing club secretary Ashok Chinchela, who is seeking re-election, and outgoing vice-president Sudipto Das.A key associate of chief minister a decade ago, Bijoy Patnaik after retirement was made chief of Odisha Staff Selection Commission and then member of Odisha Human Rights Commission. Tripathy, after his retirement as chief secretary in December 2020, was promptly appointed as principal advisor to CM and chairman of Western Odisha Development Council. There are speculations that he may be fielded as the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) candidate from Bolangir in Lok Sabha elections with an aim to blunt the influence of the royal family of Singhdeos.Many believe the power struggle for the club would help clean up its past blemishes. In 2007, the club, headed by Priyabrata Patnaik, triggered a controversy after it was revealed that the club was among the applicants for the Khandadhar iron ore mines in Sundargarh district, for which South Korean steel major Posco was also a contender. The club later withdrew the application after the Union ministry of personnel took a serious view of the matter.In early 2000, the club had stirred a controversy by rejecting the application for membership of the then commercial tax commissioner Taradutt, an IAS officer, after his department sent a notice to the club alleging it had not paid sales tax dues. The club then went on an appeal before the sales tax tribunal and got a breather.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-club-polls-turns-interesting-as-2-former-chief-secretaries-face-off-101632653258340.html
26-09-2021||India||Bharat Bandh tomorrow from 6am to 4pm; public transport likely to be affected||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has called a 10-hour Bharat Bandh on Monday, September 27, to mark a year of the three controversial farm laws that were passed by Parliament in September last year. September 27 marks the first anniversary of President Ram Nath Kovind giving his assent for the three bills. The umbrella union of the farmers who are protesting against these three laws for around 10 months now has said that Bharat Bandh on Monday will be peaceful and the public will face minimal inconvenience.No public, private transport allowedIn its guideline, the SKM said that during the time of the Bharat Bandh, central and state government offices, markets, shops, factories, schools, colleges and other educational institutions will not be allowed to function. Public and private transport will not be allowed to ply on roads and no public functions will be allowed. However, emergency services including ambulances and fire services will be allowed to function.The main banners or themes for the day would be 'Bharat Bandh against Anti-Farmer Modi Government', 'Modi Brings in Mandi Bandh', 'Farmers take up Bharat Bandh' and so on, the SKM said in a statement.States where the effect of Bharat Bandh is likely to be feltThe farmers' Bharat Bandh has already gathered support from several political parties, including the Congress, AAP, YSRC, DMK, Telugu Desam, Left parties, BSP, RJD etc. Kerala, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu governments have announced complete support to the nationwide strike. The Andhra Pradesh government has decided to stop APSRTC buses from September 26 midnight to September 27 afternoon.Delhi under security blanketThe Delhi Police have said that no protesters will be allowed to enter Delhi from the three protest sites at the city's border. "The security will be preventive and we are fully alert. There is no call for 'Bharat Bandh' in Delhi, but we are watching the developments and adequate number of personnel will be on the ground," an officer said.No bandh for tradersTraders, small industries, shopkeepers have nothing to do with the bandh, Bhartiya Udyog Vyapaar Mandal has said. "The bandh call by a handful of so-called farmers has been virtually sponsored by the opposition parties from the back door for their political gain and is anti-development and senseless besides being against the interest of traders,” national president Ravi Kant Garg said in a statement.Will bank activities be affected?The All India Bank Officers' Confederation has extended its support to the call of Bharat Bandh. The union said it will join the protest of the farmers in solidarity.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-tomorrow-from-6am-to-4pm-public-transport-likely-to-be-affected-101632651514926.html
26-09-2021||India||Cyclone Gulab to make landfall between Odisha and Andhra: All you need to know||Cyclone ‘Gulab’ is likely to make landfall between Gopalpur in Odisha and Kalingapatnam in Andhra Pradesh between late Sunday evening and midnight, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in a forecast. Odisha’s southern and central regions woke up to heavy rainfall on Sunday morning.Heavy rainfall alert has also been issued for states like West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, and Telangana, among others. Read on to find out more about the impending cyclone.1. Cyclone Gulab will be the second storm in the last four months to hit Odisha, after cyclone Yaas hit the coastal state in May this year.2. IMD has predicted that over the next three days, after Gulab makes landfall, conditions will be rough at sea, and has warned fishermen from West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, and Odisha to not venture out into east-central and adjoining northeast Bay of Bengal and Andaman Sea.3. The districts of Gajapati, Ganjam, Rayagada, Koraput, Malkangiri, Nabarangpur, and Kandhamal in Odisha are predicted to bear the maximum burnt of cyclone Gulab.4. In neighbouring state of Andhra Pradesh authorities have made plans to shift around 86,000 families from the districts of Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam, the state government said on Saturday.5. In preparation for cyclone Gulab the National Disaster Response Force has stationed 13 teams, and 24 sub teams in Odisha, and five in Andhra Pradesh.6. In addition to this, around 42 teams of the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) and 102 teams of fire brigade personnel have been deployed in Odisha in the most vulnerable seven districts.7. Special Relief Commissioner (SRC) PK Jena has predicted the intensity of Gulab will be similar to cyclone ‘Titli’, which battered Odisha in 2018.8. During landfall, the wind speed is predicted to hover between 90kmph and 100 kmph. Barring that period, the velocity of winds on Sunday is expected to be limited to 70kmph. On Sunday morning the speed of the cyclone system was at 18kmph.9. Gulab is also expected to impact West Bengal after it reaches the state’s coast on September 29. Heavy rainfall and winds are expected over Kolkata, North 24 Parganas, East and West Medinipur, Jhargram, Howrah and Hooghly on September 28 and 29.10. The West Bengal government has cancelled leaves of all state government employees till October 5 in anticipation of heavy rainfall that will be lashing the state due to a deep depression in the Bay of Bengal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-gulab-to-make-landfall-between-odisha-and-andhra-all-you-need-to-know-101632651584734.html
26-09-2021||India||Mann Ki Baat: Modi cites Naganadhi to urge communities to revive dying rivers||Prime Minister Narendra on Sunday mentioned about the rejuvenation of Naganadhi river during the 81st episode of his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat.Addessing the Mann Ki Baat earlier today, which coincided with the World Rivers Day, Modi stressed the importance of conservation of rivers and their importance in Indian tradition and cultures.Modi said many people and communities have dedicated themselves to the cause of rejuvenation of dying rivers, including Naganadhi, which flows through Vellore and Thiruvannamalai districts of Tamil Nadu.The Naganadhi river with its catchment area in Vellore and Tiruvannamalai districts had dried up many years ago. The groundwater in the area reduced subsequently making the area bore-well dependent.In 2014, taking the guidance of geologist Lingaraju Yale, ex-director of Karnataka State Remote Sensing and Application Centre and now with the Art of Living River Rejuvenation project, Chandrasekaran, director of the Naganadhi River Rejuvenation programme designed a model to revive the river.An army of over a 1,000 women from 21 villages of a block in Vellore district built recharge wells and check dams to revive the groundwater which, in turn, gave life back to the river.The Prime Minister said women of the area took up the cudgels to rejuvenate their river which had almost dried up.“You would be glad to know that today, the river is brimming with water. And truly, when a river is full of water, it lends such tranquility to the mind…I have actually witnessed the experience,” Modi said.The groundwater recharge work has now been extended to nine other Tamil Nadu districts led by close to 20,000 women.“The government and social service organisations keep undertaking one endeavour or the other in order to rejuvenate rivers throughout the country and cleanse the waters,” the Prime Minister said, adding, “It has been going on for decades now. There are some people who have dedicated themselves to these causes. And it is this very tradition, this very endeavour, this very faith that has saved our rivers.”Modi also cited the example of Sabarmati river in Gujarat. He said parts of the river dried up during the past few decades as there is no for six to eight months every year. However, after Narmada and Sabarmati rivers were linked, it helped rejuvenate it.“If you go to Ahmedabad today, the waters of river Sabarmati fill one’s heart with such joy,” Modi said, while praising the women of Tamil Nadu for their intiative to rejuvenate Naganadhi river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-modi-cites-naganadhi-to-urge-communities-to-revive-dying-rivers-101632639599836.html
26-09-2021||NA||Cabinet expansion highlights: Punjab, UP get new ministers ahead of polls||Two poll-bound states Punjab and Uttar Pradesh are slated to expand their cabinet on Sunday. Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi is likely to induct more than five new faces to the cabinet. Channi who took office last week finalised on the new set of ministers after several rounds of consultations with Congress high command.Uttar Pradesh is also going to get a new set of ministers today. The cabinet expansion is scheduled to be held in the evening. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath is likely to induct seven new faces ahead of the legislative assembly elections which are scheduled to be held next year.Follow all the updates here:4 MLAs take oath as ministers of stateLucknow: BJP MLAs Palturam, Sangeeta Balwant, Sanjeev Kumar, and Dinesh Khatik take oath as ministers of state (MoS) in the Uttar Pradesh Govt pic.twitter.com/4JlLAvponcPalturam, Sangeeta Balwant, Sanjeev Kumar, and Dinesh Khatik took oath in presence of governor Anandi Ben Patel. After Jitin Prasada, MLA Chhatarpal Gangwar takes oathThe Baheri MLA is now part of the Yogi Adityanath's cabinet. UP cabinet expansion begins#WATCH | BJP leader Jitin Prasada takes oath as a minister in the Uttar Pradesh Government, at a ceremony in LucknowPrasada joined the BJP from Congress in June this year pic.twitter.com/qlnnbp6qOLEx-Congress leader Jitin Prasada takes oath as cabinet minister. Congress Punjab in-charge calls  new cabinet balancedThose who could not be made ministers today will be accommodated in the Govt setup & the organization. This exercise has been done to bring in young faces & strike a social & regional balance: Punjab Congress in-charge Harish Rawat after expansion of Punjab Cabinet pic.twitter.com/PgC0XUKEf1Harish Rawat called the new cabinet ‘balanced’. Punjab cabinet expansion completed. 7 fresh faces inductedAmong all 15 sworn in as cabinet ministers, 8 ministers retained from the former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh's cabinet. 7 fresh faces inducted in Channi's new cabinet. Amrinder Singh Raja Warring and Gurkirat Kotli take oathGidderbaha MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring takes oath as cabinet minister, Kotli was the last to take oath. Pargat Singh, close to Navjot Singh Sidhu, take oathPargat Singh, who was also among those who rebelled against Captain Amarinder Singh, Punjab former chief minister, also took oath as cabinet minister. Raj Kumar Verka and Sangat Singh Gilzian take oathVerka ahead of taking oath as a state cabinet minister said he wishes to fulfil the hopes of the people. 3 MLAs take oath as cabinet ministerVijay Inder Singla, Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Randeep Singh Nabha took oath as cabinet ministers. Razia Sultana takes oath as cabinet ministerMalerkotla MLA Razia Sultana takes oath as cabinet minister. Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria who represents Raja Sansi takes oath Along with Sarkaria, controversial MLA Gurjit Singh Rana also takes oath as Punjab cabinet minister.  Rana Gurjit Singh is Kapurthala MLA and his return to the state cabinet was opposed by several Doaba leaders. He was a minister in the Amarinder govt and had to resign after 10 months in 2018 was earlier removed for his alleged connection to the sand mining auction. Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Aruna Chaudhary take oath as cabinet ministersTript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Aruna Chaudhary who represent Fatehgarh Churian and Dina Nagar respectively have taken their oaths. Manpreet Singh Badal to take oath nextManpreet Singh Badal will take oath next. The Congress leader represents Bathinda (Urban)Oath-taking ceremony begins in Punjab3  takes oath as new cabinet minister in presence of Governor Banwarilal Purohit. Randeep Singh Nabha arrives for cabinet expansionNabha, who is likely to be inducted, arrived for the cabinet expansion. Will do nothing but grab money: SAD slams Congress ahead of cabinet expansionThe Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) President Sukhbir Singh Badal also said that they will review every decision taken by the new cabinet. Jiten Prasada, who left Congress to join BJP, to get cabinet postJiten Prasada to be appointed UP cabinet minister plus five state ministersAmid controversy, Rana Gurjit Singh arrives for cabinet expansionRana Gurjit Singh, who is facing opposition from several leaders from his own party, arrives for the oath-taking ceremony. Gurjit Singh who holds power and irrigation portfolio’s was dropped from the Punjab cabinet in the midst of controversy due to sand mine auction. In the letter the MLA’s, said that he was dropped from the cabinet in January 2018 due to the infamous mining scandal involving him, his family and his companies directly in the said scandal.Punjab cabinet expansion - Who all are likely to be inducted? Navtej Singh Cheema from Sultanpur Lodhi, Sukhpal Singh Khaira from Bholath, Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal from Phagwara, Bawa Henry from Jalandhar (north) and Pawan Adiya from Sham Chaurasi are supposed to included to the Punjab cabinet. New UP ministers to hold post for 150 daysThe Uttar Pradesh cabinet expansion could be the shortest ever expansion undertaken by any government in the state with few months to go for the polls.No reports of ministers being axed from UP cabinetThe 53-member Yogi ministry may accommodate seven more ministers but there are no reports of ministers being axed. Uttar Pradesh cabinet reshuffle at 5:30pmUttar Pradesh to reshuffle its cabinet at 5:30pm. “At 5.30 pm on Sunday, the expansion of UP government would take place,” a message from the Raj Bhawan confirmed. Punjab industries minister Sundar Sham Arora thanks Cong leadershipThe former Punjab minister vacated the Government House on Saturday and thanked the Congress leadership for giving him a chance to serve the state.'What did we do wrong': 2 former Punjab ministers ask Cong high commandBalbir Singh Sidhu and Gurpreet Singh Kangar questioned party high command regarding their names being dropped from the cabinet. Few Congress leaders oppose inclusion of Rana Gurjit SinghRana Gurjit Singh's inclusion in the Punjab cabinet has irked some Congress leaders, reports PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-expansion-live-uttar-pradesh-punjab-set-to-expand-cabinet-101632648115848.html
26-09-2021||India||Amarinder Singh back with NDA batchmates, sings 'o gorey gorey'||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, who resigned a week ago, expressing much resentment with the Congress leadership, is now spending time away from politics as he is hosting a get-together for his 47 batchmates of National Defence Academy at his Mohinder Bagh farmhouse in Mohali. Captain also designed some special jackets for all his batchmates with their names and course embossed, especially for the get-together. A video of Amarinder Singh singing the Bollywood song, 'O gorey gorey', shared by his media advisor Raveen Thukral has grabbed the attention of social media users at a time when Punjab is getting a new cabinet, not devoid of controversy and lobbying. And there was more merriment….@capt_amarinder seemed in full mood to enjoy the moment. Listen in to him singing ‘O gorey gorey…’ from an old Hindi movie. pic.twitter.com/xbwEzBBCw5Last week, Amarinder Singh resigned making way for Charanjit Singh Channi to become the new chief minister of the poll-bound state. The Captain-Sidhu tug-of-war was going on in the state Congress for several months which could not be put to rest even after Sidhu's elevation to the post of the Punjab Congress chief. However, Amarinder Singh's exit was not smooth as he made it clear that he did not understand why the Congress leadership decided to bring in the change with a few months left before the election. He also termed Sidhu as an 'anti-national' and said he will oppose Sidhu as the CM face in the upcoming polls. The Congress leadership has been misguided, Captain said, referring to Rahul Gandhi as ‘inexperienced’.While Amarinder Singh's future political plan is under the wraps, Punjab's Cabinet expansion is facing a new challenge after the name of the probable inclusion became public. Some senior Congress leaders have now written to Navjot Singh Sidhu against the probable inclusion of Rana Gurjit Singh, who was allegedly associated with a sand mining scam. Reports said five ministers from Amarinder Singh's Cabinet are likely to be dropped while seven new faces will be included in the Charanjit Singh Channi government. Though Channi is the CM now, the Congress is likely to contest the assembly election making Sidhu the CM face, Congress leadership has indicated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-back-with-nda-batchmates-sings-o-gorey-gorey-101632647811256.html
26-09-2021||India||India beats Germany, UK and Turkey to bag IAEA external auditor job||India has been elected as the external auditor to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), a prestigious institution that promotes peaceful use of nuclear energy, for a period of six years from 2022 to 2027 after beating Germany and the United Kingdom among other counties. India's comptroller and auditor general GC Murmu was selected as the external auditor of IAEA and the ministry of external affairs (MEA) said his candidature received majority support of the IAEA general conference. The MEA has said that the election is a "recognition" of India's standing in the international community and global acknowledgement of the CAG's credentials, professionalism and experience. "The CAG's bid received majority support of the IAEA General Conference for the position for which several competing bids were submitted from different countries," it said in a statement.In the first round of voting for the post, Germany got 36 votes, India 30, the UK eight, Russia 11, Turkey 9, Egypt 20, Republic of Korea 2 and the Philippines 7 votes. The second round boiled down to the race between India and Germany with India managing to beat the European country. Russia and the United Kingdom along with China, France, and the United States are the five permanent members of the UNSC with India among the 10 non-permanent members elected for two-year terms by the General Assembly.Also read | North Korea's nuclear programme going ahead in ‘full steam’: IAEA chief GrossiThe total number of ballots cast was 125 as there were 2 abstentions, 123 were present and voting with the required majority being 62. India was the IAEA external auditor from 2012 to 2015.Murmu took charge as the comptroller and auditor general of India on August 8 last year. Before that, he served as the first Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir. Murmu also served in various capacities in the government—as secretary of the department of expenditure, special and additional secretary in the department of financial services and department of revenue.Also read | Aimed at Joe Biden, a new act in North Korea’s nuclear dramaThe 65th Annual Regular Session of the IAEA General Conference was held from September 20 to 24 in Vienna. Throughout the week, the organisation held 80-plus events on nuclear topics. IAEA is the world's centre for cooperation in the nuclear field, promoting the safe, secure and peaceful use of nuclear technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-beats-germany-uk-and-turkey-to-bag-iaea-external-auditor-job-101632647077803.html
26-09-2021||India||PM Modi salutes ‘Divyang’ trekkers who conquered Siachen glacier, made world record||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday saluted a team of disabled trekkers from India who created a new world record by conquering an otherwise inaccessible terrain on the Siachen Glacier. PM Modi said the team of eight “Divyangs” trekked and hoisted the Indian national flag on the treacherous mountain spot, known as ‘Kumar Post’—a place which is a less-traversed area on the famous glacier 15,000 feet above sea level. Prime Minister Modi, who was addressing the 81st edition of his monthly ‘Mann Ki Baat’ radio programme on Sunday, said that the feat achieved by the team of eight “Divyangs” (a term promoted by the Prime Minister to refer to persons with disabilities) was an inspiration for the entire country.Also Read | On Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi urges people to observe World Rivers Day“We all know about the Siachen Glacier. The cold there is so terrible that it is beyond the capacity of a common person to live there. A few days ago, the feat that a team of eight Divyang persons performed in this inaccessible region of Siachen is a matter of pride for every countryman,” PM Modi said. "This team created a world record by hoisting its flag on the Kumar Post situated at an altitude of more than 15 thousand feet at the Siachen glacier," the Prime Minister said, saluting the team of ‘Divyang’ trekkers.Modi then proceeded to name each person on the team, which consisted of – Mahesh Nehra, Akshat Rawat of Uttarakhand, Pushpak Gawande of Maharashtra, Ajay Kumar of Haryana, Lobsang Chospel of Ladakh, Major Dwarkesh of Tamil Nadu, Irfan Ahmed Mir of Jammu & Kashmir and Chongjin Ingmo of Himachal Pradesh.The Prime Minister said that despite the challenges of physical disability, the trekkers conquered the Siachen Glacier with assistance from veterans of the special forces of the Indian Army. “I commend the team for this historic and unprecedented achievement,” he said. “It also shows the spirit of our countrymen to tackle every challenge with a ‘Can Do Culture’, a ‘Can Do Determination’, and a ‘Can Do Attitude.’”Prime Minister Modi also informed that the central government is making special efforts for the welfare of persons with disabilities across the country. “I got a chance to know about one such effort being made in Uttar Pradesh - ‘One Teacher, One Call,’” he said.The unique effort in Bareilly is showing a new path to the ‘Divyang’ children, he said, adding that the campaign is being led by Deepmala Pandey, the principal of a school in Dabhaura Gangapur.During the coronavirus pandemic, as many as 350 teachers joined “in the spirit of service” due to this campaign to come forward to teach the ‘Divyang’ children who were enrolled, the Prime Minister said. He added that these teachers went from village to village calling for the children with disabilities, looking out for them, and ensuring that their process is successfully done in one school or the other.“I deeply appreciate this noble effort of Deepmala ji and her fellow teachers for the sake of the Divyangjans,” said the Prime Minister. “Every such effort in the field of education is going to shape the future of our country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-salutes-divyang-trekkers-who-conquered-siachen-glacier-made-world-record-101632641939435.html
26-09-2021||India||‘Team India creating daily records…’: On Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi applauds fight against Covid-19||“Team India” is setting new records daily in its fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), prime minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday, as he addressed the nation on the 81st episode of his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio programme.Also Read | Cleanliness is a responsibility to transfer values: PM Modi in Mann Ki Baat“On the vaccination front, India's achievements are so huge that those are being discussed around the world,” PM Modi said, in an apparent reference to vaccination of more than 10 million beneficiaries in a single-day on at least four occasions, the last of which was on September 17, when he turned 71.Also Read | Ensure that no one is left out of vaccination's circle of safety: PM ModiA record was made on that day, as more than 25 million people across the country received shots against the viral illness. “Every Indian has an important role in this fight. While we should get vaccinated when our turn comes, we should also ensure that no one is left out of this circle of safety,” prime minister Modi further said, adding that even after inoculation, all Covid-19 protocols should be strictly complied with.Also Read | PM Modi at UN: Come, make vaccines in IndiaThe nationwide vaccination drive began on January 16 this year, with two vaccines: Covishield and Covaxin. Since then, at least 856,081,527 vaccine doses have been administered, including 6,842,786 in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard.Four other vaccines have also received permission to be used in the inoculation drive. Of the six jabs, two, including Covaxin, are made-in-India shots. While Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech has developed Covaxin, Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila is behind ZyCoV-D. The latter, in fact, was mentioned prominently by the prime minister in his speech at the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) on Saturday.Also Read | Modi at UNGA: PM announces world's first DNA vaccine for Covid-19 from global stageCurrently, only those aged 18 and above are eligible for a jab against the contagious disease. ZyCoV-D is the only vaccine to have been cleared for an age group below 18, receiving nod to be administered to those aged 12 and above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/team-india-creating-daily-records-on-mann-ki-baat-pm-modi-applauds-fight-against-covid19-101632639561789.html
26-09-2021||India||On Manmohan Singh's birthday, PM Modi, others wish former prime minister||Prime Minister Narendra Modi led the political fraternity in wishing his predecessor, Dr Manmohan Singh, on the latter's birthday, as the Congress stalwart turned 89-years-old on Sunday. PM Modi, who arrived in Delhi after concluding a 3-day official visit to the United States, tweeted, “Birthday greetings to our former prime minister Dr Manmohan Singh Ji. I pray for his long life and wonderful health.” Birthday greetings to our former Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh Ji. I pray for his long life and wonderful health.Defence minister Rajnath Singh, too, greeted the former prime minister on the occasion. “Warm wishes to former prime minister Dr Manmohan Singh ji on his birthday. May he be blessed with good health and long life,” the defence minister, PM Modi's colleague in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), said in a tweet. Warm wishes to former Prime Minister of India, Dr. Manmohan Singh ji on his birthday. May he be blessed with good health and long life.The former PM's colleagues in the Congress, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and former deputy CM of the desert state, Sachin Pilot, also wished the renowned economist. “Best wishes to former PM Dr Manmohan Singh ji on his birthday. Wishing him a long and healthy and happy life. We thank him for his leadership during the UPA,” Gehlot said in his tweet. Best wishes to former Prime Minister Dr. #ManmohanSingh ji on his birthday. Wishing him a long, healthy & happy life. We thank him for his leadership during UPA, for a robust economy, bringing lakhs of people out of poverty and working tirelessly in national interest. pic.twitter.com/mIfC3Ikeg1Pilot, meanwhile, shared the following message in Hindi: “Best wishes to former PM and Rajya Sabha MP from Rajasthan, former PM Dr Manmohan Singh. I pray to God for your health and long life.” पूर्व प्रधानमंत्री एवं राजस्थान से राज्यसभा सांसद डॉ. मनमोहन सिंह जी को जन्मदिवस की हार्दिक बधाई एवं शुभकामनाएं।मैं ईश्वर से आपके स्वस्थ एवं दीर्घायु जीवन की कामना करता हूँ। pic.twitter.com/aRA6GHyHIx“Birthday greetings to former PM Shri Manmohan Singh ji. I pray for your long and healthy life,” tweeted Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convenor Arvind Kejriwal. Birthday greetings to former PM Shri Manmohan Singh ji. I pray for your long and healthy life.Singh, who was the prime minister for two straight terms, holding the office from 2004 to 2014, was the 13th person, and the first Sikh, to hold the top post. The former RBI governor, the brain behind the 1991 economic reforms, was a surprise choice of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) which won Lok Sabha elections in 2004, ahead of the ruling BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-manmohan-singh-s-birthday-pm-modi-others-wish-former-prime-minister-101632641494670.html
26-09-2021||India||Cyclone Gulab: IMD issues red alert for Odisha, Andhra ahead of landfall||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday issued a red alert for Cyclone 'Gulab' for south Odisha and north coastal Andhra Pradesh ahead of its landfall. “It is likely to move nearly westwards and cross north Andhra Pradesh-south Odisha coasts… with maximum sustained wind speed of 75-85kmph gusting to 95kmph, around midnight of today. The landfall process will commence from late evening of Sunday,” the IMD said, while issuing a ‘Red Message’ (extreme rain).'"Cyclone Gulab' is currently located 180 km southeast of Gopalpur. Most likely it will make landfall from late evening to midnight, between Kalingapatnam in Andhra Pradesh and Gopalpur in Odisha, " Special Relief Commissioner PK Jena told media.Meanwhile, rainfall activity started in Odisha’s southern and coastal regions on Sunday morning in the wake of Cyclone 'Gulab’, which is likely to make landfall between Gopalpur and Kalingapatanam in Andhra Pradesh around midnight. The cyclone lay centred about 140km east-southeast of Gopalpur and 190km east-northeast of Kalingapatnam, the IMD said. “The landfall is expected late evening/night,” IMD senior scientist RK Jenamani told ANI.The Odisha government has already mobilised men and machinery and launched an evacuation drive in seven identified districts in the southern parts of the state. As many as 42 teams of the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) and 24 squads of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), along with about 102 teams of fire brigade personnel, have been dispatched to the seven districts — Gajapati, Ganjam, Rayagada, Koraput, Malkangiri, Nabarangpur and Kandhamal, Special Relief Commissioner (SRC) PK Jena said, reports news agency PTI.Jena said that Ganjam is expected to be severely affected by the cyclonic storm and 15 rescue teams have been deployed in that area alone. Besides, 11 fire service units, six teams of the ODRAF and eight of the NDRF are on standby for emergency purposes, he added.Over the next three days, the sea condition will be rough to very rough and fishermen in Odisha, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh have been asked to not venture into east-central and adjoining northeast Bay of Bengal and the Andaman Sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-gulab-imd-issues-red-alert-for-odisha-andhra-ahead-of-landfall-101632642055263.html
26-09-2021||India||How was PM Modi allowed in US despite having taken Covaxin? Shiv Sena questions||The Shiv Sena raised questions about Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the United States asking how was the prime minister allowed entry in America when he was had taken doses of Covaxin which is yet to be recognised by the World Health Organisation (WHO). The party questioned how could there be different rules related to the vaccine for the general public and the prime minister for foreign travel.Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut in his weekly column ‘Rokthok’ in party mouthpiece Samana, has said that Modi must be feeling relieved as he was able to go abroad after a long time. “The world has recognised Covishield. However, those who have taken the Covaxin vaccine are now in a fix as they are not allowed to travel to many American-European countries. Then how come Modi, who has taken doses of Covaxin was allowed to land in America? Many students, businessmen were not allowed to travel for having taken doses of Covaxin. If we point that such rules are only for common people and not for the high and mighty, the BJP will criticise us saying that with Modi, everything is possible (Modi Hai Toh Mumkin Hai). Who can stop Modi?”In addition, Raut said that in Maharashtra, BJP is on an entertainment spree by levelling baseless allegations against the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. He said that since theatres and auditoriums were closed and people were being deprived of entertainment, the void was being filled by the BJP leaders. The opposition BJP is being ably aided by the central agencies like Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in their mission of entertaining the people, he said.“Former BJP MP Kirit Somaiya gets up every morning and levels baseless allegations against an MVA minister. He then tours the constituency of that minister. Maharashtra has seen many opposition leaders like Madhu Dandavate, Madhu Limaye, George Fernandes who exposed the then governments. Former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and her son Sanjay Gandhi had to face the music but what is happening now has never been seen before in Indian politics,” Raut has remarked.The BJP had described Raut’s remarks on Modi’s tour as childish. “Their very question on Modi’s American tour exposes their ignorance and displays their childishness,” said BJP legislator Ram Kadam. “We have been criticising the MVA government and complaining against them on basis of proof. If the MVA leaders are innocent, why are they afraid of facing the central agencies?” questioned Kadam.Raut has trained his guns on BJP state president Chandrakant Patil. Recently, Patil had reacted to an article and written a rebuttal to Saamna, criticising Raut for his remarks against him. “We published the letter written by Chandrakant Patil in our newspaper. Patil criticised me saying that Sanjay Raut was acting as a spokesperson for the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar. He said that Raut had no credibility in the Shiv Sena. Further, he described me as the man responsible for breaking the Shiv Sena-BJP alliance. How can a man with no credibility break such an alliance in the first place? This only shows their ignorance,” said Raut.The Shiv Sena had fought the 2019 Maharashtra polls in alliance with the BJP. However, the problem started when the Sena insisted on sharing the chief minister’s post with the BJP. The BJP refused and hence the Sena teamed with the opposition parties like Congress and the NCP to form the government. Raut played a major role in forging this alliance and the BJP has been training their guns on him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-was-pm-modi-allowed-in-us-despite-having-taken-covaxin-shiv-sena-questions-101632642397778.html
26-09-2021||India||Nuclear submarines for India? Evolving strategic reality in Indo-Pacific may make India go the Australia way||The Australian decisive recognition of strategic reality in the Indo-Pacific by pitching for nuclear attack and not diesel submarines has forced India and Japan to rethink their naval posture in the wake of the belligerent Chinese navy. While Indian national security planners are now seriously thinking of upgrading its sub-surface naval capacities, the successor of Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga will have to take a call on the war renunciation clause enshrined in article nine of their constitution. Even though China is one of the largest trade and investment partners of Japan, the latter along with India are the only two Quad powers who have a land dispute with Beijing. For the US it is a superpower competition with China and Australia has a trade dispute with Beijing.Just as Australia took a 180-degree turn from 12 French-built diesel attack submarines to nine US Virginia class nuclear powered and conventionally armed submarines or SSNs, the Modi government will also have to make dyed in the wool admirals understand the deterrence of the nuclear platform. Just like the Indian Navy still carries the imperial Cross of Saint George on its flag, its admirals want 24 diesel submarines as prescribed by a two-decades-old plan along with three SSNs. The 1999 submarine plan was cleared by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government at such a time when even mentioning the word potential threat along with China was considered taboo. The then defence minister George Fernandes realised this much to his chagrin as he was pilloried by Indian media and so-called strategists for calling China a potential future threat.The reality in the Indo-Pacific today is totally different with the Chinese navy dominant on the major sea lane to Japan and South Korea and threatening anyone following the rule of the sea with military consequences. The Indian situation may become direr as credible Pakistani defence handles are tweeting about Islamabad acquiring a Chinese nuclear attack submarine. While there is no intelligence to substantiate this, but if this happens, it will change the game in the Arabian Sea and present a clear danger to the vast Indian coastline.With China still blaming India for the June 2020 Galwan clash despite unilaterally trying to impose an already rejected 1959 line on LAC a month before, the Modi government must have robust naval platforms for sea denial to aggressive Chinese Navy in case of the worst-case scenario. And as nuclear attack submarines take more than a decade to build even with all the technology in hand, this decision must come now for the Chinese will be operating three aircraft carriers by 2025 and patrolling the Indo-Pacific.One of the key lessons from the May 2020 LAC transgressions in Ladakh is that Beijing has no desire to compromise on the boundary dispute with India in either western, eastern, or middle sectors. The unilateral aggression shown in May 2020 by the PLA makes it evident that China will not yield an inch for resolution of the six-decade-old boundary issue. Rather than get carried away by the Chinese narrative of a tranquil border, there should be no slack in Indian deterrence on land, air and at sea. Or else the results will be disastrous.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/evolving-strategic-reality-in-indo-pacific-may-make-india-go-the-australia-way-101632641058705.html
26-09-2021||India||Ensure that no one is left out of vaccination's circle of safety: PM Modi||Ahead of the festival season, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged people to keep following Covid protocol and ensure that no one is left out of vaccination's "circle of safety".In his monthly 'Mann Ki Baat' radio address, Modi said the festival season is approaching and when the whole country will celebrate 'Maryada Purshottam' Shri Ram's victory over evil, people should remember the fight against Covid also."Team India is creating several records daily on this front. Several records have been created in the vaccination drive which are being discussed globally," Modi said."We not only have to get the vaccine administered when it's our turn, but we also have to ensure that no one is left out of this circle of safety," he said.Even after getting vaccinated, the necessary protocol has to be followed, Modi said, adding that he hopes once again Team India will keep the flag flying high in this fight against the Covid pandemic.In his remarks, PM Modi, on the occasion of the World Rivers Day, called for collective efforts to keep our rivers pollution-free.  He also called for making record business of Khadi products on Mahatma Gandhi's birth anniversary on October 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-that-no-one-is-left-out-of-vaccination-s-circle-of-safety-pm-modi-101632641129026.html
26-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: On Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi urges people to celebrate rivers and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.On Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi urges people to celebrate and honour riversPrime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday urged people to observe World Rivers Day and keep in mind the importance that the water body has in our lives. Read moreIndia-Canada direct flights to resume on MondayCanada has finally lifted the ban on direct passenger flights from India more than 5 months after it was imposed in April this year when the second wave of Covid-19 swept India. Read more'We were getting threats from India but still we went there': Afridi says 'educated nations' shouldn't follow IndiaFormer captain Shahid Afridi made a bold statement saying that just because one country is after Pakistan, other 'educated nations' should not make the same mistake. Read moreRanjeet says women's short clothes ended his career: 'There was nothing left to pull'Ranjeet has spoken about how his image as ‘rape specialist’ came to be and how he made sure his female co-stars were comfortable during shoots. Read moreWhale ‘greeted’ people on cruise with ‘magical rainbow breath’. Watch viral videoThe video also shows the creature’s “rainbow breath”. Shared by Australian Tourism on Instagram, the video is incredible to watch. Read moreNora Fatehi is nothing less than royalty in bralette and thigh-slit lehenga, all pics and videosNora Fatehi in bralette and thigh-slit lehenga set celebrates couture like never before for Abu Jani and Sandeep Khosla's fashion film. Read moreYamaha India testing pricing, charging infrastructure factors before EV rolloutJapanese two-wheeler major Yamaha is taking time and testing water before joining the bandwagon of automakers that are bringing EVs to the Indian market. Read moreIs TMC the new Mohun Bagan? Babul Supriyo on ditching Modi for MamataIn the latest edition of The Interview, now-TMC leader Babul Supriyo speaks to Hindustan Times and explains what made him take a U-turn and re-join politics. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-on-mann-ki-baat-pm-modi-urges-people-to-celebrate-rivers-and-all-the-latest-news-101632639242331.html
26-09-2021||India||Punjab Cabinet: 6 MLA oppose Rana Gurjit Singh’s proposed elevation as minister||Hours before the swearing-in of new Punjab ministers, six MLAs from Doaba region shot off a letter to Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, demanding that Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjit Singh is not sworn in as a minister on account of his alleged involvement in corruption. They said his proposed cabinet slot should go to a Dalit leader from Doaba region instead.The six MLAs who wrote to the Congress leadership were Navtej Singh Cheema from Sultanpur Lodhi, Sukhpal Singh Khaira from Bholath, Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal from Phagwara, Bawa Henry from Jalandhar (north) and Pawan Adiya from Sham Chaurasi.Though the letter claimed that former Punjab Congress unit chief Mohinder Singh KayPee was also part of the dissenting group, KayPee later said that he had not signed the letter.An MLA, who didn’t wish to be named, said the group will meet Sidhu over the matter on Sunday afternoon in Patiala. The oath ceremony for the new Punjab cabinet is to take place on Sunday evening in Chandigarh.In 2018, Rana Gurjit Singh, who then held power and irrigation portfolios in the Punjab cabinet, was dropped amid a controversy over sand mining auction. In the letter, the MLAs said that he was dropped due to a mining scandal involving him, his family and his companies directly.“The Punjab government had forfeited approximately ₹25 crore deposited by his front company Rajbir Enterprises for the auction of 3 sand-mining sites in Punjab. Justice Narang commission brought out a startling fact that the front company of Rana Gurjeet Singh, Rajbir Enterprises had received ₹5 crore gratification for the said mining auction from Gurinder Singh, who was charged by the vigilance bureau in the purported irrigation scam”, the letter read.It also questioned if including Singh in the cabinet was right when the corruption charges against him still stood.“It is amusing that the three ministers proposed to be included in the Cabinet from Doaba region include only Jatt Sikhs and an Other Backward Caste (OBC) Sikh, whereas there is approximately 38% Dalit population in this region. We all request you to immediately drop Rana Gurjit Singh’s name and instead include a clean Dalit face in view of the upcoming elections,” the letter concluded.When contacted, Mohinder Singh KayPee said he had not signed the letter. When asked about his views on Rana Gurjit Singh’s proposed inclusion, he reluctantly said that he was not aware of it and didn’t want to say anything on it. Meanwhile, three MLAs in the group that wrote the letter claimed that KayPee was with them on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cabinet-6-mla-oppose-rana-gurjit-singh-s-proposed-elevation-as-minister-101632640776330.html
26-09-2021||India||PM Modi back in India after concluding 3-day US tour on high note||Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived in India on Sunday afternoon after his three-day visit to the United States, which saw him deliver a key address at the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) in New York and attend a series of crucial meetings with US president Joe Biden, vice president Kamala Harris and premiers of the Quad countries. Prime Minister Modi landed in Delhi at around 12:15pm on Sunday, with news agencies posting the photo of his arrival at the Palam Technical Airport in the national capital.Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrives at Delhi airport after concluding his US visit. pic.twitter.com/mSAcZaOX1qPrime Minister Modi was greeted by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda, party general secretaries Arun Singh and Tarun Chugh, former health minister Harsh Vardhan, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, and senior party functionaries outside the airport. They congratulated him for a successful trip to the United States, and for the fruitful bilateral and Quad talks. The Prime Minister, for his part, also greeted the supporters who were waiting for him near the airport. BJP president JP Nadda and other leaders greet PM Narendra Modi, on his arrival from the US, after concluding bilateral and Quad talks. pic.twitter.com/Tp2qfZ8YV2The Prime Minister's US visit concluded on a high note, during which he said he had had “productive bilateral and multilateral engagements” and expressed confidence that the relationship between India and the US will grow even stronger. Ahead of his return from the United States, the Prime Minister tweeted, “Over the last few days, have had productive bilateral and multilateral engagements, interaction with CEOs and the UN address. I am confident the India-USA relationship will grow even stronger in the years to come. Our rich people-to-people linkages are among our strongest assets.”PM Modi addressed the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly, attended the first in-person Quad summit meeting, and held bilateral and multilateral engagements, including with US President Joe Biden, US vice president Kamala Harris and his Australian and Japanese counterparts—Scott Morrison and Yoshihide Suga—respectively.Also Read | Kamala Harris talks to PM Modi about Pakistan's role in terrorism, here's what was discussedThe US visit marked the first visit of the Prime Minister beyond the neighbourhood since the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs (MEA), Arindam Bagchi, said the Prime Minister’s US visit was a “landmark” and foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla described the trip as “very successful”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-back-in-india-after-concluding-3-day-us-tour-on-high-note-101632638545836.html
26-09-2021||India||Cleanliness is a tribute to Gandhi: Text of PM's speech on 81st Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the campaign for cleanliness continuously gave energy to the nation's freedom movement and it is a great tribute by this country to Mahatma Gandhi. “Mahatma Gandhi had connected cleanliness to the dream of Independence. Today after so many decades, the cleanliness movement has once again connected the country to the dream of a new India,” PM Modi said during his 81st episode of radio programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’.Here is the full text of PM Modi's 81st Mann Ki Baat:My dear countrymen, Namaskar. You are aware that for an important programme, I have to leave for America…hence I thought it would be apt to record Mann Ki Baat, prior to my departure to America. The day of Mann Ki Baat this September is important on another count, date wise. Routinely, we do remember a lot of days; we even celebrate myriad Days…and if you ask young sons-daughters at home, they are likely to furnish an entire list of Days of the year with their chronological relevance! But, there is one more day that all of us must remember; this day is one that is immensely congruent to the traditions of India. It’s one that connects us with our traditions that we have been following for centuries. That is – World Rivers Day.It has been articulated here – Pibanti Naddhah, Swayameva Naambha…meaning that rivers do not drink their own water…they give it away altruistically. For us, rivers are not mere physical entities; for us a river is a living unit…and that is exactly why we refer to rivers as Mother! Numerous festivals, festive occasions, functions of ours, occasions to rejoice take place in the very laps of these mothers.All of you are aware – with the advent of the month of Magh, in our country, a lot of people perform Kalpvaas on the banks of mother Ganga or other rivers for an entire month. This tradition has ceased now…but in earlier times, it was customary to remember rivers while bathing at home. This tradition of remembering rivers may have gone extinct or exists sparsely…but there used to be a great tradition that would take one on a tour across the vastness of India while bathing early morning…a cerebral pilgrimage! It used to be a source of inspiration to connect with every nook and corner of the country. And of course, in India, it has been customary to chant a Shlok while bathing:Gange cha yamune chaiva Godavari saraswatiNarmade Sindhu Kaveri Jale asmin sannidhim kuruEarlier, at our homes, the elderly in the family would make children memorise the Shlok …this also led to germinating Aastha, faith towards rivers in our country. It would inscribe an illustrated map of the great land of India on the psyche. That used to establish an emotional connection with rivers. It would result in nurturing a harmonious credence towards the very river that embodied the Mother, sentimentally as well as visually…as a way of life too! It was a way to instill ‘Sanskaar’; the value system gamut.Friends, now that we are discussing the significance of rivers in our country, it is but natural for everyone to raise a question…one, in fact, has the right to do so…and answering that question is our responsibility too! Anyone can question – “you are singing so many songs dedicated to rivers, referring to a river as a Mother…then why is it that the river gets polluted? Our scriptures distinctly disapprove of polluting rivers, even a bit! And our traditions have been synchronous with the thought. You know, of course, that the western region of our India, especially Gujarat and Rajasthan, suffer from scarcity of water. They face famines, many a time. Now that is why, a new tradition has developed in the social life there. For example, when it starts raining in Gujarat, Jal-Jeelani Ekadashi is celebrated there. This means, it is synonymous with what we term as ‘Catch the Rain’ in today’s times…accumulating each and every drop of water…Jal-jeelani. On similar lines, after the rains, in Bihar and other regions of the East, the great festival of Chhatth is celebrated. I hope that keeping the Chatth Pooja in mind, preparations for cleaning and repairing riverbanks and Ghats would have commenced. We can very well undertake the endeavour of cleaning rivers and freeing them of pollution with collective effort and support. The Namami Gange Mission too is making advances today…collective efforts of all, in a way, mass awareness; a mass movement has a major role to play in that.Friends, when one is referring to the river; when Mother Ganga is being talked about, one is tempted to draw your attention to another aspect. When Namami Gange is being referred to, one thing is certain to draw your attention…especially that of the youth. These days, a special E-auction is being held. This electronic auction pertains to gifts presented to me by people from time to time. The money that accrues through this E-auction is dedicated solely to the Namami Gange Campaign. The affectionate, warm spirit, with which you present me gifts …that very sentiment gets bolstered through this campaign.Friends, in order to rejuvenate rivers throughout the country; in order to cleanse waters, the government and social service organizations keep undertaking one endeavour or the other. And this is not about the present day; it has been going on for decades now. There are some people who have dedicated themselves to these causes. And it is this very tradition, this very endeavour, this very faith that has saved our rivers. Whenever such news comes to my notice, from any corner of India, it evokes immense respect in my heart for people who embark upon such tasks…and I also feel like sharing that with you. Take a look at Vellore and Thiruvannamalai districts of Tamilnadu, whose example I wish to cite. A river named Naagnadi flows there. Years ago, the Naagnadi had all dried up. Because of that, the water level there had gone down terribly. But, the womenfolk there took up the cudgels to rejuvenate their river. And then…lo and behold – they got people connected, dug up canals through public participation, constructed check dams and recharge-wells. Friends, you too would be glad to know that today, the river is brimming with water. And truly, when a river is full of water, it lends such tranquility to the mind…I have actually witnessed the experience…Many of you might be aware that on the very banks of river Sabarmati, Mahatma Gandhi set up the Sabarmati Ashram…during the last few decades, the river had dried up. 6 to 8 months a year, no water was even visible there. But river Narmada and river Sabarmati were linked…today, if you go to Ahmedabad, the waters of river Sabarmati fill one’s heart with such joy! Similarly, our sisters from Tamil Nadu are undertaking myriad such tasks…many such tasks are being done in various corners of the country. I know for sure that many of our saints, our gurus associated with our religious traditions are doing a lot for the sake of water and rivers, along with their spiritual pursuits…many of them are running campaigns to plant trees along riverbanks…at places, dirty water is being prevented from flowing into rivers.Friends, when we are celebrating ‘World River Day’ today, I praise and greet all dedicated to this work. But to all people living near every river; to countrymen I will urge that in India in all corners at least once in a year a river festival must be celebrated.My dear countrymen, never make the mistake of treating minor issues, little things as small. Through tiny efforts, at times, very significant changes occur, and if we look towards the life of Mahatma Gandhi ji we will find every moment how even small things had so much importance and how using small issues he accomplished big resolutions. Our youth today must know how the campaign for cleanliness continuously gave energy to our freedom movement. It was Mahatma Gandhi who turned cleanliness into a mass movement.Mahatma Gandhi had connected cleanliness to the dream of Independence. Today after so many decades, the cleanliness movement has once again connected the country to the dream of a new India. And this is also becoming a campaign to change our habits too and we must not forget that this cleanliness is a programme. This cleanliness is a responsibility of the transition of sanskar from generation to generation and when the campaign for cleanliness continues generation after generation in the entire society cleanliness as a trait gets imbibed. And that is why this is not a subject of a year or two; of one government or the other government. Generation after generation, with alertness, continually, without being tired or stopping, with high reverence we have to remain associated with cleanliness and continue the campaign for cleanliness. And I have said earlier too that this cleanliness is a great tribute by this country to revered Bapu and we have to keep paying this tribute every time; continuously.Friends, people know that I don’t ever let go any chance to speak in connection with cleanliness and possibly that is why a listener of ‘Mann Ki Baat’, Shriman Ramesh Patel ji has written to me that learning from Bapu, in this “Amrit Mahotsav” of freedom, we should take the resolve of economic cleanliness too. The way the building of toilets enhances the dignity of poor, similarly economic cleanliness ensures rights of the poor; eases their life. You are aware of the campaign that the country started regarding Jan Dhan accounts. Today, because of this the rightful money of the poor is getting credited directly into their accounts and because of this, obstacles like corruption have reduced very significantly. It is true that technology can help a lot in economic cleanliness. It is a matter of delight for us that even in villages, the common person is getting connected in the direction of digital transactions through fin-tech UPI… its prevalence has begun increasing. I will tell you a figure which will make you proud; during last August, 355 crore UPI transactions took place in one month, that is more than nearly 350 crore transactions, that is, we can say that during the month of August UPI was used for digital transactions more than 350 crore times. Today, on an average, digital payments of more than 2 lakh crore Rupees are happening through UPI. Through this the economy of the country is acquiring cleanliness and transparency, and we all know that now the importance of fin-tech is increasing a lot.Friends, Bapu had connected cleanliness with independence; the same way he had made khadi the identity of freedom. Today in the 75 th year of freedom when we are celebrating the Amrit Mahotsav of Independence, we can say with satisfaction today that our young generation today is giving khaadi the place of pride that khadi had during the freedom struggle. Today the production of khadi andhandloom has increased multiple times and its demand too has increased. You too know that there were many such occasions when business of more than a crore rupees has been transacted in the khadi showroom in Delhi. I too would like to remind you again that on the 2 nd of October, on revered Bapu’s birth anniversary, let us together aim for another new record. In your city wherever khadi is sold, handloom is sold, handicraft is sold and now that the festival of Diwali is there.., for the festive season, every khadi, handloom, cottage industry purchase of yours should strengthen the campaign for ‘Vocal for Local’, it should break all old records.Friends, in this period of Amrit Mahotsav, a campaign to disseminate to everyone the untold stories of the history of freedom is also going on… and for this, upcoming writers, youth of the country and the world were called upon. For this more than 13 thousand people have registered till now and that too in 14 different languages. And for me a thing of joy also is that non-resident Indians from more than 20 countries have expressed their wish to join this campaign. There is another interesting information- more than nearly 5000 upcoming writers are searching out tales of struggle for freedom. They have taken the lead to write something on those who are unsung heroes, who are un-named, whose names don’t appear on the pages of history, on the theme of such unsung heroes, on their lives, on those events, that is the youth of the country have decided to bring forth the history of those freedom fighters who were not even discussed during the last 75 years. I appeal to all the listeners; I appeal to all those connected with the field of education. You too motivate the youth. You too come forward and it is my firm belief that during the Amrit Mahotsav of Independence the people who are working for writing history will make history as well.My dear countrymen, we all know about the Siachen Glacier. The cold there is so terrible that it is beyond the capacity of a common person to live there. With snow spread far and wide, there is no sign of any vegetation anywhere. The temperature here dips to even minus 60 degrees. A few days ago, the feat that a team of 8 Divyang persons performed in this inaccessible region of Siachen is a matter of pride for every countryman. This team created a world record by hoisting its flag on the Kumar Post situated at an altitude of more than 15 thousand feet at the Siachen glacier.Despite the challenges of physical ability, the feats that these Divyangs have achieved are an inspiration for the whole country and when you get to know about the members of this team, you will also be filled with courage and enthusiasm, just like I was.The names of these brave Divyangs are – Mahesh Nehra, Akshat Rawat of Uttarakhand, Pushpak Gawande of Maharashtra, Ajay Kumar of Haryana, Lobsang Chospel of Ladakh, Major Dwarkesh of Tamil Nadu, Irfan Ahmed Mir of Jammu and Kashmir and Chongjin Ingmo of Himachal Pradesh. This operation to conquer the Siachen Glacier has been successful because of the veterans of the special forces of the Indian Army. I commend the team for this historic and unprecedented achievement. It also shows the spirit of our countrymen to tackle every challenge with a “Can Do Culture”, a “Can Do Determination” and a “Can Do Attitude”.Friends, today many efforts are being made for the welfare of Divyangjan in the country. I got a chance to know about one such effort being made in Uttar Pradesh - “One Teacher, One Call”. This unique effort in Bareilly is showing a new path to the Divyang children. This campaign is being led by the principal of a school in Dabhaura Gangapur, Deepmala Pandey ji. During the Corona period, due to this campaign, not only did the admission of a large number of children become possible, more than 350 teachers have also joined it with a spirit of service. These teachers go from village to village calling for Divyang children, looking out for them and then ensuring their admission in one school or the other. I deeply appreciate this noble effort of Deepmala ji and her fellow teachers for the sake of Divyangjans. Every such effort in the field of education is going to shape the future of our country.My dear countrymen, the condition of our lives today is such that the word Corona resonates in our ears many times a day… the biggest global pandemic in a hundred years, COVID-19 has taught every countryman a lot. Today there has been an increase in curiosity and awareness about Healthcare and Wellness. Traditionally natural products which are beneficial for wellness and health are available in abundance in our country. Patayat Sahu ji, who lives in Nandol, Kalahandi, Odisha, has been doing unique work in this area for years. He has planted medicinal plants on one and a half acres of land. Not only this, Sahu ji has also carried out documentation of these medicinal plants. Satish ji of Ranchi has shared another similar information to me through a letter. Satish ji has drawn my attention to an Aloe Vera Village in Jharkhand. The women of Deori village near Ranchi had undergone training in Aloe Vera cultivation from Birsa Agricultural School under the leadership of Manju Kachhap ji. After this they started cultivating aloe vera. Not only did this farming benefit in the field of health; the income of these women also increased. They had good income even during the Covid pandemic. One of the major reasons for this was that the companies making sanitizers were buying Aloe Vera directly from them. Today a team of about forty women is involved in this work. And Aloe Vera is cultivated over many acres. Whether it is Patayat Sahu ji of Odisha or this team of women in Deori, the way they have linked agriculture with the field of health is an example in itself.Friends, the 2nd of October also marks the birth anniversary of Lal Bahadur Shastri ji. In his memory, this day also teaches us about those who attempt new experiments in agriculture. To promote start-ups in the field of medicinal plants, an Incubator by the name of Medi-Hub TBI is operational in Anand, Gujarat. In a very short time, this Incubator associated with medicinal and aromatic plants has supported the business idea of 15 entrepreneurs. Sudha Chebrolu ji has launched her start-up only after getting the help of this Incubator. Priority is given to women in this company and they are also responsible for innovative herbal formulations. Another such entrepreneur is Subhashree ji who has also received help from this Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Incubator. Subhashree ji's company is working in the field of herbal room and car fresheners. She has also created a herbal terrace garden which has more than 400 medicinal herbs.Friends, the Ministry of Ayush has taken an interesting initiative to increase awareness about Medicinal and Herbal Plants among children and Professor Ayushman ji has taken the lead. It is possible that you must be wondering who Professor Ayushman is! Actually Professor Ayushman is the name of a comic book. In this, short stories have been prepared through different cartoon characters. Along with this, the usefulness of healthy medicinal plants like Aloe Vera, Tulsi, Amla, Giloy, Neem, Ashwagandha and Brahmi has been mentioned. Friends, in the current context, with the trend of people around the world regarding medicinal plants and herbal products increasing, India has immense potential. In the past, there has been a significant increase in the export of Ayurvedic and herbal products.I urge scientists, researchers and people associated with the start-up world to pay attention to such products, which not only increase the wellness and immunity of the people, but also help in increasing the income of our farmers and youth.Friends, moving beyond traditional farming, novel initiatives and options are being done in agriculture and are continuously creating new means of self-employment. The story of two brothers from Pulwama is also an example of this. The way Bilal Ahmed Sheikh and Munir Ahmed Sheikh found new avenues for themselves in Pulwama, Jammu and Kashmir, they are an example of New India.39 years old Bilal Ahmed ji is highly qualified, he has obtained many degrees. He is now using his experience of higher education by launching his own start-up in agriculture.Bilal ji has installed a unit of Vermi composting at his home. The bio-fertilizer prepared from this unit has not only benefited a lot in agriculture ; it has also brought employment opportunities to the people.Every year, farmers are getting about three thousand quintals of Vermicompost from the units managed by these brothers. Today 15 people are also working in this Vermicomposting unit. A large number of people are reaching to see this unit, and most of them are young people who want to do something in the agriculture sector. The Sheikh brothers of Pulwama took a pledge to become a job creator instead of a job seeker and today they are showing a new path not only to Jammu and Kashmir, but to the people across the country as well.My dear countrymen, the 25th of September is the birth anniversary of a great son of the country, Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay ji. Deen Dayal ji is one of the greatest thinkers of the last century.His economic philosophy, his policies aimed at empowering the society, the path of Antyodaya shown by him remain as relevant in the present context and are also inspirational. Three years ago, on his birth anniversary, the 25th of September, the world's largest health assurance scheme – Ayushman Bharat scheme was implemented. Today, more than two and a half crore impoverished people of the country have got free treatment up to ₹5 lakh in the hospital under the Ayushman Bharat scheme. Such a massive scheme for the poor is dedicated to the Antyodaya philosophy of Deen Dayal ji. If the youth of today inculcate values and ideals into their lives, it can be of great benefit to them. Once in Lucknow, Deen Dayal ji had said – “How many good things, good qualities there are – we derive all these from the society itself. We have to pay the debt of society, we must think on these lines .” That is, Deen Dayal ji taught us that we take so much from society, from the country, whatever it be, it is only because of the country ; thus we should think about how we will repay our debt towards the country. This is a significant message for today's youth.Friends, from the life of Deen Dayal ji, we also get a lesson to never give up. Despite the adverse political and ideological circumstances, he never wavered from the vision of a Swadeshi, home grown model for the development of India. Today many young people want to move ahead by breaking away from the oft-treaded paths. They want to do things their own way. Deen Dayal ji's life can teach them a lot. That is why I urge our youngsters to definitely know about him.My dear countrymen, we touched upon many topics today. Like we were discussing, the time to come is for festivals. The whole country is also going to celebrate the festival of the victory over untruth by Maryada Purushottam Shri Ram. But during this festival we have to remember about one more fight - that is the country's fight against Corona. Team India is making new records everyday in this fight. With regards to Vaccination, the country has made many such records which are being talked about the world over. Every Indian has an important role in this fight. We have to get the vaccine administered when our turn comes, but we also have to take care that no one is left out of this circle of safety. Those around you who have not got vaccinated also have to be taken to the vaccine center. Even after getting vaccinated, the necessary protocol has to be followed. I hope that once again Team India will keep the flag flying high in this fight. Next time, we will discuss some more topics in ‘Mann Ki Baat’. Wishing you all, every countryman the best for the forthcoming festivals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cleanliness-is-a-tribute-to-gandhi-text-of-pm-s-speech-on-81st-mann-ki-baat-101632637847077.html
26-09-2021||India||World Rivers Day 2021: All you need to know||Prime Minister Narendra Modi dedicated a significant portion of the latest episode of his Mann Ki Baat radio address to World Rivers Day, which is being observed on Sunday. PM Modi, in fact, began his speech by acknowledging the occasion, and used early parts of his address to highlight the significance of rivers and the need to ensure their cleanliness.Also Read | On Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi urges people to observe World Rivers DayHere's all you need to know about this day:(1.) The website worldriversday.com describes the occasion as a “celebration of the world's waterways.” The day highlights “the many values of our rivers” and strives to increase public awareness about all rivers in the world, says the website.(2.) The maiden celebration of World Rivers Day took place in 2005, following the launch that year of the Water for Life Decade, by the United Nations. The proposal for such a celebration was initiated by renowned Canadian river advocate Mark Angelo.(3.) Since being celebrated by dozens of countries 16 years ago, the day has continued to grow, and, in 2020, was celebrated by millions of people in up to 100 countries.(4.) World Rivers Day is based on BC Rivers Day, founded and led by Angelo in his native country since 1980. The “BC” here refers to the Canadian province of British Columbia. The festival is the largest river appreciation event in the North American nation.(5.) However, it is to be noted that September 26 is not the fixed date for World Rivers Day celebrations. This is because the Canadian event takes place on fourth Sunday of September every year. Therefore, its global counterpart, the world's largest river festival, too, is observed on fourth Sunday in the ninth month of every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-rivers-day-2021-all-you-need-to-know-101632635277189.html
26-09-2021||India||Cleanliness is a responsibility to transfer values: PM Modi in Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said cleanliness is a responsibility to transfer values through generations. “Cleanliness is a responsibility to transfer values through generations and when it is being followed, it becomes the characteristic of the entire social life,” PM Modi said during the 81st episode of his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat.PM Modi also said that he doesn't ever let go of any chance to speak about cleanliness. “…possibly that is why a listener, Ramesh Patel ji has written to me that learning from Bapu, in this Amrit Mahotsav of freedom, we should take a resolution of economic cleanliness too,” he added.The Prime Minister urged the people to follow the principles of Mahatma Gandhi "who had done the work of making cleanliness a mass movement" and keep the rivers clean. "In our scriptures, even a little pollution in the rivers is said to be wrong," he said.'Bapu' (Mahatma Gandhi) was a proponent of cleanliness, he made cleanliness a mass movement and associated it with the dream of independence," PM Modi added.PM Modi launched the 'Swachh Bharat Abhiyan' (Clean India Mission) on October 2, 2014, on the occasion of Mahatma Gandhi's 145th birth anniversary.In his August 29th address of ‘Mann Ki Baat’, PM Modi had asked the citizens of the country to maintain the momentum of 'Swachh Bharat' mission, especially in the times of Covid-19 pandemic.The radio programme comes after his recently concluded visit to the United States where he addressed the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cleanliness-is-a-responsibility-to-transfer-values-pm-modi-in-mann-ki-baat-101632634982085.html
26-09-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi could have named Sharad Pawar PM in 2004: Ramdas Athawale||Union minister Ramdas Athawale, often known for his controversial remarks, said on Saturday that the fuss over Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi being of foreign origin is “meaningless”. Pointing out that if Indian-origin Kamala Harris could become the vice president of the United States, the RPI(A) chief asked why Sonia Gandhi cannot become the prime minister of India. Following this line of reasoning, Athawale said that Sonia Gandhi could have become the prime minister of India when the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) won a majority after the 2004 Lok Sabha elections.“When the UPA got a majority in the 2004 elections, I had proposed that Sonia Gandhi should become prime minister,” Athawale told reporters in Indore. “I was of the view that her foreign origin issue had no meaning.”“If Kamala Harris can become the vice president of the US, then why couldn't Sonia Gandhi, a citizen of India, the wife of Rajiv Gandhi (a former prime minister) and elected Lok Sabha MP, become the Prime Minister?" Athawale was quoted as saying by the PTI news agency.Athawale also said that after the 2004 elections, if Sonia Gandhi was not willing to take up the post of prime minister, veteran politician, and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar could also have been asked to take the office instead of Manmohan Singh. Incidentally, Union minister and RPI(A) chief Athawale's comments came a day ahead of former prime minister Manmohan Singh's birthday on September 26.The Union minister said that had Pawar become the country's prime minister in 2004, the Congress' position would have been strengthened and that party could have been saved from its present precarious condition. Praising the NCP chief for his role as a veteran public leader and calling him a deserving candidate for the prime ministerial post, Athawale said, “He [Pawar] should have been made PM in place of Manmohan Singh but Sonia Gandhi did not do so.”Notably, Sharad Pawar was expelled from Congress in 1999 for raising the issue of Sonia Gandhi's foreign origin. He later formed the NCP. Manmohan Singh served as prime minister from 2004 to 2014 and was succeeded by Narendra Modi after the BJP came to power with a resounding majority.Athawale also appealed to Amarinder Singh, who stepped down recently as Punjab chief minister owing to a power tussle in the state party unit, to join the BJP or the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in view of "humiliation" meted out to him by Congress. “If Singh joins the BJP, the party's position will be strengthened in the upcoming Assembly elections in Punjab.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-could-have-named-sharad-pawar-pm-in-2004-ramdas-athawale-101632630570746.html
26-09-2021||India||On Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi urges people to celebrate and honour rivers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday urged people to observe World Rivers Day and keep in mind the importance that the water body has in our lives. “We remember many days and celebrate different types of days. If you ask the young sons and daughters in your house, they will be able to give you a list of such days. But there is one more day that we all should remember and this day is consistent with the traditions of India,” PM Modi, who concluded his official three-day visit to the United States, said during the 81st edition of Mann Ki Baat. "It is about connecting with the traditions with which we have been associated for centuries. This is World Rivers Day," he added. World Rivers Day is observed on the fourth Sunday of every September and celebrates the world’s waterways. According to the site dedicated to the day, it highlights the many values of rivers and strives to increase public awareness and encourages the improved stewardship of rivers around the world.Also read | In Mann ki Baat, PM Modi urges people to cherish and preserve SanskritPM Modi also said that proceeds from the ongoing special e-auction of the gifts he receives will be dedicated to the government’s flagship project 'Namami Gange'. The government has set up a dedicated site — pmmementos.gov.in —  to display and e-auction the mementoes that are priced between ₹100 and ₹30,000. Visitors to the site can filter through the mementoes on the basis of the price range."The spirit with which you give me gifts, this campaign will be strengthened with the same spirit… The work of cleaning rivers and making them pollution-free can be done with everyone's effort and cooperation. The Namami Gange Mission is also progressing and so the efforts of everyone; public awareness, and mass movement, plays a big role," he added.Namami Gange is the Centre's integrated conservation and rejuvenation programme launched in June 2014.The Prime Minister said that our scriptures warn against polluting rivers and the country’s western part, especially Gujarat and Rajasthan, where there is a severe shortage of water have started following a new tradition. “As the rain begins in Gujarat, we celebrate Jal Jhulni Ekadashi. This means that in today's era, what we call 'Catch the Rain' is the same thing as capturing every drop of water or Jal Jhulni.”The Prime Minister also urged people to follow the principles of Mahatma Gandhi, who he said worked towards making cleanliness a mass movement, and keep the rivers clean.Last month, PM Modi talked about Sanskrit, legendary hockey player Major Dhyanchand, forays made by young Indian entrepreneurs in the field of space and India’s growing startup ecosystem during the Mann Ki Baat programme. The Prime Minister also urged the country to continuously maintain its commitment to the Swacchh Bharat, or Clean India campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-mann-ki-baat-pm-modi-urges-people-to-celebrate-and-honour-rivers-101632634361318.html
26-09-2021||India||‘Decision soon’, says TS Singh Deo on Chhattisgarh power-sharing formula||In light of the political uncertainty over the reported two-and-a-half-year power-sharing formula between Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and health minister TS Singh Deo, the latter on Saturday said that the issue will be resolved soon. “…This question (power-sharing formula) comes up each time and everywhere, hence I believe that the solution will come soon” said Singh Deo, responding to a media question. Singhdeo further said, “...if the media is asking what will happen next, it is after listening to what people are discussing in the state (about the power-sharing formula) …. I just want to appeal that the people should not get distracted by these things and (know) that we are working for the welfare of the people and whatever happens next, the welfare will continue.” Earlier, both Singh Deo and Baghel were seen in a programme organised by the Chhattisgarh unit of the Indian Pharmaceutical Association in Raipur on Saturday. Baghel, during the programme, responded to a bunch of his supporters’ slogan of “Kaka Zindbad” (Long Live Kaka), in his speech and said, “Kaka Abhi Zinda hai” (Kaka is still alive). The video clip of Baghel’s statement was widely shared by his supporters and leaders of Baghel camp on Twitter and Facebook. Baghel himself also shared the clip on his Twitter and Facebook accounts, making it a political statement. “Baghel is trying to assert to his supporters that he is still the CM of the state to address their confusion over the issue (power-sharing row). I believe that it is better for the high command to take a decision over the power-sharing formula as soon as possible,” said Sudeip Shrivastava, a political commentator based in Chhattisgarh. In the same programme, Singh Deo also praised Baghel and said that the CM redressed all demands of all departments of the state and was very sensitive towards them. “...this is the reason that the CM sanctioned 3,900 posts for the health department… Chhattisgarh is now leading in many fields in the leadership of honourable CM …People in the country are now talking about Chhattisgarh Model,” Singh Deo said in his speech. On August 28, in a long meeting with the Congress high command over suggestions that Baghel should step aside because of a two and a half-year power-sharing agreement with Singhdeo, Baghel seemed to have bought some time. He said that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will visit the state next week, especially Bastar, to see for himself the work that was being done. The next day, when Singhdeo returned, he said he too had spoken to the leadership and they had “reserved their decision” on the matter. In December 2018, in the aftermath of a dominant Congress performance with the party winning 68 of the 90 assembly seats in the state, choosing a chief minister became a problem in Chhattisgarh with four state leaders, Baghel, home minister Tamradhwaj Sahu, speaker Charan Das Mahant and Singh Deo all eyeing the chief minister’s post. After Mahant settled for the speaker’ s position, continued friction between Baghel and Singh Deo initially tilted the scale in Sahu’s favour, however, realising that a third leader will be advantaged in this political fight, Baghel and Singh Deo, along with Punia and Gandhi, reportedly arrived at a power-sharing arrangement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/decision-soon-says-ts-singh-deo-on-chhattisgarh-power-sharing-formula-101632634896725.html
26-09-2021||India||Watch Live: PM Modi addresses nation on 81st edition of Mann Ki Baat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is addressing the nation on Sunday, September 26, through his Mann Ki Baat radio programme. This is the 81st edition of the monthly broadcast, which is held on the last Sunday of every month. The Prime Minister has just concluded his official visit to the United States, where he delivered a key address at the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA), as well as held important meetings with US president Joe Biden, vice president Kamala Harris, and premiers of Japan and Australia.Speaking on a wide range of topics in #MannKiBaat. Tune in. https://t.co/FNJDiv7TvcThe 81st episode of the Mann Ki Baat programme is being live-streamed on the Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) YouTube channel and the official website of the Prime Minister's Office. It is also being broadcast on the network of All India Radio, Doordarshan, and the AIR News website www.newsonair.com and Newsonair mobile app.In the last edition of the Mann Ki Baat programme, the Prime Minister asked Indians to salute the efforts of a Krishi Vigyan Kendra in Bihar and the Kanjirangal Panchayat in Tamil Nadu for their initiative towards village waste management and self-reliance. He also hailed the language of Sanskrit and the efforts of various scholars and researchers in strengthening global cultural ties through this language.Watch the 81st edition of PM Modi's Mann Ki Baat LIVE here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-live-pm-modi-addresses-nation-on-81st-edition-of-mann-ki-baat-101632633498675.html
26-09-2021||NA||Mann Ki Baat Highlights: 'Team India' making daily record in fight against Covid-19, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday addressed the nation through his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat. The address, which was the 81st episode of Mann Ki Baat, coincided with PM Modi's three-day visit to the United States, which concluded on Saturday with a speech at the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA).“PM Narendra Modi to share his thoughts with the people in Mann Ki Baat programme at 11am today,” the All India Radio (AIR) tweeted ahead of the Prime Minister's address.The first episode of Mann Ki Baat aired on October 3, 2014. A new episode is broadcast on the last Sunday of every month.Follow all the updates here:‘Team India’ creating new record every day in fight against Covid-19, says PM Modi“Team India is creating daily record in country's fight against Covid-19, especially on vaccination front. I request those who are not yet vaccinated to take their shot. But we cannot let out guard down even after vaccination,” says Prime Minister Modi.PM Modi pays tribute to Deen Dayal UpadhyayaSeptember 25 was the birth anniversary of Deen Dayal Upadhyaya. On this date in 2018, we launched the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna, or Aysuhman Bharat Yojna.PM Modi congratulates specially-abled trekkers who scaled Siachen glacierI congratulate the team of eight specially-abled trekkers who recently created a world record by conquering Siachen glacier: PM ModiTransaction of ₹350 crore through UPI in August: PM ModiIn August, transaction of ₹350 crore was done digitally through UPI, says PM Modi.‘Request people to celebrate river festival at least once per year’I request people in all corners of the country to celebrate “river festival” at least once per year, says Prime Minister Modi on Mann Ki Baat.Namami Gange Mission progressing smoothly today, says PM ModiOn World Rivers Day, I am reminded of the Namami Gange Mission, which is progressing smoothly through people's participation, says PM Modi.Today is special because of World Rivers Day: PM ModiSeptember 26 is an important day because it is related to Indian tradition and heritage. Today is World Rivers Day: PM Modi on Mann Ki BaatPM Modi addresses nation on Mann Ki BaatPM Modi begins addressing nation through his Mann Ki Baat radio address.PM Modi to address nation on Mann Ki BaatPrime Minister Narendra Modi will shortly address the nation through 81st episode of his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat. The address is scheduled to begin at 11am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mann-ki-baat-live-pm-modi-s-address-to-nation-to-begin-shortly-101632631743359.html
26-09-2021||India||Manmohan Singh turns 89: Nation marks birthday of former prime minister||Sunday, September 26, marks the 89th birthday of former prime minister Dr Manmohan Singh, who was in office for two consecutive terms and who was the first Sikh to hold the top post in the country. Singh, the brain behind the 1991 economic reforms as the Union finance minister under then prime minister PV Narasimha Rao, was a surprise choice of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) after it won the 2004 general elections by defeating the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA).On his birthday, his party, the Congress, took to Twitter to wish the celebrated economist, dedicating several posts to the Rajya Sabha MP. “The words of Dr Manmohan Singh exemplify the vision of a true Indian leader. Today, as we celebrate his birthday, we renew our commitment to uphold the idea of India,” the party said in one of its tweets. The words of Dr. Manmohan Singh exemplify the vision of a true Indian leader. Today as we celebrate his birthday, we renew our commitment to uphold the idea of India.#CongressKeVichaar#HappyBirthdayDrMMS pic.twitter.com/jzvRpWakYZ“A visionary. A devoted patriot, A man of his words. Dr Manmohan Singh, you are the leader India truly deserves. The Congress party and the entire nation cherishes you and your immense contributions, everyday and today. Thank you for everything you've done,” it said in another tweetA visionary.A devoted patriot.A man of his words.Dr. Manmohan Singh, you are the leader India truly deserves.#HappyBirthdayDrMMS, the Congress party & the entire nation cherishes you & your immense contributions- today & everyday.Thank you for everything you've done. pic.twitter.com/unY6YTvWss“His unbridled commitment to India's progress, right from the time of being finance minister to the prime minister to even today, has benefitted every Indian to an unimaginable scale,” the Sonia Gandhi-headed party said in yet another post. Dr. Manmohan Singh's unbridled commitment to India's progress - right from the time of being the Finance Minister to the Prime Minister to even today - has benefitted every Indian to a scale unimaginable.A billion salutes to this true son of India.#HappyBirthdayDrMMS pic.twitter.com/hSG5Cn0nqtBorn on September 26, 1932, in Gah in Punjab in British India (present-day Punjab in Pakistan), Singh, who was the 13th PM, held various important political and non-political portfolios throughout his career. From 1982 to 1985, he was the governor of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), and, from 1985 to 1987, was the deputy chairperson of the Planning Commission. In 1991, he was appointed as the chairman of the University Grants Commission (UGC).Singh's term as prime minister came to an end in 2014, when the BJP, under his successor and incumbent PM Narendra Modi, won general elections that year. In fact, he was among the first to congratulate Modi on the latter's win.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manmohan-singh-turns-89-nation-marks-birthday-of-former-prime-minister-101632629743230.html
26-09-2021||India||Cyclone Gulab: Here are dos and don'ts ahead of a cyclonic storm||Cyclone Gulab will make landfall by Sunday evening, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said and issued an orange alert for Odisha and Andhra Pradesh.“The Cyclonic Storm 'Gulab' over northwest and adjoining westcentral Bay of Bengal moved nearly westwards lay centered at 0530 hrs IST of 26th Sep, over northwest and adjoining westcentral Bay of Bengal about 270 km east-southeast of Gopalpur & 330 km east of Kalingapatnam,” the IMD said in its latest bulletin.The IMD has issued several do’s and don’ts to ensure the safety of citizens.Here are the dos and don'ts to be followed in case of a cyclone:Dos1. The IMD advises people to check houses, secure loose tiles by cementing wherever necessary and repair doors and windows.2. Check the area around the house. Remove dead or dying trees, anchor removable objects like lumber piles, loose bricks, garbage cans, sign-boards, loose zinc sheets etc, the IMD said in its list of precautions.3. Keep some wooden boards ready so that glass windows can be boarded. If you do not have wooden boards handy, paste paper strips on glasses to prevent splinters from flying into the house.4. Keep a hurricane lantern filled with kerosene, flashlight and enough dry cells and keep them handy.5. Promptly demolish condemned buildings.6. Those who have radio sets should ensure that the radio is fully serviceable. In the case of transistors an extra set of batteries should be kept handy. Keep your radio on and listen to latest weather warnings and advisories from the nearest AIR station. Pass only the official information you have got from the radio to others.7. Get away from low lying beaches or other locations which may be swept by high tides or storm waves. Leave sufficiently early before your way to the high ground gets flooded. Do not delay and run the risk of being marooned.8. Be alert for high water in areas where streams of rivers may flood due to heavy rains.9. Get extra food, especially things which can be eaten without cooking or with very little preparation. Store extra drinking water in a covered vessel.10. If you are in one of the evacuation areas, move your valuable articles to the upper floors to minimise flood damage.11. Check on everything that might blow away or be torn loose. Kerosene tins, cans, agricultural implements, garden tools, road signs and other objects become weapons of destruction in strong winds. Remove them and store them in a covered room.12. Make provisions for children and adults requiring special diets.13. If the centre of the 'eye' of the storm passes directly over your place, there will be a lull in the wind and rain, lasting for half an hour or more. During this period stay in a safe place. Make emergency repairs during the lull period if necessary, but remember that strong wind will return suddenly from the opposite direction, frequently with even greater violence.14. The IMD advises people to be calm and to remain in shelters until informed by those in charge that one may return home.15. Any loose and dangling wire from the lamp post should be strictly avoided.16. People should keep away from disaster areas unless one is required to assist.17. Anti-social elements should be prevented from doing mischief and reported to the police.18. Cars, buses, lorries and carts should be driven carefully.19. The houses and dwellings should be cleared of debris.20. The losses should be reported to the appropriate authorities.21. Relatives should be promptly informed about the safety of the persons in the disaster area. Don'ts1. The IMD advises people to avoid being misled by rumours.2. Don't leave shelters until informed by the rescue personals.3. Don't leave the safe places.4. Minor repairs can be carried out.5. Don't touch loose and dangling wires from lamp posts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-gulab-here-are-dos-and-don-ts-ahead-of-a-cyclonic-storm-101632627284278.html
26-09-2021||India||Bharat Bandh: Which political parties support September 27 farmers' strike?||The Bharat Bandh or the nationwide strike declared by farmers on September 27 to protest against the three central farm laws has garnered support from several political parties. The strike on Monday, which is to be led by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) – an umbrella body of farmers' unions spearheading the anti-farm law protests – has now received support from the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy-led Andhra Pradesh government; meanwhile, the Congress, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Telugu Desam Party (TDP). And the Left parties have already extended support to the Bharat Bandh earlier.YSR CongressThe YSR Congress-led Andhra Pradesh government is the latest political quarter to throw its weight behind the September 27 Bharat Bandh called by the farmers.The announcement was made by Andhra Pradesh information and transport minister Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani) said on Saturday. He said that the state government, led by YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, has extended its ‘full support’ to the Bharat Bandh on September 27 in solidarity with the concerns of farmers. Additionally, the Andhra Pradesh government is also supporting the concerns of the Visakhapatnam steel plant workers, who have been opposing privatisation attempts by the central government.In view of this, Nani said the Andhra Pradesh government has decided to stop APSRTC buses across the state from September 26 midnight to September 27 afternoon. The minister, however, appealed for peaceful protests in the Bandh.Aam Aadmi PartyThe AAP has also supported the Bharat Bandh call issued by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha on September 27. Announcing the party's support for the nationwide strike in solidarity with the farmers, AAP leader Raghav Chadha said on Saturday that party supremo and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has always stood by the farmers against the “black laws.”CongressThe Congress on Saturday extended its support to the Bharat Bandh and demanded that discussions be initiated with the protesters. Calling for a “peaceful” strike, Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said the party and all its workers are in support of the Bharat Bandh call given by farmer unions against the Centre's three farm laws.The Congress leader also demanded that the MSP should be given as a legal right to every farmer “as they do not want only 'jumlas' (rhetoric)” and referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's promise to double the farmers' income by 2022.Telugu Desam Party and Left partiesn a bid to make Bharat Bandh called by San successful, a meeting was held on Wednesday at Andhra Pradesh's Communist Party India (CPI) office by left parties, Congress, and Telugu Desam Party (TDP).During the meeting, Donepudi Sankar, CPI State leader said, “Farmers have been agitating for nine months in Delhi, so this Bharat Bandh will be held to support them.”In a joint statement, the Left parties – the CPI, CPI(M), All India Forward Bloc, Revolutionary Socialist Party, and the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) – urged people to extend support to the Bharat Bandh, noting that the “historic” farmers' struggle demanding the repeal of the agri-laws is now in its tenth month.RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav extends supportLeader of Opposition in Bihar Assembly and RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav extended his support to Samyukta Kisan Morcha's (SKM) call for Bharat Bandh on September 27.In a tweet on Friday, Tejashwi Yadav said, “In the meeting of the top leaders of the Mahagathbandhan parties held at the residence today, it was unanimously decided to participate and support the Bharat Bandh called by the United Kisan Morcha on September 27, in protest against the anti-farmer policies of the NDA government. We are firm with the farmers.”Meanwhile, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday denounced the call for Bharat Bandh by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha against the Centre's three contentious farm laws on September 27, saying disrupting economic activities post-Covid-19 was not in the interest of the nation.The Bharat Bandh has been called by the farmer unions to protest the three contentious agricultural laws passed by the central government, against which the farmers have been demonstrating The government and farmer unions have held 11 rounds of talks so far, the last being on January 22, to break the deadlock and end the farmers' protest. Talks have not resumed following widespread violence during a tractor rally by protesting farmers on January 26.The three laws—The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020—were passed by the Parliament in September last year.Farmer groups have alleged that these laws will end the mandi and minimum support price (MSP) procurement systems and leave the farmers at the mercy of big corporates, even as the government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced and asserted that these steps will help increase farmers' income. The Supreme Court in January stayed the implementation of the three laws till further orders and appointed a panel to resolve the impasse. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-which-political-parties-support-september-27-farmers-strike-101632626399511.html
26-09-2021||India||‘Need to break mental walls to avoid another trauma of partition’: Ram Madhav||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) functionary Ram Madhav on Saturday said “mental walls of separation” within the country needed to be pulled down and elements backing “separatism” and “communal separation” needed to be discouraged to build one united Indian society and avoid another trauma of partition.While speaking during a webinar hosted by the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), themed “India, Partition and its Aftermath: Remembering the Horrors of History”, Madhav described the partition as a “cataclysmic event” and a result of “errors of judgement”. He also alleged that Pakistan’s founder Mohammad Ali Jinnah was allowed to “grow into a monster” during the partition struggle.The event was held in the light of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement to observe August 14 as the ‘Partition Horrors Remembrance Day’ in the memory of the struggles and sacrifices of people during the partition.“Partition of India, unlike many other partitions seen in other countries in that period, was not a simple redrawing of boundaries... and it also took place on a false premise that Hindus and Muslims were separate nations, even though they had been living together despite their different practices...It is a known fact that the driving force behind India’s partition was the Muslim League. But it’s also a fact that the Muslim League never represented the entire Muslim community,” he said.Madhav added that there was a need to learn from the “mistakes of the past”, and attempts should be made to “build bridges”. “The Partition of India was not just a partition of territories but also a partition of minds... We need to build a united Indian society. And, that can happen only if the leadership and elements believing in separatism and communal separation are discouraged, and the sense of one nationhood is encouraged,” he said.“We need to pull down the walls of mental separation and create one united Indian society so that India shall not have to bear another trauma of partition. And, the next step will be to build bridges with those who left us to become another entity...We need to find ways to build bridges that will be the real undoing of the Partition. Maybe, geographical, political and physical boundaries will remain, but the mental boundaries, the boundaries of divided hearts can be erased,” he added.JNU vice-chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar said the writings on the history of the partition of India are “largely influenced by western thought process and a prejudiced mindset”. “These historians seem to have underplayed and deliberately tried to suppress the fact that partition and creation of Pakistan was the result of religious fundamentalism and the idea of (a) religiously-defined community. In India, on the other hand, for centuries, we always welcomed and respected anyone irrespective of what personal faith they followed. The collective memories of suffering resulting from the partition of our country cannot be forgotten. It should be visited and revisited so that we learn lessons and should not repeat the horrific history,” Kumar said.A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Member Of Parliament (MP) in Rajya Sabha and the president of Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) Vinay Sahasrabudhhe also participated in the webinar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-to-break-mental-walls-to-avoid-another-trauma-of-partition-ram-madhav-101632628293361.html
26-09-2021||India||Indian Railways' timetable for trains to change from October 1: Check details||The Indian Railways will change the arrival and departure timings of more than two dozen trains operating in the Northern Railway region from October 1. “The details of the new arrival and departure timings of the trains have been updated on the website. Travellers should confirm the timings of the trains before leaving their houses. We have rescheduled the arrival and departure timings of 28 trains," senior Northern Railway official Pankaj Kumar Singh was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The railway authorities have also decided to remove 'zero' from train numbers. The fare of trains is expected to reduce after the removal of zeros from the train numbers. After the removal of zero, the trains will reportedly run on their old normal fare basis.After the implementation of the new timetable, the category of trains will change and they will be operated under the category of Jan Shatabdi, Superfast or Express trains. Passenger trains running between Delhi-Bathinda and Delhi-Ambala will become Superfast. Trains running between Jind- Firozpur, Delhi-Kalka, Delhi-Haridwar, Ambala-Bathinda, Hisar-Amritsar, Delhi-Kurukshetra, Prayagraj-Alamnagar will become Express and Delhi-Tanakpur, Delhi junction trains running between Kotdwara will be called Jan Shatabdi.Changed timing of these trains:1. 05013 Jaisalmer - Kathgodam Special Train will arrive at Kathgodam at 05.05 hours from the current time of 04.55 hours, with revised timings.2. 03019 Howrah - Kathgodam Special train will arrive at Kathgodam station at 09.00 hours with a modified time of 09.25 hours.3. 02040 New Delhi - Kathgodam Special Train will arrive at Kathgodam station at 11.40 hours instead of 11.40 hours, with revised timing of 11.55 hours.4. 04667 Kanpur Central - Kathgodam Special train will arrive at Kathgodam station at 14.55 hours from the current time of 14.40 hours.5. 04690 Jammu Tawi - Kathgodam Special train will arrive at Kathgodam at 13.45 hours with a revised time of 13.35 hours.6. 04667 Kanpur Central - Kathgodam Special train will arrive at Kathgodam station at 14.55 hours from the current time of 14.40 hours.7. 02091 Dehradun - Kathgodam Special train will arrive at Kathgodam station at 23.35 hours with revised timing of 23.45 hours.8. 04126 Dehradun - Kathgodam Special train will arrive at Kathgodam station at 07.20 hours instead of the present time at 07.15 hours.9. 04616 Amritsar – Lalkuan Special train will arrive at Lalkuan station at 21.05 hours from present time 20.30 hours.10. 05060 Anand Vihar Terminus - Lalkuan Special train will arrive at Lalkuan station at 21.05 hours from present time 20.30 hours.11. 02353 Howrah-Lalkuan Special train will arrive at Lalkuan at 07.00 hours from the present time of 06.55 hours.12. 05048 GKP - Kolkata Special Train will depart from Gorakhpur at 11.30 hours with a revised time at 11.25 hours.13. 02108 Lucknow Junction - Lokmanya Tilak Terminus Special Train Lucknow Jn. It will depart at 22.45 hours from the current time at 22.40 hours.14. 05307 Lucknow Junction-Raipur Special Train Lucknow Junction. It will depart at 22.45 hours from the current time at 22.40 hours.15. 09269 Porbandar – Muzaffarpur Special Train will depart from Gorakhpur at 11.10 hours with a modified time at 11.05 hours.16. 04060 Anand Vihar Terminus - Muzaffarpur Special Train will depart from Gorakhpur at 11.10 hours with revised timing at 11.05 hours.17. 09076 Ramnagar - Bandra Terminus Special Train will depart from Ramnagar at 16.35 hours with revised timing at 16.30 hours.18. 05022 GKP - Shalimar Special Train will depart from Gorakhpur at 13.50 hours with a modified time at 13.40 hours.19. 05331 Kathgodam - Moradabad Special Train will depart from Kathgodam at 07.25 hours with revised timings instead of 08.15 hours at present.20. 05333 Ramnagar - Moradabad Special Train will depart from Ramnagar at 07.20 hours with modified timings at 07.15 hours.21. 05034 Barhni - Gorakhpur Special Train will leave Barhni at 15.00 hours instead of the present time of 15.20 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-railways-timetable-for-trains-to-change-from-october-1-check-details-101632624914656.html
26-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Farmers to hold rally in Panipat today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farmers to hold rally in Panipat today to ‘awaken’ govt against farm lawsFarmers will hold a rally in Haryana's Panipat on Sunday, where farm leaders, including Rakesh Tikait, are likely to address agriculturalists protesting against the three contentious farm laws. Read moreCyclone Gulab: Odisha, Andhra Pradesh brace for storm, put response forces in placeCyclone Gulab is likely to move nearly westwards and cross north Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha coasts between Kalingapatnam and Gopalpur around Sunday evening. Read more'You have got the greatest ever T20 captain': Vaughan reacts to MS Dhoni's appointment as mentor for T20 World CupSeveral former cricketers welcomed the move, especially Michael Vaughan, who feels this is the best decision that could have made keeping the interest of the Indian cricket team in mind. Read moreThe Kapil Sharma Show: Virender Sehwag says he married his wife to improve his English: 'Even Kapil Dev did'Cricketers Virender Sehwag and Mohammad Kaif are among the special guests appearing on The Kapil Sharma Show this weekend. While Kaif is making his debut on the show, Sehwag has appeared earlier as well. Read morePriyanka Chopra is a vision in Earth-themed Prabal Gurung dress at Global Citizen Live event in ParisGlobal icon and actor Priyanka Chopra attended and hosted the Global Citizen Live event in Paris on Saturday. She shared pictures and videos from the event on her social media account. Read moreBrutal Taliban Back: Man accused of kidnapping hung from crane | AfghanistanIn a chilling display of brutality, the Taliban hanged a dead body from a crane in Herat city, as per reports. According to reports, the man was accused of child kidnapping. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-farmers-to-hold-rally-in-panipat-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101632625382187.html
26-09-2021||India||Vehicle scrappage policy: Centre announces procedure to set up registered facilities. Check here||The ministry of road transport and highways has announced procedure to set up Registered Vehicle Scrapping Facility (RVSF) under the long-awaited vehicle scrapping policy, which was launched by prime minister Narendra Modi last month. It was announced by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her Budget speech in February this year, while its details were shared by road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari in March.Also Read | Government announces details of vehicle scrappage policy“The ministry of road transport and highways has come up with the detailed procedure for setting up of RVSFs, as per Motor Vehicles (Registration and Functions of Vehicle Scrapping Facility) Rules,” the Gadkari-headed ministry said on its Twitter handle on Saturday. MORTH has come out with detailed procedures for setting up of Registered Vehicle Scrapping Facility (RVSF), as per Motor Vehicles (Registration and Functions of Vehicle Scrapping Facility) Rules. pic.twitter.com/oTza0vHFB0Here's all you need to know:(1.) The rules are applicable to all automobile collection centres, automobile dismantling centres, scrapping and recycling facilities, and recyclers.(2.) For registration or renewal of registration of such facilities, the ministry will set up a single-window clearance portal, in a timebound manner, within 60 days. The registration of an RVSF will be valid for 10 years and can be renewed for 10 more years at a time.(3.) The scrapping centres will be provided access to the Vahan database. For this, these will be required to obtain the necessary cyber security certifications for their IT system.(4.) Further, these centre will be authorised to make entries regarding scrapping of a vehicle, as well as to issue a Certificate of Deposit and a Certificate of Scrapping.(5.) The RVSFs will also be given access to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) to check if a stolen vehicle was brought for scrapping. The centres eill be responsible to carry out verification of the person/representative whose vehicle is to be scrapped, as well as verification of the said vehicle with NCRB database.(4.) For a Certificate of Deposit, owners/representatives will have to produce documents detailing records of their vehicles. They are to provide details of their vehicles under “Form-2.” The RVSFs will maintain safe custody of the cut piece of the Chassis Number for a period six months from the date of issuing Certificate of Vehicle Scrapping.(5.) Also, since the process is technology driven, a vehicle registered in any state, can be scrapped at a registered facility in other states as well.(6.) For the movement and storage of vehicles, there should be adequate area in the “Orange Zone” within a scrapping centre. The scrapping is to be carried out in compliance with norms laid down by the ministry of environment, as well as the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The centres, within a year of commencing operations, should also get accredited with the latest version of quality standards.(7.) If the centres do not have adequate provisions to carry out responsible recycling of the hazardous waste, the waste should be handed over to duly authorised recyclers/agencies.(8.) Scrapping centres are required to upload audit reports on the portal specified by the road transport ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vehicle-scrapping-policy-govt-announces-procedure-to-set-up-registered-centres-check-here-101632621785301.html
26-09-2021||India||Cyclone Gulab: These districts in Odisha, Andhra Pradesh to be affected||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that a cyclonic storm, named Gulab, is likely to make landfall on Sunday evening in the coastal regions of southern Odisha and northern Andhra Pradesh and has issued an orange alert. "It is likely to intensify into a Cyclonic Storm during the next 12 hours and move nearly westwards and cross north Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha coasts between Visakhapatnam and Gopalpur, in around Kalingapatnam, by the evening of 26th September, 2021," an IMD bulletin said on Sunday.An 'orange' alert is issued as a warning of extremely bad weather with the potential of disruption in commute with road and rail closures and interruption of power supply.The IMD predicted light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places and extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places over south Odisha and north coastal Andhra Pradesh. It said that heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places is also likely over Telangana and predicted heavy rainfall at isolated places over north interior Odisha and Chhattisgarh.The Met department further predicted light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy and extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places over south Chhattisgarh on Monday. Heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over Odisha, Telangana and Vidarbha and heavy rainfall at isolated places over coastal West Bengal and North Chhattisgarh, the IMD said.“Squally wind speed reaching 45-55 kmph gusting to 65 kmph likely to prevail along and off Odisha-North Andhra Pradesh coasts. It will gradually increase becoming gale wind speed reaching 75-85 kmph gusting to 95 kmph from afternoon of 26th till midnight along & off north Andhra Pradesh (Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam Districts) and south Odisha coasts (Ganjam, Gajapati Districts), 55-65 kmph gusting to 75 kmph along & off Khordha,Puri, Raigada & Koraput districts, 50-60 kmph gusting to 70 kmph over Navrangpur & Malkangiri districts of Odisha,” the weather department said in its bulletin.Collectors of the seven districts in Odisha have been asked to be prepared as there are chances of squally winds, waterlogging in low-lying areas and flash floods in hilly areas. “We have put collectors of seven districts — Ganjam, Gajapati, Koraput, Rayagada, Nabarangpur, Kandhamal and Malkangiri — on high alert, in view of the possible cyclone, as these districts are likely to experience heavy rainfall activities,” special relief commissioner (SRC) PK Jena said according to news agency PTI.Director of IMD Bhubaneswar, HR Biswas told news agency ANI, "Malkangiri, Nowrangpur, Koraput, Puri, Kalahandi and neighbouring districts will receive heavy to very heavy rainfall activity. Wind warnings have mainly been issued to Ganjam and Gajapati districts along the coast".Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy held a review meeting on Saturday on preparedness in the wake of the IMD's cyclone alert and directed officials to take all necessary steps. Officials informed Reddy that they have alerted district collectors and suggested taking all necessary steps. They said control rooms have been set up village secretariat-wise and added that they have readied disaster management staff in Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam districts.A tidal wave of about 0.5 m height above the astronomical tide is likely to inundate low lying areas of Srikakulam, Sompeta, Vizianagaram, Ganjam districts during the time of landfall, the weather department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-gulab-these-districts-in-odisha-andhra-pradesh-to-be-affected-101632621987551.html
26-09-2021||India||India-Canada direct flights to resume on Monday||Canada has finally lifted the ban on direct passenger flights from India more than 5 months after it was imposed in April this year when the second wave of Covid-19 swept India. Air Canada is likely to operate the first direct flight between the two countries on Monday, whereas Air India will also resume services on the same day.Making that announcement, Transport Canada tweeted, “Beginning at 00:01 EDT on September 27, direct flights from India can land in Canada with additional public health measures in place.” That time translates to 9.30 am IST.“Travellers must have proof of a negative Covid-19 molecular test (RT-PCR) from the approved Genestrings laboratory at the Delhi airport, taken within 18 hours of the scheduled departure of their direct flight to Canada,” it added. They will have to “present the test report with a QR code issued by this laboratory to the air operator before boarding”, an updated travel advisory from the Canadian government stated.Those who “have previously tested positive for Covid-19 can present a positive molecular test report issued by a certified laboratory in India. The date of collection must be between 14 and 180 days before their scheduled departure to Canada”, it said.“Airlines will refuse boarding to any traveller who’s unable to meet these requirements,” it stressed.India’s high commissioner to Ottawa Ajay Bisaria welcomed the move and tweeted that it was “great to see a decisive step towards normalising air mobility” between the two countries. He added that they were “working with Canadian partners to further ease travel”.The ban was lifted after test results of passengers who flew to Canada from New Delhi on September 22 aboard three Air Canada flights came out to be negative.Prior to the ban in April, the two airlines were operating daily direct flights from India to Canada under an air bubble arrangement between the two governments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiacanada-direct-flights-to-resume-with-air-canada-flight-from-delhi-101632623192446.html
26-09-2021||India||Cyclone Gulab: Odisha, Andhra Pradesh brace for storm, put response forces in place||Cyclonic storm Gulab lay centered over the Bay of Bengal about 330km east-southeast of Odisha’s Gopalpur and 400km east of Kalingapatnam in Andhra Pradesh, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in this latest bulletin on Sunday. The storm is expected to move westwards and cross north Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha coasts between Kalingapatnam and Gopalpur around Sunday evening, the IMD added.“The Cyclonic Storm ‘Gulab’ over northwest and adjoining westcentral Bay of Bengal moved nearly westwards with a speed of 07 kmph in last 6 hours, and lay centered at 2330 hrs IST of 25th September 2021, over northwest and adjoining westcentral Bay of Bengal near Lat. 18.3°N and Long. 87.9°E, about 330 km east-southeast of Gopalpur (Odisha) & 400 km east of Kalingapatnam (Andhra Pradesh),” the IMD said.The IMD has issued an orange alert and forecast light to moderate rainfall at most places with “heavy to very heavy falls at a few places and extremely heavy falls at isolated places very likely” over south Odisha and north coastal Andhra Pradesh on Sunday. “Heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places is also likely over Telangana and heavy falls at isolated places over north interior Odisha & Chhattisgarh,” it also said.Also read | 13 states and UTs to get heavy rainfall from tomorrow due to Cyclone Gulab: IMDIMD officials have issued warnings in parts of southern Odisha that are likely to be heavily affected by the cyclonic storm Gulab. The director of IMD Bhubaneswar, HR Biswas, said that the cyclonic storm is likely to affect the southern parts of Odisha and will pass between Gopalpur and Kalingapatnam. "Malkangiri, Nowrangpur, Koraput, Puri, Kalahandi and neighbouring districts will receive heavy to very heavy rainfall activity. Wind warnings have mainly been issued to Ganjam and Gajapati districts along the coast,” Biswas told ANI. "Total suspension of fisherman activity has been ordered up to September 27. The public is advised to keep arrangements for drainage of excess water and to keep a regular check on traffic congestion," he added.The coastal state is bracing for Cyclone Gulab, named by Pakistan, just four months after Yaas’ wreaked havoc in Odisha with authorities mobilising men and machinery, and launching an evacuation drive in seven districts in the southern part. "Many low-lying areas will be inundated in the identified districts. Flash floods are feared in the hilly areas of Odisha's southern region. Urban pockets in Ganjam and Puri could experience waterlogging due to heavy to very heavy and extremely heavy rainfall in parts," IMD director general Mrutunjay Mohapatra said.Special Relief Commissioner (SRC) PK Jena said as many as 42 teams of the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) and 24 squads of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), along with about 102 teams of fire brigade personnel, have been sent to Gajapati, Ganjam, Rayagada, Koraput, Malkangiri, Nabarangpur and Kandhamal. Ganjam is expected to be severely affected by the cyclonic storm, and 15 rescue teams have been deployed in that area alone, Jena said. He added that 11 fire service units, six teams of the ODRAF and eight of the NDRF are on standby for emergency purposes.Jena said the intensity of the cyclone will be similar to that of ‘Titli’, which battered the state in 2018. "During the landfall, the wind speed could hover between 90kmph and 100 kmph. Barring that period, the velocity on Sunday is expected to be limited to 70kmph. Four-five districts will receive heavy rainfall. Southern Odisha rivers such as Rushikulya, Nagabali and Vansadhara could swell due to extremely heavy rainfall," he said.Also read | Army asked to remain on standby as West Bengal gears up for another spell of heavy rainsIn Andhra Pradesh, three teams of NDRF and one team of SDRF have been positioned in north coastal districts for rescue and relief operations. According to a government release, authorities in Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts have prepared a plan of action to possibly shift about 86,000 families from low-lying areas to cyclone relief shelters. Two teams of NDRF have been deployed in the Srikakulam district, which is expected to have more impact of the cyclone, and another in Visakhapatnam. The storm is likely to reach the West Bengal coast around September 29, IMD Kolkata’s director GK Das told news agency ANI. “South Bengal is likely to have enhanced weather activity particularly in terms of heavy rainfall and wind on September 28 and 29. Heavy rainfall is expected over Kolkata, North 24 Parganas, East and West Medinipur, Jhargram, Howrah and Hooghly on September 28,” Das added.The sea condition will be rough to very rough over the next three days and fishermen in Odisha, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh have been asked to not venture into the east-central and adjoining the northeast Bay of Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-gulab-odisha-andhra-brace-for-storm-put-response-forces-in-place-101632620865713.html
26-09-2021||India||Canada lifts ban on passenger flights from India; check latest guidelines here||The Justin Trudeau-led federal government in Canada on Sunday lifted a month-long ban on passenger flights from India, which was put in place in view of the enhanced coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocols. On Tuesday, Canada extended the restriction on all direct commercial and private passenger flights from India until September 26. However, with the ban now expiring, passengers from India can now travel to Canada albeit with a few precautionary measures, which include having a negative Covid-19 test report from an approved laboratory.Also Read | Stuck in India: Academics allege racism on Canada’s Covid testing policyAccording to officials familiar with the development, Air Canada is expected to resume its flights from India on September 27 (Monday), while Air India will be resuming its flights to Canada from September 30. Prior to Canada imposing its border restrictions – a “risk-based and measured approach” according to the federal government – the two airlines were operating to-and-fro flights daily under an air bubble arrangement between the two governments.Passengers travelling from India to Canada will be required to adhere to the following measures, according to a news release issued by Transport Canada earlier this week in view of the Covid-19 situation:Canada lifted the travel restrictions after testing passengers on three direct flights that arrived from India on Wednesday. When authorities tested upon arrival the passengers on these flights for Covid-19, all of them returned negative in the test results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/canada-lifts-ban-on-passenger-flights-from-india-check-latest-guidelines-here-101632618427661.html
26-09-2021||India||Amit Shah to analyse security in Maoist-hit areas today: 10 states in review||Amit Shah, Union minister of home affairs, will be chairing a high-level meeting on Sunday with the chief ministers of 10 states to review the situation in Maoist-affected areas. The Union home minister will meet the chief ministers and hold a detailed discussion on the Maoist-affected areas in their respective states – including a review of the security situation in the fringe areas and the ongoing counter-insurgency operations against the Maoists.According to officials familiar with the development, those who have been invited for the day-long physical meeting at Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi are the chief ministers of Chhattisgarh (Bhupesh Baghel), Maharashtra (Uddhav Thackeray), Jharkhand (Hemant Soren), Odisha (Naveen Patnaik), West Bengal (Mamata Banerjee), Telangana (K Chandrashekar Rao), Andhra Pradesh (Jagan Mohan Reddy), Madhya Pradesh (Shivraj Singh Chouhan), and Kerala (Pinarayi Vijayan).A media report, however, indicated that Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy might be missing from the meeting on Sunday after sustaining an injury. Andhra Pradesh home minister Mekathoti Sucharita is expected to travel to New Delhi in his stead to represent her state in the meeting with Amit Shah.In addition to taking a brief on the security situation, home minister Amit Shah is also likely to review development works in these Maoist-affected areas—with detailed discussions on the construction of roads, bridges, schools, and health centres—that the respective state governments are carrying out in these violence-hit regions to encourage locals and villagers to return to a life of normalcy.Maoist violence in India has reduced considerably across the country and the menace is now prevalent in just about 45 districts, according to Union home ministry data. However, as many as 90 districts in the country are considered to be ‘Maoist-affected’ and are covered under the Security Related Expenditure Scheme of the ministry. Maoist violence, also called ‘Left Wing Extremism (LWE)’, was reported in 61 districts in 2019 and only about 45 districts in 2020.Around 380 security personnel, 1,000 civilians and 900 Maoists have been killed in different instances of violence in LWE-affected areas from 2015 till 2020. A total of about 4,200 Maoists have also surrendered during the same period, according to the data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-to-analyse-security-in-maoist-hit-areas-today-10-states-in-review-101632615519390.html
26-09-2021||India||PM Modi to return home after ‘landmark’ US visit, lists ‘strongest assets’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday concluded his three-day packed visit to the US, during which he said he had “productive bilateral and multilateral engagements” and expressed confidence that the relationship between India and the US will grow even stronger. “Over the last few days, have had productive bilateral and multilateral engagements, interaction with CEOs and the UN address. I am confident the India-USA relationship will grow even stronger in the years to come. Our rich people-to-people linkages are among our strongest assets,” PM Modi tweeted ahead of his return from the United States.PM Modi addressed the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly, attended the first in-person Quad summit meeting and held bilateral and multilateral engagements, including with US President Joe Biden, US vice president Kamala Harris and his Australian and Japanese counterparts—Scott Morrison and Yoshihide Suga—respectively. The spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs (MEA) Arindam Bagchi said the Prime Minister’s US visit was “landmark".During his first visit to the US since the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic, PM Modi started his engagements on Thursday by meeting five top American corporate leaders from key sectors ranging from drones to 5G, semiconductor, and solar and encouraged them to step up their investments by highlighting the vast opportunities in India. Two of them were Indian Americans—Shantanu Narayen from Adobe and Vivek Lall from General Atomics. He also met Cristiano E Amon from Qualcomm, Mark Widmar from First Solar, and Stephen A Schwarzman from Blackstone.Watch PM Modi's full speech at UN General Assembly: Terrorism, China, climate, Covid highlightsPrime Minister Modi held his first in-person meeting with US vice president Kamala Harris at the White House on Thursday, a day ahead of his highly anticipated bilateral meet with US President Joe Biden. Modi praised Harris as a "source of inspiration" and extended an invitation to her to visit India. This was PM Modi's first in-person meeting with Harris after she made history by becoming the first Indian-origin person to become the vice president of America. Harris called upon Pakistan to act against terrorist groups operating from its soil to ensure they do not threaten the security of both the United States and India and underscored the need to closely monitor Islamabad’s support for terrorism.On Friday, Prime Minister Modi received a warm welcome from Biden at the White House as they held their first bilateral meeting. The two leaders discussed a wide range of priority issues, including combating the coronavirus pandemic, climate change, economic cooperation and ensure stability in the Indo-Pacific region. Biden said that the relationship between the two countries is “destined to be stronger, closer and tighter”, as PM Modi rolled out a 10-year road map for growing ties based on four Ts of talent, technology, trade, and trusteeship. Biden even recounted a story he has told many times before that of people in India with the same surname as his. Modi said that since Biden last told him about it, he got some research done into it and has brought along some genealogy documents for the president.Later that day, PM Modi attended a meeting of the leaders of the United States, Japan and Australia for the Quad Summit and pledged to work together for ensuring peace and prosperity of the Indo-Pacific and the world. President Biden said the four democracies have come together to take on common challenges from Covid-19 to climate. He also said that the group has democratic partners who share world views and have a common vision for the future.On Saturday, PM Modi addressed the UNGA session and cautioned about countries with “regressive thinking” that are using terrorism as a “political tool”. He called for efforts to ensure no country takes advantage of the “delicate situation” in Afghanistan for “its own selfish interests”. He did not name any county, but he was clearly pointing to Pakistan. He underscored the strength of India’s democracy as he talked about his own rise from a tea seller at a railway station to that as prime minister.PM Modi will bring home 157 artefacts and antiquities, which were handed over to India by the US during his visit. The Prime Minister and US President Biden expressed their commitment to strengthening efforts to combat theft, illicit trade and trafficking of cultural objects. According to an official statement on Saturday, nearly half of the artefacts are cultural, and the rest are figurines related to Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism—including the one-and-a-half metre bas relief panel of Revanta in sandstone of the 10th CE to the 8.5 cm tall, exquisite bronze Nataraja from the 12th CE.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-return-home-after-landmark-us-visit-lists-strongest-assets-101632617241120.html
26-09-2021||India||Farmers to hold rally in Panipat today to ‘awaken’ govt against farm laws||Farmers will hold a rally in Haryana's Panipat on Sunday, where farm leaders, including Rakesh Tikait, are likely to address agriculturalists protesting against the three contentious farm laws. Farm leader from Karnal, Ratan Mann, who is monitoring the arrangements for the rally, said it is being organised to “awaken” the government to repeal the anti-farmer laws. Mann said thousands of farmers from the state will attend the rally as farm leaders will give an important message ahead of the Bharat Bandh.He was referring to the Samyukt Kisan Morcha's (SKM) call for a Bharat Bandh on Monday on the completion of 10 months of their ongoing agitation against the farm laws enacted by the Centre last year.Officials have said that the Bharatiya Kisan Union’s (BKU) Haryana unit will organise the rally and they have invited many leaders of the SKM. “The rally is being organised by the BKU as farmers from Panipat have invited Rakesh Tikait to honour him for the ongoing agitation,” Mann, who is also the state BKU president, said.This will be the first such rally in the state after a three-day protest by farm leaders over lathi-charge on farmers on August 28 in Karnal. The protestors claimed that at least 10 farmers were injured and one died due to the police’s action during that rally.The SKM on Thursday appealed to the people of the nation to join the Bharat Bandh against the Centre's farm laws and asked political parties to "stand with farmers in their "quest to defend principles of democracy and federalism". "SKM appeals to every Indian to join this nationwide movement and make the 'Bharat Bandh' a resounding success. In particular, we appeal to all organisations of workers, traders, transporters, businessmen, students, youth and women and all social movements to extend solidarity with the farmers that day," the SKM said in a statement, according to news agency PTI.The bandh will be held from 6am to 4pm, during which all government and private offices, educational and other institutions, shops, industries and commercial establishments, as well as public events and functions, will be closed throughout the nation All emergency establishments and essential services, including hospitals, medical stores, relief and rescue work and people attending to personal emergencies will be exempted in the bandh, reports PTI.Farmers across the nation have been protesting at different sites since November last year against three farm laws enacted by the central government: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-to-hold-rally-in-panipat-today-to-awaken-govt-against-farm-laws-101632614145232.html
26-09-2021||India||PM Modi to address the nation on 81st edition of Mann Ki Baat today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on Sunday, September 26, through his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio programme. This will be the 81st edition of the broadcast, which is aired on the last Sunday of every month. The Prime Minister, who concluded his official three-day visit to the United States – capping off his tour with a series of key meets with US president Joe Biden, vice-president Kamala Harris, and a speech at the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) – is expected to bring up a host of pressing issues in his Sunday address to fellow Indians.PM @narendramodi to share his thoughts with the people in #MannKiBaat programme on All India Radio today at 11 AM.Watch LIVE on : https://t.co/jvFBmlwCA6#PMonAIR pic.twitter.com/9eSz6tGz08Earlier this month, the Prime Minister invited inputs and suggestions from citizens for the 81st edition of the Mann Ki Baat programme. Taking to his personal handle on Twitter, Modi shared the link of the official MyGov portal and wrote, “Have been getting several interesting inputs for this month's Mann Ki Baat, which will take place on the 26th. Keep sharing your insights on the NaMo App, MyGov, or record your message on 1800-11-7800.”Also Read | At UNGA, PM Modi sends tough message to Pakistan, asks for collective voice against expansionismEarlier still, the Prime Minister noted that 75 per cent of the citizens who send their feedback and suggestions to the government about Mann Ki Baat are below the age of 35—pointing out that the programme reflects “the view of the youth of India.”The 81st edition of the Mann Ki Baat programme will be live-streamed on the Bharatiya Janta Party’s (BJP’s) YouTube channel and the official website of the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). It will also be broadcast on the network of All India Radio, Doordarshan, and the AIR News website www.newsonair.com and Newsonair mobile app.In the last edition of the Mann Ki Baat programme, the Prime Minister asked Indians to salute the efforts of a Krishi Vigyan Kendra in Bihar and the Kanjirangal Panchayat in Tamil Nadu for their initiative towards village waste management and self-reliance. He also hailed the language of Sanskrit and the efforts of various scholars and researchers in strengthening global cultural ties through this language.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-the-nation-on-81st-edition-of-mann-ki-baat-today-101632613077186.html
26-09-2021||NA||PM Narendra Modi inspectes construction status of new Parliament building in Delhi on Sunday||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:PM Modi visits construction site of new Parliament buildingPM Narendra Modi went to the construction site of the new parliament building in New Delhi at around 8.45 pm today. He spent almost an hour at the site & did a first-hand inspection of the construction status of the new parliament building. pic.twitter.com/kYIwbgXwxqUttarakhand CM starts scheme to provide financial assistance to  transport sectorUttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami has rolled out a scheme to provide financial assistance to people associated with the transport sector who were affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Under this scheme, 103,235 drivers, conductors, cleaners will receive ₹2,000 every month for 6 months, informed his office on Sunday.Maharashtra records 3,206 new Covid-19 cases, 36 deathsMaharashtra recorded 3,206 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the state's total tally to 6,544,325. In the last 24 hours 36 deaths were also recorded, the death toll now stands at 138,870, according to the state's health department. EAM S Jaishankar to visit Mexico from September 26-28External affairs minister (EAM) S Jaishankar will be on an official tour of Mexico from September 26 to 28, the ministry said on Sunday. His Mexican counterpart Marcelo Ebrard Casaubón has extended the invitation.Light to moderate rain expected over South Delhi, Noida in next 2 hrsIndia Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted light to moderate rainfall over isolated places in South Delhi and Noida in the next two hours, reported news agency ANI.Jitender Gogi shooting: Delhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana visits Rohini courtDelhi Police Commissioner Rakesh Asthana visits Rohini Court days after a shootout in the courtroom pic.twitter.com/YefOfD0OoSSwitzerland votes in favour of same-sex marriage, says AFP#BREAKING Swiss voters back same-sex marriage: projected results pic.twitter.com/ZxqAnunjCzNitish Kumar reiterates demand for caste census Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar reiterated the demand for a caste census, stating that “caste census is a legitimate demand and is the need of the hour”. Kumar instead that it “is pro-development and will help policymakers frame targeted welfare policies for backward castes.”.Manohar Lal Khattar launches pulse polio campaign  in KarnalHaryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar launched a pulse polio campaign in Haryana's Karnal on Sunday, reported ANI. “The scheme aims to administer polio drops to 2 lakh children in the age group of 0-5 in 12 districts of the state till Sep 30," Khattar told ANI.G20 summit to discuss Afghanistan crisis on September 28The summit of the Group of Twenty (G20) on Afghanistan is scheduled to be held on September 28, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergey Vershinin said."On September 28, as far as I remember, thereabout," TASS news agency said quoting an official.1 dead, 2 injured after mudslide hits China's Sichuan provinceOne person died and two were injured in Tianquan County, southwest China's Sichuan Province due to the heavy rain that triggered a mudslide on Sunday morning.Uttar Pradesh cabinet expansion to be held this evening at Raj BhavanUttar Pradesh cabinet expansion to be held today evening at Raj Bhavan. Seven new faces to me inducted in the cabinet at 6 pm today, say Raj Bhawan sources.At least 50 killed in fighting for Yemen's Marib: Military sourcesAt least 50 Huthi rebels and Yemeni pro-government troops have been killed as fighting intensifies for the key city of Marib, military sources said on Sunday, reports AFP.Rain lashes parts of Odisha ahead of cyclone Gulab’s landfallRainfall activity started in Odisha’s southern and coastal regions on Sunday morning in the wake of cyclone ‘Gulab’, which is likely to make landfall between Gopalpur and Kalingapatanam in Andhra Pradesh around midnight, the India Meteorological Department said.Bank books are cleaner: Nirmala SitharamanBank books are cleaner; govt's recapitalisation burden will reduce, says Nirmala Sitharaman.Bandipora encounter: 2 unidentified terrorists killed, says Jammu and Kashmir PoliceBandipora encounter | 2 unidentified terrorists killed. Search going on. Incriminating materials including arms and ammunition recovered. Further details shall follow: Jammu and Kashmir Police.September 26 is an important day because it is related to Indian tradition and heritage: PM ModiSeptember 26 is an important day because it is related to Indian tradition and heritage. Today is World River Day: PM22-year-old man stabbed to death in Mumbai's Kandivali, 4 arrestedFour people have been arrested for allegedly stabbing a 22-year-old man to death in Mumbai's Kandivali West, said Deputy Commissioner of Mumbai Police (DCP) on Saturday.Andhra Pradesh appoints outgoing chief secretary Adityanath Das as chief advisor, to be given cabinet minister statusAndhra Pradesh government appoints outgoing Chief Secretary Adityanath Das. He will be positioned at Andhra Pradesh Bhavan, New Delhi, after his superannuation on September 30. He shall be assigned Cabinet Minister status.India reports 28,326 fresh Covid-19 cases, 260 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia recorded 28,326 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 33,652,745, while the death toll climbed to 443,928 with 431 daily fatalities, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday. Encounter underway at Watnira area of BandiporaEncounter underway at Watnira area of Bandipora. Police and security forces at the spot. Further details shall follow: J&K Police.Sheriff''s office: At least 3 killed in Amtrak derailmentAt least three people were killed Saturday afternoon when an Amtrak train that runs between Seattle and Chicago derailed in north-central Montana, an official with the Liberty County Sheriff's Office said.'Injuries reported' after US train derailment: rail operatorMultiple people were injured when a train derailed on Saturday in the US state of Montana, rail operator Amtrak said.Venkaiah Naidu calls for addressing shortage of doctors, paramedical workers in mission modeVice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday called for addressing the shortage of trained human resources in the health sector on a war footing and stressed on the need for creating more medical colleges in line with the government's intention of setting up one medical college and hospital in every district of the country.1 killed, another injured in China's Henan following heavy rainsOne was killed, another was injured in China's Henan province as heavy rains lashed since Friday, local media reported.Farmers to hold rally in Panipat today to ‘awaken’ govt against farm lawsFarmers will hold a rally in Haryana's Panipat on Sunday, where farm leaders, including Rakesh Tikait, are likely to address agriculturalists protesting against the three contentious farm laws.PM Modi to address the nation on 81st edition of Mann Ki Baat todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation on Sunday, September 26, through his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio programme.Earthquake of magnitude 5.0 hits TaiwanA 5.0 magnitude earthquake has occurred in Taiwan, the European Mediterranean Seismological Centre (EMSC) said on Sunday.NYC temporarily blocked from imposing school vaccine mandateNew York City’s school system, the largest in the U.S., has been temporarily blocked from imposing a mandate forcing teachers and other staff from getting vaccinated against Covid-19, according to a ruling from a federal judge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-september-26-2021-101632612683094.html
26-09-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee steps up attack against Congress for second consecutive day||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee sharpened her attack against the Congress for the second consecutive day while campaigning for the Bhawanipore by-elections scheduled on September 30.“The Congress has got frightened. They sometimes manage you (BJP). But you cannot manage Mamata Banerjee,” she said during her poll campaign in Bhawanipore on Saturday.“TMC will work across the country. The Congress couldn’t. Only we can do it. To uproot the BJP from this country TMC alone is enough. We don’t want anyone else. If we have the public with us, we will fight, win and come back. This is my promise,” she said at a second meeting in Bhawanipore, while taking on the BJP. This comes less than a month after Congress president Sonia Gandhi called a virtual meeting with 19 ‘like-minded’ non-BJP parties on August 20. TMC chief Mamata Banerjee attended the meeting.On Friday, Banerjee had attacked the Congress saying that the BJP doesn’t consider them and hence no central agency went after any Congress leader other than former finance minister P Chidambaram.The Congress, however, has lashed out saying that Congress leaders were not involved in any scam like coal and cattle smuggling and hence the need of being arrested by a central agency never arose.This is, however, not the first time that the Congress has come under attack from the TMC despite the former not fielding any candidate against Banerjee for the Bhawanipore by-election.Earlier this month the chief minister’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee had attacked the Congress alleging: “If the BJP thinks that the TMC will get frightened, bow down and accept defeat like the Congress and other political parties, then let me tell them that TMC will fight with renewed vigour. We will expand to all the BJP-ruled states and take them head-on. Do whatever you can.”Then too, the Congress had objected saying that only inexperienced people talk in such a manner and beat their own drum.“Congress never said that we will need Mamata Banerjee to fight against the BJP. The fight between the Congress and the BJP is both political and ideological. Even a few years back Mamata Banerjee was in the BJP’s ministry at the Centre. She never admitted that she had done something wrong. Nor did she say that bringing the BJP to West Bengal was her biggest fault. She is a hypocrite,” said Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, leader of the Congress party in the Lok Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-steps-up-attack-against-congress-for-second-consecutive-day-101632598401500.html
26-09-2021||India||Kanhaiya Kumar, Jignesh Mevani to join Congress on Sept 28||Youth leaders Jignesh Mevani from Gujarat and Kanhaiya Kumar from Bihar are set to join the Congress party on September 28 in New Delhi in the presence of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi.Setting to rest speculations that they may join the party, Jignesh Mevani, Independent Dalit MLA from Gujarat said, “Yes, Kanhaiya and I are joining the Congress party in Delhi on September 28.”This follows their hectic parleys with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, a person familiar with the development said.When asked about the reason, he said, “This will be explained in a press conference on that day.” And answering a query on if they would join in the presence of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, as rumoured, Mevani said, “That would be the party’s decision.”Jignesh Mevani was elected from a reserved Scheduled Caste seat of Vadgam in North Gujarat’s Banaskantha district in 2017 as an Independent. Held by the Congress party, the seat was vacated for him.He recently inaugurated the state’s biggest 13,000-litre oxygen plant by any elected representative after a battle in the Gujarat High Court, where he sought a direction to the state government to let the legislators use their discretionary MLA funds to create facilities to tackle the Covid-19 crisis.The Congress party also subsequently joined as the litigant. This had prompted the state government to take this decision for all 182 MLAs.Mevani, a strong critic of the ruling BJP, moved the high court in May 2021 after the account of an NGO, “We The People Charitable Trust”, through which he started a crowd funding initiative was frozen by the Charity Commissioner of the State, stating that the MLA is not its trustee.People close to Mevani claimed that for over a year he was weighing various options, including joining the Aam Aadmi Party of which he was earlier a spokesperson and also exploring some national front of like-minded youth leaders.He was reportedly in constant touch with Kanhaiya Kumar and Patidar leader Hardik Patel, people familiar with the development confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanhaiya-kumar-jignesh-mevani-to-join-congress-on-sept-28-101632597321381.html
26-09-2021||India||Cong may struggle to retain 3 parliamentary standing committees chairmanships||The Congress could struggle to retain its chairmanship in three parliamentary standing committees in the upcoming reshuffle of the panels owing to its current strength in both Houses of Parliament, according to people aware of the matter.The Congress now has 33 members in the Rajya Sabha, down from 56 in 2019. It has 52 MPs in the Lok Sabha. “Some Bharatiya Janata Party members have pointed this out and demanded that the Congress should not retain three chairman’s positions as the BJP deserves one additional chairman’s post,” a senior parliamentary official said, asking not to be named.All members of Parliament are entitled to get a seat in the standing committees. But the chairperson’s position in these 24 panels is decided on the basis of the combined strength of each party in the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha. While all chairpersons have been nominated by either Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla or Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu, there is a strict quota system for these nominations.In 2019, the Trinamool Congress lost one such position after its Lok Sabha tally decreased from 34 in 2014 to 28 in 2019. The party, which headed two panels, now has just Sudip Bandyopadhyay as the chairman of the food and consumer affairs panel.Each panel is constituted for a span of one year. At the end of each year, panels are reshuffled. All existing panels are scrapped at the end of a Lok Sabha’s term and new panels are formed in the new Lok Sabha.The Congress currently chairs the home affairs, information technology and environment standing committees. Some BJP leaders have already argued with the Lok Sabha top brass that as the Congress’s tally is down by more than 20 MPs, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor can be replaced by a BJP leader. BJP leaders including Nishikant Dubey earlier wrote to the Lok Sabha Speaker to remove Tharoor from the chair after major arguments in the panel over the submission of subjects and calling of witnesses.There are 24 parliamentary standing committees to oversee the work of all Union ministries. Sixteen of these are in the Lok Sabha’s jurisdiction and the remaining eight fall under the Rajya Sabha’s ambit.“The process of rejigging the panels is now at the final stage. Some smaller parties are yet to submit their nominations for various positions and following those steps, the panels will be reshuffled,” an official said on condition of anonymity.Chairmanship is decided on the basis of strength of a party in both Houses of Parliament. The quota is arrived at by dividing the total strength of Parliament by 24 or the number of department-related standing committees. Apart from these 24 panels, MPs are also nominated as chairpersons in other standing committees. Congress leader Adhir Chowdhury chairs the Public Accounts Committee.A third official also suggested that even if the Congress manages to retain its chairmanship in the three standing committees, it might find it difficult to keep those seats next year as the BJP’s tally in the Rajya Sabha is expected to rise further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-may-struggle-to-retain-three-parliamentary-standing-committees-chairmanships-101632595522398.html
26-09-2021||India||Constable raped, threatened with video leak in Madhya Pradesh; two arrested||A 28-year-old woman constable was allegedly gang-raped by four people who shot a video of the act and threatened her, in Madhya Pradesh’s Neemuch district, police said on Saturday.While the main accused and his mother have been arrested, efforts are underway to nab the remaining men, they added.According to police, the incident took place in June but the matter came to light last week when the survivor decided to register a complaint.In her complaint, the woman alleged that her friend, Pawan Lohar(32), invited her to his birthday party on June 9 and raped her along with three others. The accused also filmed the entire act and threatened her, police said.When the complainant approached Lohar’s mother, Nirmala, (56) over the matter, the latter reportedly tried to extort ₹1 lakh from her, they added.“The woman belongs to Neemuch and is presently posted in Indore. On September 13, she filed a complaint against her friend Pawan Lohar, alleging that he invited her to Manasa for a birthday party and raped her along with three others. They also shot a video of the incident and threatened her with dire consequences,” Neemuch superintendent of police Suraj Kumar Verma said.An uncle of the accused also threatened the woman, police said.“Upset with regular harassment, the constable filed a complaint on September 13,” Verma said.The survivor did not register a complaint earlier citing threat and social stigma. “Fearing social stigma, I did not share my ordeal with anyone but when the matter went out of control, due to regular mental torture and threats, I decided to file the case,” she said.Following the constable’s complaint, a first information report against the four accused was filed at women police station under sections 376 d (gang-rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation), and the main accused’s mother under section 506 of Indian Penal Code on Saturday.The remaining accused were identified as Dhirendra Lohar (34), Vijay Lohar (33) and Omprakash Lohar (36).The woman police station in-charge, Anuradha Girwal, said, “During investigation, we found that the woman constable was gang-raped and the accused were blackmailing her.”She was sent for medical examination and the reports is awaited, police said.( with inputs from Mustafa Hussain of Neemuch)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/constable-raped-threatened-with-video-leak-in-madhya-pradesh-two-arrested-101632595161924.html
26-09-2021||India||Vaccination tally to breach 50mn: Tamil Nadu health minister Subramanian||The health department in Tamil Nadu expects the total number of people administered with Covid-19 vaccines to breach the 50 million mark soon, state minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma Subramanian said on Saturday.The department has instructed health officials to administer the vaccines to a large number of people as against the targeted 1.5 million during the third mega vaccination camp scheduled for Sunday, he said.“Following a letter sent by Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M K Stalin to Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) and the efforts taken by Health Secretary (J Radhakrishnan), we have received 29 lakh vaccines from the Centre. We have instructed officials to administer as many vaccines as possible against the targeted 15 lakh during the third mega vaccination Camp scheduled for Sunday,” he told reporters here.Till date, 44.1 million people have been inoculated, including the 2.5 million who received the vaccines in private hospitals. The total number of those who had received the vaccination was expected to breach five crore soon, he said.“We appeal to members of the public to extend their cooperation during the third mega vaccination camp,” he said. In Tamil Nadu, 56 per cent of the population have received single dose of the vaccine and 16 per cent double doses, he said.“Through the camp tomorrow (Sunday), we are planning to inoculate 20-25 lakh. With this, the number who got the single dose was expected to reach 60 per cent,” he said.In the first mega vaccination drive on September 12, a total of 2.9 million were vaccinated. Again on the second edition of the mass vaccination programme held on September 19, 1.6 million were covered, he said.Referring to the Kalaignar Insurance Scheme introduced by the DMK, he said it benefited 30,548 people since the government assumed office on May 7. Following chief minister M K Stalin’s instruction, 1,850 people affected by black fungus virus were also included in the scheme, he added. Tamil Nadu on Saturday added 1,724 new Covid-19 infections, pushing the caseload to 2,655,572, while the death toll mounted to 35,476 with 22 more deaths. According to a medical bulletin, 1,635 people were discharged in the last 24 hours, aggregating to 2,602,833, leaving 17,263 active infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-tally-to-breach-50mn-tamil-nadu-health-minister-subramanian-101632594861059.html
26-09-2021||India||Centre did not let me to go to Rome global peace meet out of ‘jealousy’ : Mamata Banerjee at Bhabanipur bypoll campaign||Kolkata: West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said the Centre had disallowed her attendance at a global peace meet in Rome, where she was the only invitee from the country, “out of jealousy”.The ministry of external affairs in a one-line communique, which reached the secretariat during the day said the “event is not commensurate for (attendance at) the level of chief minister,” a secretariat official said.The Trinamool Congress supremo said at an election meeting at Bhabanipur where she is contesting bypoll to be held on September 30, that she had been invited to Rome in the first week of October to attend a global peace meeting in which the Pope, other religious heads, dignitaries from various countries are slated to attend, where she would have been the only Indian and “only Hindu lady.” However, she claimed a “jealous BJP did not allow that, which only lowered the esteem for India in the outside world”.Banerjee contrasted her trip’s disallowance by the central government with Prime Minister Narendra Modi going ahead with his trip to the US “with special permission”, despite the World Health Organisation not approving Covaccine, with which the PM had been vaccinated.She also hit out at the BJP government for the death of two protestors in police firing during an eviction drive against settlers allegedly on government in Darra ng.“There was inhuman torture in Assam in the name of eviction. There was firing and bloodshed of innocent people but no NHRC team visited that state. NHRC teams visits only Bengal frequently. It is a matter of shame,” she said.Alleging that “goonda Raj” prevails in BJP-ruled Assam, Tripura and Uttar Pradesh, Banerjee said TMC delegations are prevented, harassed and come under attack in those states.“We don’t say anything about BJP leaders who keep visiting and peddling falsehood in West Bengal as free movement is everyone’s democratic right,” she said.Banerjee flagged the floating of bodies of alleged COVID-19 victims in the Ganges as a failure of the UP government and pointed to selective deletion of names of tens of lakhs of people in the exercise to create a National Register of Citizens in Assam. “It (deletion of names in the final NRC) shows the anti-people nature of BJP. In contrast we have already said there will be no NRC in Bengal,” the TMC supremo said.She also accused the opposition BJP of fomenting trouble in Bhabanipur, where she is a candidate in the by-poll. “BJP only carries on `goondagiri’ (violent or thuggish behaviour), peddles false propaganda. Please foil their game plan,” Banerjee said.Listing the acheivements of the TMC government, the chief minister claimed that Bengal occupies number one position in respect of vaccination against COVID-19 and in the education sector.The TMC supremo said no processions are being taken out by her party in the campaigning in Bhabanipur as directed by the Election Commission in an oblique hint that the BJP candidate Priyanka Tibrewal is not adhering to the norms.She also criticised the spike in fuel prices and sale of PSUs and urged the people to defeat the “anti-people and pro-rich BJP”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-did-not-let-me-to-go-to-rome-global-peace-meet-out-of-jealousy-mamata-banerjee-at-bhabanipur-bypoll-campaign-101632594801552.html
26-09-2021||India||WhatsApp group at centre of Thane gang rape case under police lens||Police are further investigating a WhatsApp group that the survivor of the Dombivli gang rape and some of the accused were part of, an officer of Manpada police station said on Saturday.The survivor had on Wednesday registered a case, in which 33 young men were named, alleging intimidation, blackmail and prolonged sexual abuse from January to September. The police have arrested 27 persons and sent two more, who are minors, to a juvenile remand home in Bhiwandi in Maharashtra.One of the accused had posted a compromising video in the WhatsApp group when she refused to meet him in May, the survivor said in her statement, according to the police officer.“Ever since they got access to the video recorded in January, in which the main accused was sexually assaulting the victim, the accused had repeatedly been calling the victim. They would ask her to come to various locations, where several of them would force themselves on her,” the Manpada police officer said, requesting anonymity. “On May 16, one of them called her and made a similar demand. When she refused, he posted the video of her and the main accused in a WhatsApp group named ‘Friends’, of which the victim was also a member.”The survivor said in her statement that she then agreed to meet the accused. Subsequently, he picked her up from near her residence on his motorbike and took her to Rabale in Navi Mumbai, where she was forced to drink alcohol and was sexually assaulted by seven people. She had to be hospitalised after the ordeal, the survivor said in her statement.Police have obtained details of all the members of the WhatsApp group. They will be making inquiries with other members of the group as well as the group administrator to find out if any of them, other than the accused, had knowledge about the survivor’s plight.The survivor had refused to meet the accused in this particular occasion because earlier in the same month, they had forcibly restrained her for nearly a day, leading to her parents filing a missing person’s report, said the police officer cited earlier.“The victim was finding it increasingly difficult to come up with convincing lies to explain her frequent absences from home, and at the same time was terrified of the videos being made public if she did not bow down to the demands of the accused,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whatsapp-group-at-centre-of-thane-gang-rape-case-under-police-lens-101632594561924.html
26-09-2021||India||Will persuade farmers to remove blockades: Haryana govt to Supreme Court||Haryana government will continue to persuade protesting farmers to remove blockages on state and national highways, although the farmers did not meet the panel constituted to resolve the issue of agitation on public spaces, the state has told the Supreme Court.in an affidavit submitted to a bench led by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, the state highlighted that the general public continued to face “great hardship” due to the farmers’ prolonged agitation, and all efforts are being made to persuade them to keep the roads clear. “Sincere efforts are being made to remove the blockades from interstate roads and national highways and to resume free flow of traffic on these roads for the convenience of general public by way of persuading the farmers and farmers’ organisations to cooperate,” the affidavit stated. Thousands of farmers are camping on the borders of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, and on highways along these states since November last year, protesting three controversial laws that aim to liberalise the farm economy. Traffic at many points have been diverted, adding to commuting times, besides affecting commercial activities along these routes. In Haryana, the blockades are chiefly along National Highway 44 in the Ambala-New Delhi stretch, especially near the Singhu border with Delhi in Sonipat district. The court is considering a woman’s complaint that it is taking her almost two hours, instead of 20 minutes, to travel from Noida to Delhi due to frequent blockades and protests. Petitioner Monicca Agarwaal, who works in an information technology firm, has stated in her petition that her commute between Delhi and Noida has become a “nightmare”. The petitioner alleged that directions by the apex court in several cases to keep roads clear, including the Shaheen Bagh protest in 2019-20, are not been followed. Her plea said she is a single mother with medical issues, and she was facing a harrowing time because the authorities have failed to enforce the court’s orders. During the last hearing on August 23, the Supreme Court had said it is the responsibility of the Centre and the states to ensure agitations do not block movement on public roads. It insisted that the Centre and the states should coordinate with each other to ensure if the protests continue, traffic should not be stopped in any manner. In its affidavit, the Haryana government said that after the direction of the top court, a meeting was convened on September 10 through video conferencing under the chairmanship of the Union home secretary. The meeting was attended by the chief secretaries and the home secretaries of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and the national capital territory (NCT) of Delhi and the states’ senior police officials. It was decided in the meeting to make efforts to clear the interstate and national highways on both sides of the Delhi-Haryana border, the state government said. The Haryana government also apprised the court of the constitution of a state-level committee after a meeting chaired by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on September 15. The committee, under the chairmanship of the additional chief secretary of the Haryana government, was set up to resolve the issue of blockades of interstate roads and national highways by holding discussions with the farmers and farmers’ organisations so as to avoid any inconvenience to the general public. The state submitted before the court that this committee scheduled a meeting with farmer groups on September 19 at Murthal in Haryana in the presence of divisional commissioner (Rohtak division), Inspector General of police (Rohtak range), deputy commissioner and superintendents of police of Sonipat and Jhajjar districts. “Unfortunately, the farmers and farmers organizations did not come forward for discussion with the state level committee in spite of being invited,” the state government said, adding that representatives from various industrial establishments of the surrounding areas, however, attended the meeting and described the difficulties faced by them. The affidavit maintained that “the state level committee would continue to persuade farmers and farmers’ organisations to hold discussions to resolve the issue” while local administrations would also hold regular deliberations with them in attempts to convince them to remove the blockades. The Supreme Court will hear the matter again on Monday. During the hearing of this petition in April, the court had emphasised that protesters cannot block roads and continually inconvenience the public, while regretting that despite several judicial pronouncements on keeping public roads free, the situation has not improved. The Union government and Delhi Police took a stand that the authorities were trying their best to remove blockades and make the commute in Delhi-NCR smooth. In its affidavit, the Uttar Pradesh government said efforts were underway to make the farmers understand the “grossly illegal act of blocking roads” but most of the protesters are aged farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-persuade-farmers-to-remove-blockades-haryana-govt-to-supreme-court-101632594502279.html
26-09-2021||India||10 states to join meeting on left wing extremism with Amit Shah today||Chief ministers from 10 states or their representatives will attend the meeting chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah on left wing extremism at Vigyan Bhawan in Delhi on Sunday, people aware of the development said, adding the states will give their feedback on the existing situation on the ground and raise the developmental activities that should be carried out.The meeting comes in wake of the home ministry reducing the number of left wing extremist affected districts to 70 from over 100 three years ago, with maximum increase in the fall in Bihar, Odisha and Jharkhand. The MHA had also said there was a drop of 47% in Maoist related incidents since 2014, when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government came to power.The CMs are also likely to discuss on how to reduce Maoist influence further, focusing on security enhancement and pushing infrastructure development in the Naxal-hit areas. As per the meeting agenda shared with the states, the meeting will be held in two sessions---first on security enhancement measures and the second on development projects.Intensifying operations against LWE, filling up the security vacuum, action against front organisations, choking flow of funds to banned Communist Party of India (Maoists) through concerned action by state police, ED and NIA, focused investigation and prosecution of cases, coordination among states besides capacity building in terms of intelligence, special forces of states and fortified police stations are listed among the major talking points on security front, people cited above said.On the development front, the main agenda of discussion will include strengthening road connectivity both by the ministry of transport and highways and ministry of rural development, widening the coverage of mobile and postal service by the department of telecommunication and department of posts, besides speedy implementation of the ongoing construction of Eklavya Schools---residential schools for students from the scheduled tribe category---in the tribal areas by the tribal affairs ministry, according to the agenda.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren reached New Delhi on Saturday with top officials to attend the LWE meeting to be chaired by Shah.Earlier this week, Soren held a review meeting with the concerned departments over the prevailing situation in the state in terms of anti-Naxal operations and allied work. The state DGP had made a presentation before the CM about the security related issues.“In terms of the presence of the Naxals in the state, it’s largely localised in three major pockets. It includes Parasnath hills in Giridih, Saranda forest area in Kolhan and Burha Pahar in Garhwa district bordering Chhattisgarh. The state government would raise the issue of more co operation from Chhattisgarh government in dealing the menace in Bitha Pahar as it shares borders with the northern part of Chhattisgarh. This area is not on priority of the Chhattisgarh government as the Naxals strategically don’t do any activity on Chhattisgarh side of Burha Pahar,” said a senior official in Jharkhand government, requesting anonymity.The official said the chief minister would also raise the issue of pressure bombs being the preferred mode of Maoists in harming the security forces than their previous medium on targeting the force on main roads through mines. “Now the security forces prefer to patrol on foot so the Naxals are using pressure bombs planted in the forest to target the force,” the official added.On the development side, Soren is likely to raise the issue of relaxing norms for the Eklavya Schools, besides requesting strengthening of the rural roads that would help in better movement of forces, the official said.Top police officials in Chhattisgarh said the issue of filling up the security vacuum in the Maoist-affected districts will be discussed in the meeting scheduled by the MHA on Sunday.“Since the number of proposed camps in Chhattisgarh is still to be set up by the state government, the MHA will be surely instructing the state government to speed up the works of comp establishment in Maoist affected districts of the state,” said a senior IPS officer of Chhattisgarh.The officer further said the progress of roads in Maoist-affected districts of the state is also not satisfactory, which will surely be addressed in the meeting.“Other issued which will be taken up by the union government include – more aggressive operations in core Maoist areas, which is matter of concern for the Union government,” said the officer.The number of districts affected by left-wing extremism (LWE) has declined sharply to 70 in 10 states for the first time in over three decades, with Bihar, Odisha and Jharkhand showing the biggest improvement, according to a map of the Maoist insurgency redrawn by the ministry of home affairs.Only 25 districts in eight states are now categorised as ‘most affected’, while Uttar Pradesh is now free of Maoism, according to the MHA’s revised list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-states-to-join-meeting-on-left-wing-extremism-with-home-minister-amit-shah-on-sunday-101632594320915.html
26-09-2021||India||IMD sounds cyclone Gulab alert for Andhra Pradesh, Odisha||A deep depression over east-central Bay of Bengal intensified into a cyclone on Saturday and an orange alert has been issued for north Andhra Pradesh and adjoining south Odisha coasts, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.Gulab is likely to cross the north Andhra Pradesh-south Odisha coasts between Kalingapatnam and Gopalpur, with a wind speed of 75 to 85 kmph gusting to 90 kmph on Sunday evening, the weather body added. According to scientists, cyclones are formed often at the end of monsoon or during the post-monsoon period. The orange alert is issued as a warning of extremely bad weather with the potential of disruption in commute with road and rail closures, and interruption of power supply.The depression over Bay of Bengal was formed on Friday and gradually intensified on Saturday morning. At 5.30 pm on Saturday, cyclone Gulab lay over northwest and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal, about 370 km east-southeast of Gopalpur in Odisha and 440 km east of Kalingapatnam in Andhra Pradesh.The system is expected to bring widespread rainfall to parts of east India on Sunday and Monday and to central India after it weakens into a well-marked low pressure system, officials in the weather department familiar with the developments said. This is the second depression formed over the Bay of Bengal in September and this season. No depressions were formed between June and August. The first deep depression of the season was formed on September 13. Normally, five to six depressions form during the monsoon season and bring extensive rainfall to central and west India.“Conditions like ocean heat potential, above-normal sea surface temperature (28 to 29 degrees) and low vertical wind shear are favourable for cyclogenesis. When it (cyclone Gulab) crosses the Odisha coast around Sunday, very heavy rain is expected there and over Chhattisgarh, and Madhya Pradesh as well after it weakens into a well-marked low pressure area. We are not expecting further intensification of Gulab now. There is a trough in the lower levels which is extending up to the Pacific where cyclonic circulations are forming one after another. The remnants of these circulations are leading to formation of low pressure systems over Bay of Bengal,” Sunitha Devi, in charge of cyclones at IMD, said.The weather body has also predicted tidal waves of about 0.5 m height which are likely to inundate low lying areas of Srikakulam, Sompeta, Vizianagaram and Ganjam districts when the cyclone makes landfall.Fishermen have been advised not to venture into east-central and adjoining northeast Bay of Bengal and Andaman Sea on Saturday and Sunday.In view of the weather alert, the Andhra Pradesh government hoisted the “First Warning Flag” at Visakhapatnam port while in Odisha, the district administration began evacuations in several districts. The Andhra government also put the three north coastal districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam and ports of Gangavaram and Kakinada on alert. “Under the impact of the deep depression, coastal Andhra has already started witnessing light to moderate rains in many parts and heavy rains at scattered places,” state disaster management commissioner K Kanna Babu said. Two teams of national disaster response force (NDRF) have been deployed in Srikakulam district, which is expected to have more impact from the cyclone, and another in Visakhapatnam. A state disaster response force (SDRF) team has been positioned in Visakhapatnam for emergency response.Srikakulam district collector Shrikesh B Lathkar said officials belonging to all departments, including revenue, police and electricity, have been kept on standby to meet emergencies. “In all, three teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been pressed into service to take up rescue operations in the event of any emergency situation,” he said. The Odisha government has directed collectors of seven districts to evacuate residents in vulnerable areas. It has already initiated deployment of 173 teams of Odisha disaster rapid action force, NDRF and fire services. Additional chief secretary Pradeep Jena said the cyclone may cross south Odisha-North Andhra Pradesh coasts around Kalingapatnam by Saturday evening, triggering heavy to very heavy rainfall in Ganjam, Gajapati, Rayagada, Kandhamal, Malkangiri, Nabarangpur and Koraput districts. “We are preparing for all possible devastation.There may be landslides in Gajapati and Rayagada districts as faced during very severe cyclonic storm Titli in 2018,” Jena said.Jena added that holidays of all officials at Gajapati and Koraput district were cancelled on Friday and Saturday in view of the situation. Meanwhile, the IMD has also predicted the formation of a new low-pressure system near the coast of Myanmar, which, in all probability, will dump heavy rain in West Bengal’s southern districts next week.Kolkata and its adjoining areas, which are still reeling under the impact of torrential rain that occurred earlier this week, should brace for heavy showers next Tuesday and Wednesday owing to this new weather system, the IMD said in its forecast.“As of now, we are not evacuating anyone. But if required, we would do so. The army and NDRF have been asked to remain on standby as there could be heavy water logging. The districts in south Bengal received heavy rain earlier this week and some areas are still inundated. We are keeping relief materials ready, including dry food, water pouches and medicines,” a senior official of the state’s disaster management department said, seeking anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-sounds-cyclone-gulab-alert-for-andhra-odisha-101632593421029.html
26-09-2021||India||Poll strategist Prashant Kishor becomes a Bhawanipore voter, Mamata’s home turf||Poll strategist Prashant Kishor has been enrolled as a voter of Bhawanipore, a south Kolkata constituency from where Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee is contesting the upcoming by-polls. Veteran TMC leader Saugata Roy said that if one wants to contest the Rajya Sabha elections it is necessary to become a voter of that state. “I see nothing wrong in this. He is an Indian citizen and can become a voter of any state. Secondly, if anyone wants to contest the Rajya Sabha polls, he has to be a voter of that state. I don’t know his plans. He is staying in a house and that’s why he became a voter,” Roy told the media. When asked whether he was suggesting that the TMC would be nominating him for the Rajya Sabha Roy, however, said that he ‘did not know’. Earlier this month TMC MP Arpita Ghosh had resigned from the Rajya Sabha on the instructions of the party. The seat is still vacant. After achieving a resounding victory over the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the recent West Bengal assembly elections, the TMC has renewed its contract with the Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC), the company launched by Kishor, till the crucial 2024 Lok Sabha polls in which Mamata Banerjee wishes to see her party playing a bigger role in national politics. “Many times we get to hear men and women settling in a particular city for their career. But this is the first time, I am getting to hear the same thing about a contractual labour. The ECI needs to check whether his name in his home town in Bihar has been deleted,” said Rahul Sinha, senior BJP leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/poll-strategist-prashant-kishor-becomes-a-bhawanipore-voter-cm-mamata-s-home-turf-101632593300851.html
26-09-2021||India||Captain loyalists to be kept out of new cabinet||Newly appointed Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi is likely to induct at least seven new faces in his cabinet and drop five MLAs, who were a part of the Amarinder Singh-led government, Congress functionaries familiar with the matter said Saturday.The new Punjab cabinet was finalised after three rounds of discussions with the Congress leadership, the functionaries said.With under five months to go for the state elections, Captain Amarinder Singh resigned as chief minister last Saturday after the Congress summoned a meeting of its lawmakers in the state, saying that he felt “humiliated”.Channi, who was elected for the top post a day later, met governor Banwarilal Purohit at the Raj Bhavan on Saturday, seeking time for cabinet expansion to fill 15 berths on his council of ministers.“The oath-taking ceremony for the new ministers will take place at 4.30pm on Sunday,” Channi said after the meeting.His meeting with the governor came barely hours after he returned from Delhi after a final round of discussions with the party high command on the cabinet formation.According to party functionaries, Channi called the MLAs likely to be part of the cabinet expansion personally to inform of the development.Kuljit Singh Nagra, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Pargat Singh, Raj Kumar Verka, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, Gurpreet Kotli and Rana Gurjit Singh are likely to be inducted in the new cabinet, the functionaries said.While Verka hails from the Valmiki community, Gilzian represents the other backward classes (OBCs). The five other MLAs are Jat Sikhs.According to experts, after Amarinder’s resignation, the Congress is trying to balance caste equations in the poll-bound state.While Channi, a Dalit leader, was elected as the Congress Legislature Party leader, the party picked Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, a Jat Sikh, and OP Soni, a Hindu, to be his deputies.A consensus on the names for the cabinet expansion was reached during his meeting with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and other senior party members in Delhi, the functionaries said.Channi was summoned to Delhi by the Congress high command on Friday to discuss the cabinet formation. The visit came within hours of him returning from the national capital.The party leadership has reportedly given its approval for dropping five ministers from the previous Amarinder Singh cabinet. These include Balbir Singh Sidhu, Gurpreet Singh Kangar, Rana Gurmeet Sodhi, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and Sundar Shyam Arora.Eight ministers from the previous cabinet -- Brahm Mohindra, Tript Rajinder Bajwa, Manpreet Badal, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Aruna Chaudhary, Razia Sultana, Vijay Inder Singla and Bharat Bhushan Ashu -- will be retained in Channi’s council of ministers, the functionaries said.The Congress high command has decided to accommodate almost all senior leaders keeping in mind the tough postures taken by former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, a senior leader said.The Punjab cabinet can have 18 MLAs, including the CM and his two deputies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/captain-loyalists-to-be-kept-out-of-new-cabinet-101632593181392.html
26-09-2021||India||Culprits of 26/11 Mumbai attacks must be brought to justice, say India, US||India and the United States bilaterally, and with Quad partners Australia and Japan, on Friday strongly denounced “cross-border terrorism”, usually a pointer to Pakistan, the use of terrorist proxies and the need to cut logistical, financial and military support to terrorists.Terrorism along with Afghanistan, a free and open Indo-Pacific, the fight against Covid-19 pandemic and climate change emerged as key issues of concern and discussion for the two platforms that met one after the other at the White House on Friday.US President Joe Biden hosted his first bilateral summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and then the first ever in-person summit of the Quad, joined by Australia’s Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japan’s Yoshihide Suga. The American and Japanese leaders ended the day with their separate bilateral meet.At the India-US bilateral summit, the two sides agreed that the issue of terrorism remains important. “Counterterrorism efforts in cooperation between the two countries will be given a lot of emphasis,” India’s foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said while briefing reporters on India’s participation in the two meetings. “Both sides denounced any use of terrorist proxies and emphasized the importance of denying logistical financial or military support to terrorist groups, which could be used to plan or launch terror attacks.”The India-US joint statement said the two leaders reaffirmed that the United States and India stood together in the shared fight against global terrorism, and will take concerted action against all terrorist groups, including groups proscribed by the UN Security Council. The statement condemned cross-border terrorism, and called for the perpetrators of the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks to be brought to justice.Pakistan’s continued support of terrorism came up a in the context of Afghanistan, where the Taliban has seized power after the US army withdrew from the country, and Pakistan’s continued support for a “certain approach” that is not seen to be conducive to the international community’s expectations of what Afghanistan should be like.Pakistan’s support of terrorism was brought up by Vice-President Kamala Harris, unprompted, during her discussions with Prime Minister Modi on Thursday.As a long-time victim of terrorism, most of it emanating from across its western border, India has made counterterrorism a key foreign policy objective. It has been a part of the India-US dialogue for years. On Friday, it also became a key element of the Quad’s agenda at India’s insistence.“I think we are looking at fairly strong language with regard to the Quad’s commitment on terrorism and the need to counterterrorism, anywhere in the world,” India’s foreign secretary said, speaking of India’s role in making counterterrorism an issue for the Quad as well. “It reinforces the Quad’s thinking on this issue, and the need to combine efforts to deal with this common scourge.”“We denounce the use of terrorist proxies and emphasized the importance of denying any logistical, financial or military support to terrorist groups which could be used to launch or plan terror attacks, including cross-border attacks,” the Quad said in a joint statement.Afghanistan was discussed at length at the Modi-Biden meeting. The two leaders resolved that the Taliban must abide by a UN Security council resolution that was passed in August during India’s presidency and ensure that Afghan soil is never again be used to threaten or attack any country or shelter and train terrorists, or plan and finance terrorist attacks. The meeting underscored the importance of combating terrorism in Afghanistan. The Taliban should grant free and safe passage to Afghans and foreign nationals, respect the rights of all Afghans, especially women, children and minorities, and afford access to agencies providing humanitarian aid.The two sides also discussed the need to reinvigorate trade talks, enhance cooperation on defence production, intensify joint efforts on fighting the Covid-19 pandemic through vaccines, climate change, people-to-people ties, which included H-1B visas for specially skilled workers, and other issues that the two sides are engaged in at the same time.The India-US agenda is so exhaustive that President Biden said the summit meeting should have been allocated two days, Shringla said. The meeting overshot its scheduled time by 30 minutes.At the historic first in-person summit, the Quad announced the launch of several new initiatives, such as an annual fellowship for 100 students in science and technology, a working group to enhance cooperation between the four countries on space, a new infrastructure partnership, formation of a green shipping network, establish a clean hydrogen partnership; and publish a Quad statement of principles on the use of technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/culprits-of-26-11-mumbai-attacks-must-be-brought-to-justice-say-india-us-101632593180897.html
26-09-2021||India||Pakistan still hails Osama Bin Laden as ‘martyr’: India at UNGA||India has rubbished Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s criticism of the situation in Jammu and Kashmir at the UN General Assembly, and said the neighbouring country has misused global forums to spread false propaganda while openly using terrorism as an instrument of state policy. As in recent years, India fielded a young woman diplomat – Sneha Dubey, first secretary at India’s UN mission in New York – to exercise the right of reply to respond to allegations made by the Pakistani premier at the General Assembly. Dubey described Pakistan as “an arsonist disguising itself as a firefighter”. India said in its response that Khan’s recorded video message to the General Assembly was another attempt to tarnish the image of the UN by bringing in India’s internal matters and to “spew falsehoods on the world stage”. “Regrettably, this is not the first time the leader of Pakistan has misused platforms provided by the UN to propagate false and malicious propaganda against my country, and seeking in vain to divert the world’s attention from the sad state of his country, where terrorists enjoy free pass while the lives of ordinary people, especially those belonging to the minority communities, are turned upside down,” Dubey said. Pakistan, she added, has been globally recognised as a country that is “openly supporting, training, financing and arming terrorists as a matter of state policy”, and holds the “ignoble record of hosting the largest number of terrorists proscribed by the UN Security Council”. UN member states are also aware that Pakistan has an “established history and policy of harbouring, aiding and actively supporting terrorists”. The world has not forgotten that the mastermind behind the 9/11 attacks in the US, Osama Bin Laden, was given shelter in Pakistan, and that “even today, Pakistan leadership glorify him as a ‘martyr’”, Dubey said. “Regrettably, even today we heard the leader of Pakistan trying to justify acts of terror... We keep hearing that Pakistan is a ‘victim of terrorism’. This is the country which is an arsonist disguising itself as a firefighter,” she said. Pakistan’s policy of nurturing “terrorists in their backyard in the hope that they will only harm their neighbours” has affected the region and the world, and it has even tried to “cover up sectarian violence in their country as acts of terror”, she added. India’s response reiterated that the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh “were, are and will always be an integral and inalienable part” of the country, and this includes “areas that are under the illegal occupation of Pakistan”. Dubey said: “We call upon Pakistan to immediately vacate all areas under its illegal occupation.” Outlining India’s position, Dubey said: “We desire normal relations with all our neighbours, including Pakistan. However, it is for Pakistan to work sincerely towards creating a conducive atmosphere, including by taking credible, verifiable and irreversible actions to not allow any territory under its control to be used for cross-border terrorism against India in any manner.” India’s response also referred to Pakistan’s “despicable record” of genocide against the people of Bangladesh, and said the minorities of Pakistan, including Sikhs, Hindus and Christians, live in “constant fear and state-sponsored suppression of their rights”. “Dissenting voices are muzzled daily and enforced disappearances and extrajudicial killings are well documented,” Dubey said, adding that pluralism is “very difficult to understand for Pakistan, which constitutionally prohibits its minorities from aspiring for high offices of the State”. In his recorded message to the General Assembly, Prime Minister Khan had spoken about issues such as the need for a global dialogue to counter Islamophobia and steps to promote interfaith harmony, but a majority of his address was focused on India and Afghanistan. He alleged that the “worst and most pervasive form of Islamophobia now rules India” and criticised the BJP government, referring to what he said were incidents of mob lynching and a discriminatory citizenship law. Khan was particularly critical of the Indian government’s handling of the Jammu and Kashmir issue, and referred to “illegal and unilateral measures” imposed since August 2019, including the jailing of political leaders, clampdown on the internet and suppression of protests. “Pakistan desires peace with India, as with all its neighbours. But sustainable peace in South Asia is contingent upon resolution of the Jammu and Kashmir dispute in accordance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions and the wishes of the Kashmiri people,” Khan said. He said Pakistan had reaffirmed the 2003 ceasefire on the Line of Control (LoC) in the hope that it “would lead to a rethink of the strategy in Delhi”. He added, “Sadly, the BJP government has intensified repression in Kashmir and continues to vitiate the environment by these barbaric acts. The onus remains on India to create a conducive environment for meaningful and result-oriented engagement with Pakistan... It is also essential to prevent another conflict between Pakistan and India.” While speaking on Afghanistan, Khan referred to fake news that said former US president Ronald Reagan had compared Afghan mujahideen to the “founding fathers of the US”. His remarks that Pashtun people in Pakistan’s tribal belt had “strong sympathies” with the Afghan Taliban and that Afghan refugees have affinity with the Taliban were widely criticised on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-still-hails-osama-bin-laden-as-martyr-india-at-unga-101632592880945.html
26-09-2021||India||Assam CM orders judicial probe, assures of action against eviction drive firing||A day after two civilians were killed and nine policemen were injured in the firing incident that took place in the Dhalpur area of Assam's Darrang district during an anti-encroachment drive, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Saturday assured that the government will resolve the matter by taking appropriate action.He also said that he has ordered a judicial inquiry into the incident.While speaking to reporters here today, the Assam chief minister said, "We have ordered a judicial inquiry into the matter and we have to find out who has mobilised 10,000 people even after a clear agreement with the organisation that the eviction will happen peacefully."He further said, "In 27 injured policemen, two or three were the Muslim personnel who are admitted in the hospital. The eviction drive was initiated with an agreed principle that the landless will be provided 2 acres each as per land policy and the representatives agreed. I appeal to the left-centric people to raise the voice of Assamese people.""This eviction drive was urgent. It was not done overnight. Congress delegation had met me and agreed on land allotment to landless. 27,000 acres of land have to be used in a productive manner. There was a temple, which was also encroached upon by people," he added.Earlier in the day, while addressing the media, Darrang district Additional Superintendent of Police Rupam Phukan, had told that the authority initiated action only after the locals started pelting stones at the police.Violence broke out on Thursday in Sipajhar of Darrang district in Assam during an anti-encroachment drive.Darrang SP Sushanta Biswa Sarma had said that people at the spot pelted stones and attacked police personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-orders-cbi-probe-hints-at-pfi-role-in-eviction-drive-firing-101632592700685.html
26-09-2021||India||Balakot, Galwan clear signals to aggressors: Rajnath||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday called for greater synergy among the armed forces in military strategy and responses. While addressing graduates of the 59th National Defence College (NDC) course during their convocation in New Delhi, he said the government’s bold approach on border disputes and terrorism has made India stronger. “Threats to internal and external security will no longer be tolerated. Our actions in Balakot and Galwan are clear signals to all aggressors,” the minister said.The world is witnessing destabilizing implications of terror, including the threat posed by radical forces attempting to gain legitimacy, Singh said. There is now a greater realisation among nations to come together and combat terrorism, he said. The NDC, he said, can play a key role in fostering a common understanding among friendly countries against terrorism and finding long-term solutions to deal with it.Highlighting the uncertainty of current geopolitics, specifically in reference to latest developments in Afghanistan, Singh said, “The only certainty about evolving geopolitics is its uncertainty. Changes in state boundaries may not be as frequent today. However, the fast-transforming structure of states and the influence that external powers can have on it is clearly evident.” The minister emphasised the need to draw lessons from the situation in Afghanistan, where the Taliban has seized power after the US armed forces withdrew from the country..“Injustice, however powerful, cannot and will not defeat the collective power of the goodness that is inherent to human existence,” Singh said. “This sentiment is evident from an increasing number of world capitals, which have lent their voice in favour of liberalism, inclusivity and respect for international norms of governance and behaviour.”The minister urged NDC to focus more on new and fast-emerging areas such as cyber, space, artificial intelligence and big data analytics. “The world has witnessed rapid transformation in all these areas of scientific knowledge. This technological progression must be accompanied by its military interpretation within the strategic community,” he said. In addition, he reiterated the government’s resolve to achieve atma nirbharta (self-reliance) in the defence sector, saying that “no country that aspires to develop as a knowledge-based economy can sustain such reliance on defence imports.”Singh highlighted the relevance of NDC’s guiding principles — knowledge, wisdom and statecraft — in the rapidly changing regional scenario. “Knowledge allows us to understand the historical, social, geopolitical and economic realities of a country and a region. Wisdom helps interpret this factual understanding to facilitate far-sighted decision making. And, statecraft brings to bear the understanding of strategic thought and culture to everyday realities. It facilitates decision-making in pursuit of long-term interests,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/balakot-galwan-clear-signals-to-aggressors-rajnath-101632592345555.html
26-09-2021||India||Centre will bring changes in laws to strengthen cooperatives: Amit Shah||The central government will soon bring changes in laws to strengthen cooperatives, home and cooperation minister Amit Shah said on Saturday, while detailing an agenda to reset governance in a sector critical to the rural economy. In July, Prime Minister Narendra Modi shuffled his cabinet, carving out a new ministry of cooperation, which was earlier a department under the agriculture ministry. “We are bringing within a short time changes to the Act to smoothen processes in areas like multi-sector cooperatives. This will be a big step in our march towards development,” Shah told a conference of cooperative societies. “We have (also) decided that shortly we will have a new cooperation policy.” Shah did not specify any particular law. Cooperatives in India are governed by two main laws at the central level: the Cooperative Societies Act, 1912, and the Multi-state Cooperatives Societies Act, 2002. Outlining his plans, Shah said his ministry would focus on building cooperative societies as a pivot of a whole gamut of economic activities in the rural sector, from farm inputs to credit. Cooperatives are collectives of small producers who pull in their resources to achieve scale and collective bargaining power in markets. India’s cooperative sector is the world’s largest and covers almost 98% of the countryside, with over 900,000 societies with a membership of about 290 million people, according to data from the National Cooperative Union of India. While there are some iconic cooperative businesses in the country, such as dairy giant Amul and seasoned flatbread maker Lizzat Papad, as well as the fertiliser chain IFFCO, the sector in many areas is hobbled by inefficiencies and opaque patronage systems. ““We will bring changes to the Act to strengthen the cooperative sector. Cooperatives are not a new concept in our 10,000-year-old history. It will be a model for India’s development and play a key role in India becoming a $5 trillion economy,” Shah said.” Shah said, addressing an international conference on cooperatives in the capital. Shah said a national software platform, which will be available in local languages, will link primary agricultural credit societies (PACS), district cooperative banks, and the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), potentially creating an integrated financial grid. Cooperative banks, both urban and rural, are lending institutions registered under the Cooperative Societies Act, 1912. They are usually run by an elected committee. In March, Parliament passed a law to bring them under the oversight of the Reserve Bank of India after several such banks faced financial crises. The minister said processes governing cooperative institutions will have to be made transparent, which are likely to be reflected in the proposed law. New changes are aimed at bringing ease of doing business for cooperatives and development of multi-state cooperatives, he said. “The main mandate of my ministry is rural development, agriculture and development of the small individual. Our target is to create 300,000 PACS, so that for every one or two villages there is one PACS,” Shah said. PACS are village-level lending networks that are often the first stop for farm loans in a country where big scheduled commercial banks still don’t adequately cover the poor. Shah said there was a debate that the cooperative sector came under the jurisdiction of states. “I can explain it legally, but I don’t want to get into this issue. We will work for all states.” According to Shah, digitisation of the cooperative sector would be the key to its transformation. “The potential of everything from Kisan credit cards to all kinds of priority sector lending will be increased,” he said, adding the “cooperative sector is central to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of Atma Nirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-govt-will-bring-new-law-for-cooperatives-amit-shah-101632563658202.html
