27-09-2021||India||Biplab Deb rebuts demand for population law in Tripura, says no unnatural growth||AGARTALA: Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Monday responded to a demand for a population control law, saying there was no “unnatural growth” of the state’s population. The chief minister’s assertion came in response to a suggestion by a lawmaker of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, Kalyani Roy, who insisted that there was a need to introduce a law to control the population.Biplab Deb cited data from the National Family Health Survey-5 2019-20 to underline that Tripura’s total fertility rate is 1.7, which is well below the replacement level of fertility.“In the current situation, there is no sign of unnatural growth of population in the state. Still, we have taken several steps like ligation camps for women, free distribution of birth control pills among women, non-scapale vasectomy camps for men to control the population. Despite this, the state will take timely decision on population control law, if required, “ said Biplab Deb.Also Read: The past and present of two-child policies in IndiaThe chief minister’s statement came after his party’s Kalyani Roy said Tripura, which had a population of 36 lakh in 2011, was estimated to have increased to more than 41 lakhs in 2021 on the basis of the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), or UIDAI data. She claimed the population could rise to 47 lakh in the next 10 years, and cross 1 crore by 2091 that will create problems of food, living space, unemployment due to limited resources within the state. Ray, whose notice was supported by party colleague Sudhanshu Das, cited the steps taken by Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and sought similar measures“Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma introduced legislation on two children policies. Like Assam, this kind of legislation is required in Tripura, “ said Roy.To be sure, Assam hasn’t enacted a law to control population, but it does have a population policy in place. In 2017, the Assam assembly passed a population and women empowerment policy that barred people with more than two children from securing government jobs. It also prevented such persons from contesting panchayat and municipal elections. The policy is yet to be implemented.But top BJP leaders in the Assam government do frequently spotlight the rise in population, sometimes linking the rising cases of land encroachment with population explosion, especially among the Muslim population. ‘If the population explosion continues, one day even the Kamakhya temple land will be encroached upon,’ Sarma told reporters in June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biplab-deb-rebuts-demand-for-population-law-in-tripura-says-no-unnatural-growth-101632767208431.html
27-09-2021||India||Three BJP nominees unanimously elected to Rajya Sabha||New Delhi: Three Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders -- including former Assam chief minister and Union minister Sarbanand Sonowal, minister of state for information and broadcasting L Murugan, and senior leader from Puducherry S Selvaganabathy -- were unanimously elected to the Rajya Sabha on Monday, taking the party’s tally in the Upper House from 94 to 97. The BJP remains the single-largest party in the Rajya Sabha, whose strength at present stood at 231. Expressing his gratitude towards people, Sonowal tweeted, “With the blessings of the people of Assam, I have been elected to the Rajya Sabha from Assam.” He also thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP national president JP Nadda, Union home minister Amit Shah and party general secretary BL Santhosh for giving him the opportunity to serve the state and the nation. Selvaganabathy, who was elected unopposed to the lone Rajya Sabha seat from Puducheery, became the BJP’s first MP from the Union territory. Murugan, a former president of the BJP’s Tamil Nadu unit, was elected uncontested to the Rajya Sabha from Madhya Pradesh on the last day of withdrawal of papers as the Opposition Congress didn’t field a candidate against him for the October 4 bypoll. Meanwhile, in Maharashtra, BJP’s Sanjay Upadhyay had to withdraw his nomination as the party accepted the Congress’s request to allow an unopposed election for its candidate Rajni Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/three-bjp-nominees-unanimously-elected-to-rajya-sabha-101632767088790.html
27-09-2021||India||Kerala antique collector conned many||With the arrest of a self-proclaimed antique collector and blogger Monson Mavunkal in Kochi on Sunday, in connection with the alleged money swindling cases, many photos and videos have started appearing on social media showing how he flaunted his high connections to cheat people. Senior politicians like state Congress president K Sudhakaran and deputy inspector general of police S Surendran figure in some of the photos and videos. HT could not verify the authenticity of these photos and videos but later Sudhakaran said he knew him well and went to him for skin treatment.Mavunkal runs a big museum in the port city and many VIPs were frequent visitors there. Police said he promised a partnership for gullible investors in the upcoming archaeological museum in Kochi and collected money from many businessmen. There are also complaints that he gifted antiques to many VIPs and collected money from them later saying his payments were delayed due to some technical glitches abroad. But the police later found that he did not have any foreign bank account and his doctorate and medical degrees were also fictitious.There were many attempts to hush up cases against him and some of them (six victims) later approached chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan who later directed a special team to investigate complaints against him which later led to his arrest. He was reportedly close to many senior police officers also. He is in judicial custody now. In his YouTube videos, Mavunkal claimed to have possessed many antique pieces like Mysore emperor Tipu Sultan’s throne, silver coins Judas received for betraying Jesus Christ, Soloman-era gold coins and rare books on Maratha warrior Shivaji and Mughal emperor Aurangazeb. He also claimed that he is a German-trained cosmetologist and treated many VIPs.There are also reports that many cine personalities frequented him quite often. When questioned, police said, he claimed that he handed over these gifts as replicas, not as originals.Later Sudhakaran and DIG S Surendran said they were not aware of his alleged activities. “I approached him in connection with a skin treatment. He was recommended by one of my old friends in Kochi. I was not aware of his past or his degree,” he said in Kannur (north Kerala). He said many VIPs used to visit him and his name was singled out and deliberately dragged to defame him. He squarely blamed the CM’s office for this. A Bete Noire of the CM, he is known for running a feud with him. DIG S Surendran also said he was unaware of Mavunkal’s unlawful activities. But some of the purported videos show he was celebrating a birthday party along with his family members in his house. “We have been complaining about him for quite some time. But he used his influence with the police to hush them up. Many VIPs were frequent visitors there. He claimed he’s a cosmetologist from Germany. Many people were cheated but fearing backlash and bad publicity they are scared to complain,” said one of the complainants KT Shameer who said he was duped of ₹3 crore claiming a share in the fictitious museum.A senior police officer, who did not want to be identified, said Mavunkal was a master conman and owned a fleet of luxury cars. “There are around 30 cars in his yard. We have information that he even brought used and abandoned high-end cars to show off. Maharashtra to Nagaland, number plates vary. It seems most of the VIPs were not aware of his shady past,” he said, adding that Mavunkal also used private security guards and was surrounded by many secretaries. He said fraud worth ₹20 crore has surfaced so far and more complaints are likely. Mavunkal is also believed to head a number of self-made organisations and NGOs. There are unconfirmed reports that some central agencies also sought details about him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-antique-collector-conned-many-101632767032160.html
27-09-2021||India||Visakhapatnam airport almost submerged as Cyclone Gulab triggers heavy rain||Although Cyclone Gulab weakened into a deep depression after completing the landfall process earlier in the day, heavy rainfall in the coastal areas of Andhra Pradesh caused by the storm led to severe waterlogging at the Visakhapatnam International Airport. Visuals shared by news agency ANI showed people wading through ankle-deep rainwater to enter or leave the airport. The road leading to the entrance of the airport was also seen as heavily waterlogged.After visuals surfaced, airport director K Srinivasa Rao told ANI that the waterlogging happened after the “release of water from Meghadri Gedda Reservoir” along with heavy rainfall triggered by Cyclone Gulab. “As a precautionary measure, flight boardings were delayed for some time but are normal now,” he was quoted as saying.#WATCH | Visakhapatnam International Airport witnesses severe waterlogging following heavy rainfall due to cyclone 'Gulab' in coastal areas of Andhra Pradesh pic.twitter.com/iHAjqKZ57JThe India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) chief of Cyclone Warning Centre, Visakhapatnam, has forecasted the state to continue observing “light to moderate rainfall” in isolated places of coastal regions for the next one to two days. Fishermen have been warned against heading to the sea on Monday.Earlier in the day, an IMD official noted that Cyclone Gulab made landfall at Tokali and Miduguda villages near Kalingapatnam in Andhra Pradesh. During the landfall, the cyclone’s wind speed was about 90 kmph in the southern state, while it was 30kmph in Odisha’s Gopalpur. Notably, the landfall process of Cyclone Gulab commenced at 6pm on Sunday.According to the afternoon IMD bulletin, the deep depression over south Odisha and neighbouring south Chhattisgarh moved westwards during the past six hours, and is likely to weaken into a “well-marked low-pressure area” in the subsequent 24 hours. At 11.30 am, the deep depression lay 65 km south of Jagdalpur in Chhattisgarh, and 150 km east-northeast of Bhadrachalan in Telangana.Also Read | Flash flood risk in Telangana; rain in Delhi, South Bengal, parts of UP, Haryana: IMDDue to these weather conditions, the IMD has also issued a Flash Flood Risk (FFR) alert in several districts of Telangana, including Nirmal, Warangal, Jagital, Janagoan, Bhuvanagiri, and Mulugu, among others.Besides Telangana, the IMD has issued a yellow alert in 11 districts of Kerala for today, while an orange alert in Idukki, Thrissur and Ernakulam. The yellow alert has been issued in three districts – Kannur, Kozhikode and Kasargod, for Tuesday as well.As many as three people were killed in Andhra Pradesh and Odisha after Cyclone Gulab made landfall on Sunday. Two fishermen lost their lives after the cyclone hit their boat in Andhra Pradesh’s Srikakulam district, while one person was swept away in Odisha’s Ganjam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/visakhapatnam-airport-almost-submerged-as-cyclone-gulab-triggers-heavy-rain-101632765492989.html
27-09-2021||India||Thane: All 33 accused of gang-raping Dombivli minor arrested, say police||With the arrest of two more persons on Monday, all 33 accused in the alleged gangrape of a 15-year-old girl in Maharashtra’s Thane district have been held, Manpada police said.The two accused, police added, were arrested late on Sunday and early on Monday from various locations in Thane. “Both the accused were arrested from different locations in the district. All the 33 accused named in the first information report (FIR) have now been arrested and no new names have cropped up in the investigation so far,” senior police inspector Dadahari Chaure said. With all the accused under arrest, the police’s priority will now be to file its chargesheet in the case, Chaure added. Of the total accused, two minors were detained last week and sent to a juvenile home in Bhiwandi. In her complaint on September 22, the survivor alleged that it all started in January when a man she was in a relationship with, threatened to leak their private videos and forced her to have physical relations with some of his friends and acquaintances. All the accused then raped the girl, a resident of Dombivli (East), at various locations such as Dombivli, Murbad and Badlapur in Thane district and Rabale in Navi Mumbai on multiple occasions till September, officials familiar with the matter said. The matter, however, came to light earlier this month when the survivor approached a relative over the prolonged sexual abuse. Based on the survivor’s statements, the FIR was registered under various sections of the Indian Penal Code as well as the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. A special investigation team was also formed to probe the case. While the FIR was initially filed against 27 people, more were arrested later when several other names cropped up during the probe. The survivor, who was admitted to a government hospital in Kalwa for medical examinations, was discharged on Saturday and provided police protection.Inquiries are still underway to collect corroborative evidence that can be presented in court, along with the victim’s statement and results of her medical examination, the officials cited above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thaneall-33-accused-of-gang-raping-dombivli-minor-arrested-saypolice-101632766252124.html
27-09-2021||India||‘No hope or even the will to prevent the collapse of the party’: Luizinho Faleiro writes to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi||Former Goa chief minister and Congress MLA Luizinho Faleiro on Monday wrote to the party’s interim president Sonia Gandhi, saying that he saw no will to prevent the collapse of the party and to change for the better. Further, he also said that the Goa state unit has become a “cruel parody” of what the Congress party stood for.Faleiro made the remarks following his resignation from the party and as a MLA earlier on Monday. Goa assembly speaker Rajesh Patnekar accepted the resignation. Also, several loyalists of Faleiro have also quit the party.In his letter to Sonia Gandhi, Faleiro pointed to the party’s performance in the 2017 assembly elections in which it won 17 seats. He said that alongside the 17 MLAs, an independent MLA also won who was supported by the party and the party had also rallied the support of four others and had a “clear majority” with 21 MLAs.Also read | Former Goa CM Faleiro resigns as Cong MLA, says Mamata can fight PM Modi“However, I was prevented from going to the governor by the AICC desk in charge and asked to wait till we had 24 MLAs, a decision that eventually cost us the Government and allowed the BJP to steal the mandate through manipulation and inducement,” he said. “I felt dejected, shocked and utterly betrayed. We had let down the people of Goa who had entrusted us with their mandate,” he added.He also said that the Goa Congress was not the same party for which the leaders “sacrificed and fought” and said that it is functioning contrary to “every ideal and principle” of its founding fathers. “However, the Goa unit of the party has become a cruel parody of what the Congress stands for. Led by a coterie of leaders who prioritize personal gains over the responsibility we owe to our people, we have utterly failed to even be an effective Opposition,” he wrote.Mentioning that the party has been reduced to five MLAs from 18, he said that no one was held accountable for the loss of MLAs but “true Congress workers” were being sidelined. “ I see absolutely no hope or even the will to prevent the collapse of the party and change for the better,” he said.However, he said that his decision to quit his post and step-down from the party was “the need of the hour” and to dedicate his efforts to the betterment of the people of Goa. His resignation came as the state is scheduled to go to polls in 2022 for its 40-seat legislative assembly.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-hope-or-even-the-will-to-prevent-the-collapse-of-the-party-luizinho-faleiro-writes-to-congress-chief-sonia-gandhi-101632762215972.html
27-09-2021||India||Cyclone Gulab: All govt offices, schools in Telangana to remain closed on Tuesday||Incessant rainfall in Telangana due to cyclone Gulab has prompted the state to shut down all government offices, schools and educational institutes on Tuesday. The decision was taken after Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao took stock of the situation on Monday and directed chief secretary Somesh Kumar to take all necessary precautions for another two days."The Government hereby declare holiday on 28th September, 2021 to all Government offices, private institutions, schools and all educational institutions due to incessant rains and imminent forecast of heavy rains in Telangana State because of "Gulab" Cyclone," the order issued by Kumar read.All departments and staff related to relief and emergency services will, however, remain fully functional, according to the order.Despite the weakening of Cyclone Gulab after completion of the landfall process, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a Flash Flood Risk (FFR) alert for several districts in Telangana. According to the Met department, Badradri Kothagudem, Khammam, Adilabad, Bhuvanagiri, Asifabad, Mancherial, Nirmal, Warangal, Peddapalley Karimnagar, Rajanna Siricilla, Jayashankar Bhupalpalle, Mulugu, Jagitial, Mahbubabad, and Janagoan can witness flash floods.The IMD has predicted heavy to very heavy rain to extremely heavy rain at isolated places in Nirmal, Nizamabad, Jagityal, Rajanna Sircilla, Karimnagar, Peddapally, Bhadradri Kothagudem, Khammam, Mahabubabad, Warangal (Rural), Warangal (Urban), Janagaon, Siddipet, Kamareddy districts on Monday."At present, the deep depression lay over Telangana and its adjourning areas and under its influence Telangana, is very likely to have very to very heavy with extremely heavy rain in few districts of the state,” news agency ANI quoted K Nagarathna, a scientist at IMD, Hyderabad, as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-govt-offices-schools-in-telangana-to-remain-closed-on-tuesday-due-to-rain-101632760056347.html
27-09-2021||India||Akash Prime range of missile test-fired successfully||India successfully test-fired a new version of the Akash missile on Monday from the integrated test range at Odisha’s Chandipur. The new missile named Akash Prime intercepted and destroyed an unmanned aerial target which mimicked an enemy aircraft during its maiden flight test, officials familiar with the developments told news agency PTI.The test took place around 4:30pm.The officials said that the Akash Prime is equipped with indigenous active RF seeker for improved accuracy, which makes sure that the target at which the missile is fired is hit. Other improvements were also incorporated in Akash Prime like ensuring reliable performance under a low-temperature environment at higher altitudes.“In comparison to the existing Akash system, Akash Prime is equipped with an indigenous active RF seeker for improved accuracy. Other improvements also ensure more reliable performance under a low-temperature environment at higher altitudes,” an official told news agency PTI. The modified ground system of the existing Akash weapon system was for the flight test.Union defence minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), Indian Army, Indian Air Force and other stakeholders on the successful flight test of Akash Prime.The defence minister said that the successful flight test proves the competence of the DRDO in designing and developing world-class missile systems.DRDO chairman G Satheesh Reddy also congratulated the team involved for its successful flight test. He said that the Akash Prime system will further boost the confidence of the Indian Army and Indian Air Force. He said the Akash system will continue to develop more lethal missiles.The DRDO earlier in March developed the Solid Fuel Ducted Ramjet (SFDR) technology which will give technological advantage in developing long-range air-to-air missiles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akash-prime-range-of-missile-test-fired-successfully-101632760274970.html
27-09-2021||India||India administers over 1 crore single-day Covid-19 vaccine doses, 5th in a month||India on Monday administered more than 1 crore vaccine doses against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for the fifth time in a month. The country had first achieved the feat of inoculating 1 crore vaccine doses on August 27, while the most recent one was on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday on September 17 – when 2 crore vaccine shots were administered.Taking to Twitter to commemorate the achievement, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya congratulated the nation. “Under PM Narendra Modi, India delivers a punch to Corona – record of 1+ crore vaccines achieved for the fifth time,” his post on the micro-blogging site read.Congratulations to the nation, as we administer another 1 crore #COVID19 vaccine doses 👏Under PM @NarendraModi ji, India delivers a punch to Corona - Record of 1+ crore vaccines achieved for the 5th time.#SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine pic.twitter.com/fQfVWoDAbRThe health ministry’s Twitter handle also gave a shout out to the achievement with a message that read “We have done it again.”
27-09-2021||India||Cyclone Gulab: Parts of AP, Telangana may continue to witness heavy rain||Heavy rains battered Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts in Andhra Pradesh on Monday, after cyclonic storm ‘Gulab’ made landfall between and north coastal parts of the state and south Odisha around midnight on Sunday.Neighbouring Telangana, too, witnessed moderate to heavy rains in several parts as the cyclonic storm, which weakened into deep depression, moved towards northern Telangana and Chhattisgarh in the last 12 hours.Hyderabad meteorological department director Dr K Nagaratna said red alert had been sounded in 14 districts in North Telangana, which are expected to receive heavy to very heavy rains in the next 24 hours.The Telangana government asked the administrative machineries in Nirmal, Nizamabad, Kamareddy, Jagitial, Rajanna Siricilla, Siddipet, Peddapalli, Karimnagar, Jangaon, Warangal, Hanamkonda, Mahabubabad, Khammam and Bhadradri Kothagudem districts to gear up for any eventualities.Srikakulam district collector Shrikesh B Lathkar said there were reports of six fishermen, all belonging to Manchineelapeta village of Vazrapu Kothuru block, missing in the sea at the time of the Cyclone Gulab making the landfall. “However, five of them managed to swim ashore and another person is feared drowned in the sea,” he said.Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, who held a virtual meeting with district collectors and other officials over the impact of Cyclone Gulab, directed them to expedite relief measures in affected areas.He announced an ex gratia of ₹5 lakh to the families of the deceased, if any, during the cyclone, besides ₹1,000 to each affected family when they return from relief camps.Andhra Pradesh chief secretary Adityanath Das, who had been monitoring the situation from Visakhapatnam, told the chief minister that heavy gales at a speed of 80-90 km per hour caused extensive damage at several places in the north coastal parts of the state. There were reports of uprooting of trees and electric poles, but steps were taken to clear them immediately, the chief secretary said.He added that thousands of people from the affected areas were evacuated to safer areas. Relief measures are in full swing in Visakhapatnam city, which witnessed heavy waterlogging in several areas, including the roads leading to the airport. There was no disruption of flight services from Visakhapatnam, airport authorities confirmed.Several trains passing through north-coastal Andhra districts were cancelled in the last 24 hours, while some trains were running late. The Yeshwanthapur-Howrah Special Express was running five hours behind the schedule, besides Visakhapatnam-Guntur special train, Visakhapatnam-Hazrath Nizamuddin and Chennai Central-Howrah Express were also been three to eight hours behind schedule, according to East Coast Railway authorities.The Andhra CM instructed the authorities to restore power as soon as the rains subside and suggested to keep monitoring the situation every 30 minutes. He asked them to ensure adequate food and water, besides proper medical care to the people in the relief camps, people aware of the details said.Reddy also asked the officials to prepare the report on the enumeration of crop damage in a generous manner and provide immediate relief to farmers. The CM also ordered the authorities to move the people residing in the villages close to Vamsadhara and Nagavali rivers to the relief camps, as these two rivers are expected to receive flash floods due to heavy rains in Odisha, the people added.State disaster management commissioner K Kanna Babu said the Bay of Bengal continued to be turbulent due to cyclonic storm. He appealed to fishermen not to venture into the sea till Tuesday evening while asking the people of north-coastal Andhra not to come out of their houses.The Srikakulam district collector said there was a heavy impact of Cyclone Gulab in Santha Bommali and Vazrapu Kothuru blocks. “Electricity supply in entire Srikakulam district was affected due to uprooting of electric poles and damaging of power distribution network. Instructions have been issued to all the departments to take up restoration works. Teams of national and state disaster response forces are working round the clock to take up rescue operations,” the collector said.Rehabilitation centres were set up in 30 places in Srikakulam district and around 1,500 people were shifted to safer places. The district collectorate has set up a control room and issued toll free number, 08942240557, for those affected.Vizianagaram district witnessed heavy rains since Sunday night, with Gazapathinagaram block receiving the highest rainfall of 20 cm in the last 12 hours, followed by Pusapatirega (19 cm), Nellimarla (14 cm), Garividi (12 cm), Kothavalasa (11 cm) and Saluru (10 cm), officials said.Meanwhile, in Telangana, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao reviewed the rain situation in the state with chief secretary Somesh Kumar and other higher officials. He asked the authorities to ensure that all measures are taken to prevent loss of life and property.The chief secretary said services of NDRF teams in Hyderabad, Kottagudem and Warangal will be sought for rescue operations in the event of any such requirement. A separate control room will be set up in each district collectorate and information regarding the same will be provided to the control room set up in the secretariat, Kumar said.He added that the situation should be reviewed by appointing special officers at affected areas such as inland areas, ponds, ditches and bridges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-gulab-parts-of-ap-telangana-may-continue-to-witness-heavy-rain-101632758269506.html
27-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Tikait says 'it's OK’ if Bharat Bandh caused inconvenience for a day and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘It’s OK if public inconvenienced for one day’: Rakesh Tikait on Bharat BandhBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait on Monday said that it’s okay if the public experienced “inconvenience” for one day due to the 10-hour-long Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Monday. “Let one day be in solidarity with farmers who have been experiencing troubles (protesting against farm laws at Delhi border) under [the] sun, [and] heat for [the] last 10 months,” Tikait told news agency ANI. Read more.Telangana: IMD says Cyclone Gulab impact can cause heavy rain, red alert issuedSeveral parts of Telangana received heavy rainfall on Monday, which caused waterlogging on some roads and low-lying areas. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned of more downpour and issued red alert for the state's 14 districts. Read more.Adani Wilmar launches 12 'Fortune Mart' stores across 6 states. Check detailsFMCG major Adani Wilmar on Monday announced that it has opened 12 physical stores across six states under the name of Fortune Mart and plans to start several more outlets in metros, tier-I and tier-II cities. According to the company, the physical stores, which are being launched on a franchise model, will exclusively sell Fortune and other Adani Wilmar brand products. Read more.Ayushman Bharat Digital: Why PM Modi’s new scheme could be a game-changerPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission. Under the scheme, a unique digital ID will be provided to all citizens which will contain their health records. Watch here.Afghan envoy of ousted Ghani-led govt withdraws from UN General Assembly debateAmid intense speculation surrounding Afghanistan’s representation at the UN General Assembly, diplomats have said that no one from the war-torn country will address the annual session this year, according to news agencies. Ghulam Isaczai, the UN ambassador representing the ousted Afghan government, was due to speak on the final day of the General Assembly session but withdrew his name late on Sunday, news agencies reported. Read more.Shilpa Shetty's kids bond over Yoga's Sarvangasana, Chakrasana in workout videoWhen she is not juggling several roles as a Bollywood actor, business person and an author, Shilpa Shetty Kundra is busy motivating fans and her kids towards a healthier lifestyle and this Monday was no different as the diva shared a glimpse of Viaan Raj Kundra and Samisha Shetty Kundra bonding over Yoga. From nailing Sarvangasana or Yoga's “legs up” exercise to Viaan pulling off an effortless Chakrasana, the brother-sister duo served the cutest and the perfect Monday fitness inspiration. Read more.'Zero chance': Kevin Pietersen says he will not go to Australia for Ashes this year, explains whyFormer England captain Kevin Pietersen hit out at the quarantine rules in Australia saying that he will not be travelling Down Under this year for the upcoming Ashes series because of them. The Ashes series between England and Australia has been in the news for a while now with several England players expressing their reservations against the strict Covid-19 protocols that are currently in place in the country. Read more.Liger isn't Mike Tyson's first affair with Bollywood. Watch him promote this Shahid Kapoor movie from 2007On Monday, producer Karan Johar revealed that former boxing champion Mike Tyson will be part of his upcoming movie, Liger. His association with the movie is being pitched as something seen ‘first time on Indian screens'. While it is true that he has never acted in a Bollywood movie before, Mike has previously promoted one. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-it-s-ok-says-tikait-on-public-inconvenience-for-bandh-101632754385709.html
27-09-2021||India||Former Assam CM Sarbananda Sonowal enters Rajya Sabha uncontested||Former Assam chief minister and incumbent Union minister Sarbananda Sonowal was elected unopposed to the Rajya Sabha on Monday. Accompanied by chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, state BJP president Bhabesh Kalita and cabinet minister Pijush Hazarika, Sonowal took the winner’s certificate from the assembly secretariat. “Hon. union cabinet minister Sarbananda Sonowal ‘dangoriya’ gets elected to the Rajya Sabha uncontested. My heartiest congratulations,” CM Sarma tweeted. The Union minister for ports, shipping, waterways and AYUSH had filed his nomination papers on September 21. Though voting for the seat was slated on October 4, Sonowal was declared the winner on Monday - the last day of withdrawal of nomination - as there was no other candidate in the fray. The present Rajya Sabha seat had fallen vacant after former Bodoland Peoples’ Party (BPF) leader Biswajit Daimary resigned earlier this year and joined the BJP. He later contested as a candidate from the saffron party and is now the Speaker of the state assembly. Sonowal, who had won from the Majuli assembly seat, was inducted as a member of the Union cabinet in July. He is yet to resign from his assembly seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-assam-cm-sarbananda-sonowal-enters-rajya-sabha-uncontested-101632755387391.html
27-09-2021||India||‘It’s OK if public inconvenienced for one day’: Rakesh Tikait on Bharat Bandh||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait on Monday said that it’s okay if the public experienced “inconvenience” for one day due to the 10-hour-long Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Monday“Let one day be in solidarity with farmers who have been experiencing troubles (protesting against farm laws at Delhi border) under [the] sun, [and] heat for [the] last 10 months,” Tikait told news agency ANI.Earlier in the day, the BKU leader said that the nationwide strike – called to mark one year since the three farm laws proposed by the central government received President Ram Nath Kovind’s assent — was “successful.”Soon after the commencement of the strike, Tikait took to Twitter to tender an apology to the public and those facing problems due to the event. “But farmers have also been facing problems for the last 10 months,” his post read, adding that farmers have been making “good arrangements” to allow emergency services to function and also providing travelers with tea, milk and water.Although no major incident of inconvenience was reported from across the country, traffic snarls plagued the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh and Delhi-Gurugram borders, with visuals showing a long queue of cars waiting for hours.Police barricaded the Delhi-Gurugram Rajokri border at one point of time in view of the protests, which caused even more traffic jams. Meanwhile, traffic from Delhi’s Sarai Kale Khan en route to Ghaziabad or Noida of Uttar Pradesh had to be diverted via Vikas Marg and DND flyover, respectively, due to NH 24 and NH 9 being closed.Also Read | Bharat Bandh successful, says Tikait. Here's its impact in various statesFurthermore, train operations were also hampered in the Ambala, Firozpur and the national capital divisions as protesting farmers sat on the railway tracks.Several opposition leaders, including Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) took part in protests across Bihar, which halted rail and road traffic movement.Although Tikait hinged on the Bharat Bandh being successful, Indian twitteratis began a trend called “Bharat Khula Hai (India is open)” on the micro-blogging site wherein they shared pictures from their place of living to prove that normal life continued throughout the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/its-ok-if-public-had-inconvenience-for-one-day-rakesh-tikait-on-bharat-bandh-101632752829278.html
27-09-2021||India||Telangana: IMD says Cyclone Gulab impact can cause heavy rain, red alert issued||Several parts of Telangana received heavy rainfall on Monday, which caused waterlogging on some roads and low-lying areas. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned of more downpour and issued red alert for the state's 14 districts.The weather department said that heavy to very heavy rain with extremely heavy rain is very likely to occur at isolated places in Adilabad, Nirmal, Nizamabad, Jagityal, Rajanna Sircilla, Vikarabad, Sangareddy, Medak and Kamareddy districts in the next 48 hours.The IMD said that heavy rain will result in massive water pooling on roads and low-lying areas and submerge or damage the crop. It also said that thunderstorm accompanied with lightning with wind speed of 30-40 kmph is very likely to occur in all the districts of Telangana.Chief secretary Somesh Kumar held a teleconference with district collectors in the wake of heavy rains and directed them to remain vigilant in the wake of IMD warnings. He said the Revenue, Police, Panchayati Raj, Irrigation and Fire departments in the district should work in tandem.The Telangana Police have advised citizens to stay indoors unless needed. "Do not cross overflowing streams. Remain indoors in view of heavy rainfall. Dial 100 in case of emergency," they said.Chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao and Kumar took stock of the situation after heavy rain today. Rao directed the chief secretary to take all necessary precautions to avoid any loss of life or property in the wake of heavy rain forecast due to the impact of cyclone Gulab.Bachodu in Khammam district received highest rainfall of 151.5 mm, followed by Wyra (141.5 mm) till 3pm on Monday. Similarly, several parts of Hyderabad also witnessed rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-imd-says-cyclone-gulab-impact-can-cause-heavy-rain-red-alert-issued-101632750328759.html
27-09-2021||India||Nitish Kumar govt drops decade-old demand for special status to Bihar||The Nitish Kumar government on Monday said that it will cease demanding for the special category status for Bihar and will seek special assistance instead. Brijendra Yadav, a senior minister of the Nitish Kumar cabinet, said that the government is ‘tired’ of demanding the special status.“There is a limit to it. Now we will seek special assistance in every field,” Yadav said.Bihar’s demand for special category status is a long-pending one and the ruling party Janata Dal (United) made it the primary election agenda throughout several elections.The special category status is accorded to states which have hilly and difficult terrain, low population density, presence of a sizable tribal population, strategic location along international borders, economic and infrastructural backwardness and non-viable nature of state finances. This criteria was introduced by the government in 1969 acknowledging that several regions of the country were disadvantaged than the others.The states of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Nagaland, Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Sikkim and Tripura were accorded special category status. Jammu and Kashmir, however, does not enjoy a special status and a special category status anymore since Article 35A was scrapped.Bihar lawmaker from the Janata Dal (United), Rajiv Ranjan Singh, earlier during the monsoon session, asked in the Lok Sabha if the Centre is considering giving special status to Bihar, but the government in its reply said that the 14th Finance Commission gives states more fiscal space for implementation of projects.The Centre in 2015 said that the implementation of the 14th Finance Commission and forming of the Niti Aayog removed the concept of Special Category Status. It says that according to the 14th Finance Commission recommendations, the share of states in the divisible pool of central taxes has increased from 32% to 42%.Bihar lawmakers earlier this year cited a NITI Aayog's Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) India Index Report 2020-21 which showed that Bihar's composite score was lowest among all states to reignite the demand of giving special category status to the state. The report also showed that 33.74% of the population was living below the poverty line and 52.5% of the population were suffering from multidimensional poverty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-govt-drops-decade-old-demand-for-special-status-to-bihar-101632750328010.html
27-09-2021||India||Solution to farmers' protest only through dialogue, says Rakesh Tikait||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Monday said the solution to the ongoing farmers' protest against the Centre's three agri laws can be reached only through dialogue and not in the courts.The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson was speaking during an online discussion hosted by the Bharatiya Chhatra Sansad (Indian Students Parliament), Pune, a non-political platform.Several trains were cancelled, highways and key roads blocked and many thousands stranded for hours on Monday as a nationwide 10-hour shutdown against the Centre's three agri laws disrupted lives across parts of India, particularly in the north.Tikait said the 10-month-long protest, under the banner of Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), is to prevent 'roti' from becoming a market commodity, and privatisation of the agriculture sector."I don't know what is going to be the end of this protest but the movement has begun and the country's youth, who often remained away from discussion on farming-related issues, is also joining it," he said.In response to a query on the way forward, the BKU leader said, "The solution to the ongoing protests against the three agri laws of the Centre can be achieved only through dialogue and not in the courts of law."He said the farmers' stir is not only against the three laws and for legal guarantee on the minimum support price for crops but also against privatisation of agriculture.Referring to a leading multinational fast food chain, Tikait claimed, "When these stores close their work at the end of the day, they have plenty of unsold food which goes to the dustbins. There could be hungry staff or poor people outside their shops, but the unsold food goes to the dustbin only."Hitting out at the BJP-led Centre, he alleged that the government has now "illegally" captured "several institutions" which the country has also understood now.Speaking at the session earlier in the day, BJP MLA and Deputy Speaker in the Assam Assembly Dr. Numal Momin said the new laws are aimed at checking middlemen in the farming sector and benefitting both farmers and consumers.He said the growth of farmers was important for the country's growth and some people opposed to the new laws now might realise their benefits eventually."PM Modi brought these laws to end the middlemen from the farming system. Also, the benefits, which earlier went to middlemen, would be passed on to consumers,” Momin said."It would take some time for some people to realise the benefits of these laws. Opposition to these laws is understandable. It's a democracy and some people who have some objections on some points are opposing the laws," he added.Hundreds of farmers have been camping at Delhi's three border points -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- since November 2020 under the banner of SKM, demanding that the three contentious farm laws be repealed and a legal guarantee provided to them on MSP of crops.Tikait has been leading the charge with his supporters at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border.The Centre, which has held 11 rounds of formal dialogues with the farmers, has maintained that the new laws are pro-farmer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/solution-to-farmers-protest-only-through-dialogue-says-rakesh-tikait-101632744875810.html
27-09-2021||India||Flash flood risk in Telangana; rain in Delhi, South Bengal, parts of UP, Haryana: IMD||Despite the weakening of Cyclone Gulab after completion of the landfall process, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned about flash floods in Telangana for the next 24 hours. The cyclonic storm has intensified into a deep depression which could bring heavy to very heavy rain in some districts of Telangana, according to the IMD.The weather department has issued a Flash Flood Risk (FFR) alert, saying districts of Badradri Kothagudem, Khammam, Adilabad, Bhuvanagiri, Asifabad, Mancherial, Nirmal, Warangal, Peddapalley Karimnagar, Rajanna Siricilla, Jayashankar Bhupalpalle, Mulugu, Jagitial, Mahbubabad, and Janagoan can expect flash floods. These districts can also witness moderate to high during the next 24 hours."At present, the deep depression lay over Telangana and its adjourning areas and under its influence Telangana, is very likely to have very to very heavy with extremely heavy rain in few districts of the state,” news agency ANI quoted K Nagarathna, a scientist at IMD, Hyderabad, as saying.“During the next 24 hours Telangana is likely to have wind of 30-40 kmph gasping to 45 kmph," Nagarathna added.Also Read | Cyclone Gulab: JNTU in Hyderabad postpones exams amid heavy rains alertThe deep depression formed over south Odisha and adjoining south Chhattisgarh on Monday afternoon moved nearly westwards and weaken into a depression over the next six hours. The depression is further expected to weaken into a well-marked low-pressure area during the subsequent 24 hours.Apart from cyclonic storm-impacted Telangana, the IMD has also predicted light to moderate rain accompanied by thunderstorms for Delhi and adjoining areas on Monday. It said that Delhi, districts of Aliganj, Kasganj, Sikander Rao, and Iglas in Uttar Pradesh; Hodal, Gurugram, Tizara, Rewari, and Aurangabad in Haryana; Nagar, Alwar, Deeg, Laxmangarh, Rajgarh, and Bayana in Rajasthan are expected to receive light to moderate rain on Monday evening.South districts of West Bengal, including Kolkata, are also likely to receive heavy rain due to the formation of cyclonic circulation in the northeast Bay of Bengal, according to IMD. The Met department has predicted heavy rain in Kolkata, Howrah, Hooghly, Jhargram and North 24 Parganas districts, and heavy to very heavy rain at some places in South 24 Parganas, Purba Medinipur and Paschim Medinipur districts on Tuesday.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flash-flood-risk-in-telangana-rain-in-delhi-south-bengal-parts-of-up-haryana-imd-101632746256382.html
27-09-2021||India||RSS remark on Amazon irrelevant, but charges against firm can’t be ignored: Cong||A day after RSS-linked weekly "Panchjanya" dubbed Amazon as "East India Company 2.0", the Congress on Monday said whatever the Sangh says is irrelevant as it does not say anything in national interest, but in the interest of the ruling BJP.Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera, however, said the allegations against the US e-commerce giant are serious and cannot be ignored."The issue of Amazon is a serious one and it merits everybody's attention. The allegations against Amazon are very serious and they cannot be ignored," he said.Asked about the comments of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), Khera said, "What the RSS says about Amazon is irrelevant because there is a duet going on between the RSS and the BJP."We have seen that duet and they stand exposed in the farmers' agitation. We have seen the dubious role played by the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh as it has not come in support of the farmers even for one day in the last 10 months."The Congress leader said "nobody takes what the RSS says seriously anymore, because they do not speak the language in national interest, they talk in the interest of the BJP."Amazon was dubbed as "East India Company 2.0" by "Panchjanya", which has also alleged that the firm has paid crores of rupees in bribes for favourable government policies.In its latest edition, which will hit the stands on October 3, the RSS-linked weekly has carried a cover story that is highly critical of Amazon."Whatever the East India Company did in the 18th century to capture India, the same is visible in the activities of Amazon," the article titled "East India Company 2.0" reads.Claiming that Amazon wants to establish its monopoly in the Indian market, it says, "For doing so, it has started taking initiatives for seizing the economic, political and personal freedom of the Indian citizens."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-remark-on-amazon-irrelevant-but-charges-against-firm-can-t-be-ignored-cong-101632745475470.html
27-09-2021||India||ED examines Ashok Gehlot’s brother Agrasain Gehlot in money laundering probe||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday examined Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s elder brother Agrasain Gehlot in connection with its money laundering probe in the export of a fertiliser meant for Indian farmers in connivance with others, people familiar with the development said.Gehlot appeared at the agency’s headquarters in Delhi along with his lawyer around 11.30 am following which his statement was recorded under the prevention of money laundering act (PMLA).The agency raided his office premises in July last year around the time a political slugfest was going on in the state between his chief minister brother and then deputy CM Sachin Pilot.People cited above said the Rajasthan high court last week asked Agrasain Gehlot to cooperate with the probe while asking the central anti-money laundering agency not to take any coercive action against him.The ED’s money laundering probe is based on an investigation carried out by the customs department and the Directorate of Revenue and Intelligence (DRI) in 2009 in the export of Muriate of Potash or MOP worth ₹57 lakh in 12 consignments the same year. MOP is a restricted commodity for export under the foreign trade policy.The customs department’s investigation report, reviewed by HT, states that Agrasain Gehlot’s company – M/s Anupam Krishi – allegedly played a key role in the irregularities. It is suspected that the MOP was exported to companies in Malaysia and Singapore.The customs probe report states that Agrasain Gehlot “knowingly opted to become a part of the syndicate in the entire chain of the conspiracy by facilitating the said consortium (of private companies) by supplying subsidized MOP, which was meant for sale to farmers only and forged documents for which he admittedly gained a certain amount as his commission”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-examines-ashok-gehlot-s-brother-agrasain-gehlot-in-money-laundering-probe-101632746086933.html
27-09-2021||India||Police on lookout for ‘Mr Natwarlal’ who duped many posing as govt official||Police in Assam are on the lookout for a fraudster who has reportedly duped many persons in past years posing as a senior government official. In his early 30s, Mridupaban Neog is believed to have been active for some time but police in Nagaon district came to know about his activities last week after a car dealer filed an FIR alleging he cheated him of ₹31 lakhs. “Our investigation against this person has been going in the right track and you will get positive results soon,” Assam director general of police Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta told journalists on Sunday. Based on the FIR lodged under several IPC (Indian Penal Code) sections for cheating, criminal breach of trust, impersonating public servant and criminal intimidation, a joint team of Nagaon and Guwahati police raided Neog’s house in Guwahati on Saturday. Though they recovered many incriminating documents and material, the conman managed to give a slip to the police team. Besides two luxury vehicles, police found a .32 pistol, 20 live rounds, many letter pads in the name of the accused with the Government of India insignia, several identity cards with different designations, many bottles of expensive liquor, gold jewellery worth several lakhs, logo of a media house etc. “This man is like the Hindi movie character Mr Natwarlal, a fraud with different identities. He finds rich and gullible people and tricks them into parting with large sums of money using different means,” said Anand Kumar Mishra, Nagaon superintendent of police. “Once people start asking him to return their money, he threatens them by showing his so-called connections with top shots. In the present case, he took ₹31 lakhs from the complainant saying he’s a senior ministry of home affairs official and needed to sell his Fortuner SUV as he needed the money urgently,” he added. When Neog failed to deliver the vehicle after two months, the complainant approached the police. A little bit of digging up by the police revealed that Neog had duped several others. “He would pose with celebrities, bureaucrats, politicians and ministers and post those photos on social media, claiming closeness to these persons. Lot of people believed his claims and became victims,” said Mishra. “Sometimes he would say he’s a Central government official, at other times he would say he’s a civil servant from Assam. He would also claim to be senior journalist, if required,” he added. Neog is reported to have studied till Class 10. A Twitter account in his name shows him shaking hands with governor of Assam Jagdish Mukhi. HT couldn’t verify the authenticity of the account or the photo. Police have arrested a private security guard employed by Neog and are questioning him. “Lots of people in Assam’s corridors of power seemed to be aware of Neog’s activities. But it is only now that some of those cheated by him have started coming forward,” said Mishra. On Saturday, the all women police station at Panbazar in Guwahati lodged another complaint against Neog following a complaint by a woman about receiving threatening calls from a phone number apparently belonging to Neog.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-on-lookout-for-mr-natwarlal-who-duped-many-posing-as-govt-official-101632744586188.html
27-09-2021||India||I-T dept claims searches conducted last week point to unaccounted financial transactions||The Income Tax Department carried out a search and seizure operation on Thursday on a group of four major Steel Rolling Mills based in Jalna, Maharashtra. These companies are engaged in the business of manufacturing steel TMT bars and billets mostly using steel scrap as raw material.The operation was conducted in more than 32 premises spread across Jalna, Aurangabad, Pune, Mumbai and Kolkata.I-T officials said during the course of the search and seizure operation, many incriminating documents, loose sheets and other digital evidence were found and seized. The evidence clearly indicates the involvement of the companies in large scale unaccounted financial transactions made outside the regular books of accounts, including inflation of purchases using entry providers, unaccounted cash expenses and investments, etc.“The evidence found also indicate the laundering of a substantial amount of unaccounted income earned by the companies in the guise of share premium and unsecured loans using shell companies,” said a release issued by the Press Information Bureau (PIB).“Evidence for unaccounted purchase in excess of ₹200 crore has been found. Huge quantity of unaccounted stock was also found in the factory premises of the companies,” stated the release.As many as 12 bank lockers were unearthed during the search operation. Unaccounted cash worth more than ₹2.10 crore and jewellery amounting to ₹1.07 crore has been seized from different premises. Evidence detected so far, indicates that unaccounted income is likely to exceed ₹300 crore and the four companies have already disclosed additional income to the extent of ₹71 crore consequent to the search.Officials said further investigations are in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-dept-claims-searches-conducted-last-week-point-to-unaccounted-financial-transactions-101632742907858.html
27-09-2021||India||Bharat Bandh successful, says Tikait. Here's its impact in various states||The 10-hour-long Bharat Bandh, which was scheduled to end at 4pm, was successful, the protesting farmers said on Monday. The pan-India shutdown was organised by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) against the three farm laws passed by Parliament in September last year."Our 'Bharat Bandh' was successful. We had the full support of farmers... We can't seal down everything as we have to facilitate the movement of people. We are ready for talks with govt, but no talks are happening," sais Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait. BKU was one of the participants of the bandh called by the SKM, an umbrella organisation of nearly 40 unions.Watch: Traffic chaos at Delhi-Gurugram borderThe bandh was organised on Monday (September 27) to mark the first anniversary of the assent given to the three farm laws by President Ram Nath Kovind.The SMK said there was "an unprecedented response, beyond anyone's expectations" to Bharat Bandh. Many non-NDA parties extended support to the nationwide protest.Also Read | 'India is open': Twitterati take on Bharat Bandh with this trendThere were reports of disruption in traffic movement in many states, while some claimed there was no impact of Bandh. Heavy police presence was seen across the county to maintain law and order.Delhi-NCRBharat Bandh caused disruptions in traffic movement between Delhi and neighbouring states of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Traffic movement at the Ghazipur border and the Dhansa Border were affected with Delhi Traffic Police closing vehicular movement on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh Ghazipur border for both carriageways.Also Read | Protester dies of heart attack at Singhu border during Bharat BandhMassive traffic snarl were seen at Gurugram-Delhi border as vehicles entering the national capital were checked by Delhi Police and paramilitary jawans. The Delhi Noida Direct (DND) flyway also witnessed massive traffic congestion.Punjab and HaryanaFarmers blocked national highways and major link roads in both the states, due to which the police had to diverted traffic at several places.The shutdown was almost complete in Punjab, with transport services suspended during the bandh period, while shops and other commercial establishments remained shut at most places. National and state highways in several districts, including Amritsar, Rupnagar, Jalandhar, Pathankot, Sangrur, Mohali, Ludhiana, Ferozepur, Bathinda, were blocked by the protesters.Delhi-Amritsar National Highway was blocked at Shahabad in Haryana's Kurukshetra. The protesters also blocked highways in Sirsa, Fatehabad, Panipat, Hisar, Charkhi Dadri, Karnal, Kaithal, Rohtak, Jhajjar and Panchkula districts.Jammu and KashmirDemonstrations and rallies were held across Jammu district on Monday in support of the Bharat Bandh called by farmers to demand repeal of the Centre's three agri laws. Led by CPI(M) leader M Y Tarigami, hundreds of activists and farmers took out a rally and sat on a dharna on the main road, leading to disruption of traffic.A similar demonstration was held in Srinagar where some farmer leaders demanded minimum support price for farm produce.Also See: Impact of Bharat Bandh in photosGujaratGujarat largely remained peaceful on Monday during the 10 hours of Bharat Bandh. However, there were reports of Surat-Mumbai and Ahmedabad-Rajkot highways being blocked briefly which affected traffic movement in few areas. Police detained about 25 people and restored traffic movement on the road, news agency PTI reported quoting a police official.Also Read | Road, train traffic thrown out of gear in BiharMaharashtraCommercial establishments and local transport were operating as usual and normal life remained unaffected across Maharashtra on Monday. An APMC remained closed in Pune and a pro-farmers' outfit staged a road blockage in Nagpur, while some protesters were detained at some places and later released, they said. In Mumbai, Congress workers, holding placards, assembled at some places like Andheri and Jogeshwari and shouted slogans against the farm bills, but shops and other commercial establishments were open as usual and traffic movement was normal, said the police.AssamAssam remained unaffected by the Bharat Bandh on Monday as public transport operated as usual, markets were open and offices registered usual attendance.The opposition Congress, which supported the bandh, did not organise any protest programme in the state. In Guwahati, members of the SUCI (Communist) took out a protest rally in the morning, raising slogans against the three farm laws.GoaThe coastal state largely remain unaffected by the Bharat Bandh on Monday. All services, including the public transport, banks, trains and commercial establishments, operated normally during the bandh duration. The All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) supported the call for bandh. "We have not stopped any work, but workers in all the industrial estates held protests for half-an-hour in their respective areas before resuming the work,” AITUC Goa unit secretary Suhas Naik said.West BengalLeft activists blocked roads and railway tracks across West Bengal on Monday in support of the Bharat Bandh. Educational institutions are already shut in state the due to the Covid-related restrictions.Road blockades were held in most of the major towns and cities in the state, including in district headquarters of Jalpaiguri, West Midnapore, East Midnapore, Hooghly and Coochbehar.However, normal life remained largely unaffected in the state. Markets and shops were opened as usual, while public transport operated almost normally, except for a few hitches.The governments of Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Punjab, Jharkhand and Andhra Pradesh have extended their support to the bandh, and the effect of protest was seen in these states.KeralaProtesters of several trade unions including the Indian National Trade Union Congress, Centre of Indian Trade Unions and All India Trade Union Congress form a human chain in Kerala's Kochi to support the call for Bharat Bandh.The roads in Kerala's Thiruvananthapuram wore a deserted look and shops are closed in as the trade unions affiliated to LDF and UDF have supported the call for Bharat Bandh.Railway operationsRailway services were affected by the bandh with services of as about 25 trains getting delayed or diverted.According to Northern Railway, the rail operations in Delhi, Ambala and Firozepur divisions were impacted by people sitting on tracks.Farmers have been protesting at different sites since November 26 last year against the three enacted farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Farmer leaders and the Centre have held several rounds of talks but the impasse remains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-successful-says-tikait-here-s-its-impact-in-various-states-101632742104133.html
27-09-2021||India||Watch: Three-storey building dramatically collapses in Bengaluru||A 70-year-old building collapsed in Lakkasandra locality of Bengaluru in Karnataka on Monday morning. The building came down at about 11:45 am, and the visuals of the collapse have gone viral on social media. As many as 50 people had a narrow escape in the nick of time. No casualties or injuries were reported in the incident.According to reports, the three-storey building housed labourers involved in the construction of Namma Metro. Minutes before the building crashed, plaster from walls and the ceiling started coming off, alerting the occupants to call emergency services and ran out of the building. Fire department personnel rushed to the spot of the incident, cordoned off the area and carried out timely evacuation of the people living in and around the structure, before it fell down.A video of the incident was widely circulated on social media and also shared by news agency ANI. The video showed the building, which already had a slight tilt, came crashing down on a narrow street in a residential area.#WATCH | Karnataka: A building collapsed in Bengaluru today, no casualties or injuries reported so far. Fire Department had evacuated the building before it collapsed. Officials rushed to the spot. Details awaited. pic.twitter.com/oWmUBsFm6EAccording to PTI, the building was very old and had developed cracks several days ago. An FIR was registered against the building owner Suresh for negligence and investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/watch-three-storey-building-dramatically-collapses-in-bengaluru-101632740575885.html
27-09-2021||India||Amid conciliatory talks senior leader VM Sudheeran resigns from AICC||Two days after he quit the party’s political affairs committee (PAC), sulking Congress leader VM Sudheeran on Monday announced his resignation from the All India Congress Committee (AICC), the second highest decision making body of the party after the Congress Working Committee (CWC). His announcement came in the wake of his scheduled meeting with AICC general secretary Tariq Anwar who rushed to Kerala to sort out problems arising out of the recent elevation of a new set of state and district leaders. While Sudheeran, former PCC chief and five-time MP, did not disclose reasons for quitting, leaders close to him said he was not happy with the functioning of new Pradesh Congress Chief (PCC) chief K Sudhakaran and opposition leader VD Satheesan. Responding to allegations that decisions were being taken unanimously ignoring senior leaders, the PCC chief said Sudheeran was consulted before announcing the District Congress Committee list. Hectic efforts were on to placate the senior leader and Anwar was expected to call on him in the evening. Former CM Oommen Chandy and senior leader Ramesh Chennithala also termed his resignation unfortunate and asked party leaders to talk to him. Known for his clean image, Sudheeran quit the PCC chief’s post after the party’s rout in 2016 assembly elections. It was then alleged that he forced then CM Chandy to take some unpopular decisions like issuing the new liquor policy. Recently, fireworks started in the faction-ridden state unit of the party with the appointment of new president K Sudhakaran, a tough leader from Communist heartland Kannur and opposition leader VD Satheesan, sidelining two powerful blocs led by former CM Oommen Chandy and senior leader Ramesh Chennithala, who dominated the state unit for more than one and a half decade. Problems aggravated after the DCC presidents’ list was released last month. The party currently has 150-odd secretaries and many other office-bearers, and the PCC chief has made it clear that all new party bodies will be lean and mean. Many see the leadership transition as a major generational shift but leaders of factions claim it will be difficult for the party to surge ahead after sidelining two senior leaders and their followers. After public display of anger at the changes, three senior leaders have quit the party, AV Gopinath, KP Anil Kumar and PS Prashanth-- the last two have joined the ruling CPI(M).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-conciliatory-talks-senior-leader-vm-sudheeran-resigns-from-aicc-101632741946010.html
27-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi police arrest 2 suspects in Rohini court shootout and all the latest news||Gogi shootout: 2 arrested, Delhi Police chief Rakesh Asthana visits Rohini courtThe Delhi Police on Sunday arrested two suspects in the murder of gangster Jitender Mann alias Gogi inside Rohini district court even as police commissioner Rakesh Asthana visited the crime scene where the dramatic shoot-out took place, leaving three dead. Read moreBharat Bandh: Protester dies of heart attack at Singhu borderA protester belonging to one of the farmers’ rights groups died on Monday after suffering a heart attack during the stir at Delhi’s Singhu border. Bagel Ram, the 54-year-old protester, was a member of the Kirti Kisan Union, and was present at the protest site in Singhu on Bharat Bandh. Read moreCampaign at Bhawanipore disrupted by TMC demonstration around BJP’s Dilip GhoshThe final campaigning for the September 30 bypoll at Kolkata’s Bhawanipore assembly seat was disrupted on Monday afternoon when Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers staged demonstration, obstructing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national vice-president Dilip Ghosh and shouted ‘go back’ slogans. Read more'Can be irritating, players may get mentally disturbed': Mohammed Shami on challenges of playing in bio-bubblesDue to the covid-19 pandemic rules and regulations implemented by the International Cricket Council (ICC), players are required to remain under bio-bubble away from their families during cricketing tours. Read moreDia Mirza is asked how much she charged for Global Citizen event. This was her replyActor Dia Mirza was a part of the Global Citizen Live event in Mumbai on Saturday. She took to Instagram to share a video from the event but had to field a rude question. Read more4 ways to include almonds in your diet for weight lossA powerhouse of nutrients and excellent for heart health, almonds can also serve as the perfect weight loss food for those aiming to shed kilos and adopt a healthy lifestyle. Read moreOwaisi, Cong slam PM Modi’s late-night visit to new Parliament buildingHours after he returned from US, PM Modi took stock of the construction of the new Parliament building in New Delhi. In a sharp attack, Congress called it a case of misplaced priorities and said the PM doesn’t care about Covid victims, farmers or jobless youths but only cares about the central vista project. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-police-arrest-2-suspects-in-rohini-court-shootout-and-all-the-latest-news-101632741246835.html
27-09-2021||India||ICMR’s serosurvey finds 73% population, over 92% health workers in Odisha have antibodies against Covid-19||Following a recent serosurvey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in Odisha, it has been found that 73% of the state’s population and more than 93% of the healthcare workers have developed antibodies against Covid-19.Experts from ICMR, Bhubaneswar, along with the state’s health and family welfare department conducted the serosurvey in 12 out of the 30 districts between August 29 and September 15. The survey was conducted in Sambalpur, Sundergarh, Jharsuguda, Keonjhar, Khurda, Puri, Balasore, Mayurbhanj, Jajpur, Kandhamal, Kalahandi and Nabarangpur districts in the state.As many as 5,796 samples were collected from the community for the survey, out of which antibodies were observed in 4,247 samples, said Sanghamitra Pati, director of RMRC, Bhubaneswar. Among health workers, 1,312 samples were collected and 1,232 of them had antibodies, she also said. "We found 73.5% sero-prevalence among the community and 93.9% among the healthcare workers," news agency PTI quoted Pati as saying.Also read | WHO looking at reviving probe into origins of Covid-19: ReportFurther, Khurda district had the highest seroprevalence at 80% followed by Jajpur, Mayurbhanj and Jharsuguda with around 68% seroprevalence in each district, Pati added.Briefing in the prevalence of antibodies in terms of age groups, Pati said, 70% of people in the six to 10 years age group, 74% in the 11 to 18 age group, 75% in the 19 to 44 age group, 72% in the 45 to 60 age group and 66% above 60 years of age had the antibodies. Also, in terms of vaccination, 66.5% adults had received at least one dose of the vaccine and in the study, 25.6% were fully vaccinated, 41.4% partially jabbed and 33% were not immunised against the disease.Meanwhile, the survey also showed that 48% of women have received both doses of the vaccine and 45.6% men have been fully immunised. Also, no significant difference could be observed in the seroprevalence between rural and urban areas. In rural areas it was 72.7% while in urban it was recorded at 73.7%, the survey also showed. Similarly, no significant difference in seroprevalence was also observed between men and women and between people jabbed with Covaxin or Covishield.Dr Bijay Mohapatra, director of health service, said that with 73% of the population having developed antibodies already against Covid-19, the third wave of the disease might not cause much damage to the state. On Monday, Odisha saw 444 new Covid-19 cases and five more deaths, as the state’s tally reached 1,024,764 and the death toll climbed to 8,180, PTI reported citing health officials.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/icmrs-serosurvey-finds-73-population-over-92-health-workers-in-odisha-have-antibodies-against-covid19-101632740336168.html
27-09-2021||India||Campaign at Bhawanipore disrupted by TMC demonstration around BJP’s Dilip Ghosh||The final campaigning for the September 30 bypoll at Kolkata’s Bhawanipore assembly seat was disrupted on Monday afternoon when Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers staged demonstration, obstructing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national vice-president Dilip Ghosh and shouted ‘go back’ slogans. In response, the BJP decided to move the Election Commission urging it stop the election in Bhawanipore. The incident took place at Jadu Babu Bazar where Ghosh was campaigning on foot. A BJP worker, Bharat Narayan Singh, suffered minor injuries when his associates got into a scuffle with TMC workers. Security personnel accompanying Ghosh had to escort him to safety. Two of them were caught on camera when they drew their pistols at the TMC workers, apparently to scare them. Ghosh also got agitated and shouted back at the crowd. BJP Lok Sabha member and state vice-president Arjun Singh, who was campaigning at Sambhunath Pandit Street, faced similar demonstrations when he approached the location where Ghosh was surrounded. Singh had to leave the spot. “Today’s incident has proved that the situation is not conducive for holding free and fair polls. We will submit a memorandum to the EC urging it withhold the poll till the law and order situation gets normal. However, we will contest if the EC decides to go ahead with the election,” Dilip Ghosh said. TMC workers also staged a demonstration near a podium, set up by the BJP for a roadside meeting on Ashutosh Mukherjee Road. Leader of the Opposition in the assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, addressed people from the podium later in the afternoon. “These disruptions are being created to scare voters,” Adhikari said in his speech. As many as 80 BJP leaders hit the streets to muster support for party candidate Priyanka Tibrewal on the last day of campaigning. TMC leaders and ministers also started campaigning early for chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who needs to win the bypoll to continue as CM of West Bengal. “Central armed police forces will not sit silent if incidents like this happen on the day of polling,” said Tibrewal. BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar, who also took part in the campaign, condemned the demonstration. “The TMC must change its culture and start showing respect to democratic practices. Ghosh is a senior leader. One should at least respect his age. Do BJP workers demonstrate around Mamata Banerjee or her nephew Abhishek Banerjee when they visit Delhi?” asked Majumdar. Transport minister Firhad Hakim, who led the TMC campaign, said, “Common people demonstrated against Ghosh. They should not have paid him so much attention. BJP leaders are irrelevant in state politics.” Bhawanipore has 206,389 voters. According to TMC and BJP leaders, more than 20 % Bhawanipore residents are Muslims, while Sikhs and non-Bengali speaking Hindus comprise around 34 % of the local population. The constituency comprises eight civic body wards. The BJP announced on Sunday that 10 leaders will visit each of these eight civic body wards. Their campaign started at 8 am. The Election Commission has sought a report on the trouble in Bhawanipore. The returning officer has also been asked to examine video footage showing Dilip Ghosh’s security personnel pointing pistols at the crowd, an official said on condition of anonymity. The Kolkata Police deployed additional forces in Bhawanipore in the afternoon. BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar said, “It appears that the TMC had made elaborate plans to create trouble. Our leadership is going to hold a meeting to review the situation. Can polls be held peacefully in a situation like this?.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/campaign-at-bhawanipore-disrupted-by-tmc-demonstration-around-bjp-s-dilip-ghosh-101632740506020.html
27-09-2021||India||Bharat Bandh: Protester dies of heart attack at Singhu border||A protester belonging to one of the farmers’ rights groups died on Monday after suffering a heart attack during the stir at Delhi’s Singhu border. Bagel Ram, the 54-year-old protester, was a member of the Kirti Kisan Union, and was present at the protest site in Singhu on Bharat Bandh.Gurnam Bhagad, the leader of Kirti Kisan Union, said Bagel Ram was a member of the farmers' outfit. “He was not a farmer but a labourer from Jalandhar and arrived at the Singhu border with one of our groups on September 18. He has been feeling unwell since yesterday and suffered a heart attack this morning.”Farmers dies by suicide in PunjabIn another incident, a farmer in Ludhiana died by suicide on Sunday after he hanged himself to death hours before the Bharat Bandh commenced. It was unclear whether the ‘suicide’ was an act of protest against the three farm laws which were passed in the Parliament on September 27, last year, during the monsoon session.The 65-year-old farmer was found hanging from a pipe in the wee hours of Monday by other farmers next to the toll barrier near Ghulal village in Samrala. He along with his wife were protesting against the farm laws at Delhi’s borders for the past 10 months.The Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella organisation of more than 40 farmers’ rights groups, received mixed response across the country. Traffic snarls were reported from parts of the National Capital Region (NCR). Though several states, like Assam and Arunachal Pradesh, did not evoke any response to the nationwide strike call, it was Punjab, Haryana, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala which saw strong to moderate response to the nationwide strike call.The farmers called the nationwide strike to protest against the three farm bills which they claim will lower farm incomes, remove the procurement under the minimum support price (MSP) system and make the agricultural sector profitable for private sector companies.(With inputs from Kainat Sarfaraz and Tarsem Deogan)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-protester-dies-of-heart-attack-at-singhu-border-101632738646568.html
27-09-2021||India||Sneha Dubey: The new, young inspiration for Gen Z||Her piercing rebuttal to comments of Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan, at the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA), has won the hearts of Indians the world over. And India’s first secretary to UN, Sneha Dubey has overnight emerged as the new icon of inspiration for the youth! She is garnering unprecedented praise for her fiery response, ever since the video clipping of her speech has gone viral on social media. What’s caught the attention of many is Dubey’s choice of words and the deft delivery by this Indian Foreign Service’s officer. “In a country where women are often thought to be suppressed and not have political views, Sneha has proved that women too can give a strong counter argument. She is the voice of the youth, who often feel alienated from politics, and shows how a young female can fight against inequalities in society, and leave a strong impression on the world stage,” says Gitoshri Sen, a BA Psychology (Hons) student at Delhi University (DU). Dubey’s coherent speech has also kindled pride in the UPSC aspirants, who say they too want to make an impact like this young civil servant from 2012 batch. “What better epitome can the world get at such an important platform where women empowerment is all up to shut the false claims of Pakistan,” asks Jasika Pawar, a UPSC aspirant. Adding to this view, Pragya Gupta, another Delhi-based UPSC aspirant, says, “Pakistan tries to use the world stage to tarnish India’s image through platforms like the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, and UNGA. But, all this is without much success till there are IFS officers like Sneha! It’s inspiring to see the fake faces being served a strong and befitting reply by a feisty, young Indian diplomat.” Sejal Chopra, another DU student feels “really proud at how young minds like Dubey are thinking and voicing their concerns for our country”. Chopra opines, “What Sneha has said is correct in every sense, and it’s known that Pakistan does favour terrorism, which has been hampering not just India’s growth but also disrupting the peace of humanity across the globe. It’s impossible for Pakistan’s government to not know what kind of militant or terrorist activities are thriving on their soil! It’s very important to point this out at such a platform where the world sees and accepts Pakistan at face value. I’m in awe of how this girl articulated all these thoughts so well, and yet mentioned all the crucial issues in a respectable yet firm tone!” Even students of Dubey’s alma mater, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), are hailing her speech. “She has done a great job at the UN platform,” says Danish, a research scholar at JNU’s School of International Studies. “Our Finance Minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, is also an alumna of this school... Deliberations on international relations are part of the course and training here, and aid in becoming a diplomat. Being a student of the same college, I feel truly proud, and also hope to serve our country in future!” All about Sneha Dubey!* An Indian Foreign Service (IFS) officer of 2012 batch, she cleared the UPSC exam in one attempt. * She was born in Goa, and did her schooling there. Later, she pursued higher education at Pune’s Fergusson College and MPhil from Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University. * She wanted to join the IFS since she was 12.* Her father works in a multinational company, and mother is a school teacher. Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sneha-dubey-the-new-young-inspiration-for-gen-z-101632738406807.html
27-09-2021||India||Bharat Bandh: Road, train traffic thrown out of gear in Bihar||With opposition parties and many other organisations extending their support to Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s (SKM) call for Bharat Bandh on Monday to mark the first anniversary of three controversial farm laws, rail and road traffic in Bihar was affected. Protesters led by the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Congress and the Communist Party of India (CPI) blocked National Highways and other key roads across the state and also squatted on railway tracks. However, no major incident has been reported during the shutdown from any part of the state so far. Chaos prevailed at Danapur, Patna and Rajendra Nagar railway terminus, where commuters waited for train services to resume in sweltering heat . Passengers stuck on trains, stranded in the blockade, were seen getting off with luggage in their hands, hoping to make some alternate arrangement to finish their remaining journeys.Most of the private schools in Patna, Bhagalpur, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur and Gaya were closed while business establishments such as restaurants and eateries functioned as usual. In Patna, students of Patna University blocked Ashok Rajpath, burnt tyres and raised slogans in support of the shutdown. At Patna junction round about, some political workers attacked and damaged windowpanes of local buses and their crew. Traffic was thin as auto rickshaws and private buses, the main mode of public transport in the state capital, kept away from the roads. A vegetable seller Ashok Mahto in Patna’s Anta Ghat area, said the bandh was not forced on them and they had voluntarily shut down business for the day in support of the cause. RJD supporters led by member of legislative assembly (MLA) Mukesh Roushan blocked Gandhi Setu which connects North Bihar with Patna, disrupting vehicular traffic and resulting in huge traffic jam. CPI, CPI(M) and CPI(ML) supporters, led by MLA Sudama Prasad blocked Ara-Patna-Sasaram highway, held public meeting and raised anti-government slogans. Demonstrations were also reported from Jehanabad, Darbhanga, Begusarai, Nawada, where protestors forcibly stopped train movements. There were similar protests in Aurangabad, Nawada, Sheikhpura, Gopalganj, Saran, Siwan, Sitamarhi, Samastipur, Bhagalpur and Lakhisarai, where protestors blocked roads in some areas this morning. A senior state government official, however, said the situation was peaceful. The Bihar police had put in place elaborate security measures during the Bharat Bandh, which will end at 6 pm. East Central Railway’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said several trains were halted at Begusarai, Sheikhpura, Nawada, Jehanabad and Darbhanga due to the agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-road-train-traffic-thrown-out-of-gear-in-bihar-101632737685999.html
27-09-2021||India||Varun Gandhi writes to CM Yogi again, urges to increase sugarcane prices||Ahead of the Uttar Pradesh elections next year, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Varun Gandhi has raised the issue of sugarcane prices again. In his letter to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Gandhi has demanded to increase the rate of sugarcane to ₹400 per quintal.“Sugarcane rate in the upcoming crushing season in Uttar Pradesh is ₹350, thanks to Yogi ji for declaring 350/quintal. I request you to please reconsider this according to the rising cost and inflation and declare the rate at ₹400 or give a bonus of 50/quintal above the declared rate separately,” the BJP MP tweeted and attached his letter to the chief minister.His remarks come a day after Adityanath announced a ₹25 per quintal hike in the purchase prices of sugarcane in the state taking it to ₹350 per quintal.In his letter, Varun Gandhi said that the cost of sugarcane has increased significantly in the last four years but in the last four seasons, the price has increased by only ₹10 per quintal. At the same time, the BJP MP said that the economic condition of sugarcane farmers remains pathetic. The BJP MP said that the economic condition of sugarcane farmers remains pathetic, they are not getting proper sugarcane and are in debt.In a letter sent to the chief minister on Monday, Varun Gandhi said, “Expenditure is increasing but the price is not. Sugarcane is a major crop in Uttar Pradesh, about 50 lakh farmer families are engaged in its cultivation. Lakhs of labourers also get employment from this. Sugarcane farmers of my area Pilibhit have requested to inform you that in the last four years, the cost of sugarcane, fertilizers, seeds, pesticides, electricity, water, diesel labour, transportation etc. has increased a lot.”Reiterating his demand, Gandhi said lakhs of farmers are looking at Adityanath with the hope that he will further increase the cane prices.“With the continuous rise in input cost for farmers, the cane prices should be fixed at minimum ₹400 per quintal. It is a matter of livelihood for lakhs of farmers and labourers,” Gandhi said.This is the second time the Pilibhit MP has written to the chief minister. He sought an increase in sugarcane prices earlier this month as well.Gandhi earlier sought various relief measures for farmers in Uttar Pradesh including subsidy on diesel, bonus above MSP of wheat and paddy and doubling the amount under the PM KISAN scheme.He also advocated for re-engaging with protesting farmers to reach a common ground during the Muzaffarnagar Mahapanchayat which was held on September 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varun-gandhi-writes-to-cm-yogi-again-urges-to-increase-sugarcane-prices-101632737506437.html
27-09-2021||India||'India is open': Twitterati take on Bharat Bandh with this trend||Farmers protesting against the three farm laws passed by Parliament in September last year organised Bharat Bandh (pan-India shutdown) on Monday. The farmer organisations, about 40 in number, have claimed that the bandh has received support from more than 500 farmer organizations, 15 trade unions and some political parties.But on Twitter, #भारत_खुला_है (India is open) is trending under which people from different parts of the country are posting picture showing things are normal in their respective cities."My city is fully open. Surat do not support Bharat bandh," tweeted Shubham Pathak.My city is fully open.Surat do not support Bharat bandh.#भारत_खुला_है pic.twitter.com/8XCcK7lGy4"Samyukta Kisan Morcha plan has floped. Today our country is completly open so go where you wanna go, No buddy can stop you...." tweeted Amit Sen, a blogger.Samyukta Kisan Morcha plan has floped.Today our country is completly open so go where you wanna go, No buddy can stop you....  #भारत_खुला_है pic.twitter.com/WA0NItY5NwAnother user Prince Raj posted a video, showing normal traffic flow in Uttar Pradesh's Noida.India is not closed, everything is going on as normal.#भारत_खुला_है pic.twitter.com/WttTyCMMduThe shutdown has not evoked intended reponse in some parts of the country. In India's financial capital Mumbai, news agency PTI quoted a police officer as saying that there is no impact of the Bandh in the city. Similarly, in Arunachal Pradesh, all services, including public transport, banks and commercial establishments, are operating normally, the police said.There have been no protests and life remained normal in the state capital, Itanagar Capital Region (ICR) Superintendent of Police (SP) Jimmy Chiram said.In Delhi, the auto and taxi unions as well as several traders' bodies extended only "in-principle support" to Bharat Bandh and decided not to join the strike, saying their livelihood has already been hit hard due to the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown.The Bharat Bandh call has been given by Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) to mark a year of President Ram Nath Kovind giving his assent to the three central laws. It is in effect from 6am to 4pm.Farmers mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been protesting on the borders of the national capital since November 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-is-open-twitterati-take-on-bharat-bandh-with-this-trend-101632735555796.html
27-09-2021||India||Bharat Bandh in photos: Massive traffic jams, train services hit||Vehicular traffic was severely hit on several key roads in Delhi and neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana due to Bharat Bandh call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) to mark the first anniversary of the enactment of three farm laws passed by Centre in September last year. Farmers blocked roads and national highways at Delhi borders while the Delhi Traffic Police issued a traffic alert urging commuters to avoid the Ghazipur border stretch between Delhi and Uttar Pradesh.Here are a few glimpses of traffic jams across the nation today.Heavy traffic jams ensued on the Gurugram-Delhi border as the Delhi Police and paramilitary jawans checked vehicles entering the national capital. The Delhi Noida Direct (DND) flyway also witnessed massive traffic congestion.The Delhi Police has also closed all the routes leading to the Red Fort in the national capital and barricades were placed on the road as a precautionary measure.Farmers were seen squatting on railway tracks and blocking rail routes in Sonipat, Haryana to register their protest. A similar scene was witnessed in nearby Patiala in Punjab where members of the BKU-Ugrahan blocked railway tracks as part of the agitation.Many places in Punjab, where farmer leaders are known to spearhead the year-long protest, saw a complete shutdown. Farmers blocked the Moga-Ferozepur and Moga-Ludhiana national highways.The 10-hour Bharat Bandh garnered support from more than 500 farmer organizations, 15 trade unions, political parties, six state governments and varied sections of society.Farmers have been protesting at different sites since November 26 last year against the three enacted farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Despite several rounds of talks between the farmers and the Centre, the impasse remains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-in-photos-massive-traffic-jams-train-services-hit-101632729695217.html
27-09-2021||India||Bengaluru police detain some protestors during Bharat Bandh||Bengaluru police detained some farmers who were protesting against the three Central farm laws enacted last year during the nationwide day-long Bharat Bandh on Monday. The protesting farmers were picked up from Maurya Circle in the heart of the city, farmers claimed. Kurubur Shanthakumar, a prominent farmer leader from Karnataka, claimed that the farmers were arrested without any reason.“From Maurya circle, without giving any information, they arrested our farmers and brought them to Adugodi police station. Farmers said that they will not get down from the bus. Why were we arrested in violation of the law? Did we do any procession, anything illegal or caused any disturbance? The police have not told us anything,” Shanthakumar alleged.Despite some farmers being in preventive custody, farmers organisations continued their protests and took out a march till Mysore Bank circle in the central business district of Bengaluru.Kodihalli Chandrashekar, the president of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha has said that several rallies from various parts of Bengaluru will converge in the heart of the city to protest against the farm laws, price rise etc.Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Karnataka has asked protestors to ensure there is no disruption of services or any inconvenience to the public.“After Covid-19 (related lockdowns) people are just coming out, economic activities have just resumed and people should not face any more problems. I have already requested protesters that they should not do anything that adds to the problems of people,” Basavaraj Bommai said on Monday.He added that the farmers should find other ways to express their disagreements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-police-detain-some-protestors-during-bharat-bandh-101632732645321.html
27-09-2021||India||‘They want to follow Taliban’: BKU (Bhanu) chief slams Bharat Bandh||Bharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) national president Bhanu Pratap Singh said on Monday that the 10-hour Bharat Bandh will affect the country’s economy as he launched a sharp attack on another farmer leader Rakesh Tikait. Drawing a comparison with the recent violent takeover of Afghanistan by the Taliban, Bhanu Pratap alleged that Tikait and others want to follow the footsteps of the Taliban by continuing similar activities back in India. “They (Rakesh Tikait) call themselves ‘Kisan neta' and then announce Bharat Bandh, which affects the economy and farmers. How does it even benefit anyone?” he said while speaking to news agency ANI.“No one should support Bharat Bandh and it should be opposed. I request the government to ban such organisations (farmer unions) which are involved in terrorist activities since January 26. I appeal to all state governments and the Centre,” the BKU (Bhanu) national president also told the news agency.#WATCH | "...They (Rakesh Tikait) call themselves 'kisan neta & then announce Bharat Bandh, which affects economy & farmers. How does it even benefit anyone? They want to follow in footsteps of Taliban by continuing similar activities...": Bhanu Pratap Singh, BKU-BHANU President pic.twitter.com/WQri1UMAH4Bhanu Pratap Singh has been one of the prominent critics of the protests at the borders of Delhi against the Centre’s three farm laws. Previously, as widespread violence erupted during the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day (January 26) this year, Singh alleged that the farmer groups protesting at borders of the national capital such as Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri were “Congress brought and Congress sent”.The 10-hour long Bharat Bandh, called by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) from 6am to 4pm on Monday, is being observed across India to mark the first anniversary of the three new farm laws getting presidential assent. Traffic jams have been reported in borders in Delhi and surrounding regions, with protesting farmers only allowing emergency vehicles such as ambulances to pass.BKU spokesperson Rakesh Tikait on Monday sympathised with the problems that people were facing due to the Bandh but said that farmers have been also been facing problems due to the new farm laws for the past 10 months. He also said that nothing has been sealed amid the ongoing nationwide strike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/they-want-to-follow-taliban-bku-bhanu-chief-slams-bharat-bandh-101632727205451.html
27-09-2021||India||On World Tourism Day, PM Modi says hospitals and hospitality work in tandem||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said places with more vaccination and better healthcare infrastructure will attract more tourists, especially during the coronavirus pandemic, as he stressed that the hospital and hospitality sectors work in tandem. “It is also a coincidence that today's program is being organised on World Tourism Day. Some may wonder what does health care program have to do with tourism?,” PM Modi asked while addressing the launch event of the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission. “But health has a very strong relationship with tourism. Because when our health infrastructure is integrated and strengthened, it also affects the tourism sector in a positive way,” he pointed out.He asked whether a tourist will want to visit a place that doesn’t have good health infrastructure. “And after corona, it has become all the more important. Tourists will feel safe in places that have vaccinated the most number of people. And you must have noticed that in places like Himachal, Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Goa and Andaman and Nicobar—the tourist destination states—there has been a stress on the pace of vaccination so that tourists have a sense of trust,” he added.Also read | Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission: All you need to knowWorld Tourism Day is observed to stress the potential of tourism and raise awareness of its importance in affecting the international community’s social, cultural, political and economic values. This year the theme of World Tourism Day is 'Tourism for Inclusive Growth’ and the World Tourism Organization (UNWTO) has urged businesses, tourists, UN agencies, member states and non-members to "celebrate tourism’s unique ability to ensure that nobody is left behind as the world begins to open up again and look to the future".Also read | Ayushman Bharat and the path to universal health coverage in IndiaThe Prime Minister also expressed gratitude to all doctors, nurses, the medical staff of the nation, for their efforts in the vaccination drive or treatment of Covid-19 patients. He said it is very important that the medical services in villages should be improved in order to improve healthcare services across the country. "Today the network related to primary health care is being strengthened in the village and near the house. So far 80,000 such centres have been made operational. Unprecedented reforms are also taking place in medical education to transform India's health sector. Today more doctors and paramedical manpower are being prepared in the country than before in 7-8 years," he said.PM Modi noted that the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission will now connect the digital health solutions of hospitals across the country and play a big role in eliminating problems in the medical treatment of the poor and middle class. PM Modi said that the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission has the potential to bring a revolutionary change to the country’s health facilities. Under the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission, a digital health ID will be provided to people that will contain their health records. The Prime Minister announced the pilot project of the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission during his Independence Day speech on August 15, 2020. Currently, Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission is being implemented in a pilot phase in six union territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-world-tourism-day-pm-modi-says-hospitals-and-hospitality-work-in-tandem-101632728798690.html
27-09-2021||India||Shops, offices, schools closed, transport off road during Bharat Bandh in Odisha||Normal life was affected in several districts of Odisha on Monday following a 10-hour countrywide shutdown called by Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a united front of farmer outfits that has been demanding repeal of the three farm laws enacted by Centre a year ago. The shutdown in Odisha is supported by political parties such as the Congress and the Communist Party of India (CPI).The Bharat Bandh began from 6 am and will end at 4 pm and protestors had urged that all government and private offices, educational and other institutions, shops, industries, and commercial establishments as well as public events and functions remained shut during this period. However, emergency services including ambulances and fire services were exempted.In Bhubaneswar, members of Odisha Krushak Sangha and other protestors staged a Rail Roko (Railway Blockade) and stopped traffic at the Master Canteen Square. In Balasore, the agitators prevented the Bangiriposi Express from leaving, and on the main road of the town, vehicles were detained on roads. In Bolangir, the agitators closed the main post office and picketed at the railway station, obstructing Ispat Express for about half an hour.“The farmers are on strike since the last 10 months. But, PM Modi did not get time to discuss the issue with the agitating farmers. We are observing the ‘bandh’ (shutdown) demanding the repeal of the three farm laws,” said zonal secretary of CPI, Sura Jena.The government had already closed all educational institutions in the state on Monday over cyclone Gulab’s impact in southern Odisha. Odisha State Road Transport Corporation (OSRTC) buses will not ply till 3 pm today in view of the shutdown.Special secretary of home department, Santosh Bala had advised secretaries of all departments to ask all state employees working at the Lok Seva Bhawan, Kharavela Bhawan, Rajiv Bhawan and the heads of departments to reach office at least by 9.30 am on Monday.Several shops, business establishments, government, and private offices, were closed across the state. Major roads including state and National Highways have been blocked affecting vehicular communication.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shops-offices-schools-closed-transport-off-road-during-bharat-bandh-in-odisha-101632729524812.html
27-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Bharat Bandh causes traffic snarls on DND, Chilla routes||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bharat Bandh: Key UP-Delhi road closed, traffic crawls on DND and Chilla routesThe closure of a key border stretch connecting Delhi with Uttar Pradesh due to Bharat Bandh led to increased traffic flow on other roads connecting the two states on Monday morning. Read more‘New and extraordinary phase’: PM Modi launches Ayushman Bharat Digital MissionPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission via video conferencing, describing this as a “new and extraordinary phase that the country is entering today.” This mission, he said, has the power to bring “revolutionary changes” in India's health facilities. Read moreA day after UP cabinet expansion, Mayawati’s ‘caste’ jibe at Yogi govtBahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Monday took a dig at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in Uttar Pradesh over the induction of new ministers in the cabinet ahead of the assembly elections in the state next year. Taking to Twitter, Mayawati said that the state government is trying to woo voters on the basis of caste by bringing new ministers into the cabinet. Read moreSidhartha Mallya denies trying to ‘reclaim image’ via ‘PR stunt’ book, says if he wanted money, he could’ve gossipedSidhartha Mallya, who recently wrote a memoir about his mental health issues, has dismissed allegations that the book is a ‘PR stunt’ to reclaim his image. Sidhartha, the son of liquor baron Vijay Mallya, is an actor. Read more'We had groomed him for the last 3-4 years': MSK Prasad lists 2 players who should have been in India's T20 WC squadIndia's 15-member squad for the T20 World Cup starting in October has more or less covered all bases. With a good blend of batsmen, all-rounder, fast bowlers and spinner, India seemed to have picked the best combination of players for the ICC tournament. The highlight of the squad was the return of R Ashwin to India's limited-overs setup after four long years, whereas the inclusion of Varun Chakravarthy and Rahul Chahar ahead of the more experienced Yuzvendra Chahal. Read moreTata Safari Gold Edition, first impression: Shimmer of gleam, focus on featuresTata Safari Gold Edition comes at shortly on the heels of the Safari launch in a bitterly fought three-row SUV space that has seen major movements in recent times. And Tata Motors has been very active in taking out special editions of its passenger vehicles to create and maintain a buzz. Read morePooja Hegde is stunning and classy in Rs95k thigh-slit ruffled gown, all picsAla Vaikunthapurramuloo star Pooja Hegde knows how to create the perfect red carpet look. Whether the actor is attending an awards show or a big event, she is always impeccably dressed. Her vibrant collection of sarees and gowns leaves her fans swooning. For her recent appearance at the SIIM Awards 2021, the star set the red carpet on fire in a standout aubergine one-shoulder gown with structured details. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bharat-bandh-causes-traffic-snarls-on-dnd-chilla-routes-101632725950936.html
27-09-2021||India||Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission: All you need to know||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission, which according to the central government will strengthen health facilities in the country. “Today is a very important day. The drive to strengthen the health facilities of the country, in the last 7 years, is entering a new phase today. This is not an ordinary phase. This is an extraordinary phase,” PM Modi said, lauding the digital initiative.“The drive to strengthen the health facilities of the country, in the last 7 years, is entering a new phase today. This is not an ordinary phase. This is an extraordinary phase,” he added.The healthcare sector welcomed the move, calling it a “progressive step”. “The PMDHM would be a revolutionary concept in the healthcare delivery of our country and would be akin to the introduction of Aadhaar card introduced in our country many years ago as a unique identification card for our citizens.,” said Dr Sudarshan Ballal, Chairman, Manipal Hospitals.Know all about Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission:1. Under the mission, a unique digital health ID will be provided to the people, which will contain all the health records of the person.2. The pilot project of the National Digital Health Mission was announced by PM Modi during his Independence Day speech from the Red Fort on August 15, 2020.3. At present, the project is being implemented in the pilot phase in six Union Territories. The nationwide rollout of the project coincides with National Health Authority (NHA) celebrating the third anniversary of Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB PM-JAY), a statement from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said.4. The mission will enable access and exchange of longitudinal health records of citizens with their consent.5. The key components of the project include a health ID for every citizen that will also work as their health account, to which personal health records can be linked and viewed with the help of a mobile application, a Healthcare Professionals Registry (HPR) and Healthcare Facilities Registries (HFR) that will act as a repository of all healthcare providers across both modern and traditional systems of medicine. This will ensure ease of doing business for doctors and hospitals and healthcare service providers, the statement said.6. The mission will create integration within the digital health ecosystem, similar to the role played by the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) in revolutionising payments. Citizens will only be a click-away from accessing healthcare facilities, the PMO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayushman-bharat-digital-mission-all-you-need-to-know-101632723182266.html
27-09-2021||India||Bharat Bandh cripples normal life in Kerala||The dawn to dusk Bharat Bandh called by a front of farmers and trade bodies in Kerala crippled normal life on Monday with the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) and opposition Congress party supporting disruptions against the Union government‘s three farm laws, enacted a year ago.All offices, business establishments and educational institutions remained closed throughout the state. Though private vehicles were allowed, they were blocked forcibly at some places. No important examination was disrupted since the state education department had rescheduled examinations to be held on Monday.Rail and air services were functioning normally but arriving passengers were left stranded outside railway stations and airports in absence of public transport. Police and voluntary organisations have been making some alternate arrangements to transport them. Similarly, three major Information Technology (IT) parks of the state were also functioning. No untoward incident has been reported so far. Later, a sit-in will be organised before Raj Bhawan in the state capital.The ruling Left Democratic Front and Congress-led United Democratic Front leaders have exhorted workers to make the shutdown a success. “It is sad that farmers have been agitating for almost a year. The Centre is ignoring their repeated pleas. The country never witnessed such mute and irresponsible government,” said LDF convenor A Vijayaraghavan. Though many merchants’ associations and tour bodies asked the LDF to make it a symbolic protest in view of the pandemic situation, the front did not agree.Several farmers’ organisations that have put up a united front under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) have called for the countrywide shutdown to strengthen their movement against the three farm laws--the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-cripples-normal-life-in-kerala-101632727186747.html
27-09-2021||India||Meet Sumona Guha, the only Indian-American from Biden's team when he met PM Modi||When Prime Minister Narendra Modi met US President Joe Biden during his three-day visit to the United States, a number of top American officials were in attendance. But there was only one Indian-American who was part of that meeting - Sumona Guha - who was appointed as special assistant to the President and senior director for South Asia by Biden after he took over as US President.She was also a part of US Vice President Kamala Harris' high-profile entourage during her meeting with PM Modi. Guha was the co-chair of the South Asia foreign policy working group on the Biden-Harris campaign.According to US Department of State, before joining the top post, Guha worked in the Secretary's policy planning division. Previously, she worked as a senior advisor in the Office of the Special Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan.Guha also served as a special advisor for National Security Affairs in the Office of the Vice President, as a foreign affairs fellow in the US Senate, and as special assistant to the Under Secretary of State for political affairs.According to her LinkedIn profile, Guha holds degrees from Georgetown and Johns Hopkins University. She started her career as an economist in 1996 in the office of national drug control policy and the last update shows her current position as senior vice president at Albright Stonebridge Group, according to the LinkedIn profile.Biden, who was sworn in as the 46th president of the United States on January 20 this year, created history by appointing at least 55 Indian-Americans to key positions in his administration, ranging from his speech writer to almost every wing of the government.Nearly half of them are women and a sizable number of them are working in the White House. So far, the Obama-Biden administration (2009-2017) has the distinction of appointing the largest number of Indian-Americans in any administration.During the meeting between PM Modi and President Biden, Guha was among the top US officials like secretary of state Antony Blinken, National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan, Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for Indo-Pacific Affairs Kurt Campbell and Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian Affairs Donald Lu.President Biden had said earlier this year that Indian-American are taking over the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meet-sumona-guha-the-only-indian-american-from-biden-s-team-when-he-met-pm-modi-101632725396951.html
27-09-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi voices support for farmers, slams govt as exploitative||Rahul Gandhi on Monday voiced support for the farmers’ non-violent protest via Twitter. The Bharat Bandh on Monday by Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a group of more than 30 farmers’ organisations, marks the first anniversary of the enactment of the three farm laws that the farmers’ grouping is opposed to. A countrywide strike is being observed from 6 am to 4 pm.Track Live UpdatesIn a tweet on Monday, Gandhi alleged that the Central government was “exploitative” and extended support for the farmers protest using the hashtag ##IStandWithFarmers.Several other political leaders have also voiced their support for Monday’s Bharat bandh. Charanjit S Channi, the recently appointed chief minister of Punjab and a regional leader of the Indian National Congress, also voiced support for the nationwide strike. He urged the government to repeal the farm laws, while also encouraging the farmers to “raise their voices in a peaceful manner.”Abu Asim Azmi, a Maharashtra lawmaker (MLA) and a regional leader of the Samajwadi Party, has also voiced support for the Bharat Bandh. He urged every Indian citizen to support the farmers and posted a video asserting that the government must respond to the requests of the farmers.General secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) Liberation Dipankar Bhattacharya and Yogendra Yadav also tweeted in support of the farmers.In addition to these leaders, state governments of Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Punjab, Jharkhand and Andhra Pradesh have extended their support to the Bharat Bandh. Several parties like the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Samajwadi Party (SP), Telugu Desam Party (TDP), Janata Dal (Secular), Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), SAD-Sanyukt, Yuvajana Sramika Rythu (YSR) Congress Party, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Swaraj India and others have also supported the call for Bharat Bandh on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-tweets-support-for-farmers-calls-centre-exploitative-101632725204297.html
27-09-2021||India||‘We apologise to people facing problems, but…’: BKU's Tikait on Bharat Bandh||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait, who has been spearheading the agitation against the Centre's three new farm laws since November last year, on Monday tendered an apology to people as they faced problems due to the 10-hour long Bharat Bandh across the country to mark one year of the enactment of these laws by the Centre. Tikait said that Bharat Bandh got unprecedented support across the country. “We apologise to people facing problems, but farmers have also been facing problems for the last 10 months. Farmers are making good arrangements to allow emergency vehicles to pass and also commuters are provided with refreshments such as water, tea and milk,” Tikait wrote on the microblogging site.Also Read| As Bharat Bandh begins, Rakesh Tikait says haven’t sealed anythingThe Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which has called the Bharat Bandh from 6am to 4pm, said that all government and private offices, educational and other institutions, shops, industries and commercial establishments etc will be closed and no events or functions will be organised. However, emergency and essential services including hospitals, pharmacies, ambulances, relief and rescue work and people attending to any personal emergency have been allowed during the strike.SKM के आव्हान पर देशभर में भारत बंद को मिला अभूतपूर्व समर्थन,नागरिकों को हो रही परेशानी के लिए क्षमा चाहते हैं लेकिन किसान भी 10 महीने से झेल रहे हैं तमाम परेशानियां,किसानों द्वारा आक्समिक वाहनों को निकलवाने व यात्रियों हेतु पानी चाय दूध के बेहतर इंतजाम किए गए हैं।#BharathBandhEarlier in the day, the BKU spokesperson told news agency ANI that the farmers just want to send a message with this Bharat Bandh and nothing has been sealed. Tikait also appealed to the shopkeepers to keep their stores closed till 4pm and open only after that. So far, 11 rounds of talks have been held between the farmer unions and the Centre to arrive at a consensus on the three new farm laws. But the discussions have remained inconclusive.The meetings between the above two parties have not resumed after widespread violence was seen during the farmers' tractor rally on Republic Day this year. The farmer unions have repeatedly said that these new laws will eliminate the mandi and the minimum support price (MSP) policy, and leave them at the mercy of big corporations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-apologise-to-people-facing-problems-but-bku-s-tikait-on-bharat-bandh-101632722437760.html
27-09-2021||India||Bharat Bandh: Pt Shree Ram Sharma Metro station closed for security reasons||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Monday closed Pandit Shree Ram Sharma station for commuters as a security measure in view of the Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ union on Monday.The station, which is located on the Delhi-Haryana border, is part of DMRC’s Green line – Kirti Nagar/Inder lok to Brigadier Hoshiar Singh in Bahadurgarh. It is located near the Tikri border, one of the sites for ongoing farmers’ protest.At 8am the DMRC tweeted, “Entry/exit for Pandit Shree Ram Sharma has been closed.” While the station was closed, Metro operations on the Green line were running smoothly. A DMRC official said that the station has been closed as per the suggestion of a security agency.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a collective of more than 30 farmer organisations, has called a Bharat Bandh to mark the first anniversary of the enactment of the three farm laws that they are opposed to.Dhaarna Yadav, district transport officer and secretary, Regional Transport Authority, Jhajjar, said that the Pandit Shree Ram Sharma Metro station was closed due to ongoing farmers protest, “They have blocked the entry and exit gates of the metro station along with other railway tracks. The station is near the Tikri border where large number of farmers have gathered,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shree-ram-sharma-metro-station-on-green-line-shut-for-commuters-due-to-farmers-stir-101632723404461.html
27-09-2021||India||'Country entering new and extraordinary phase’: PM Modi launches Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission via video conferencing, describing this as a “new and extraordinary phase that the country is entering today.” This mission, he said, has the power to bring “revolutionary changes” in India's health facilities.Also Read | PM Modi to launch Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission todayRecalling the launch of Ayushman Bharat in 2018, PM Modi expressed his happiness at the rollout of Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission three years later. He also said that this scheme will benefit the poor and middle class the most by eliminating all problems they face in getting medical treatment.This initiative has enabled India to administer nearly 900 million Covid-19 vaccine doses thus far, Prime Minister Modi said, adding that even advanced countries do not have technology such as this. “It will bring all stakeholders in the field of health on a single platform and also help a patient connect with a doctor who speaks the same language,” he further remarked.PM Modi also drew an analogy between tourism and health. “Today is World Tourism Day as well. You must be wondering what is the connection between health and tourism. But there is. Tell me, will tourists like to visit a place which does not have emergency health services?” he asked.Also Read | World Tourism Day 2021: Know its history, significance and themeThe Prime Minister then touched upon the reach of Unified Payments Interface (UPI), saying that no other country has a digital infrastructure has huge as India's, which has about 800 million internet users and around 430 million bank accounts under Jan Dhan Yojana.Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission:PM Modi announced the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission during his Independence Day speech last year. It was later implemented in six Union territories as a pilot project.The key components of this scheme, which is also called the National Digital Health Mission or the PM Digital Health Mission, are a health identity card for every citizen, a healthcare professionals registry, and healthcare facilities registries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-ayushman-bharat-digital-mission-101632721327881.html
27-09-2021||India||Remnants of cyclone Gulab to bring heavy rain to central and west India||Cyclone Gulab weakened into a deep depression over north Andhra Pradesh and adjoining south Odisha on Sunday night and moved westwards. At 5.30am on Monday, the deep depression lay about 110km south-southeast of Jagdalpur (Chhattisgarh) and 140km west-northwest of Kalingapatnam (Andhra Pradesh).It is likely to move nearly westwards and weaken further into a depression during the next 12 hours. Light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy and extremely heavy rain (over 20cm) is likely at isolated places very over north coastal Andhra Pradesh, south Chhattisgarh, Telangana and Vidarbha on Monday.Heavy to very heavy rain is also expected at isolated places over south Odisha and Rayalaseema.Light to moderate rainfall at most places with extremely heavy rain at isolated places is very likely over Vidarbha, south Chhattisgarh and Telangana; heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places over Konkan, Goa, Madhya Maharashtra, Odisha, Marathwada is likely during next 2-3 days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. “As the cyclone weakens, the remnant will move towards central India bringing rain to central India and west India including Maharashtra and Gujarat at least for next 2-3 days,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remnants-of-cyclone-gulab-to-bring-heavy-widespread-rain-to-central-and-west-india-101632722204132.html
27-09-2021||India||Bharat Bandh: Delhi Police shuts traffic movement towards Ghazipur from UP||The Delhi Traffic Police said it has stopped vehicular movement headed from Uttar Pradesh towards Delhi’s Ghazipur border due to farmers’ a nationwide strike against the three farm laws on Monday. “Traffic alert! Traffic movement has been closed from UP towards Ghazipur due to protest,” the traffic police tweeted. In another tweet, the police said both carriageways at Red Fort, Chhatta Rail and Subhash Marg had been closed too. However it didn’t give a reason for the closure. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) is observing a 10-hour strike to mark the first anniversary of the enactment of the three farm laws, resulting in disruptions in traffic on Monday. The strike started at 6 am and will continue till 4 pm today. As part of the strike, all government and private offices, educational and other institutions, shops, industries and commercial establishments as well as public events and functions will be closed across the country. Farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh and Haryana since November last year, against the three newly enacted farm laws. Ghazipur border is among three places in Delhi where farmers have camped since November last year in protest. The city’s borders with Haryana at Singhu and Tikri are the other two protest sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-delhi-police-shuts-traffic-movement-towards-ghazipur-from-up-101632721604143.html
27-09-2021||India||Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway blocked to protest farm laws||The protesting farmers on Monday morning, during their ‘Bharat Bandh’ call, blocked the Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway since 6 am and said they will open it up only by 4 pm to mark their protest. Ghaziabad police said entire traffic from Delhi to Ghaziabad was passing through other border points such as the one near EDM Mall, at Anand Vihar and Surya Nagar. The farmers under the banner of ‘Samyukta Kisan Morcha’ have been protesting since November last year and demanding rollback of three new farm laws and a new law on minimum support price (MSP). The Bharat Bandh has been called to protest on the first anniversary of the enactment of the three contentious farm laws. “Our supporters have staged a sit-in at the Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway since 6 am and we will vacate the area by 4pm. However, we are ensuring that no emergency vehicle is stopped. The Bharat Bandh call has been given to protest the three farm laws,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, farmer leader and UP-Gate site spokesperson from the Samyukta Kisan Morcha. Ghaziabad police officers said the farmers’ blockade of the Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway of the Delhi Meerut Expressway(DME) started at 6 am. “They told us that the place will be vacated by 4 pm. In order to ensure smooth movement, the traffic has been diverted through other borders near Anand Vihar. Our personnel are deployed and trying to manage traffic,” said Gyanendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (city 2). The other carriageway of the DME from Ghaziabad-Delhi is already shut since December last year when farmers arrived and erected a dais at the UP-Gate site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhighaziabad-carriageway-blocked-to-protest-farm-laws-101632718663725.html
27-09-2021||India||Bharat Bandh: Farmers block highways, rail tracks; traffic hit on Delhi, Haryana borders||Farmers protesting against the three central farm laws on Monday blocked highways and railway tracks affecting traffic in several areas during the 10-hour Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) as police increased deployment in Haryana and Delhi. Police in Delhi and Haryana stepped up security in border areas of the national capital in view of the Bharat Bandh and a senior police officer said adequate security arrangements have been made to maintain the law and order situation and prevent any untoward incident.Police officials said patrolling has been intensified, extra personnel have been deployed at pickets, especially on all roads leading to Delhi through villages, near border areas and every vehicle entering the national capital is being thoroughly checked. “In view of Bharat Bandh, adequate security arrangements have been made as a precautionary measure. Pickets at the border areas have been strengthened and all vital installations, including India Gate and Vijay Chowk, have adequate deployment,” deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said.Also read | As Bharat Bandh begins, Rakesh Tikait says haven’t sealed anythingNo protester is being allowed to enter Delhi from the three protest sites at the city’s borders, the official said. “The security is preventive and we are fully alert. There is no call for Bharat Bandh in Delhi, but we are watching the developments and adequate number of personnel are on the ground,” another officer said.Also watch | Bharat Bandh begins; roads, rail tracks blocked; Rahul Gandhi extends supportShops closed, toll plazas blockedIn Punjab, farmers block the Chandigarh-Bathinda road at several places and some of them squatted at Rajpura, Bahadurgarh Toll plaza, southern bypass and railway tracks in Patiala and Nabha. A couple of passenger trains bound for Ambala Cantonment and beyond are also said to have been stuck at the Yamunanagar-Jagadhri railway station, but there is no official word yet from the Ambala Railway Division.Catch Bharat Bandh Live Updates hereIn Haryana, most of the shops and establishments remained closed in Hisar, Bhiwani, Rohtak, Jind and other parts of the state. Farmers assembled at Rohad toll plaza and blocked the Rohtak-Delhi highway with trucks and tractors, while other groups blocked Rohtak-Chandigarh highway, Hisar-Chandigarh highway in Jind and Hisar-Rohtak highway near Madina toll plaza. Protesters also sat on railway tracks in Jhajjar's Bahadurgarh, Fatehgarh village in Dadri, near Ramayana toll plaza in Hisar and other parts of the region.Also read | Bharat Bandh: DMRC shuts exit, entry gates for Pandit Ram Sharma Metro stationPolice officials said security has been tightened at the Singhu and Tikri borders where farmers have been camping for the last one year. Entry and exit gates of Metro stations from Tikri to Bahadurgarh have been closed and those travelling to Delhi faced problems.Inderjit Singh, SKM leader, said they are observing the Bharat Bandh to give a message to the Centre to repeal the three farm laws. "We have appealed to shopkeepers, small factory owners to shut down their establishments in support of farmers till 4pm. Doctors, medical staff and those going for an emergency can pass through. We have occupied highways and railway tracks to raise our voice," he added.Also read | Bharat Bandh today: What's affected, what’s notEarlier in the day, the spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Rakesh Tikait said emergency vehicles are being allowed to ply on the roads. “Ambulances, doctors or those going for an emergency can pass through. We've not sealed down anything, we just want to send a message,” Rakesh Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The Bharat Bandh will be observed till 4pm by the protesting farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-farmers-block-highways-rail-tracks-traffic-hit-on-delhi-haryana-borders-101632716804859.html
27-09-2021||India||Indra Nooyi memoir: The secrets to balancing work and family life||How did a middle-class girl from Chennai who went to business school “with men, was taught by men and studied the work of men to enter industries dominated by men” become the global chief executive of PepsiCo in 2006 and only the 11th woman to lead a Fortune 500 company? Indra Nooyi tells the story of that journey in her memoir, My Life in Full (published by Hachette India) in 313 pages that are packed with her experiences of settling in America, negotiating the boardroom, balancing work and family life and what the pandemic has meant for workplaces.Sixty-five-year-old Nooyi, who retired from PepsiCo in 2019 after serving at the top for more than a decade, traces her journey at Boston Consulting Group (BCG), Motorola, ABB before finally landing at PepsiCo while navigating the pressures of getting good childcare, handling a child being subject to racist behaviour in school, the importance of power dressing while also living up to her mother’s expectation of a woman’s duties. Nooyi hit the headlines across the world in 2017 when she revealed that the day she got her promotion as president of PepsiCo, her mother told her to go out and get milk. When Nooyi protested, she said her mother told her to “leave that crown in the garage.”That comment, which set off endless international columns and articles about work-life balance, gets context in the book when Nooyi reveals how she sets up a roster system with her family in India to take turns to look after the first of her two daughters. When she couldn’t find reliable childcare in the US, her mother and mother-in-law and other relatives took turns to look after her older child, Preetha, and do some housework and Nooyi and her husband would take over in the evening. “We didn’t pay the visiting relatives or my mother for their help,’’ Nooyi writes, adding that they saw it as “intergenerational responsibility and a joy’’. By the time Nooyi had her second daughter, Tara, they were able to find childcare but throughout the book, there’s emphasis on the it-takes-a-village-to-raise-children theory. From family, to the efficient secretary who steps in for school events, to neighbours who drop in and oversee childcare.In the book, Nooyi focuses on the importance that organisational support plays in working women’s lives. For instance, she lists the offer of three months of paid leave by BCG to take care of her father in India when he was diagnosed with cancer. “I believe I would have curtailed my career, by quitting BCG to be with my dad and to help my family, had I not received this paid leave... we would have been in real financial trouble and unsettled,” she writes. Nooyi brought her father to the US for his treatment but he was unable to fight it and Nooyi went back to work after two months.Then again, an important role was played by her immediate boss Gerhard Salge at ABB who didn’t stop giving her important assignments just because she was pregnant. In fact, the day after delivering her child, he came over to brief her about an important project. Nooyi spent her limited maternity leave with regular meetings at home but says that it was her choice to do so. At the same time, Nooyi writes about battling separation anxiety with her newborn and sleepless nights, constantly questioning her choices.The most interesting parts of the book, however, are the bits of her describing her PepsiCo years and navigating a leadership role with hardly any other woman in the boardroom. While her legacy has been to make a push for healthy products and Performance with Purpose (PwP) or how to reduce water wastage and plastic usage by Pepsi products, the bits in her book that stay with you is her revelation of the change she noticed when she worked with a stylist as CEO, with one colleague even sending her a note about how dressing well made her more authoritative. Nooyi also acknowledges that it may be ‘elitism’ to talk about the use of company plane but it allowed her to finally be able to be there for her daughters, to have the freedom to hop across the country for work meetings, but still be back home for dinner. As the book was finished during the pandemic, Nooyi, who now is an Amazon Board member and also International Cricket Council’s first independent female board member, makes a case for flexible working hours. “I believe job flexibility and remote work for everyone who needs it should be entirely routine. This will give families the chance to take care of home life obligations during the workday without feeling loaded with emotional consequences,’’ she writes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indra-nooyi-memoir-the-secrets-to-balancing-work-and-family-life-101632717104680.html
27-09-2021||India||Third diesel price hike makes it costlier by 70 paise on Monday||Diesel has become costlier by 70 paise a litre on Monday after state-run fuel retailers raised its rates by another 25 paise a litre, the third price hike of the fuel in the last four days as international crude oil prices head towards $80 a barrel on rising demand and supply concerns.Pump prices of petrol, however, remain frozen at ₹101.19 per litre since September 5. Diesel prices, which had softened to ₹88.62 per litre three weeks ago after climbing to record ₹89.87 a litre in mid-July, have been priced at ₹89.32 on Monday in Delhi.Retail prices of petrol and diesel are under pressure due to rising international oil rates and automobile fuel rates may see a further northward movement, two people working in different oil companies said, requesting anonymity.Benchmark Brent crude continued an upward movement in intraday trade on Monday with a gain of 1.83% at $79.52 a barrel. It has soared by over 10% from $72.22 per barrel three weeks ago. Last week, HT reported that fuel retailers would start raising fuel rates soon.After international oil prices dropped below $70 a barrel in mid-August, fuel retailers had started to cut fuel rates. Diesel prices were first reduced by 20 paise per litre on August 18 after it climbed to an all-time high of ₹89.87 a litre in mid-July and remained at that level for the next 34 days. Petrol prices were also reduced by 20 paise a litre for the first time on August 22, after it maintained a record of ₹101.84 per litre in Delhi for 36 days.Subsequently, several small price cuts made petrol and diesel cheaper by 65 paise a litre and ₹1.25 per litre, respectively, until their pump rates were frozen on September 5.According to the people mentioned above, international crude oil prices rose on subdued US oil production in view of the Ida hurricane which tore through the Gulf of Mexico, and robust demand on optimism about global economic growth.“Companies were holding prices, and expecting some tax relief from the government in terms of GST [Goods and Services Tax] relief, but the proposal to include petroleum products in GST was declined in the GST Council meeting on September 17, forcing companies to think about raising fuel rates” one person mentioned above, said. International oil rates, which are often volatile, directly influence pump prices of petrol and diesel in India. Heavy loads of Central and state taxes are also responsible for astronomically high rates of the auto fuels.Through 2020, as global crude prices plunged (below $20 a barrel in April last year), the central government raised excise duty on fuel to shore up its finances. States too followed suit as their revenues were hit on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. As a result, Central and state levies, combined, are over 50% of the retail prices of petrol and diesel. According to official data, the petroleum sector contributed ₹371,726 crore Central excise revenue in 2020-21, and ₹202,937 crore state levies or value-added tax (VAT).A further spike in auto fuel rates is expected as international crude prices are again moving north and the value of rupee is depreciating against the dollar. India imports more than 80% crude oil it processes and pays in dollars. In Delhi, Central levies account for over 32.5% of petrol’s price, and state taxes (VAT) 23.07%. On diesel, the Central excise is over 35.8% while VAT is more than 14.6%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3rd-diesel-price-hike-makes-it-costlier-by-70-paise-on-monday-101632715243434.html
27-09-2021||India||Delhi might get light rain or drizzle on Monday||Delhi is likely to witness a cloudy sky with light rain or drizzle on Monday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Monday is expected to touch 25 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature is predicted to hover around 34 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature on Sunday was 33.7 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature stood at 25.5 degrees Celsius.As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, a cloudy sky is expected on Tuesday and light rain may prevail on Wednesday.Delhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Monday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7 am stood at 92. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI stood at 75 in the satisfactory category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Sunday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said that scattered rainfall was the reason for Delhi’s AQI to be in the satisfactory category. “With the presence of light rainfall, AQI is going to be in the satisfactory category for the next three days,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-might-get-light-rain-or-drizzle-on-monday-101632713684604.html
27-09-2021||India||Bharat Bandh: DMRC shuts exit, entry gates for Pandit Ram Sharma Metro station||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Monday closed the entry and exit gates for Pandit Shree Ram Sharma Metro station in view of the ongoing Bharat Bandh that will continue till 4pm. “Security Update. Entry/exit for Pandit Shree Ram Sharma has been closed,” the DMRC tweeted. This Metro station on the Green Line of the network and is near the Tikri border with Haryana, one of the sites of the ongoing farmers' protests.Meanwhile, the Delhi Traffic Police closed traffic movement towards Ghazipur from Uttar Pradesh keeping in view of the Bharat Bandh. "Traffic movement has been closed from UP towards Ghazipur due to protest," tweeted Delhi Traffic Police.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a coalition of farmers' unions, has called a Bharat Bandh to mark the first anniversary of the enactment of the three farm laws. The Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, were passed last year.WATCH: Farmers’ Bharat Bandh begins; roads, rail tracks blocked; Rahul Gandhi extends support The three legislation opened the agriculture sector to the private players of the country, prompting countrywide protests by farmers' unions. The agitators claim that the laws are anti farmers and it would erode a longstanding mechanism that ensures farmers a minimum guaranteed price for their produce. However, the government says this will help growers get better prices.Since the agitation began in November last year, the Union government has had several rounds of discussions with farmers leaders but the impasse continues. Farmers are firm on their demands of complete repeal of laws and say they will not back down until the government agrees. In November, the farmers' agitation will complete one year.The Bharat Bandh garnered support from more than 500 farmer organisations, 15 trade unions, several political parties, six state governments and varied sections of society. State governments of Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Punjab, Jharkhand and Andhra Pradesh have extended their support to the Bharat Bandh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-dmrc-shuts-exit-entry-gates-for-pandit-ram-sharma-metro-station-101632710769798.html
27-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Amid Bharat Bandh, Tikait says haven’t sealed anything and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.As Bharat Bandh begins, Rakesh Tikait says haven’t sealed anythingAs a 10-hour Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) against the three central farm laws began on Monday, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said they have not sealed anything and emergency vehicles are being allowed to ply on the roads. Read more80 BJP leaders, TMC bigwigs to hit Bhawanipore streets for final campaignWith campaign for the September 30 bypoll for Kolkata’s Bhawanipore assembly seat scheduled to end at 5 pm on Monday, as many as 80 Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders will hit the streets to give one final push to generate support for party candidate Priyanka Tibrewal, while several Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders and ministers will bat for chief minister Mamata Banerjee during the finale. Read moreBharat Bandh: Farmers block rail tracks, roads in PunjabThe Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) from 6am to 4pm to mark the first anniversary of the enactment of the three farm laws by the Narendra Modi-led BJP government evoked a total response in Barnala district of Punjab on Monday. Read moreMaharashtra’s Covid-19 cases daily average dropped significantly in SeptemberMaharashtra has witnessed a significant fall in the average daily Covid-19 cases, helping the state government in easing the curbs and opening up schools, religious places and theatres. Read moreGermany polls: Country heads into unknown as rivals scramble to lead next govtGermany headed into a period of unpredictability Monday after a close election saw both main parties claim the right to lead Europe's biggest economy, leaving the question of who will succeed Angela Merkel wide open. Read moreVarun Dhawan does backbend yoga with Janhvi Kapoor at Malaika Arora's studio: Boys do yoga tooIf you follow your favourite celebrities on social media, you must have seen yoga that has become the go-to fitness routine for many stars. From Malaika Arora and Kareena Kapoor to Rakul Preet Singh and Alia Bhatt, celebrities often share pictures and videos of themselves doing yoga. Read moreHarshal Patel’s maiden IPL hat-trick that floored Mumbai Indians’ batting in Dubai – WATCHRoyal Challengers Bangalore on Sunday pulled off a terrific 54-run win against Mumbai Indians in Dubai. All-rounder Glenn Maxwell bagged the Player of the Match award for scoring a fifty and then picking up a couple of crucial wickets. Read moreRanbir Kapoor and Alia Bhatt make surprise trip to Jodhpur ahead of Shamshera actor's birthday, see picsAhead of his 39th birthday, Ranbir Kapoor and Alia Bhatt were photographed in Jodhpur. Paparazzi from the city took to Instagram and shared pictures of the couple walking out of the airport. Read moreWatch| PM Modi inspects new Parliament building construction site at night||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-amid-bharat-bandh-tikait-says-haven-t-sealed-anything-101632712044260.html
27-09-2021||India||Week-long events under Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav start today||The Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs will be organising week-long special events and programmes as part of the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ celebrations to mark 75 years of independence throughout India, starting Monday.“The highlight of the week will be the launch of the Swachh Bharat Mission -Urban 2.0 and AMRUT- 2.0 by the Prime Minister on 1st October,” the ministry said in a statement.On Monday, to celebrate 7 years of Swachh Bharat Mission -Urban (SBM-U), the ministry is organising “Swachhata Se Sampannata---Celebrating 7 years of Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban” programme where ‘Swachhata App 2.0’ and ‘Swachh Survekshan 2022’ will be launched.On the same day, ‘Kachra Alag Karo Amrit Diwas’ will be observed during which all over India, door to door campaign by groups of Swachhagrahis for source segregation of waste will be undertaken. Felicitation of best performing resident welfare associations, slum development authorities, and others will also be done on the day.On Tuesday and Wednesday, ‘Sarvjanik Sauchalaya Safai Jan Bhagidari Amrit Utsav’ will be celebrated, under which community and public toilets’ cleanliness feedback by citizens will be taken.According to the statement, the Prime Minister will launch Swachh Bharat Mission -Urban 2.0 on October 1. He will also launch AMRUT 2.0 on Friday. “Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) is the first focused national water mission and was first launched on 25th June, 2015 in 500 cities covering 60% of the urban population,” the statement read. All cities having a population above 100,000 are covered under the mission. On the last two days of the campaign week, ‘Safaimitra Samman Amrit Samaroh’ will also be organised on October 2 and 3, where a virtual interaction and loan disbursement to Safaimitras will be held with digital displays for sensitising the citizens. Felicitation of waste processing entrepreneurs and waste-to-art exhibitions are also being organised.The ministry has also chalked out various events on Housing For All (HFA) during the week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/housing-ministry-s-week-long-events-under-azadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav-start-today-101632712663192.html
27-09-2021||India||As Bharat Bandh begins, Rakesh Tikait says haven’t sealed anything||As a 10-hour Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) against the three central farm laws began on Monday, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said they have not sealed anything and emergency vehicles are being allowed to ply on the roads. “Ambulances, doctors or those going for an emergency can pass through. We've not sealed down anything, we just want to send a message,” Rakesh Tikait, the spokesperson of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. “We appeal to the shopkeepers to keep their shops closed for now and open only after 4pm. No farmer is coming here from outside,” Tikait added.However, traffic between Delhi and Uttar Pradesh was hit and farmers blocked several borders. Police in Haryana and Delhi have issued travel and traffic advisories about the Bharat Bandh and said national and state highways in the states may see some traffic disruptions for several hours. They have advised people to plan and modify their journey accordingly to avoid any inconvenience. Elaborate arrangements have been put in place by the civil and police administration.The Bharat Bandh called by the SKM, an umbrella body of more than 40 farmer unions, to mark the first anniversary of the enactment of the three farm laws started at 6am on Monday. According to the SKM’s Bharat Bandh guidelines all government and private offices, schools, colleges and other educational institutions, shops, industries and commercial establishments will be closed throughout the country. All emergency establishments and essential services, including hospitals, medical stores, relief and rescue work and people attending to personal and medical emergencies, will be allowed to work. Public and private transport will not be allowed to ply on roads but emergency services, including ambulances and fire services, can function, it has said.Also read | Bharat Bandh: Traffic movement from UP towards Ghazipur border stoppedOn Sunday, Tikait said farmers will continue their fight against the three central farm laws for 10 years until the government accepted their demands. “I want to make it clear that the government will have to repeal these laws as we will not allow their implementation at any cost. Had the government read farmers’ history, it would not have brought these laws. We are sons of the soil and can force the government’s face into it to compel it to meet our demands,” he said while addressing a “Kisan Mahapanchayat” on the completion of 10 months of the farmers’ agitation in the country.Also read | Bharat Bandh today: What's affected, what’s notTikait, a farmer leader from Uttar Pradesh, also warned the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) will go to all poll-bound states and launch a campaign against the party if the laws were not repealed. “We again request them to repeal these laws at the earliest, otherwise the SKM leaders will visit every poll-bound state, including Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, to oppose your candidates in the coming elections,” he said.Tikait also urged farmers to keep their tractors ready as they may get a call for another tractor march from the SKM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-bharat-bandh-begins-rakesh-tikait-says-haven-t-sealed-anything-101632711612937.html
27-09-2021||India||Bharat Bandh today: What's affected, what’s not||The Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a coalition of farmers' unions, to mark the first anniversary of the enactment of the three farm laws started at 6am on Monday. The umbrella body of more than 40 farmer unions has assured that the 10-hour Bharat Bandh will be enforced in a voluntary and peaceful manner. The SKM has issued detailed guidelines and urged everyone to join the strike.What will be closed during Bharat Bandh?All government and private offices, schools and other educational institutions, shops, industries and commercial establishments, as well as public events and functions, will be closed throughout the country during the Bharat Bandh, the SKM said.What will be exempt?All emergency establishments and essential services, including hospitals, medical stores, relief and rescue work and people attending to personal and medical emergencies, will be allowed to work.Will public, private transport be allowed?Public and private transport will not be allowed to ply on roads and no public functions will be allowed. However, emergency services, including ambulances and fire services, will be allowed to function. The bus services of the Odisha State Road Transport Corporation (OSRTC) will remain suspended during the nationwide strike.Also read | Bharat Bandh: Traffic movement from UP towards Ghazipur border stoppedWill banks be affected?The All India Bank Officers' Confederation has extended its support to the call of Bharat Bandh and said that it will join the protest of the farmers in solidarity.Also read | Bharat Bandh: Haryana police issue travel advisoryWill there be protest rallies?The Central Trade Unions will organise a protest rally at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi at 11am on Monday. Several bar associations and local units of the All India Lawyers' Union have also extended their support to the Bharat Bandh.Have the police issued any advisory?The Haryana Police issued an advisory on Sunday and said that people may face traffic blockages on various roads and highways of the state during the Bharat Bandh. The Delhi Police have deployed extra personnel in border areas of the national capital and intensified patrolling. Delhi Police on Monday tweeted that vehicular movement from Uttar Pradesh towards the state's Ghazipur border with the national capital has been stopped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-today-what-s-affected-what-s-not-101632708337302.html
27-09-2021||India||Bhawanipur final push: BJP leaders, TMC bigwigs to hit the streets today||With campaign for the September 30 bypoll for Kolkata’s Bhawanipore assembly seat scheduled to end at 5pm on Monday, as many as 80 Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders will hit the streets to give one final push to generate support for party candidate Priyanka Tibrewal, while several Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders and ministers will bat for chief minister Mamata Banerjee during the finale.The programmes have been planned despite the possibility of inclement weather. Although Cyclone Gulab will not directly hit the state, Kolkata and some districts in south Bengal will experience rainfall from Monday, the weather office has predicted.According to TMC and BJP leaders, more than 20% people in Bhawanipore are Muslims while Sikhs and non-Bengali speaking Hindus comprise around 34% of the local population. The constituency comprises eight civic body wards with a total 206,389 voters.The BJP announced on Sunday night that 10 party leaders will visit each of these eight civic body wards on Monday. The first phase of their campaign will start at 8am and continue till 11 am. After lunch recess, the second phase will continue from 2pm to 5pm. The 80 leaders will visit 80 locations combined during the day.“The voters will be made to realise that it is their responsibility to ensure that the honour of West Bengal is restored,” said a statement issued by BJP state vice-president Pratap Banerjee.BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar and his predecessor Dilip Ghosh, who is now a national vice-president, will address voters in the morning. They are scheduled to fly to Delhi in the evening and meet the party’s national president, JP Nadda.Leader of the Opposition in the state assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, Union minister of state for education, Subhas Sarkar, former state president Rahul Sinha, Lok Sabha member Arjun Singh and BJP state women’s wing president Agnimitra Paul are among those who will attend public meetings.The TMC has also lined up campaigns to be addressed by Mamata Banerjee and a host of ministers and senior party leaders.“We have to ensure that Mamata Banerjee wins by a margin of at least 0.1 million votes,” the chief minister’s nephew and TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee said at a meeting on Sunday evening.The Congress is not contesting the seat while the CPI(M) has fielded Srijib Biswas, who is a Calcutta high court lawyer like Tibrewal. Incidentally, the chief minister, too, studied law.Minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay won the seat in the March-April polls but resigned from the assembly so that Banerjee, who lost to Suvendu Adhikari at Nandigram in East Midnapore district, could contest her old seat again and continue as chief minister.A low turnout, a regular feature of bypolls, has not been ruled out by TMC and BJP leaders.Of the 2,06,389 voters in the cosmopolitan constituency, only 1,26,592 visited polling stations on April 26 in the assembly election. Another 784 exercised their franchise through postal ballot.Chattopadhyay won by a margin of 28,719 votes, securing 57.71% of all votes polled while the BJP candidate, actor Rudranil Ghosh, a debutant in politics, came second with 35.16%.With 5,211 votes, Congress came third while there were 1,570 NOTA (none of the above) votes.In most of her recent meetings, the chief minister has urged people to cast their votes even if it rains on September 30. “Every vote is crucial for me,” she said during a campaign last week.Polls at the Samserganj and Jangipur assembly seats in Murshidabad district will also be held on September 30 as the TMC candidates there died of Covid-19 before elections were held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/80-bjp-leaders-tmc-bigwigs-to-hit-bhawanipore-streets-for-final-campaign-101632708883002.html
27-09-2021||India||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 cases daily average dropped significantly in September||Maharashtra has witnessed a significant fall in the average daily Covid-19 cases, helping the state government in easing the curbs and opening up schools, religious places and theatres. The state reported 93,515 cases in September with a daily average of 3,612 cases, much lower from the average daily caseload of 5,125 cases in August. The state recorded 3,206 new Covid-19 cases and 36 deaths on Sunday, while capital Mumbai recorded 477 new cases and five deaths.The state government has announced reopening of schools from October 4, religious places from October 7 and cinema halls from October 22.Dr Ameet Mandot, director, Gut Clinic said, “We cannot be in the state of perpetual lockdown and easing is inevitable. In addition, with vaccination being done so well, curbs can easily be relaxed. The education of kids is getting affected as online classes can never match offline education. In addition, there are scores of people whose livelihood depends on religious places, auditoriums and theatres. However they need to be reopened with proper Covid-19 protocols,” he added.The state’s Covid-19 cases tally has now reached 6,544,325. There were 165,990 Covid tests done on Sunday, while the number of recoveries clocked 3,292. The total number of active Covid patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 37,860, while the toll has reached 138,870.Pune tops in number of active cases with 9,386 patients followed by Thane (5,862) and Mumbai (5,166).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtras-covid-19-cases-daily-average-dropped-significantly-inseptember-101632707203813.html
27-09-2021||NA||Bharat Bandh Highlights| Tikait says ‘it’s OK' if public had inconvenience for one day||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) called a 10-hour-long Bharat Bandh to mark the first anniversary of the Centre's three controversial farm laws getting Presidential nod. Since morning, traffic snarls were reported at the Delhi-Gurugram and Delhi-Uttar Pradesh borders. Furthermore, several trains were cancelled in Delhi, Ambala and Firozpur divisions. Meanwhile, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait apologised to all those who have been facing problems owing to the Bharat Bandh, saying that protesting farmers are making “good arrangements” to allow emergency vehicles to pass, and even providing commuters with refreshments. Following the start of the Bharat Bandh, many non-BJP leaders, including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi extended their support to the farmers. However, chaos was reported in Chennai's Anna Salai after protesters were detained by police. The SKM earlier said that all government and private offices, educational and other institutions, shops, industries and commercial establishments will be closed across the nation during the strike, which is scheduled to end at 4pm today. There will, however, be no restrictions on essential and emergency services, the farmers' outfit said.Follow all the updates here:‘It’s okay if public experienced some inconvenience': Tikait on success of Bharat BandhBKU spokesperson Rakesh Tikait on Sunday hailed the ‘Bharat Bandh’ to be a success, saying that the “public supported it.” “It's okay if public experienced some inconvenience, let one day be in solidarity with farmers who have been experiencing troubles (protesting against farm laws at Delhi border) under sun, heat for last 10 months,” he added. Read more.Bharat Bandh needs different ideological approach: Karnataka CMKarnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said that the normal life of people must not be disturbed by ‘bandhs’ especially because they are struggling to recover from the adverse impacts of Covid-19. “I appeal to protesters not to disturb normal life. 'Bharat Bandh' needs a different ideological approach,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.Traffic movement in Delhi-UP border is normal: Delhi Traffic PoliceTraffic Alert Traffic movement is normal. https://t.co/i6FB174KAfAccording to the latest update by the Delhi Traffic Police, traffic movement is now normal on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border. Police took to Twitter in morning to inform that commuters coming from Sarai Kale Khan must take alternate routes of Vikas Marg to go to Ghaziabad, and DND to reach Noida. This advisory came as the national highway (NH) 24 and NH9 were closed due to the Bharat Bandh by farmer unions.Rail and road traffic hit in Bihar as opposition extends support to Bharat Bandh against farm lawsRail and road traffic in Bihar was affected on Monday after many opposition parties and other organisations extended their support to the farmers for the Bharat Bandh. Although no major incident has been reported yet, chaos continued in Patna, Danapur and Rajendra Nagar railway terminus where travelers waited for train services to resume. Read more.Hundreds of people confront police in Noida in land compensation stir coincided with Bharat BandhA confrontation occurred in Noida on Monday between hundreds of people and several police personnel during a demonstration over a land compensation outside the Noida Authority's office. The demonstration coincided with the ongoing Bharat Bandh called by farmers unions against the Centre's three farm laws.‘Our Bharat Bandh was successful’: BKU leader Rakesh Tikait says they had full support of farmersAs Monday's Bharat Bandh inches closer to its end at 4pm, BKU spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said that the event has been “successful”.  “We had full support of farmers...We can't seal down everything as we have to facilitate the movement of people,” he was quoted as saying by ANI. Tikait added that farmers are ready for talks with the central government, but “no talks are happening.”Protesting farmer ends life by hanging self from pipe in LudhianaA 65-year-old farmer, who has been protesting at Ghulal Toll barrier for the last 10 months, ended his life on Sunday by hanging self from a pipe using a piece of cloth that is used to wrap around head. The incident happened hours before today's Bharat Bandh by farmer unions. The deceased farmer's wife is also participating in protest against Centre's three farm laws at Delhi's Tikri border. Farmers learnt about the incident when they saw the deceased's hanging body on Monday morning.54-year-old man, who came to Delhi's Singhu border with protesting farmers, died of heart attackA 54-year-old man named Bagel Ram, who was a member of farmers' outfit Kirti Kisan Union, died on Monday after having a heart attack. The Kirti Kisan Union leader Gurnam Bhagad said that Ram wasn't a farmer, but a labourer and had arrived with one of the farmers' groups at Delhi's Singhu border on September 18. “He had been feeling unwell since yesterday,” Bhagad added.Watch | Protesters of many trade unions form human chain in Kerala in support of Bharat Bandh today against farm laws#WATCH | Kerala: Protesters of several trade unions including Indian National Trade Union Congress, Centre of Indian Trade Unions and All India Trade Union Congress form a human chain in Kochi to support the call for Bharat Bandh today against the three farm laws pic.twitter.com/goK20oCndFProtesters of many trade unions such as the Indian National Trade Union Congress, Centre of Indian Trade Unions and All India Trade Union Congress formed a human chain in Kerala's Kochi today in support of the call for Bharat Bandh against the Centre's three farm laws, news agency ANI reported.‘They want to follow Taliban’: BKU (Bhanu) chief slams Bharat BandhBharatiya Kisan Union (Bhanu) national president Bhanu Pratap Singh said on Monday that the 10-hour Bharat Bandh will affect the country’s economy as he launched a sharp attack on another farmer leader Rakesh Tikait. Read moreShops, offices, schools closed, transport off road during Bharat Bandh in OdishaNormal life was affected in several districts of Odisha on Monday following a 10-hour countrywide shutdown called by Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a united front of farmer outfits that has been demanding repeal of the three farm laws enacted by Centre a year ago. Read moreHave come for farmers, no political agenda: Delhi Cong chiefDelhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhary said on Monday, “I can understand their situation. This is a farmers' issue, Congress will protest on streets. If farmers ask us to leave from here, we will go back. We have come here for farmers, there is no political agenda.” Karnataka: Organisations carry out rally in support of Bandh#WATCH | Karnataka: Several organizations carried out a rally from Bengaluru Town Hall area to Mysore bank circle to observe Bharat Bandh today against 3 farm laws pic.twitter.com/2Efp159Bi9Several organisations in Karnataka on Monday carried out a rally from Bengaluru Town Hall area to Mysore bank circle to observe Bharat Bandh. Situation normal at Gurugram-Delhi border, say policeDelhi | In view of Bharath Bandh, we barricaded the Rajokri border (Delhi-Gurugram) which resulted in a traffic jam at this section. Now, the situation is normal and traffic is smooth as we loosened the barricades: Ingit Pratap Singh, DCP South West pic.twitter.com/BerzeA1ZPaIngit Pratap Singh, DCP South West, told news agency ANI on Monday that the situation at the Gurugram-Delhi border is normal and traffic is smooth as the barricades have been loosened. ‘We apologise to people facing problems, but…’: BKU's Tikait on Bharat BandhBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait, who has been spearheading the agitation against the Centre's three new farm laws since November last year, on Monday tendered an apology to people as they faced problems due to the 10-hour long Bharat Bandh across the country to mark one year of the enactment of these laws by the Centre. Read moreProtesters in Chennai's Anna Salai area detained by policeChennai, Tamil Nadu | Farmers are continuously protesting & Modi govt is refusing to withdraw the laws. The struggle will continue & intensify further: K Balakrishnan, CPI (M) State Secretary pic.twitter.com/7e1vBT55o3Protesters extending their support for Bharat Bandh in Chennai's Anna Salai area were detained by Police on Monday. "Farmers are continuously protesting and Modi govt is refusing to withdraw the laws. The struggle will continue and intensify further," K Balakrishnan, CPI (M) State Secretary, told news agency ANI. Auto, taxis operating normally in Delhi; shops openAutorickshaws and taxis operated normally and shops were open in the national capital on Monday, with their unions and associations extending only "in-principle support" to the Bharat Bandh called by farmers but deciding not to join the strike. Read moreTrain operations affected in Delhi, Ambala, Firozpur divisionsTrain operations have been affected in the national capital, Ambala and Firozpur divisions due to protesting farmers sitting on railway tracks. More than 20 locations are being blocked in Delhi division. About 25 trains affected in Ambala and Firozpur divisions, the Northern Railway said. Massive traffic jam seen at Gurugram-Delhi borderMassive traffic snarl seen at Gurugram-Delhi border as vehicles entering the national capital are being checked by Delhi Police and paramilitary jawans, in wake of Bharat Bandh called by farmer organisations today. pic.twitter.com/dclgkqp3X1A massive traffic jam was reported at the Gurugram-Delhi border on Monday as vehicles entering the Capital are being checked by police and paramilitary personnel due to the ongoing Bharat Bandh, news agency ANI reported. Traffic movement closed on Dhansa Border: Delhi Traffic PoliceThe Delhi Traffic Police informed on Monday that the Dhansa border has been closed for traffic movement. Roads in Kerala wear deserted look due to BandhKerala: Roads wear deserted look; shops are closed in Thiruvananthapuram. Trade unions affiliated to LDF & UDF support the call for Bharat Bandh today against the three farm laws.Visuals from Thampanoor and East Fort areas pic.twitter.com/uQ37xJPdcXRoads in Kerala wore a deserted look on Monday morning due to the Bharat Bandh called by protesting farmers to mark the first anniversary of the enactment of the Centre's three new farm laws. Farmers' non violent satyagraha intact even today, says Rahul Gandhiकिसानों का अहिंसक सत्याग्रह आज भी अखंड हैलेकिन शोषण-कार सरकार को ये नहीं पसंद हैइसलिए #आज_भारत_बंद_है #IStandWithFarmersCongress leader Rahul Gandhi, who has been one of the strongest critics of the Centre's three new farm laws, came out in support of the protesting farmers on Monday and said that their non-violent satyagraha is intact even today. RJD leader Mukesh Raushan protests in support of BandhBihar: RJD leader Mukesh Raushan and other members & workers of the party protest in Hajipur, in support of Bharat Bandh called by farmer organisations against the 3 farm laws. Traffic congestion seen on Hajipur-Muzaffarpur road, movement on Mahatma Gandhi Setu affected too. pic.twitter.com/lX9M0cfNoaRashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Mukesh Raushan and other members of the party were seen extending their support to the Bharat Bandh on Monday morning.  Have not sealed anything, just want to send a message: Rakesh TikaitAmbulances, doctors or those going for an emergency can pass through. We've not sealed down anything, we just want to send a message. We appeal to the shopkeepers to keep their shops closed for now and open only after 4pm. No farmer is coming here from outside: Rakesh Tikait, BKU pic.twitter.com/HaBDbFFKLTBharatiya Kisan Union's (BKU's) Rakesh Tikait said on Monday that the farmers have not sealed anything amid the ongoing Bharat Bandh and appealed to shopkeepers to keep their stores closed for now and open after 4pm. Entry, exit for Pandit Shree Ram Sharma metro station closedSecurity UpdateEntry/exit for Pandit Shree Ram Sharma has been closed.Delhi-Amritsar national highway blocked at Shahabad in KurukshetraDelhi-Amritsar National Highway blocked at Shahabad in Haryana's Kurukshetra by protesting farmers, agitating against farm laws. Farmer organisations have called a “Bharat Bandh” today against the three farm laws. pic.twitter.com/8IhoCCgFICThe Delhi-Amritsar national highway has been blocked by protesting farmers at Shahabad in Haryana's Kurukshetra. Farmers block railway tracks in Punjab's BarnalaFarmers on Monday morning blocked the railway track in Punjab's Barnala city due to the ongoing Bharat Bandh by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) to mark the first anniversary of the enactment of the three farm laws. Roads in the city have also been blocked and markets are completely closed. Shambhu border blocked in view of Bharat BandhThe Shambhu border (Punjab-Haryana border) has been blocked till 4pm in view of the Bharat Bandh called by protesting farmers. Haryana, Delhi police increase securityThe Haryana Police has asked people to be prepared to face traffic congestion. The Delhi Police has intensified patrolling and deployed extra personnel at pickets in border areas of the national capital.State governments who have extended their supportState governments of Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Punjab, Jharkhand and Andhra Pradesh have extended their support to the Bharat Bandh protest.Traffic movement closed from Uttar Pradesh towards Ghazipur due to protestThe traffic movement has been closed from Uttar Pradesh towards Ghazipur due to protest, tweets Delhi Traffic Police.10-hour Bharat Bandh beginsA 10-hour Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) to mark the first anniversary of the three farm laws getting Presidential assent began on Monday morning. The strike will be observed till 4pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-2021-live-updates-101632704633736.html
27-09-2021||India||Cyclone Gulab weakens into deep depression over north Andhra Pradesh||Cyclone Gulab weakened into a deep depression over north Andhra Pradesh and is likely to continue to move west-northwestwards, weakening further into a depression during the next six hours, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. At least three people were killed in Odisha and Andhra Pradesh as Cyclone Gulab made landfall in the coastal region of the two states on Sunday evening. Officials said one person was swept away in Odisha’s Ganjam district and two fishermen from the Srikakulam district of Andhra Pradesh were killed and another went missing."The Cyclonic Storm 'Gulab' over north Andhra Pradesh and adjoining south Odisha, weakened into a Deep Depression at 0230 hrs IST of 27th Sep over north Andhra Pradesh. It is likely to continue to move west-northwestwards and weaken further into a depression during the next 06 hrs,” IMD tweeted at 4:15am.Also read | All educational institutions in Odisha to be closed on Monday as cyclone Gulab nears coastAn IMD official said that Cyclone Gulab made landfall at Miduguda and Tokali villages near Kalingapatnam town in Srikakulam district of Andhra Pradesh. During the landfall, the wind speed of the cyclone at Kalingapatanam was about 90 kilometre per hour and it was 30kmph at Odisha’s Gopalpur, he said.Odisha’s special relief commissioner PK Jena said on Sunday that more than 39,000 people, including 600 pregnant women, disabled and the elderly, were evacuated to safety before the cyclone’s landfall, adding there was no such noticeable or remarkable damage in the state. Jena said many precautionary measures were taken to avoid any untoward incident. “Our officials are on high alert and visiting places to oversee the preparedness,” he added.Jena said the seven southern districts of Ganjam, Gajapati, Kandhamal, Rayagada, Koraput, Malkangiri and Nabarangpur have been put on high alert as the regions were vulnerable to landslides.Also read | IMD predicts heavy rain in parts of IndiaAn official at the revenue and disaster management department said that the cyclone, the second one in four months after Yaas wreaked havoc in May in Odisha, apparently had less impact.Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, who is on a tour to New Delhi, reviewed the preparedness through a video conference and set a “zero casualty” target and told the authorities that every life is precious and should be protected at any cost. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also called up Patnaik and assured him of all support from the Centre to face the challenges posed by Cyclone Gulab.As many as 42 teams of the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) and 24 squads of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), along with about 102 teams of fire brigade personnel, were deployed in seven districts. Besides, 11 fire service units, six teams of the ODRAF and eight of the NDRF are on standby for emergency purposes. The state also took special measures after the IMD warned of a tidal surge up to half a metre during landfall of the cyclone.Also read | Cyclone Gulab: 1,100 people shifted to relief centres in Andhra’s Srikakulam The East Coast Railway has cancelled 34 pairs of trains due to Cyclone Gulab and rescheduled 13 trains and diverted at least 17 trains so far, according to its bulletins. “In view of the forecast of heavy rain with cyclonic wind, all necessary precautions have been taken by ECoR,” it said.The South Central Railway informed in a release that eight trains on the Vijayawada-Howrah route were diverted via Kharagpur, Jharsuguda, Bilaspur and Balharshah. Two other trains that were supposed to begin the journey on Sunday, have been rescheduled for Monday.The sea condition will be rough to very rough over the next two days and fishermen in Odisha, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh have been asked to not venture into east-central and adjoining the northeast Bay of Bengal and the Andaman Sea.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-gulab-weakens-into-deep-depression-over-north-andhra-pradesh-101632704421041.html
27-09-2021||India||India, Canada flights to resume from today: Check guidelines here||Canada will from Monday allow resumption of direct flights from India, more than five months after suspending their operation in April this year when the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic swept the nation. Last Tuesday, Canada extended the restriction on all direct commercial and private passenger flights from India until September 26. "As of September 27, 2021, direct flights from India to Canada will resume," the Canadian government said on Sunday.The flight ban was lifted after test results of passengers who flew to Canada from New Delhi on September 22 aboard three Air Canada flights came out to be negative. Prior to the ban in April this year, the two airlines were operating daily direct flights from India to Canada under an air bubble arrangement between the two governments.With the ban now lifted, passengers from India can now travel to Canada with a few precautionary measures, which include having a negative Covid-19 test report from an approved laboratory.Here are the latest guidelines:1. The negative Covid-19 test report should be taken not more than 18 hours before departure.2. Prior to boarding, air operators will check the travellers’ test results ensuring they are eligible to come to Canada.3. Fully vaccinated passengers will have to upload the relevant information into the ArriveCAN mobile app or website.4. Those who are unable to meet these requirements will be denied boarding by the officials.5. Passengers travelling to Canada from India via an indirect route must obtain a pre-departure negative Covid-19 molecular test result from a third country before continuing their journey to Canada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-canada-flights-to-resume-from-today-check-guidelines-here-101632701387606.html
27-09-2021||NA||Breaking News: Newly sworn-in UP cabinet ministers assigned portfolios, Jitin Prasada gets technical education||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:6 dead in lightning strikes in Dewas, Madhya Pradesh; CM Chouhan announces ₹4 lakh ex-gratiaSix people killed in lightning strikes in Dewas district of Madhya Pradesh; CM announces ex gratia of ₹4 lakhs for the family of every deceased personSix people were dead in Dewas in Madhya Pradesh and chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced an ex-gratia of ₹4 lakh for the family of the deceased, reports ANI.BJP's S Selvaganapathy elected unopposed to Rajya Sabha from PuducherryBJP nominee S Selvaganapathy has been elected unopposed to the lone seat in Rajya Sabha from Puducherry pic.twitter.com/FvG3VaSvd9BJP candidate S Selvanganapathi was elected unopposed to the Rajya Sabha for the lone seat from Puducherry, reports ANI. Union health minister Mandaviya congratulates nation after yet another day of administering 10 million+ doses Congratulations to the nation, as we administer another 1 crore #COVID19 vaccine doses 👏Under PM @NarendraModi ji, India delivers a punch to Corona - Record of 1+ crore vaccines achieved for the 5th time.#SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine pic.twitter.com/fQfVWoDAbRUnion health minister Mansukh Mandaviya congratulated the nation after the country records yet another day of over 10 million doses being administered. “Under PM @NarendraModi ji, India delivers a punch to Corona - Record of 1+ crore vaccines achieved for the 5th time,” he tweeted.Newly sworn-in UP cabinet ministers assigned portfolios; Jitin Prasada gets technical educationPortfolios have been allocated to all the seven new ministers who were sworn in on Sunday following the UP cabinet expansion. Jitin Prasada has been given the technical education portfolio.2 trekkers dead, 14 stranded in Khemenger Glacier in Lahaul Spiti due to bad weather, rescue operation launchedTwo trekkers have died and 14 others are stranded at Khemenger Glacier in Lahaul Spiti, Himachal Pradesh due to bad weather. A team of ITBP & Indian Army has launched the rescue operation: Lahaul Spiti Deputy Commissioner Neeraj Kumar pic.twitter.com/pZHyJ9k73IDue to bad weather, two trekkers have died while 14 others are stranded in the Khemenger glacier in Lahaul Spiti in Himachal Pradesh, reports ANI citing Lahaul Spiti deputy commissioner Neeraj Kumar. Also, the ITBP and the Army have launched a rescue operation.US President Biden to get Covid-19 booster shot on Monday, reports AFP#BREAKING US President Biden to get Covid-19 vaccine booster shot Monday: White House pic.twitter.com/xBSDuqpdsyUS President Joe Biden is expected to receive his Covid-19 vaccine booster dose on Monday, reports AFP citing the White House.Telangana High Court to function virtually from Sept 28 to 30 due to heavy rains in HyderabadDue to heavy rainfall in Hyderabad, all the benches of Telangana High Court will conduct court proceedings through the virtual mode from Sept 28 to Sept 30, the court saysAll benches of the Telangana High Court would function virtually for three days between September 28 and 30 due to the heavy rainfall in Hyderabad, reports ANI. PM Modi to dedicate 35 crop varieties with special traits to the nation on Sept 28PM Narendra Modi will dedicate 35 crop varieties with special traits to the nation tomorrow via video conferencing, in a pan India programme organised at all ICAR Institutes, State and Central Agricultural Universities and Krishi Vigyan Kendra: PMO pic.twitter.com/qM0qMtkBcNPrime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate 35 crop varieties with special traits to the nation tomorrow via video conferencing, reports ANI citing Modi's office.‘I see absolutely no hope or even the will to prevent the collapse of the party’: Luizinho Faleiro in letter to Sonia GandhiFormer Goa Chief Minister and MLA Luizinho Faleiro in his resignation letter to Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi writes, "I see absolutely no hope or even the will to prevent the collapse of the party and change for the better". pic.twitter.com/BU15Fz8GRqFormer Goa chief minister and MLA Luizinho Faleiro, in his resignation letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, wrote “I see absolutely no hope or even the will to prevent the collapse of the party and change for the better,” reports ANI. Tamil Nadu logs 1,657 new Covid-19 cases, 19 deaths in last 24 hoursTamil Nadu logged 1,657 new Covid-19 cases and 19 deaths in the last 24 hours. The death toll climbed to 35,509 and the active caseload stood at 17,261, reports ANI.Madhya Pradesh CM Chouhan dances with locals during event in Khargone#WATCH | Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan dances with locals during his Jandarshan Yatra in Khargone. pic.twitter.com/0DiE8IQgT6Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan danced with a group of locals during his visit to Khargone as part of his Jandarshan Yatra, reports ANI. CBI granted 7 days custody of Anand Giri, Aadya Prasad, Sandeep Tiwari in Mahant Narendra Giri death caseThe CJM court on Monday allowed the CBI's application for remand of Anand Giri, Aadya Prasad and Sandeep Tiwari who are accused in the suspicious death of Mahant Narendra Giri and granted seven days custody to the agency.Suvendhu Adikari files application at Calcutta High Court seeking dismissal of Mukul Roy from MLA post Leader of Opposition in West Bengal Assembly, Suvendhu Adhikari files an application at Calcutta High Court, seeking dismissal of Mukul Roy from the post of MLA under the anti-defection law pic.twitter.com/1pQRFem5ETWest Bengal assembly's leader of opposition Suvendhu Adikari filed an application at the Calcutta High Court seeking the dismissal of Mukul Roy from the post of MLA under the anti-defection law, reports ANI. Roy had quit the BJP and joined the TMC earlier in June.EDMC mayor suspends 17 AAP members for alleged misconduct in House, reports PTIEast Delhi Mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal suspends 17 AAP members of East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) for 15 days for alleged misconduct in the house, reports PTI citing an official.Facebook pauses Instagram for children app after widespread criticismFacebook has paused its plan to develop a version of the Instagram mobile app for children under 13 following widespread criticism, the company's head of Instagram Adam Mosseri said in a statement. 'Tired of demanding special status': Bihar minister says state will not seek special status from CentreBihar's minister for planning and development Brijendra Yadav (JD-U) said that the government would no more seek special status from Centre and it has become tired of demanding special status for state. "There is limit to it. Now we will seek special assistance in every field," said Yadav, a senior minister in the Nitish Kumar government.Delhi logs 32 new Covid-19 cases, posivity rate at 0.06%Delhi records 32 COVID-19 cases, zero daily deaths. Positivity rate stands at 0.06 per cent: Health bulletinDelhi logged 32 new Covid-19 cases and no new fatalities and the positivity rate was recorded at 0.06%, PTI reported.Bengaluru police extend Covid-19 restrictions till Oct 11Karnataka: Bengaluru City Police Commissioner extends Covid-induced restrictions including night curfew (10 pm to 5 am) till October 11.Bengaluru city police commissioner extended the Covid-19 restrictions, including the night curfew, until October 11, reports ANI. Thunderstorm with light to moderate rains expected in Delhi, adjoining areas in next 2 hrs, says IMDRewari, Aurangabad (Haryana) Nagar, Alwar, Deeg, Laxmangarh, Rajgarh, Bayana (Rajasthan) during next 2 hours. pic.twitter.com/3uM7VleoXiIMD predicted light to moderate rains with thunderstorm in Delhi and its adjoining areas in the next 2 hours. BJP leader Dilip Ghosh allegedly manhandled during campaigning for Bhabanipur bypollBJP leader Dilip Ghosh allegedly manhandled, party MP Arjun Singh faces 'go back' slogans by TMC workers while campaigning for party candidate Priyanka Tibrewal, who is pitted against CM Mamata Banerjee in Bhabanipur assembly constituency, on last day of campaigningBJP leader Dilip Ghosh was allegedly manhandled during his campaign for BJP candidate Priyanka Tibrewal for the bypoll in Bhabanipur assembly constituency. Also, BJP MP Arjun Singh faced ‘go back’ chants by TMC workers, reports PTI. Pune Police arrest 2, recovers ₹92 lakh from 2 locations after raids based on information about IPL bettingMaharashtra | Based on the information about IPL betting, we conduct raids at various locations in Pune. We recovered cash over ₹92 lakhs from two locations. Two persons have been arrested. Further probe underway: Pune Police Commissioner Amitabh Gupta pic.twitter.com/X5koNi28KePune Police Commissioner Amitabh Gupta said that two people have been arrested and ₹92 lakh have been recovered following raids at two locations for IPL betting, reports ANI. Cyclone Gulab weakened into deep depression Cyclone Gulab's intensity decreased & weakened into deep depression. Light to moderate rainfall to continue in Andhra Pradesh & heavy rainfall in 1-2 isolated places of coastal Andhra, fishermen advised not to go into sea today: Chief, IMD's Cyclone Warning Centre, Visakhapatnam pic.twitter.com/D1JEO2HRLGVishakapatnam IMD chief said cyclone Gulab's intensity has reduced and weakened into a deep depression. “Light to moderate rainfall to continue in Andhra Pradesh & heavy rainfall in 1-2 isolated places of coastal Andhra, fishermen advised not to go into sea today,” the IMD said, reports ANI.Delhi govt launches mobile app for touristsToday we have launched an app which contains all the information about all historic & famous places of Delhi, it also has the feature of booking tickets. Anyone from Delhi or any tourist can use this app to plan their tour of Delhi: CM Arvind Kejriwal pic.twitter.com/NdfECkPCLVA mobile application containing information about historic and famous places in Delhi and with ticket booking feature has been launched by the Delhi government. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal expressed hope that the app would help promote tourism in the city, reports ANI. Building collapses in Bengaluru#WATCH | Karnataka: A building collapsed in Bengaluru today, no casualties or injuries reported so far. Fire Department had evacuated the building before it collapsed. Officials rushed to the spot. Details awaited. pic.twitter.com/oWmUBsFm6EAn incident of building collapse was caught on camera in Bengaluru today. No casualties or injuries reported thus far as officials rush to collapse site.BJP's Rajya Sabha candidate from Maharashtra withdraws nominationSanjay Upadhyay, BJP's candidate from Maharashtra for the Rajya Sabha elections, withdraws nomination. “Being an obedient worker, I'm following the decision of our leaders,” says Upadhyay.SC grants TN Election Commission four months to hold local body pollsSupreme Court grants four months to Tamil Nadu State Election Commission to hold elections to urban local bodies. The state poll panel has sought time till April 2022.Dombivali gang-rape: 1 more accused arrestedAnother accused arrested in connection with Dombivli gang-rape case. All 33 accused, including two minors, have been arrested: PoliceED raids: Shiv Sena leader Anandrao Ansul rushed to hospitalShiv Sena leader Anandrao Ansul taken to hospital after his health deteriorated during raids by the ED at his residence in connection with an alleged fraud case.PM Modi launches Ayushman Bharat Digital MissionPrime Minister Narendra Modi launches Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission. pic.twitter.com/FNIRLX8ftbPrime Minister Narendra Modi launches Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission via video conferencing.ED raids underway at Shiv Sena leader Anandrao Rao Ansul's residence in MumbaiEnforcement Directorate reportedly raids residence of Shiv Sena leader Anandrao Ansul in Mumbai.Cyclone Gulab to weaken into depression in next 12 hours: IMDCyclone Gulab is likely to move nearly westwards and weaken further into a depression during the next 12 hours: IMD BhubaneswarTrain coaches derail in Maharashtra's LonawalaTwo trolleys of rear two coaches of Indore-Daund special train derail at Maharashtra's Lonawala station while entering platform. No casualties/injuries reported so far. Railway relief van reaching the spot. With 26,041 fresh infections, India's daily Covid cases below 30,000 for 3rd straight dayIndia reports 26,041 new Covid-19 cases, 29,621 recoveries and 276 deaths. Tally rises to 33,678,786 as fresh infections remain below 30,000 for thrid straight day.WHO to revive Covid-19 origins probe: ReportThe Wall Street Journal has reported that the World Health Organization (WHO) is looking at reviving its probe into the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic.Extortion case against former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh transferredExtortion case registered by Thane Police against eight, including former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, transferred to Maharashtra Crime Investigation Department (CID). Another member of Brazil's UN delegation tests Covid-19 positivePedro Guimaraes, a member of Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro's delegation to the United Nations, has tested positive for Covid-19. Fully vaccinated, Guimaraes, is the fourth member of the delegation to test positive.Farmers block Punjab-Haryana Shambhu border"In view of the Bharat bandh call by protesting farmers, we have blocked the Shambhu border (Punjab-Haryana border) till 4 pm," says a farmer Visuals from Shambhu border pic.twitter.com/oXpvqZ9TvOIn view of the SKM's bandh call, farmers close Punjab-Haryana Shambhu border.Bharat Bandh: No traffic movement from  towards Ghazipur borderTraffic AlertTraffic movement has been closed from UP towards Ghazipur due to protest.Traffic movement has been closed from UP towards Ghazipur due to protest, tweets Delhi Traffic Police.China reports 35 new Covid-19 casesChina reports 35 new cases of Covid-19, up from 29 on September 25. Tally rises to 96,050 while toll stays unchanged at 4636.Cyclonic storm Gulab has weakened into a deep depression: IMDThe cyclonic storm Gulab over north Andhra Pradesh and adjoining south Odisha, weakened into a deep depression at 2:30 hours IST of 27th September over north Andhra Pradesh. It is likely to continue to move west-northwestwards and weaken further into a Depression during next 6 hours: India Meteorological Department (IMD)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-september-27-2021-101632701282826.html
27-09-2021||India||Schools to reopen in Himachal for classes 9-12 from today||Schools in Himachal Pradesh will reopen from Monday for classes 9 to 12 in a staggered manner with all Covid-19 protocols in place, according to a decision taken by the state cabinet. Students of classes 10 and 12 will attend the schools on Mondays, Tuesdays and Wednesdays whereas those studying in classes 9 and 11 will come on Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays. Online classes and examinations for junior classes would continue.Students attending classes in offline mode will be required to use face masks, maintain respiratory etiquette and social distancing so that they do not contract Covid-19 and everyone attending the classes including the teaching and non-teaching staff are safe.Schools in Himachal Pradesh were first shut in April this year when the second wave of Covid-19 swept across the nation. The reopening of schools in the state was later extended till September 25 following the Covid-19 situation. However, teaching and non-teaching staff continued to attend schools during the period.Himachal Pradesh on Sunday recorded 276 fresh Covid-19 cases and three deaths in the last 24 hours, the state health bulletin said. As many as 210,419 people have been affected by Covid-19 and 3,535 people have died to date so far in Himachal Pradesh.During Friday’s meeting, the Himachal Pradesh cabinet also took the decision to create and fill up to 8,000 posts of multi-task workers in the educational institutions under higher and elementary departments. They would be provided with a consolidated honorarium of ₹5,625 per month for 10 months in an academic year.It also decided to amend the transfer policy for inter-district transfer of Junior Basic Training (JBT) teachers and C&V teachers in the state by reducing the existing tenure from 13 years to five, including contract period, for transfer to another district and increased the quota from existing 3 per cent to 5 per cent. It also decided to enhance the honorarium of IT teachers outsourced in various educational institutions in the state by ₹500 per month from April 1 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-to-reopen-in-himachal-for-classes-9-12-from-today-101632699498962.html
27-09-2021||India||Bharat Bandh today to mark a year of farm laws, police step up security||The Bharat Bandh called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) to mark the first anniversary of the enactment of the three farm laws may disrupt traffic during the 10-hour general strike with police in several states putting in elaborate security arrangements to prevent farmer bodies and opposition parties to disrupt normal life. SKM has said that the nationwide strike will be observed from 6am to 4pm and that all government and private offices, educational and other institutions, shops, industries and commercial establishments as well as public events and functions will be closed across the country. However, all emergency establishments and essential services, including hospitals, medical stores, relief and rescue work and people attending to personal emergencies will be exempted, it has said. SKM has put out detailed guidelines and called for complete peace during the strike and also appealed to all citizens of the country to join the Bharat Bandh.Also read | Bharat Bandh: Farmers to block Delhi-Ambala railway line, NH-44 today“Roads will be closed, but if someone wants to go to the doctor's clinic, they can go. Ambulances, vegetable and milk vehicles will run. Apart from that, everything will be closed. All traders and shopkeepers should support the bandh,” SKM leader Rakesh Tikait told news agency ANI. “We will not go inside Delhi during the bandh. Where there are toll blocks, they will be closed. This is the movement of the common people. People should take a day off and leave the house only after 4 o'clock,” Tikait added.Also read | Bharat Bandh on Monday, road and rail traffic disruptions likelyThe Bharat Bandh called by SKM, a collective of more than 30 farmer organisations protesting the three farm laws, has garnered support from more than 500 farmer organisations, 15 trade unions, political parties, six state governments and others, farm leaders have claimed. “More than 605 farmers have been martyred, including two deaths related to police brutalities. The Modi government is behaving in an extremely undemocratic and inhuman way against farmers, and BJP will certainly bear the consequences of this,” SKM said in a statement on Sunday.Also read | Bharat Bandh: Will shops, markets, banks remain closed tomorrow?State governments of Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Punjab, Jharkhand and Andhra Pradesh have extended their support to the Bharat Bandh protest. Left parties like the Communist Party of India (Marxist), Communist Party of India, All India Forward Bloc, Revolutionary Socialist Party have extended their support to the Bharat Bandh. Many other parties like the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Samajwadi Party (SP), Telugu Desam Party (TDP), Janata Dal (Secular), Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), SAD-Sanyukt, Yuvajana Sramika Rythu (YSR) Congress Party, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Swaraj India and others have also supported the call for Bharat Bandh on Monday.Also read | Ahead of Bharat Bandh, Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai urges farmers to ‘cooperate’Central trade unions will organise a protest rally at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi at 11am on Monday. Several bar associations and local units of the All India Lawyers' Union have also extended their support.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-today-to-mark-a-year-of-farm-laws-police-step-up-security-101632700750927.html
27-09-2021||India||PM Modi to launch Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission today||Prime Minister Narendra will, at 11am on Monday, launch the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission via video conferencing. The project, also known as Pradhan Mantri Digital Health Mission or the National Digital Health Mission, was announced by PM Modi from the ramparts of the Red Fort during his Independence Day speech last year, and is currently being implemented in a pilot phase in six Union territories, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) noted in a statement.A day before the launch, Prime Minister Modi took to Twitter, describing September 27 as an “important day for India's healthcare sector.” He tweeted, “The Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission leverages technology to improve access to healthcare and opens doors for new innovation in the sector.” Tomorrow, 27th September is an important day for India’s healthcare sector. At 11 AM, the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission would be launched. This Mission leverages technology to improve access to healthcare and opens doors for new innovation in the sector. https://t.co/MkumY17Ko1Meanwhile, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, who will be present at the event, tweeted, “This Mission will create a seamless online platform to enable information-sharing within the digital health ecosystem. Citizens will be able to access health facilities conveniently."The health minister also laid out three key components of the project: a health ID for citizens, a healthcare professionals registry and healthcare facilities registries. “This will ensure ease of doing business by citizens and healthcare service providers. Now health is just a click away!” Mandaviya shared. Key components of Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission include:🔸 Health ID for citizens🔸 Healthcare Professionals Registry🔸 Healthcare Facilities RegistriesThis will ensure ease of doing business for citizens and healthcare service providers.Now health is just a click away! pic.twitter.com/e3hsxHd4YZThe National Digital Health Mission, the PMO noted, is based on the foundations laid down in the form of Jan Dhan, Aadhaar and Mobile (JAM) trinity, and other digital initiatives of the Government of India.The nation-wide rollout of the initiative coincides with the National Health Authority (NHA) celebrating three years of the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana (AB PM-JAY).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-ayushman-bharat-digital-mission-today-101632699459139.html
27-09-2021||India||CJI calls for women’s equal representation in judiciary||A representation of 50 percent women in the judiciary is not a matter of charity but of right, Chief Justice of India NV Ramana said on Sunday, adding that he is “forcing the executive for applying necessary correctives.”Lamenting centuries of suppression of women at workplaces, chief justice Ramana called for an “urgent correction” in the state of affairs, and said he strongly advocates reservation of a “significant percentage of seats” in law schools and universities for women.“Enough of suppression of thousands of years. It is high time we have 50% representation of women in judiciary. It is your right. It is not a matter of charity,” the chief justice said at an event organised by women advocates of the Supreme Court.Higher judiciary in India, which includes the Supreme Court and the high courts, currently has no policy of reservations for women.Such reservation in subordinate courts depends on the policy of the state government and the concerned high court.Justice Ramana’s statement came weeks after the collegium headed by him paved the way for a woman judge to head the apex court in 2027.Out of the sanctioned strength of 34, the Supreme Court currently has four women judges — justices Indira Banerjee, Hima Kohli, BV Nagarathna and Bela M Trivedi — which is the highest ever in the top court’s history.Other than justice Banerjee, three judges were appointed on August 31, taking the total number of women judges appointed in the top court to 11.Justice Nagarathna is in line to become the first woman chief justice in September 2027. She will have a tenure of a little over a month.Women constitute only about 30% of the lower judiciary, justice Ramana pointed out. “In high courts, women judges constitute 11.5%. Here in the Supreme Court, we currently have 4 women justices out of the sitting 33.That makes it just 12%. Of the 1.7 million advocates, only 15% are women. Only 2% of the elected representatives in the state bar councils are women. (There is) no woman member in the Bar Council of India,” the chief justice said.Women face various obstacles to enter the profession and gender stereotypes force them to bear the brunt of family burdens, he said.“Clients’ preference for male advocates, uncomfortable environment within courtrooms, lack of infrastructure, crowded courtrooms, lack of washrooms for women, etc., all these deter women from entering the profession... An important focus area is to increase gender diversity in legal education, he said. “I strongly advocate reservation of a significant percentage of seats in law schools and universities for women, as a first step.”Justice Ramana emphasised that inclusion of women judges and lawyers will substantially improve the quality of justice delivery and that he will wholeheartedly support initiatives that will further the cause of eliminating gender disparity in the profession.He congratulated the women judges present at the event (justices Banerjee, Kohli, Nagarathna and Trivedi), saying that their actions in upholding the Constitution will inspire women not only in the legal profession but in all walks of life.“Everyone here, women lawyers and my sister judges, are role models for young girls who are hoping to enter the profession,” justice Ramana said in his address.Speaking at the event, Justice Nagarathna said: “Women visibility as judicial officers can pave the way for greater representation of women in other decision-making positions such as legislative and executive branches of the government.”Out of 677 sitting judges in the Supreme Court and the high courts, only 81 are women, law ministry data show, which translates into only 12 percent representation.Among the 25 high courts, only the Madras high court has women judges in the double digits. Out of the working strength of 58 judges, the Madras high court has 13 women, which is more than 22% representation.At least five high courts — Manipur, Meghalaya, Bihar, Tripura and Uttarakhand — do not have a single woman judge, while seven other high courts have just one woman judge each.The sanctioned strength of judges across 25 high courts in India is 1,098. Of these, 465 posts (more than 42% of the total strength) were vacant as of September.In his speech on Sunday, justice Ramana expressed hope that the Supreme Court opens up fully for offline hearings after the Dussehra break that ends on October 17.The concerns of the bar on certain stipulations in the guidelines for physical hearings are being addressed, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cji-calls-for-women-s-equal-representation-in-judiciary-101632696419660.html
27-09-2021||India||Modi inspects work on new Parliament building||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday evening inspected the construction of the new Parliament building in central Delhi, hours after returning from the Unites States. Modi visited the site around 8.45pm, and spent nearly an hour there during the inspection.According to the Central Vista plan approved by the Centre, the North and South Block office complexes will be turned into national museums, the Indira Gandhi National Centre will be relocated, and the National Archives will be remodelled. The PM’s residence will be shifted behind the existing South Block complex while the residence of the Vice President is proposed to be relocated behind North Block. The Vista will be ready to host the next Republic Day parade in 2022, Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on September 16.HT on June 30 reported the Vice President’s enclave and the new Parliament House will be the first buildings to be completed, and work on shifting the national museum to the North and South Block will commence last, in the elaborate plan for the Vista revamp that requires moving people and offices over the course of the next six years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-inspects-work-on-new-parliament-building-101632695881407.html
27-09-2021||India||Prime Minister Modi returns to India after 3-day power packed US visit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi landed in India on Sunday afternoon after his three-day visit to the United States, which saw him deliver a keynote address at the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) in New York and also attend a series of crucial meetings with US president Joe Biden, vice president Kamala Harris and premiers of the Quad countries.Prime Minister Modi was greeted by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda, party general secretaries Arun Singh and Tarun Chugh, former health minister Harsh Vardhan, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, and senior party functionaries outside the airport.Addressing the felicitation ceremony organized to welcome the Prime Minister, BJP President J.P Nadda said, “During his visit to America, our illustrious Prime Minister has played India’s danka in the whole world, introducing the whole world to the idea of India.”The BJP president further said that on the occasion of the 105th birth anniversary of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay in the UNGA on Saturday, the Prime Minister introduced the whole world to his principles of Integral Humanism and Antyodaya, which is the basic foundation of the governance of the Indian government. “He also put the principle of ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas and Sabka Prayas’ on the world stage,” he added.Nadda said that Modi has not only made 130 crore citizens of the country feel proud but has also increased the value of the countrymen by bringing back 157 artefacts from India belonging to different periods.Sharing photographs of the Prime Minister greeting the public who had gathered at the airport, he tweeted, “People were eagerly waiting since morning to see and greet their beloved Hon. Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi ji on his return from US visit. Huge cheering and enthusiasm.”The Prime Minister’s US visit concluded on a high note, during which he said he had had “productive bilateral and multilateral engagements” and expressed confidence that the relationship between India and the US will grow even stronger. Ahead of his return from the United States, the Prime Minister tweeted, “Over the last few days, have had productive bilateral and multilateral engagements, interaction with CEOs and the UN address. I am confident the India-USA relationship will grow even stronger in the years to come. Our rich people-to-people linkages are among our strongest assets.”A government official told HT that PM Modi had 20 meetings in his 65-hour stay in the United States. PM Modi addressed the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly, attended the first in-person Quad summit meeting, and held bilateral and multilateral engagements, including with US President Joe Biden, US vice president Kamala Harris and his Australian and Japanese counterparts—Scott Morrison and Yoshihide Suga—respectively.The US visit marked the first visit of the Prime Minister beyond the neighbourhood since the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs (MEA), Arindam Bagchi, said the Prime Minister’s US visit was a “landmark” and foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla described the trip as “very successful”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prime-minister-modi-returns-to-india-after-3-day-power-packed-us-visit-101632690461415.html
27-09-2021||India||Kerala to develop tourism circuit connecting sites of Malabar riots||With the Sangh Parivar and Bharatiya Janata Party busy branding the Malabar riots of 1921 as a “genocide”, the ruling CPI(M) in Kerala is planning to develop a tourism circuit connecting important sites related to the Malabar uprising. State Tourism Minister Muhammed Riyas said in Alappuzha that the tourism department will develop a circuit connecting all important sites related to the rebellion in Malappuram. He said it will attract a lot of tourists and history students. He also said it was wrong to call the Wagon Tragedy a ‘tragedy’, since it was a “massacre” carried out by the British deliberately. After the riot was brutally suppressed in 1921 by the British, another bitter incident unfolded, the ‘Wagon Tragedy’. Prisoners of the riots were filled in a closed railway goods wagon and taken to Coimbatore for trial and 64 prisoners suffocated to death on the way. In Tirur railway station (Malappuram) there is a memorial for ‘Wagon Tragedy’.’ “Tragedy means a disaster. But it was a deliberate massacre by herding hapless people in a closed windowless wagon that led to many being choked to death. The British called it a tragedy and still we are using this term,” he said adding a travel circuit will be developed to mark the centenary of the Malabar uprising. He rejected the contention of the BJP and Hindu outfits saying it was nothing new and reiterated that it was a peasant uprising. The Malabar rebellion, also called as Moppila uprising, is a controversial issue in history. A section of historians and Left parties say it was a peasant uprising against British colonialism in south India but many right wing groups and a section of historians contend that it was a communal riot and Hindus were targeted. The issue is still hotly debated in the southern state_ whether it was a rebellion against colonial forces and landlords or a mindless action by fanatics. Last month there was a controversy after the Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR) removed Malabar rebellion leader Variyamkunnath Kunjahmed Haji from the ‘Dictionary of Martyrs of India Freedom Struggle.’ Haji was captured and executed by the British in 1921. The issue flared up further after assembly speaker M B Rajesh compared Haji with Bhagat Singh, a young martyr from Punjab who was executed by the British and later turned a hero of the freedom struggle. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath while addressing a programme organised by the RSS mouthpiece “Panchajanya” on Saturday said the “Malabar riots was planned genocide of Hindus by jihad elements.” He said it is important to understand history through the right lens. “Some people say Hindu landlords in Kerala were exploiting Muslim labourers and they gifted a peasant uprising stamp to it. But fact is that thousands of Hindus were killed after they refused to convert. For the left and pseudo-secularists it is still a peasant uprising. But it was genocide,” he said adding attempts to make it a part of the freedom movement should be opposed vehemently. Addressing a seminar in Kozhikode last month, RSS leader Ram Madhav also alleged that the riot was one of the first manifestations of Taliban mindset in India and Left parties were trying to whitewash it by celebrating it as a labour uprising. But CM Pinarayi Vijayan last month reiterated that the state government will observe it as part of the freedom struggle. “People who betrayed the freedom struggle (Sangh Parivar) have no right to raise accusing fingers at others,” he said. The Hindu Aikya Vedi, a right-wing group, said it will oppose the government’s move to develop a tourism circuit to glorify the riot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-develop-tourism-circuit-connecting-sites-of-malabar-riots-101632688661399.html
27-09-2021||India||The Week Ahead: Farmers’ Bharat Bandh; new faces to join Congress||It was JRR Tolkien who, while describing the ring on which one of the literary masterpieces of the 20th century, The Lord of the Rings is based, said, “One Ring to find them, One Ring to bring them all. and in the darkness bind them.”The National Health ID won’t rule us all, but it is the first step to bring Indians together to manage their health records. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, September 27, will announce nationwide rollout of the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM), under which a unique digital health id will be assigned to each citizen that will contain all health records of the person.The health ID is to standardise the process of identification of an individual across health care providers that aims to ensure that the created medical records are issued to the correct individual or accessed by health information user through appropriate consent.The initiative that has been renamed as Pradhan Mantri Digital Health Mission (PM-DHM) essentially consists of four main building blocks: unique digital health ID, a healthcare professionals registry, health facility registry and electronic health records.Will the national health ID be as revolutionary as Aadhaar was? We will need to wait and watch.The opposition has been raining concerns over privacy and data control, but the government is going ahead anyway.The government may find itself under some pressure on account of the Bharat Bandh called today by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha. It remains to be seen what response it gets, but the build-up has been quite the talked-about event across the country.The Congress party, the mainstay of the national-level opposition will see two new faces joining the party: the firebrand student leader Kanhaiya Kumar, and Jignesh Mevani.In Kerala, the trial against deposed Bishop Franco Mulakkal resumes in a local court in Kottayam. In the same state, the PCC office-bearers’ list will be published by this weekend. AICC general secretary Tariq Anwar arrived in the state for last-minute consultations.In West Bengal, the only topic of discussion seems to be Bhabanipur elections on September 30. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is contesting to retain her chief ministerial berth. Elections to Samserganj and Jangipur seats will be also held on the same day. The counting is expected on October 3.In Madhya Pradesh, the High Court will hear petitions of the increased reservation of OBC from 14% to 27%. The hearing will be taken place on September 30. After the state government submitted its reply on September 8, the court is likely to give a judgement on the stay order of implementation of the reservation. Bihar too will see phase two of panchayat polls starting September 29. It’s raining elections soon.Less than a week of the current monsoon season remains. The cumulative rainfall for the 2021 June-September monsoon season up to 8:30 AM on September 25 is 841.74 mm, according to the gridded rainfall dataset of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). This is about a percent more than the average of 833.45 mm rainfall for this interval in the 1961-2010 period, which is called the Long Period Average (LPA). This is also an improvement from the 0.1% deficit on September 18. To be sure, last year, the cumulative rainfall up to September 25 was 941.3 mm, 13% more than the LPA.In sport, the IPL heads towards the playoffs with Delhi Capitals leading the table, Sunrisers Hyderabad all but out of contention and Punjab Kings, Rajasthan Royals struggling to stay afloat.The Asian Table Tennis Championships will begin on September 28 with controversy raging over the exclusion of India’s No 1 player Manika Batra from the squad. Meanwhile, India’s top wrestlers will head to Norway for the World Wrestling Championship which begins October 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-week-ahead-farmers-bharat-bandh-new-faces-to-join-congress-101632684585766.html
27-09-2021||India||One person swept away in Odisha as Cyclone Gulab makes landfall||One person was swept away in Ganjam district while three others of a family narrowly escaped being crushed under a tree as Cyclone Gulab made landfall at Tekkali sub division of Srikakulam district in Andhra Pradesh, about 20 km north of Kalingapatnam on Sunday evening.Special relief commissioner of Odisha Pradeep Jena said, after making landfall at 8.30 pm, the cyclone was moving towards Koraput and Malkangiri districts where it is expected to cause damage due to wind and rain. “We are expecting widespread rain in Malkangiri, Koraput, Ganjam, Gajapati and Rayagada districts till tomorrow afternoon,” Jena said. There was no danger to any other coastal districts.In Ganjam district, a man was swept away in Gosaninuagaon block while 3 members of a family in Kharput block of Malkangiri district escaped from falling under a tree that crashed into their house.In Srikakulam of Andhra Pradesh, two fishermen in a boat died after five of the six fishermen fell into the sea off Mandasa coast due to strong waves. Out of the 5 people, three reached ashore safely and two others died. One fisherman is still missing.Before the cyclone made landfall over 20,000 people in Ganjam and Gajapati district had been evacuated by the district administration. Officials said people did not show interest in the evacuation process as there have been comparatively less wind speeds and rain. In Gajapati district, a road was sealed following landslides.The East Coast Railway has cancelled 34 pairs of trains due to Cyclone Gulab. The ECoR has also rescheduled 13 trains and diverted at least 17 trains so far, according to its bulletins. “In view of the forecast of heavy rain with cyclonic wind, all necessary precautions have been taken by ECoR,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-person-swept-away-in-odisha-as-cyclone-gulab-makes-landfall-101632682781546.html
27-09-2021||India||Pole dancing emerges as the latest fitness trend to sweep Chennai||Pole dancing is the new fitness trend in Chennai, with locals ranging from fitness enthusiasts, lawyers, mothers and children to members of the LGBTQIA+ community taking to the pole across the city. In a state where classical dance form Bharatanatyam originated and is known for its temples, a section of Chennai’s fitness community is beginning to take to pole dancing as a form of exercise. Pole dancing workshops started in the city in August. The beginnings replicate the surfing scene in the city a decade ago, after international surfers discovered it along with coastal Chennai and its outskirts, which now became a sport and a fitness activity. While pole dancing came to Delhi and Mumbai a few years ago, Chennai is beginning to warm up to it.Anusha Swamy, a choreographer for Tamil movies, is at the forefront of the pole dance movement in the city. Swamy learnt pole dancing in 2019 in a four-day crash course in Melbourne. After the Covid pandemic hit the world, she has self-taught pole dancing and is learning from instructors online. During the lockdown, Swamy posted her pole dancing videos with a background score of unconventional mellifluous and lyrical Indian and international music on Instagram. Some found this therapeutic. It opened up the notion that pole dancing can be more than an exotic dance performed inside clubs. “Initially, I tried it as a fun activity. When it is taboo in the society as rebellious girls, we want ask what about it is so shameful,” says Anusha. “Then I understood it’s such a meditative activity. When you’re on the pole, your mind and body are incomplete in connection with each other. You also understand your limitations. It’s like working on yourself. Of course, the beauty and athletic qualities come with it.” Swamy’s videos did, however, draw nasty and shaming comments. Explaining the rising popularity of pole dancing, Nikita Vijay, founder of Tattva studio, which hosts occasional workshops, said, “We did wonder if people in Chennai would open up and attempt pole dancing which is why we had a workshop first. There is a taboo associated with pole dancing, but it requires a high-level core and upper body strength, so we wanted to give it a try, and it was the first time a pole workshop happened in South India.” The first pole dancing workshop in August saw more than 20people participate, which was followed by 10 more workshops across the city. The Tattva studio also launched a three-month pole camp to start in October, seats for which got sold out in three days. “Once you do it, you know it’s not something to be ashamed about and it’s not just a show. It’s about fitness, and you can be fully dressed to do it,” Vijay said. Teaming up with Swami, three mechanical engineering grad students, who make fitness equipment locally in Chennai named Sthenos recently began manufacturing poles in the city. Sthenos formed in August 2020 amidst the pandemic and used local labourers who were out of jobs due to the lockdown. They have now begun selling ‘fitness poles’ along with other equipment such as multi bars and pull up bars. These ‘fitness poles’ are silicone coated, so it does not require skin contact for grip, unlike the majority of the poles available in the market. “Whether it’s swimming or pole dancing, when women wear fewer clothes, the commentary shifts to their body from the art form. With these poles, they don’t have to miss out on being constrained by attire,” Sthenos co-founder Mathews Fernandes said. The poles weigh about 20 kgs and come in various heights from 8.5 feet to 13.5 feet to adjust to the ceiling. Given the Covid-19 pandemic restrictions, these poles can also be used at home and are portable. “Even I had a negative perception of pole dancing, but when I tried it once, I realised how tough it is, and I’ve come full circle to respecting it and manufacturing it for the entire country,” he concluded.Preethi Nedumaran, a 32-year-old Bharatanatyam dancer and a fitness enthusiast, attempted pole dancing as a weekend activity with her friends. “It’s a great way to mix dance routines and fitness,” she said. In another example, 24-year-old J Kanish, a software engineer, is a lone man among dozens of women trying the pole in a workshop in Chennai. “Pole dancing is portrayed by women but I don’t see a sex assigned to it,” he said. “For me, the agenda of doing pole is that it gives you an entire body workout. It looks easy, but it’s tough to do,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pole-dancing-emerges-as-the-latest-fitness-trend-to-sweep-chennai-101632681823566.html
27-09-2021||India||Malabar uprising sites to be made a tourist circuit||The Kerala government on Sunday said the state tourism department is going to develop a circuit connecting all important historical sites related to the Malabar rebellion in 1921, marking the centenary of the uprising, even as Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and right-wing leaders voiced their opposition to celebrating the event as a ‘freedom struggle’ and termed the riots ‘genocide’ against the Hindus. State tourism minister Muhammed Riyas said that the circuit will be developed in Malappuram, attracting a lot of tourists and history students. Riyas also said that the term ‘tragedy’ for the 1921 Wagon Tragedy is incorrect as it was a deliberate massacre carried out by the British regime. Around 64 prisoners were taken into custody following the Malabar rebellion, an uprising movement against the British Empire that resulted in riots and thousands of casualties, and were on their way to Coimbatore for judicial trial on November 10, 1921, when they died inside the railway goods wagon due to suffocation. A memorial for the Wagon Tragedy exists inside the Tirur railway station (Malappuram) in Kerala. “Tragedy means a disaster. But it was a deliberate massacre by herding hapless people in a closed windowless wagon and many were choked to death. British called it a tragedy and still we are using this term,” he said. The Malabar rebellion, also called the Moplah uprising, is a controversial issue in history. While a section of historians and left parties say it was a peasant uprising against British colonialism in South India, many right-wing groups and a section of historians contend that it was a communal riot where Hindus were targeted. The issue is still hotly debated in the southern state – whether it was a rebellion against colonial forces and landlords or a mindless action by fanatics. Last month, a controversy sparked after the Indian Council of Historical Research (ICHR) removed Malabar rebellion leader Variyamkunnath Kunjahmed Haji from the ‘Dictionary of Martyrs of India Freedom Struggle.’ Haji was captured and executed by the British in 1921. The issue flared up further after Kerala assembly speaker M B Rajesh compared Haji with Bhagat Singh, a young martyr from Punjab and a freedom fighter executed by the British in 1931. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, while addressing a programme organised by RSS mouthpiece “Panchajanya” on Saturday, said the “Malabar riots were planned genocide of Hindus by jihad elements.” Yogi said it is important to understand history through the right lens. “Some people say Hindu landlords in Kerala were exploiting Muslim labourers and they gifted a peasant uprising stamp to it. But the fact is that thousands of Hindus were killed after they refused to convert. For the left and pseudo-secularists, it is still a peasant uprising. But it was genocide,” he said, adding that attempts to make it a part of the freedom movement should be opposed vehemently. Addressing a seminar in Kozhikode last month, RSS leader Ram Madhav also alleged that riot was one of the first manifestations of Taliban mindset in India, and left parties were trying to whitewash it by celebrating it as a labour uprising. But Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan last month reiterated that the state government will observe it as part of the freedom struggle. “People who betrayed the freedom struggle (Sangh Parivar) have no right to raise accusing fingers at others,” he said. Tourism minister Riyas refused to divulge further into the BJP and RSS leaders’ comments, saying that he rejected their contention.The Hindu Aikya Vedi, a right-wing group, said it will oppose the government’s move to develop a tourism circuit to glorify the riot. “It is another example of appeasement politics. We will oppose it tooth and nail”, said Vedi president R V Babu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/malabar-uprising-sites-to-be-made-a-tourist-circuit-101632681821008.html
27-09-2021||India||Kerala teacher pitches for education on Constitution||A Kottayam teacher’s movement to set up clubs teaching articles from the Constitution of India in schools to create awareness among the youth about their rights and duties as citizens is gaining popularity across Kerala. Last year, Binu PG had even written a letter to Kerala governor Arif Mohammad Khan in this regard, who in turn, lauded his initiative and recommended the letter to President Ram Nath Kovind. A decision on the letter is still pending. In his letter to the governor, Binu also mentioned that contribution of B N Rau, a civil servant and jurist, who played a key role in drafting the Constitution, was not properly recognized and wanted a befitting memorial for him. Binu, who has travelled across the country to promote the idea of educating the youth, said the constitutional values should be taught to children at a young age and citizenship education should be included in the curriculum. “If you ask our students about the freedom movement and our Constitution, they will only tell you about some dates or tall leaders. I have been teaching students about constitutional values for more than one and a half-decade and I am sure if they imbibe the right spirit they will be better citizens,” said the 40-year-old, who was the Kerala project officer of the National Service Scheme in 2011-12. “I am not saying that all articles and rights should be taught in schools. What we need is the literacy of the Constitution. Youngsters should be made aware of their rights, duties and obligations. We have to give them good lessons on how to be a responsible citizen and how to respect the system and law of the land,” he said, adding that citizenship education is a subject in countries like Singapore and Japan. Regarding his movement, Binu is planning to tour the state to mobilise support and later take it to the national level. “We have around 450 million youth in the country. We don’t have an effective mechanism to groom and channelize their energy for the country. I am sure good lessons will make them good citizens and we don’t need high doses of nationalism at a later stage,” he said, adding that he has prepared a blueprint for the Constitution clubs. “Binu is a committed social activist who dreams of a better country. As a motivational speaker and a teacher, he has been inspiring youth for many years,” said Dr V Reghu, former assistant director of the Centre for Adult Education Board of Kerala University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-teacher-pitches-for-education-on-constitution-101632681760603.html
27-09-2021||India||Ahead of Bihar bypolls, LJP factions tussle over party symbol||The Chirag Paswan-led faction of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) has written to the Election Commission (EC) stating that Union minister Pashupati Paras’ claims of being elected as the party president are “false” and should be “rejected” within a week or before the notification of the Bihar assembly by-polls for the Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan constituencies.Both the Paswan and Paras factions will be fielding candidates in the yet to be announced bypolls, and both have claimed the right to use the party’s name and symbol. EC must see which group has a majority in the organisational and legislative wings to decide which faction’s claim can be accepted. So far, said an EC official, the Paras faction has not filed any petition to claim LJP’s symbol and name.On June 16, Paras wrote to the EC that he has been elected as the leader of the parliamentary party and a new president will be elected at a national executive meeting. A day later, Suraj Bhan Singh signing as the returning officer/ acting president informed the poll panel that Paras has been elected as the national president of the party.Paswan faction’s letter to EC dated September 23 states that the so-called election that Paras claims made him the party leader does not fulfil the requirement of Rule 15 of the Election Symbol (Reservation and Allotment) Order, 1968.“The party’s constitution was amended in 2014 at the national executive and was approved by the open house (a collective of all district presidents) in 2017 in Gaya. It was the constitution that increased the term of the president from three years to five and stated that the president can only be changed if s/he voluntarily steps down or dies. Since Chirag was elected in 2019, a decision to which Paras was a signatory, he is the sole authority to sign the forms of candidates fighting on the party ticket,” said Abdul Khaliq, the party’s national general secretary.Khaliq also mentioned that he informed EC in June that Paras’ claims of being the party president violate the party’s constitution.On June 15, Paras, along with four other Lok Sabha MPs, staged a coup against Paswan and declared he did not enjoy the support of the party leaders. They wrote to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla that the party’s parliamentary board at a meeting on June 13 decided that Paras will be the parliamentary party leader in the Lok Sabha. Friction between Paswan and Paras, who is also his uncle, deepened after the passing away of Ram Vilas Paswan, the LJP founder, and exacerbated when Paswan junior decided that LJP will contest the Bihar assembly election alone and attacked Janata Dal (United) leader and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar.In a letter dated June 21, Singh informed the poll panel that as per the party’s constitution, one person cannot hold multiple positions in the organisation and it was imperative to hold elections to the office of the president following the demise of Ram Vilas Paswan.He went to say that as election officer he received only the nomination of Pashupati Paras for the post of president and during the election process, all members of the national council present in the meeting unanimously supported his candidature.Khaliq, however, dismissed these claims as contradictory to the party constitution and said that the Paras faction needs to move court if they want to challenge Paswan’s presidency.“The EC had forwarded Paras’ letter stating his elevation as party president for us to submit our report. However, it is not the mandate of the poll panel to decide the party’s leadership issue. Their remit is limited to deciding the symbol and the party’s name. If they (Paras faction) want to claim leadership they should file a petition in the civil court,” Khaliq said.In August, the Paswan faction took exception to the EC not referring to Chirag Paswan as the LJP president in a letter addressed to him. “It was conveyed in November 2019 and in January 2021 to the EC that Chirag has been appointed as the president for a period of five years. We said the EC does not have the power to adjudicate in matters raised by members of the party who have been expelled.Khaliq said at the national executive meeting held on June 15, 2021, in Patna it was unanimously decided to expel Paras, and four other Lok Sabha MPs Prince Raj, Veena Devi, Chandan Singh and MA Quaiser for anti-party activities.“Therefore, any national executive meeting called by Paras is illegal,” he said.Mahtab Alam, vice-president of a Bihar unit of LJP with the Paras faction said they will stake a claim to the party symbol and name. “There is still time for the bypoll. We will move the EC for giving us the name and the symbol and submit the documents as well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-bihar-bypolls-ljp-factions-tussle-over-party-symbol-101632679910502.html
27-09-2021||India||Poll-bound Punjab, UP rejig cabinets||Fifteen Congress MLAs were sworn in as ministers in Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s cabinet on Sunday, with dissent over the selection of leaders fanning new controversy in the state headed for polls in under five months.A similar exercise was carried out in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, where chief minister Yogi Adityanath inducted seven leaders into his council of ministers, trying to balance caste and regional aspirations. Jitin Prasada, who recently crossed over to the Bharatiya Janata Party from the Congress, was administered oath as cabinet minister, while six others were sworn in as ministers of state.Channi, who took over as the chief minister after Congress veteran Amarinder Singh’s unceremonious exit after a prolonged power tussle with state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, included six new faces in his first cabinet expansion.The new faces are Randeep Singh Nabha, Raj Kumar Verka, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Pargat Singh, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring and Gurkirat Singh Kotli.Rana Gurjit Singh, who was forced to resign from the previous Amarinder Singh cabinet over allegations of corruption in 2018, was also sworn in on Sunday.Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit administered the oath of office and secrecy to the legislators a day after Channi finalised the names after three rounds of discussions with the Congress leadership.While Amarinder skipped the ceremony, Punjab affairs incharge Harish Rawat and Sidhu were present during the oath-taking.The exercise, carried out after approvals from former leader Rahul Gandhi and Sidhu, has brought about a generational shift in the state leadership, taking into consideration caste and regional equations, experts said.Verka hails from the Valmiki community and Gilzian represents the other backward classes (OBCs). The five other MLAs are Jat Sikhs.After Channi, a Dalit leader, was elected as the Congress Legislature Party leader, the party picked Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, a Jat Sikh, and OP Soni, a Hindu, as his deputies.State unit incharge Harish Rawat said the exercise has been done to bring in young faces and strike a social and regional balance. “We have tried to ensure a social balance. This is a balanced cabinet,” he said after the oath-taking ceremony.In the 18-member cabinet, nine ministers are from the state’s Malwa region, six — including the two deputy CMs — from Majha and three from Doaba.Eight ministers from the previous cabinet — Brahm Mohindra, Manpreet Singh Badal, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Aruna Chaudhary, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Razia Sultana, Vijay Inder Singla and Bharat Bhushan Ashu — were retained.The party, however, dropped five ministers — Balbir Singh Sidhu, Gurpreet Singh Kangar, Rana Gurmeet Sodhi, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and Sundar Shyam Arora — from the previous cabinet, leading to loud protests ahead of the swearing-in ceremony.Balbir Singh and Gurpreet Singh held a joint news conference and questioned the party leadership’s decision to drop them.Earlier in the day, last-minute changes were made to the list of candidates approved a day earlier, after four-time MLA Randeep Singh Nabha lodged a strong protest against his name being dropped from the cabinet list, people familiar with the matter said.The Amloh MLA was added to the list, replacing Punjab Congress working president Kuljit Singh Nagra, a two-time MLA from Fatehgarh Sahib, the people cited above said.The day saw more protests as at least six legislators from Doaba region wrote to Sidhu, objecting to the induction of former irrigation and power minister Rana Gurjit Singh, alleging that he was “corrupt and tainted”.The leaders demanded that the cabinet berth should instead be filled up “by giving representation to a clean Dalit leader”, news agency PTI reported citing the letter. A copy of the letter was also sent to the chief minister.Rana Gurjit Singh, after facing flak from the Opposition over allegations of impropriety in the auction of sand mining contracts, had resigned from the previous Amarinder Singh cabinet in 2018. Rana Gurjit, Mohindra and Singla are considered close to Amarinder Singh.Rawat, in what appeared to be an attempt at controlling discontent in the faction-ridden party, later said: “We have decided that those who could not be accommodated in the Cabinet, they will be adjusted in the party and government set-up because there is a lot of work, they will be given responsibilities.”Deputy chief ministers, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni, were sworn in last Monday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pollbound-punjab-up-rejig-cabinets-101632679780725.html
27-09-2021||India||IMD predicts heavy rain in parts of India||There will likely be showers over central and western parts of India in the next 4-5 days, the India Meteorological Department predicted on Sunday, even as Cyclone Gulab hit the country’s east coast between Kalingapatnam in Andhra Pradesh and Gopalpur in Odisha.“ We can expect widespread rain over central India in the next few days. There is a trough passing from Bay of Bengal to the Pacific, where cyclonic circulations and tropical storms are forming one after the other,” said Sunitha Devi, in-charge, cyclones, IMD. “The remnants of these storms are causing development of depressions and low pressure areas over Bay of Bengal this month.”Atmospheric low pressure and depressions lead to heavy rainfall and cyclones in the Indian subcontinent. Cyclone Gulab is likely to have a wind speed of 75 to 85 km per hour, with wind gusts of 95 kmph during landfall, before weakening and moving towards central India as a low-pressure system, the Met department said.Light to moderate rainfall at most places with extremely heavy rain at isolated places is likely over Vidarbha, south Chhattisgarh and Telangana; heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places over Konkan and Goa, central Maharashtra, Odisha, Marathwada in the next 2-3 days, IMD said. “As the cyclone weakens, the remnant will move towards central India bringing rain to central India and west India including Maharashtra and Gujarat at least for next 2-3 days,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.On Tuesday, moderate rainfall at most places with extremely heavy rain of over 20 cm is likely at isolated places over Gujarat, central Maharashtra, Konkan and Goa. Heavy to very heavy rain is also likely at isolated places over Saurashtra, Kutch and Marathwada.There might be a cyclonic circulation on September 28 over east-central Bay of Bengal with a similar pattern of movement as Cyclone Gulab. However, there is no probability of another cyclone forming, IMD scientists said.The southwest monsoon is unlikely to withdraw in the next week, according to Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology at private forecaster Skymet Weather. “Patchy rain will continue over northwest India including Delhi NCR (national capital region). Monsoon may finish with normal rainfall around 99% of LPA,” Palawat said. LPA is short for long-period average of rainfall between 1961 and 2010.Monsoon rainfall was deficient by 2% as on Sunday, with 12% deficiency over east and northeast India; 4% deficiency over northwest India; 0% excess over central India and 9% excess over peninsular India.The overall deficiency at the end of August was nine percent. The IMD in its forecast on September 1 said that owing to above normal rains in September, the overall southwest monsoon rains this year may be in the “lower end of normal category”.The weather department considers 96% to 104% of LPA to be normal. But considering that widespread rainfall is likely to continue till the end of the month, total rainfall may increase further. There was 9.6% excess rain at the end of June; 6.8% deficiency in July; 24% deficiency in August and 28.8% excess in September, making it the most active month.The extended range model guidance of the IMD is indicating widespread rain over the country till October 7 and patchy rain till October 14. The monsoon typically withdraws from northwest India from September 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-gulab-imd-predicts-heavy-rain-in-central-western-parts-of-india-in-next-4-5-days-101632679550319.html
27-09-2021||India||Need data protection bodies at state level for robust law: JPC member||There is a need for state-level data protection authorities (DPAs), along with a national watchdog, to ensure that the data protection law becomes more robust and implementable, according to parliamentarian Amar Patnaik of the Biju Janata Dal, who is a member of the joint parliamentary committee (JPC) looking into the draft legislation.“I’m strongly of the view that the DPA in its current form means that there is one DPA for all of India, and every state government or institution is accountable to it,” he said in an interview with Hindustan Times. “We need state-level DPAs so as to not raise issues of federal override. This way the administration of data protection regime will become more robust and implementable. Else, it will be overwhelming for an institution to deal with all of it.”The personal data protection committee is considering a slew of changes, including introducing psychological manipulation as a violation and stressing on the need for algorithmic fairness, HT reported over the past week.The key amendments are under consideration of the House panel, which aims to table its report in the winter session of Parliament. The JPC was set up in 2019 to look into the provisions of the bill and has since sought several extensions, the latest one after chairperson Meenakshi Lekhi had to step down as she was elevated to the post of a union minister.Patnaik stressed that while the proceedings of the committee were confidential, concerns about various aspects of the bill have been discussed. “There have been concerns regarding the heavy compliance cost,” he said. “The second one is that it will be a consent based framework. How does one ensure informed consent is there? Then of course is the concerns that the government has overriding measures, which empowers it to bypass the bill, like in the interest of national security.”The proposed law will not only protect a citizen’s privacy but will also unlock the value of data. “Once encryption enforcement happens, personal data can become non-personal data. The exemptions that the bill provides for speaks to how narrow it is and what are the chances that it can be misused,” Patnaik said. “It should be as discretionary as possible.”He said that the concerns about non-personal data (NPD) being addressed in the personal data protection (PDP) bill have been discussed. “There is the question whether non-personal data should be regulated at all, how should NPD be addressed in PDP, and whether NPD should not be regulated at all,” Patnaik said.Over 60 sessions later, a new report is set to be drawn up by the committee. “An immense amount of attention has been given to the bill,” he said. “DPA will be a behemoth. It will have a say over how data are used.”“In terms of structural independence and functional capacity of DPA, I believe it should be a constitutional authority,” Patnaik said. “Unless its a constitutional body, one can’t ensure its independence.”“I’m reasonably optimistic that the final form of the report may see a bit of delay, but it will be adopted in the winter session.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-state-level-data-protection-authorities-joint-parliamentary-committee-mp-amar-patnaik-101632679181340.html
27-09-2021||India||Cyclone Gulab: 3 dead in Odisha and Andhra Pradesh||Three people were killed in Odisha and Andhra Pradesh as Cyclone Gulab made landfall in the coastal region of the two states on Sunday evening, officials said.One person was swept away in Odisha’s Ganjam district and two fishermen from Srikakulam district of Andhra Pradesh lost their lives while one another went missing as the cyclonic storm made landfall on Sunday evening.Special relief commissioner of Odisha Pradeep Jena said, “After making landfall at 8.30 pm, the cyclone was moving towards Koraput and Malkangiri districts where it is expected to cause potential damage due to wind and rain. We are expecting widespread rains in Malkangiri, Koraput, Ganjam, Gajapati and Rayagada districts till tomorrow afternoon. There was no danger to any other coastal districts”.In Ganjam district, a man was swept away in Gosaninuagaon block while three members of a family in Kharput block of Malkangiri district escaped narrowly from coming under a tree that fell on their house, the officer said.In Srikakulam of Andhra Pradesh, two fishermen in a boat died after five of the six fishermen fell in the sea off Mandasa coast due to strong waves. While three reached ashore safely and two others died, and one fisherman is still missing, officials said.One of the six called his village over phone and informed that their boat lost balance and five of his fellow fishermen were lost in the sea. Subsequently, his mobile phone too went silent, indicating that he too might have gone missing.The Andhra Pradesh fisheries Minister contacted the Navy authorities to carry out a rescue operation.The three north coastal districts of Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam had been receiving moderate to heavy rain under the influence of Gulab.Andhra Pradesh State Disaster Management Authority Commissioner K Kanna Babu reviewed the situation with the district Collectors and other officials in Visakhapatnam and directed them to be on high alert.He said NDRF and SDRF teams have been positioned in the three north coastal districts for rescue and relief operations.In Srikakulam district, 182 persons from Vajrapukothuru mandal have been moved to relief camps, according to the Collector L Srikesh Balaji Rao.Before the cyclone made landfall, around 39,000 people in Odisha’s Ganjam and Gajapati district had been evacuated by the districts. Officials said people did not show interest for evacuation process as there have been comparatively less wind speed and rains. In Gajapati district, a road was sealed following landslides in a mountain.The East Coast Railway has cancelled 34 pairs of trains due to Cyclone Gulab. The ECoR has also rescheduled 13 trains and diverted at least 17 trains so far, according to its bulletins. “In view of the forecast of heavy rain with cyclonic wind, all necessary precautions have been taken by ECoR,” it said.Meanwhile, the South Central Railway informed in a release that eight trains on the Vijayawada-Howrah route were diverted via Kharagpur, Jharsuguda, Bilaspur and Balharshah. Two other trains that were supposed to begin journey on Sunday, have been rescheduled for Monday.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-gulab-3-dead-in-odisha-and-andhra-pradesh-101632679062312.html
27-09-2021||India||Govt expert group may recommend inclusion of ZyCoV-D in India vaccination drive||ZyCoV-D, the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Zydus Cadila in partnership with the Department of Biotechnology, is likely to be included in the national immunisation programme as a government expert group is expected to recommend its inclusion next week, said an official aware of the matter. The Zydus Cadila vaccine would expand India’s vaccination programme to those aged 12 years and above.“The deliberations are nearing conclusion and by next week or so the government should receive their recommendations on the matter,” the official said, requesting anonymity. “It seems that the expert group is in favour of including children in the list of eligible beneficiaries for Covid-19 vaccination.”The Centre could introduce the three-dose vaccine in a phased manner, with children with specified comorbidities receiving priority because they have the additional risk of severe infection.“Eventually, we will have to vaccinate all children and not just those at risk because children can bring the infection home and expose those members who are at high risk, especially the elderly and sick in the family,” said Dr JS Bhasin, director and head, department of paediatrics, BLK Hospital, New Delhi.The issue of pricing the product is also being considered said the official cited earlier. Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, had mentioned pricing is an issue in a press briefing last week.“The price is also a clear issue. Talks are going on and a decision will soon be taken. With full preparation, it will become a part of the country’s national vaccination programme,” Dr Paul had said. “We are looking forward to receiving recommendations of the NTAGI on the beneficiary or target group to which the vaccine has to be given.”On August 20, VG Somani, Drugs Controller General of India, approved the Zydus Cadila vaccine for emergency use. ZyCoV-D, the world’s first plasmid DNA vaccine for Covid-19, is administered in three doses on Day zero, Day 28, and Day 56.The government expects around 10 million vaccine doses from the company.
27-09-2021||India||PM introduced world to India: BJP chief Nadda on Modi’s return from US||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday afternoon landed in India after his three-day visit to the United States, which saw him deliver a key address at the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) in New York, and attend a series of crucial meetings with US president Joe Biden, vice president Kamala Harris and premiers of the Quad countries.Prime Minister Modi was greeted by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda, party general secretaries Arun Singh and Tarun Chugh, former health minister Harsh Vardhan, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta, and senior party functionaries outside the airport.Addressing the felicitation ceremony organised to welcome the prime minister, BJP President J.P Nadda said, “During his visit to America, our illustrious Prime Minister has played India’s danka in the whole world, introducing the whole world to the idea of India.”The BJP President further said that on the occasion of the 105th birth anniversary of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay in the UNGA on Saturday, the prime minister introduced the whole world to his principles of Integral Humanism and Antyodaya, which is the basic foundation of the governance of the Indian government. “He also put the principle of ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas and Sabka Prayas’ on the world stage,” he added.Nadda said that Modi has not only made 1.3 billion citizens of the country feel proud but has also increased the value of the countrymen by bringing back 157 artefacts from India in different periods.Sharing photographs of the Prime Minister greeting the public who had gathered at the airport, he tweeted, “People were eagerly waiting since morning to see and greet their beloved Hon. Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi Ji on his return from the US visit. Huge cheering and enthusiasm.”The Prime Minister’s US visit concluded on a high note, during which he said he had had “productive bilateral and multilateral engagements” and expressed confidence that the relationship between India and the US will grow even stronger. Ahead of his return from the United States, the Prime Minister tweeted, “Over the last few days, have had productive bilateral and multilateral engagements, interaction with CEOs and the UN address. I am confident the India-USA relationship will grow even stronger in the years to come. Our rich people-to-people linkages are among our strongest assets.”A government official told HT that PM Modi had 20 meetings in his 65-hour stay in the United States. PM Modi addressed the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly, attended the first in-person Quad summit meeting, and held bilateral and multilateral engagements, including with US President Joe Biden, US vice president Kamala Harris and his Australian and Japanese counterparts—Scott Morrison and Yoshihide Suga—respectively.The US visit marked the first visit of the Prime Minister beyond the neighbourhood since the outbreak of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs (MEA), Arindam Bagchi, said the Prime Minister’s US visit was a “landmark” and foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla described the trip as “very successful”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmintroduced-world-to-india-bjp-chief-nadda-on-modi-s-return-from-us-101632678700211.html
27-09-2021||India||Names of 11 scientists declared for India’s highest science award||The names of 11 scientists, who received the country’s highest science award Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize for science and technology 2021, were announced during the 80th foundation day of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) on Sunday.The prize is given to Indian scientists below the age of 45 for outstanding research in seven fields—Biology, Chemistry, Environment Science, Engineering, Mathematics, Medicine and Physics.For Biological Sciences, Dr Amit Singh, department of microbiology and cell biology, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, and Dr Arun Kumar Shukla, department of biological sciences and bioengineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur, were awarded. An expert in microbiology, Singh worked on deciphering the role of genes involved in Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) pathogenesis during his PhD. Shukla is an Indian structural biologist (cell scientist), who has been working at IIT Kanpur since 2014.In chemical sciences, two researchers from the Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research, Bengaluru, Dr Kanishka Biswas from the International Centre of Materials Science and Dr T Govindaraju, from the Bio-organic Chemistry Laboratory, announced as recipients. While Biswas’ research field includes thermoelectric materials and devices that utilize the waste heat to generate electricity, Govindaraju’s work focuses on chemical biology and is engaged in solving challenging problems related to human health and society.For Earth, Atmosphere, Ocean and Planetary Sciences, Dr Binoy Kumar Saikia from Coal and Energy Research Group, CSIR North East Institute of Science and Technology, Jorhat, was named recipient. The coal and energy group is one of the excellent research groups working in the area of coal sciences and technology and energy-environment interface in India and abroad.Dr Debdeep Mukhopadhyay, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur, received the award under the engineering sciences category. At IIT Kharagpur, he initiated the Secured Embedded Architecture Laboratory (SEAL), with a focus on embedded security and side-channel attacks.In the mathematical sciences category, Dr Anish Ghosh, school of mathematics, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai, and Dr Saket Saurabh, The Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, were announced winners. Ghosh works at the interface of ergodic theory, Lie groups, and number theory. Fundamental to statistical mechanics is an ergodic theory, which offers a mathematical means to study the long-term average behaviour of complex systems, such as the behaviour of molecules in a gas or the interactions of vibrating atoms in a crystal. Saket has been performing research of the highest quality in multiple areas of algorithms.The award for medical sciences went to Dr Jeemon Panniyammakal, Achutha Menon Centre for Health Science Studies, Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology, Thiruvananthapuram, and Dr Rohit Srivastava, department of biosciences and bioengineering, Indian Institute of Technology Bombay. Panniyammakal is a trained epidemiologist with at least a decade of experience in observational epidemiological studies and clinical trials, and Srivastava’s research interest includes fluorescent biosensors, nanoengineered sensors, and photothermal therapy for breast cancer.Dr Kanak Saha, from Pune’s Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics, received the award for physical sciences. Saha’s primary research is focused on galaxies: their structure, formation and evolution.During the ceremony, vice president M Venkaiah Naidu advised CSIR to reinvent itself and turn futuristic while pursuing the science of the highest order.“In a country as vast and as diverse as ours, challenges are many and institutions like CSIR need to gear up to address any sudden and unexpected problem. Each laboratory of the CSIR must come out with a clear roadmap on the new research projects that seek to address various challenges and contribute to the larger good of humanity,” said Naidu at the event.Naidu also asked CSIR laboratories and institutes to address challenges that require long-term scientific and technological solutions. In particular, he asked the researchers to pay greater attention to agricultural research and come out with innovations, techniques and solutions to address the problems faced by farmers.Among some of the challenges that need the focus of the scientific community, Naidu cited climate change, drug resistance, pollution, epidemic and pandemic outbreaks.Union minister of state for science and technology, Jitendra Singh, also asked CSIR and all the science departments to explore science and technology innovations needed in the next 10 years to make India globally competitive.“We should not restrict our ambition to be best in India but be best in the world as India is blessed with the demographic dividend of youth and they can take up any challenge with the right training and motivation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/names-of-11-scientists-declared-for-india-s-highest-science-award-101632678640267.html
27-09-2021||India||Ensure nobody is left out of vaccine’s ‘circle of safety’: PM Modi||New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urged people to keep following the Covid-19 protocol and ensure that no one is left out of vaccination’s “circle of safety” ahead of the festive season. “Team India is making new records everyday in this fight. With regards to vaccination, the country has made many such records which are being talked about the world over... We have to get the vaccine administered when our turn comes, but we also have to take care that no one is left out of this circle of safety,” the Prime Minister said in his monthly Mann Ki Baat address. “Those around you who have not got vaccinated also have to be taken to the vaccine centre. Even after getting vaccinated, the necessary protocol has to be followed.”India has administered 858.6 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines, according the government’s Co-Win dashboard. A record 25 million people received jabs on September 17, Modi’s birthday, according to a government statement. Paying tributes to Mahatma Gandhi, Deen Dayal Uppadhay and Lal Bahadur Shastri, Modi said, “I don’t ever let go any chance to speak in connection with cleanliness and... in this Amrit Mahotsav of freedom, we should take the resolve of economic cleanliness too.” The Prime Minister said that over 3.5 billion digital transactions were done in August through the United Payment Interface (UPI).He said money of the poor is getting credited directly into their bank accounts, and because of this, obstacles like corruption have reduced significantly. “It is true that technology can help a lot in economic cleanliness. It is matter of delight for us that even in villages, the common person is getting connected in the direction of digital transactions through fin-tech UPI... During last August, around 355 crore (3.55 billion) UPI transactions took place in one month, that is over 350 crore (3.5 billion) transactions. Today, on an average, digital payments of more than ₹2 lakh crore are happening through UPI. Through this the economy of the country is acquiring cleanliness and transparency.” On the occasion of the World Rivers Day, Modi called for collective efforts to keep India’s rivers free of pollution. He said that all the proceeds from the e-auction of the birthday gifts he received will be donated to the Namami Gange Mission, a part of the National Mission for Clean Ganga programme. “The Namami Gange Mission too is making advances today... a mass movement has a major role to play in that,” he said. “This electronic auction pertains to gifts presented to me by people from time to time. The money that accrues through this e-auction is dedicated solely to the Namami Gange Campaign. The affectionate, warm spirit, with which you present me gifts …that very sentiment gets bolstered through this campaign.”Modi also highlighted “interesting initiatives” by the ministry of Ayush to increase awareness about “medicinal and herbal plants among children like Aloe Vera, Tulsi, Amla, Giloy, Neem, Ashwagandha and Brahmi ”. He urged “scientists, researchers and people associated with the start-up world to pay attention to such products, which not only increase the wellness and immunity of the people, but also help in increasing the income of our farmers and youth”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-nobody-is-left-out-of-vaccine-s-circle-of-safety-pm-modi-101632678159505.html
27-09-2021||India||Don’t shift goalposts on LAC row, Indian envoy tells Chinese||India’s ambassador to China, Vikram Misri, has urged China to separate the ongoing border tension in eastern Ladakh from the larger boundary dispute, saying the primary concern now is to restore peace and tranquillity along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), and not resolving the decades-long boundary disagreement.Speaking at a virtual India-China track-II dialogue last week, Misri said day-to-day affairs along the disputed border should be addressed through existing established agreements and protocols, which are not to be confused with the long-term mechanisms in place for the final resolution.Misri was referring to the ongoing 16-month long military tension along the LAC in eastern Ladakh, which has plunged Sino-India bilateral ties to the worst chill in decades.“A serious violation of peace and tranquillity in the border areas naturally requires us to apply our minds on the basis of established agreements, protocols and mechanisms to resolve it,” Misri told the gathering by video link.“As we do so, any attempt to confuse border affairs with the Boundary Question is a disservice to the work of those involved in finding solutions,” he said, indicating that China was doing so by “shifting goalposts”.“This is why the Indian side has been consistently saying that the current issue is about restoring peace and tranquillity to the border areas and is not about the resolution of the larger Boundary Question, on which our stance has not changed, despite what happened last year,” Misri added.Separating the broader boundary dispute from managing day-to-day border affairs, Misri listed the “Special Representatives mechanism, the Agreement on Political Parameters and Guiding Principles of 2005 and the three-phase framework” as the agreements designed to resolve the dispute.“On the other hand, for managing border affairs on a daily basis, we evolved a mechanism, consisting of instruments such as the WMCC and a succession of agreements, protocols and CBMs, in order to govern behaviour on the ground and ensure peace and tranquillity,” Misri said, adding that the final resolution of the disputed border is a “…complex and sensitive issue requiring time to work through”.The Indian ambassador was addressing an event co-hosted by the School of International Studies of Sichuan University (SCU), China Centre for South Asian Studies and the New Delhi-based Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses last Friday; his speech was released on Sunday.Misri addressed the gathering, which included Chinese envoy to India, Sun Weidong, on a day when India blamed China’s “provocative behaviour” and unilateral attempts to alter status quo on the LAC for disrupting bilateral ties, rejecting Beijing’s contention, on the same day, that the Indian side was responsible for the deadly Galwan Valley clash last year.Misri reminded the Chinese side that safeguarding territorial integrity and national security held equal value for both sides.“Affixing blame exclusively on the other side is not a helpful approach. And to press one’s own concerns and disregard the other side’s concerns and sensitivities without any explanation or recourse goes beyond disrespect. It actually creates even more obstacles to finding solutions,” he said.In his speech, Misri listed two other “obstacles” in the current difficult ties with China: one-sided view of concerns and sensitivities, and viewing bilateral relations through the prism of relations with other countries.The Indian ambassador brought up the problems that students and separated families in India were facing because of stringent visa restrictions implemented by China in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic.“I would also like to mention that these issues need not be limited to the realm of high politics. Far less complex issues, which have a purely humanitarian context and are not connected to bilateral diplomatic stances, such as facilitating the movement of students, businesspersons and stranded family members from India to China for over a year and a half now, await a more balanced and sensitive approach,” Misri said.Thousands of Indian citizens who work, study or whose spouses work in China are stranded in India because of Beijing’s hard visa rules.The Chinese government has so far not given any indication when it will open its borders to Indian citizens.On external factors impacting Sino-Indian ties, he said: “India-China relations therefore must be judged and managed on their own merits. They are substantial enough and sufficiently complex that they require their own approach and appropriate handling, without imaginary third factors complicating them further and distracting us from working on our priorities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-shift-goalposts-on-lac-row-indian-envoy-tells-chinese-101632678099566.html
27-09-2021||India||Terrorists involved in BJP leader’s killing gunned down in J&K||Two Lashkar-e-Taiba militants, suspected of killing a leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party and two of his family members in July last year, were shot dead by security forces in north Kashmir’s Bandipora district on Sunday.Police said a cordon and search operation was started on Saturday evening after security forces received information about the presence of the militants in the Watnira area of Bandipora. The state police, army and Central Reserve Police Force conducted a joint operation after they found out where the militants were hiding. “Due restraint was exercised to avoid collateral damage. A surrender appeal was made to the terrorists. However, they brought down heavy fire on the security forces, forcing them to retaliate,” said Lt Col Emron Musavi, public relations officer, Defence, Srinagar.The two militants were killed. “Their bodies were retrieved from the site of the encounter,” a police spokesman said.The slain have been identified as Azad Ahmad Shah and Abid Rashid Dar alias Haqani, who were affiliated with the proscribed Lashkar-e-Taiba outfit.“The killed terrorist Abid Rahid Dar was a Pakistan-trained terrorist who had crossed over the Wagah Border in April 2018 and had infiltrated back in the year 2019,” the spokesman said.Police said both the militants were involved in planning and executing terror attacks on civilians and security establishments. “Moreover, terrorist Abid Rashid Dar was instrumental in recruiting gullible youth into the terror ranks of proscribed terror outfit LeT in North Kashmir,” the spokesman said.The police spokesman said that both the slain militants, along with other two foreign militants named Usman and Sajad alias Haider, were involved in the killing of BJP leader Waseem Bari, his brother and father in July 2020. “The involved foreign terrorists Usman and Sajad were already eliminated in an encounter at Kreeri on August 17, 2020, while the other two local terrorists got killed in today’s encounter,” the spokesman said.The official said that all the four militants involved in case FIR No 74/2019 of Bandipora police station pertaining to the killing of Bari and his family are now dead. “Incriminating materials, arms and ammunition, including two AK-47 rifles, one pistol and other incriminating material, were recovered from the site of encounter,” the spokesman said. “All the recovered materials have been taken into case records for further investigation and to probe their complicity in other terror crimes.”A case under relevant sections of law has been registered and an investigation has been initiated. “People are requested to cooperate with police till the area is completely sanitised and cleared of all the explosive materials, if any,” the police spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorists-involved-in-bjp-leader-s-killing-gunned-down-in-jk-101632678039487.html
27-09-2021||India||Tripura CM Biplab tells officers not to fear contempt of court action, as he is 'the tiger'||Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Sunday sparked a controversy after he said civil service officers should work for the people without thinking about contempt of court while addressing the biennial conference of Tripura Civil Service Officers Association on Saturday. “Contempt of Court is said in such a way as if a tiger is sitting. I am the tiger. The power lies with the person who runs the government. It means that all power lies with the people. We are a ‘by the people’s government and not by the court government,” the CM said. He also mentioned how the state’s previous chief secretary was disposed of his duties because he feared “contempt of court”. Reacting to the comments, Trinamool Congress general secretary Abhishek Banerjee on Sunday uploaded a video clip of Deb’s speech on Twitter, claiming that Deb mocked judiciary and democracy as well. “@BjpBiplab is a DISGRACE to the entire nation! He shamelessly mocks Democracy, MOCKS the Hon’ble JUDICIARY and seemingly gets away with it! Will the SUPREME COURT take cognizance of his comments that reflect such grave disrespect?” Banerjee tweeted on Sunday. Reacting to Banerjee’s tweet, OSD to Deb, Sanjay Mishra took to Twitter and said, “You must listen to full speech before spreading your fake propaganda, which you have learned from your political guru CPM and how much respect you have for government institutions we all know that.” CPM leader Pabitra Kar said, “Whatever chief minister said is an attack on Constitution and judiciary. Being a chief minister, he cannot say such things. We condemn it and we will take initiative to draw the attention of the judiciary towards the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-cm-biplab-tells-officers-not-to-fear-contempt-of-court-action-as-he-is-the-tiger-101632677800610.html
27-09-2021||India||Intensify anti-Maoist operations, says Shah to CMs in left-wing extremism meet||Home minister Amit Shah on Sunday chaired a meeting with the chief ministers and representatives of 10 states affected by left-wing extremism to discuss a road map for development and to bring an end to the Maoist insurgency. He asked all the chief ministers and their representatives to give priority to this in the next one year so that a permanent solution can be found to the problem, adding that it requires building pressure on the Maoists, increasing the speed of development activities and better coordination between central and state agencies. The Maoist insurgency, which has claimed more than 16,000 civilian lives in the past 40 years, has now reached near its end, the home minister said. This needs to be accelerated and made decisive, he said. Issues ranging from intensifying operations against Maoists, choking their funding through concerted action by agencies like the Enforcement Directorate (ED), the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and state police forces, targeting the front organisations, and carrying out widespread development activities, among others, were discussed during the meeting, which went on for several hours at Vigyan Bhawan in New Delhi. Those who attended the meeting included chief ministers of Odisha (Naveen Patnaik), Bihar (Nitish Kumar), Telangana (K Chandrashekar Rao), Jharkhand (Hemant Soren), Maharashtra (Uddhav Thackeray) and Madhya Pradesh (Shivraj Singh Chouhan). Union ministers Ashwini Vaishnaw, Gen (retired) V K Singh, Giriraj Singh, Arjun Munda and Nityanand Rai, union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, and Intelligence Bureau chief Arvinda Kumar also attended the meeting. Director generals of NIA and central paramilitary forces, and union road, rural, and tribal affairs secretaries were in attendance as well. The chief misters of of Chhattisgarh ( Bhupesh Baghel), West Bengal (Mamata Banerjee), Kerala (Pinarayi Vijayan) and Andhra Pradesh (Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy) did not attend the meeting but were represented by their chief secretaries and senior police officials. The meeting comes in wake of the home ministry reducing the number of districts affected by left-wing extremism. The number of such districts has declined sharply to 70 in 10 states for the first time in over three decades, with Bihar, Odisha and Jharkhand showing the biggest improvement, HT reported last month. Only 25 districts in eight states are now categorised as most affected, while Uttar Pradesh is now free of Maoism, according to the Union home ministry’s revised list that was updated in July. The incidents of Maoist violence has declined by 70% to 665 in 2020 from a high of 2,258 in 2009. Deaths due to such incidents of has also fallen by 82% 183 in 2020 from a high of 1,005 in 2010. Shah said during the meeting that “in decades of fighting, we have reached a point where the death toll is less than 200 for the first time and this is a huge achievement for all of us.” “We all know that unless we get rid of the problem of left-wing extremism completely, the full development of the country and the states affected by it is not possible. Without eliminating it, neither we will be able to spread democracy to the bottom nor will we be able to develop the underdeveloped areas,” Shah said. “So, instead of being satisfied with what we have achieved so far, we need to increase the speed to get what is left.” He urged the states to hold a review meeting with police chiefs and central agencies at least every three months to deal to “take this fight forward”. “In last two years, a huge and successful effort has been made to increase security camps in areas where security was not stringent, especially in Chhattisgarh, as well as in Maharashtra and Odisha. If regular review is done at the level of chief ministers, chief secretaries and director generals of police, then the problems of coordination at the lower level will automatically get resolved,” Shah said. On the source of income of Maoists, Shah said it is “very important to neutralize” it “by making a system together”. He said Centre has taken several developmental initiatives, which include approving the construction of 17,600km of roads, out of which 9,343km have already been built. As many as 2,343 new telecom towers have been installed and 2,542 more will come up within next 18 months. The authorities have opened 1,789 new post offices, 1,236 bank branches, 1,077 ATMs and 14,230 banking correspondents. Another 3,114 post offices will be opened in next one year. All these will help the affected districts to join the mainstream. For imparting education in these areas, Shah said special focus is given to opening of Eklavya Model Residential Schools. A total 234 of these schools have been sanctioned for Maoist-affected districts, of which 119 are already functional, Shah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/intensify-anti-maoist-operations-says-shah-to-cms-in-left-wing-extremism-meet-101632677740614.html
27-09-2021||India||Rijiju: No turf war between the judiciary, executive and legislature||A lively relationship between the judiciary, the legislature and the executive is vital in a democracy, Union law minister Kiren Rijiju said here on Sunday even as he dismissed the perception of any turf war among these three organs.Speaking at the Gandhinagar-based National Forensic Sciences University (NFSU) after inaugurating the new School of Law, Forensic Justice and Policy Studies, Rijiju said “it is for the government to implement whatever judges say and think and this should not be done out of fear for the contempt of court alone”. “The judiciary, the executive and the legislature are separate organs, but we all work for the country. People on the outside think we are engaged in a turf war, fighting for a domain, but that is not the case. We all are working for the interest of the nation,” Rijiju said.“In the Supreme Court, high courts and even in the lower judiciary, we get to listen to commentaries of judges during (court) hearings, and even anguish and satisfaction aired by them through the media. It is for us to implement whatever judges say or think,” the minister said.Rijiju said it was for the executive to “judiciously implement” a good judgment of the court of law. “In a democracy, it is very important for us to have a lively relation between us (the judiciary, executive and legislature)...It is vital for us to have a lively relationship,” he said.Supreme Court judge Justice MR Shah, Gujarat High Court’s Acting Chief Justice R M Chhaya and several judges and retired judges of the high court and the Supreme Court were present on the occasion along with Gujarat Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel, state Law Minister Rajendra Trivedi and MoS for Home Harsh Sanghavi.Rijiju further said the “impression” that laws are not being implemented for a long time has been removed to a great extent under the Narendra Modi government. “We feel good to hear good things from judges. But judges will praise us only when we do good work,” the Union law and justice minister said and assured judges the government will work “with full transparency and accountability.” He said the “ease of getting justice” should also be talked about like the ease of doing business and the ease of living. “Justice delivery system should not suffer merely for want of a simple input which can be handled by the application of science,” he said.Rijiju said the NFSU’s School of Law, Forensic Justice and Policy Studies will play a critical role in a situation like this to help catch up with technologies for the fast delivery of justice.Rijiju also suggested the NFSU enter into an understanding with the National Dope Testing Laboratory (NDTL) so that the latter does not meet the “fate of suspension of its accreditation” by the World Anti-Doping Agency. “...Otherwise it becomes a huge controversy when young boys and girls are unnecessarily tested (positive) and their lives are spoiled”.“There are no proper guidelines, and sometimes the testing process itself is questionable. So, we have to be very, very careful when it comes to science, and as I said, we have no shortage of manpower in India. We are a leading nation, we just have to manage it professionally,” he said.Supreme Court judge Justice MR Shah said, “the legal education carries the weight on its shoulders to creating responsible citizens in the country (who) are major catalysts for delivering democratic ethos through social justice and the political and economic welfare”. “The poor and weaker sections should be able to seek justice keeping the morals and discipline intact. Legal education has a significant role to play,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rijijuno-turf-war-between-the-judiciary-executive-and-legislature-101632677622386.html
27-09-2021||India||Nitish reiterates census demand, says will call all-party meet in Bihar||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday reiterated his demand for caste-based census and announced that he would soon discuss the issue with all political parties in the state in light of the Centre’s affidavit to the Supreme Court reasoning that conducting a caste enumeration exercise for backward classes was not feasible. “There should be a caste-based census as it is in the interest of the country and will help in identifying groups that are socially, economically backward. A caste census would help in extending government schemes to poor and backward classes more efficiently,” Kumar said, after attending a high level meeting on tackling left wing extremism chaired by Union home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi. “I will be discussing our demand for a caste-based census with all parties in Bihar to adopt our future course of action in light of the new perspective of the Centre’s stand before the Supreme Court,” Kumar said. The statement clearly underlines how the JD (U) strongman, whose party is a constituent of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) led by BJP, is not in the mood to dilute his stand on the demand for enumeration of castes and likely to side with opposition parties on holding such an exercise. Kumar’s reiteration of the demand for caste census comes just two days after leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav had asked the chief minister to clear his stand on the issue in light of the Centre giving an affidavit in the Supreme Court. Referring to the Maoist insurgency, the chief minister said in Bihar, the situation of left wing extremism had improved to a great extent than previous times because of the state’s initiative to take big strides on the development front. In the mid-80s and 1990, the state had witnessed bloody clashes and violence due to the spread of left wing extremist groups. “Since we came to power in 2005, we have worked for development and taken a slew of measures to tackle left extremism. The Centre too has taken a number of measures. This has helped in tackling the problem because development is reaching people,” he said. But the chief minister did emphasize that there was no reason for being complacent on left wing extremist activities. “We cannot be complacent on the issue,” he said. There are 13 districts affected by left wing extremism in the state. Referring to the caste census, the chief minister, whose party JD (U) is a constituent in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), maintained the exercise to collect caste data had its importance for all sections of the society. He said the socio-economic caste census (SECC) conducted in 2011 was not an exclusive caste census as it had different parameters and was not done in a proper manner. “I urge the Centre to hold the caste census. I along with an all-party delegation had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi to demand a caste census. The Bihar assembly has also passed a resolution for a caste-based census unanimously twice,” Kumar said. Incidentally, Kumar whose JD (U) has a considerable support base among backward classes including extremely backward classes (EBCs) has shared a common platform with the opposition RJD to demand a caste census. On Saturday, leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav too had made a firm pitch for a caste-based census by writing to 33 non-BJP leaders of the country to muster support for the conduct of enumeration of castes. Yadav in his letter had stressed that the Centre had not given one single rational reason against the desirability of the caste census.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitish-kumar-reiterates-demand-for-caste-census-plans-to-call-all-party-meet-soon-101632664599233.html
27-09-2021||NA||Cyclone Gulab to weaken into deep depression in next 6 hrs||Cyclone Gulab is expected to start the landfall process from Sunday evening, and the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has already issued a red alert for Andhra Pradesh and Odisha. According to the latest IMD bulletin, Cyclone Gulab is currently 180km east-southeast of Odisha's Gopalpur and 240km east-northeast of Kalingapatnan in Andhra Pradesh.Cyclone Gulab will make landfall around September 26 (Sunday) midnight between the coasts of Gopalpur and Kalingapatnan with a maximum sustained wind speed between 75 and 85 km/hour, gusting to 95 km/hour, the IMD bulletin stated.The collectors of seven districts of Odisha, including Ganjam, Koraput, Malkangiri, have been tasked with initiating an evacuation drive owing to these areas falling in the path of Cyclone Gulab's approach. Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy conducted a review meeting on Saturday in order to evaluate the preparedness of the state ahead of the Gulab's landfall. Besides Andhra Pradesh and Odisha, several other states, such as West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Telangana, among others, have been put on alert for heavy rainfall. Follow all the updates here:Landfall process of Cyclone Gulab completedThe landfall process of Cyclone Gulab has been completed. However, the system maintains its cyclonic storm intensity and is likely to move nearly westwards and weaken into a deep depression during the next 4-5 hours: Meteorological Centre in VisakhapatnamCyclone Gulab to weaken into deep depression in next 6 hrs: MeTCyclonic storm Gulab has crossed 20km north of Kalingapatnam in Andhra Pradesh. It will enter Odisha's Koraput district at around midnight and will weaken to a deep depression in the next six hours: HR Biswas, Director Meteorological Department, BhubaneswarCyclone Gulab landfall process still continues: Special relief commissioner PK JenaThe landfall process of Cyclone Gulab that began at 6pm on Sunday is still continuing, news agency ANI reported quoting Special Relief Commissioner, K Jena. “The entire cloud mass is expected to move from the seaside to the landside in 1-1.5 hours,” he was quoted as saying.Jena added that according to IMD reports rainfall is expected to increase in Odisha as the night progresses. “No major landslides have happened so far,” he noted, adding that as of 9pm, about 39,000 people have been evacuated in six districts of the state.Cyclone Gulab crossed Andhra Pradesh-Odisha coasts, likely to weaken into deep depression in next six hours: IMDAs per the latest IMD updates, Cyclone Gulab has crossed the north Andhra Pradesh-south Odisha coasts, and lay centered at over north coastal Andhra Pradesh, at 8.30 pm. The storm is expected to move west-northwestwards and weaken into a deep depression during the next six hours.One swept away in Odisha as Cyclone Gulab makes landfallOne person in Odisha' Ganjam district was swept away, while three others of a family narrowly escaped from getting trampled under a tree as Cyclone Gulab made landfall on Sunday.Cyclone Gulab lies about 20 km north of Andhra Pradesh's KalingapatnamThe Cyclonic Storm GULAB crossed north Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha coasts, about 20 km north of Kalingapatnam and lay centred at 20:30 hrs IST of 26th Sep 2021 over north Andhra Pradesh.Cyclone Gulab has crossed north Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha coasts, according to latest IMD updates. It lay centered about 20 km north of Kalingapatnam in Andhra Pradesh at 8.30pm on Sunday.Cyclone Gulab's landfall process to continue for next two to three hours: IMDTHE CLOUD BANDS ARE ENTERING THE COASTAL REGIONS AND THUS THE LANDFALL PROCESS, WHICH COMMENCED AT AROUND 1800 HRS IST, CONTINUES AND WILL CONTINUE FOR NEXT 2-3 HOURS OVER NORTH COASTAL ANDHRA PRADESH AND ADJOINING SOUTH COASTAL ODISHA. .The landfall process of Cyclone Gulab over the coastal regions of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha will continue in the next two to three hours, IMD said in its latest update.Watch | Strong winds and heavy rainfall in Andhra Pradesh's Srikakulam#WATCH | Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh witnessed strong winds and heavy rainfall due to Cyclone Gulab (Earlier visuals) As per IMD, the landfall process has commenced in coastal regions of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha pic.twitter.com/RKSLzv5cGsAccording to visuals shared by ANI, strong winds and heavy rainfall have begun in Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh following the commencement of the landfall process of Cyclone Gulab.West Bengal govt asked hotels in popular beaches not to permit guests till Cyclone Gulab subsidesThe West Bengal government has directed hotels at Digha, Mandarmani and other popular beaches of the state not to permit any tourist till Cyclone Gulab subsides. Furthermore, arrangements are being made to move people from coastal villages to storm shelters, which have been set up in administrative buildings and schools. On Saturday, the state government cancelled leaves of all of its employees till October 5.Wind speed picking up near Kalingapatnam, expected to exceed 85 kmph: IMD officialsThe landfall process of Cyclone Gulab has commenced, and its location is 25km north of Kalingapatanam, IMD officials in Bhubaneswar said on Sunday. They added that the wind speed is picking up near Andhra Pradesh's Kalingapatnam and sea conditions has become high. “It is expected to exceed 85 kmph,” the officials said.Cyclone Gulab landfall process has begun over coastal Andhra and Odisha: IMDAccording to the latest update by the IMD, the landfall process of Cyclone Gulab has begun over north coastal Andhra Pradesh and adjoining south coastal Odisha because the “cloud bands have touched coastal regions.” “ [The] system will cross coasts between Kalingapatnam and Gopalpur, about 25 km to north of Kalingapatnam during next three hours,” IMD updated on Twitter.‘Andhra fishermen not advised to go in sea today and tomorrow’: IMDOwing to Cyclone Gulab, fishermen have been advise not to head in the sea on Sunday and Monday in Andhra Pradesh. Talking to ANI, Srinivasa Rao of IMD's Cyclone Warning Centre in Visakhapatnam, said that light to moderate rainfall is expected at most places in north and south coastal of the state, whereas heavy rainfall is likely over one or two places of Andhra Pradesh.Cyclone Gulab's landfall process to begin from 6pm onwards: IMDAccording to the latest IMD updates, Cyclone Gulab currently is at about 150 km east-northeast of Andhra Pradesh's Kalingapatnam, and 100 km east-southeast of Gopalpur in Odisha. The landfall process of the cyclonic storm will start from 6pm onwards, and will hit by midnight today.‘Total of 10 districts to be affected by Cyclone Gulab’: Odisha CMOdisha chief minister, Naveen Patnaik on Sunday chaired a virtual meeting in Delhi in order to analyse the state's preparedness of 'Cyclone Gulab' that is expected to start the landfall process from today evening. “Today I held a virtual meeting with the chief secretary and district collectors of Odisha to discuss the precautionary measure to be taken against Cyclone Gulab in the state. There is a total of ten districts which will be affected by the cyclone by today evening,” he told reporters, according to ANI.Educational institutions in Odisha to be closed on MondayOdisha government on Sunday announced that all educational institutions in the state would be closed on Monday as Cyclone Gulab nears coast, and is expected to make a landfall around midnight. The schools and educational institutions of 11 coastal and adjoining districts will be shut.‘Took stock of situation in Andhra arising in wake of Cyclone Gulab’: PM Modi says in Twitter postSpoke to Andhra Pradesh CM Shri @ysjagan and took stock of the situation arising in the wake of Cyclone Gulab. Assured all possible support from the Centre. I pray for everyone’s safety and well-being.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday took to his Twitter profile to mention that he spoke with the chief minister of Andhra Pradesh YS Jagan Mohan Reddy to take “stock of the situation arising in the wake of Cyclone Gulab.” PM Modi added that he has assured all possible support to Andhra Pradesh from the Centre.‘Will get clearer picture of Cyclone Gulab's path in next 2-3 hours’: Special Relief commissioner PK JenaA “much clearer" picture of the path and exact time of landfall of Cyclone Gulab can be formed in the next two to three hours, Special Relief commissioner PK Jena told news agency ANI. “It's (landfall time) [is] expected around midnight...we are anticipating about 70-80 km windspeed with heavy to very heavy rainfall and extremely heavy in some places,” he was quoted as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-gulab-live-will-get-clearer-picture-of-path-in-2-3-hrs-says-pk-jena-101632646821071.html
