28-09-2021||India||IMD alerts: Cyclone Gulab weakened into low-pressure to bring heavy rainfall in 5 states till Sept 30||The remnant of Cyclone Gulab – depression, which weakened into a well-marked low-pressure area over Maharashtra’s Vidarbha and its neighbouring regions -- will continue to lash as many as five states for the next two days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its latest bulletin.Additionally, the well-marked low-pressure area over northwest Bay of Bengal and the coastal areas of West Bengal persists. An IMD official told Hindustan Times that a red alert has been issued for South Bengal, including East Medinipur, West Medinipur, and South 24 Parganas.According to the IMD bulletin, the low-pressure over Vidarbha is expected to move northwestwards and weaken gradually in the next 24 hours. However, the weather department made a  forecast that this low-pressure will emerge into Arabian Sea and adjoining Gujarat coastal regions around September 30, thereby paving way for it to intensify into yet another depression over the Arabian Sea.Also Read | Visakhapatnam airport almost submerged as Cyclone Gulab triggers heavy rainThis forecast follows close on the heels of Cyclone Gulab’s landfall in Andhra Pradesh on September 26, which also impacted Odisha. As many as three people were killed in the two states, while heavy rainfall has been continuing in several other states such as Maharashtra and Gujarat as the cyclone weakened into a depression during the afternoon of Monday.In view of the red alert issued in Bengal, 35,000 people have been evacuated from low-lying areas in South 24 Parganas.Here are the IMD alerts for five states who are likely to receive heavy rainfall till September 30:1.     According to the IMD bulletin, heavy to very rainfall with extremely heavy downpour at isolated places is very likely over Gujarat on September 29.2.     Heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places is very likely over Gangetic West Bengal, Odisha, Jharkhand, north-central Maharashtra, and north Konkan on September 29. Marathwada – which, along with Konkan, is located in Maharashtra, is expected to receive heavy downpour at isolated places on September 29.3.     The IMD bulletin has forecasted heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over Saurashtra and Kutch in Gujarat on September 30. Isolated places over Gangetic West Bengal, Gujarat and Odisha are also likely to receive heavy rainfall on September 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-gulab-weakened-into-low-pressure-to-bring-heavy-rainfall-in-5-states-101632852906457.html
28-09-2021||India||Post-poll violence: SC admits Bengal plea over Calcutta HC order||The Supreme Court on Tuesday admitted the West Bengal government’s plea challenging the Calcutta high court’s order for a CBI investigation into the post-poll violence in the state. However, it did not bar the central agency from filing fresh cases. A bench of justices Vineet Saran and Aniruddha Bose said the state government’s case for an appeal against the high court’s August 19 order was made out. But when senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the West Bengal government, asked the court to consider issuing an order that “further investigation by CBI shall be subject to the outcome of the appeals”, the court refused to do so and instead posted the matter for hearing on October 7. “Nothing is going to happen in one week,” the bench said as it sought responses from the central government, Election Commission of India, National Human Rights Commission, and West Bengal Human Rights Commission. It also sent a notice to Priyanka Tibrewal of the Bharatiya Janata Party, one of the petitioners before the Calcutta high court who is contesting the by-elections against chief minister Mamata Banerjee at Bhabanipur on September 30.Earlier in the day, the top court asked the West Bengal government to briefly indicate the reasons for their challenging the HC order. Sibal crystallised his arguments into seven points, which the bench referred to as the “lucky seven”.The moot point was the definition of what constituted “post poll violence”. Sibal asked the court to fix the time period of “post poll”. The state argued that the HC considered complaints just after May 2 when the model code of conduct was in vogue and the Election Commission was responsible for maintaining law and order. But more complaints continued to be filed that extended from May 5, when Mamata Banerjee was sworn in as chief minister, up to July. Sibal also argued that the seven-member committee set up by the National Human Rights Commission on the direction of the HC whose report formed the basis of the HC judgment was biased as three lead members of it — Rajiv Jain, Atif Rasheed and Rajulben Desai — had alleged links with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the party in power at the Centre. HC had also set up a special investigation team monitored by former Calcutta HC chief justice Manjula Chellur. “This kind of proceeding has never happened in the past. Some of these members have stated on their Twitter handles their association with BJP. Their report was not shared with the state despite request made to the Court. The chart filed by the state police indicating status of probe into complaints was dismissed as it was not accompanied by an affidavit. The fundamental rule of natural justice was denied to the state,” Sibal submitted before the top court. “The High Court castigates the state and passes strictures against us based on facts gathered by the Committee. This is published in all newspapers and the reputation of the state is at stake. Only way facts can be discovered is through a criminal investigation prescribed under the Code of Criminal Procedure or the Protection of Human Rights Act for probing human rights violations. This Committee had no powers of investigation. And the Court followed a procedure unknown to law,” Sibal said. The state asked the court if it was fair to appoint people affiliated to a political party against another “in a federal system of governance, when electoral battle is bitterly fought between two political parties having ideological differences”. “Nobody knows the remit of this Committee and despite no direction to submit interim report, the Committee submits one and it is relied upon by the Court treating allegations in complaints as established facts. It is hard to understand how this bifurcation is made by which rape and murder cases go to CBI while all other cases of violence are with SIT,” Sibal added.The state also objected to the HC ordering en masse transfer of complaints pending investigation by the state police without undertaking a case-to-case analysis. The state received over 2,800 complaints that led to 651 criminal cases and 405 non-cognisable reports, but over 1,300 were found to be bogus and dismissed. “The High Court gave the state seven days to come out with the investigation report,” Sibal said, citng the example of Muzaffarnagar riots where the Supreme Court analysed each case probed by Uttar Pradesh Police for over five months. “Can anybody find out the truth of the substance in these thousands of complaints in seven days?” the state questioned. “On the face of it, we find you have made out a case for issuance of notice,” the bench told Sibal, adding that some of the issues raised are “unchartered”. But the court added that it needed to hear the other side too before proceeding with the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/postpoll-violence-sc-admits-bengal-plea-over-calcutta-hc-order-101632853259918.html
28-09-2021||India||White House defends Biden's 'better behaved' remarks about Indian media||The White House has tried to pacify an upset American media over Joe Biden's off the cuff remarks that the Indian press is "better behaved" than their US counterparts, with a senior official saying the President's comments were not meant as a "hard cut" on them.President Biden, during his first in-person bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at the White House on Friday, praised the Indian press, calling it "better behaved" than the US media, criticising American reporters for asking questions that are not "on point" in front of a foreign head of government/state.White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki on Monday faced a number of questions on Biden's comments from American journalists but defended the President's remarks."I think what he said is that they’re not always “on point.” Now, I know that isn’t something that anyone wants to hear here. But what I think he was conveying is, you know, today, he might want to talk about Covid vaccines; some of the questions were about that. He might want to talk about — and some of the questions are not always about the topic he’s talking about that day," Psaki said."I don’t think it was meant to be a hard cut at the members of the media — people he has taken questions from today and on Friday as well," she said.At the White House briefing, another reporter objected to the comparison between Indian and the American media.The reporter said, "The Indian press is ranked 142nd in the world, according to Reporters Without Borders (RSF), for press freedoms. How does he say that about the US press compared to the Indian press?"To this Psaki said, "I would just say to you that having now worked for the President — serving in this role for nine months, having seen that he’s taking questions from the press more than 140 times… that he certainly respects the role of the press, the role of the freedom of the free press.""We ensure that we have a press with us, of course, when we travel; that we have a press with us for sprays in foreign — in foreign capitals; and we will continue to. And I think that should speak to his commitment to freedom of the press around the world," she said.According to RSF, the US media is ranked 44 for press freedoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/white-house-defends-biden-s-better-behaved-remarks-about-indian-media-101632845932899.html
28-09-2021||India||TN schools to reopen for classes 1 to 8 from November 1; Covid restrictions extended till Oct 31||The Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday announced that it would allow schools to reopen for classes 1 to 8 beginning from November 1. The decision was taken following a meeting by chief minister MK Stalin along with state officials to control the spread of Covid-19 in the state, the state government said in its order.Already, students belonging to classes 9 to 12 have been attending schools physically from September 1 in the state.1 முதல் 8 ஆம் வகுப்பு மாணவ, மாணவியருக்கான வகுப்புகள், கொரோனா நிலையான வழிகாட்டு நடைமுறைகளைப் பின்பற்றி நவம்பர் 1 ஆம் தேதி முதல் நடத்த அனுமதிக்கப்படும் என மாண்புமிகு முதலமைச்சர் @mkstalin அவர்கள் அறிவித்துள்ளார். #School #lockdown pic.twitter.com/uiXqZDkeQxThe government said that the decision has been made considering the suggestions of medical experts, academicians and parents, who said that the students have been subjected to a lot of stress and learning gaps due to the closure of schools in view of the pandemic. It also said that schools would be allowed to function for classes 1 to 8 following the standard operating procedures (SOP) from November 1 and the school education department should make all the necessary arrangements for the same.Earlier in August, the Tamil Nadu government issued SOP for reopening schools for classes 9 to 12, in which it gave several advisories to the schools such as staggered timetables for classes and 50% attendance. It had also suggested running classes in two shifts in schools where the enrollment is higher and also emphasised on the sanitisation of the premises, wearing facemasks and maintaining social distancing.Also read | Covid-19: These five states are reporting more than 1,000 cases dailyAmong other major announcements, the government said that the Covid-19 restrictions in place in the state have been extended till 6am on October 31. Also, all district collector offices have been allowed to hear public grievances in their offices on every Monday to avoid people visiting the secretariat in Chennai. The collectors have also been asked to hear the grievances of farmers monthly, following Covid appropriate behaviour.Meanwhile, the state has already taken measures considering the upcoming festive season. All social, political and cultural events in the state would continue to remain banned. All places of religious worship have been shut for the public on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays and would continue to be so.The announcement came as the Union home ministry wrote to the states urging them to enforce Covid appropriate behaviour to be followed during the festive season. “With the decline in the COVID-19 cases, there is a possibility that Covid-appropriate behaviour (CAB) is not adhered to strictly, especially during the upcoming festivals. It is therefore critical to enforce adherence to guidelines which allows regular festivities in a cautious, safe and Covid-appropriate manner,” the ministry said.On Tuesday, 1,630 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu and 17 lost their lives as the state’s tally reached 2,660,553 and the death toll climbed to 35,526, a bulletin from the health department showed. The state also conducted its third mega vaccination camp on Sunday (September 26) and as of 7am on Tuesday has administered 46,408,275 doses of the vaccine to eligible beneficiaries according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-schools-to-reopen-for-classes-1-to-8-from-november-1-covid-restrictions-extended-till-oct-31-101632849178522.html
28-09-2021||India||NHRC notice to Delhi govt over ‘rising cases’ of violence among Tihar inmates||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) issued a notice to the Delhi government over a reported increase in incidents of violence among inmates of Tihar Jail, officials said on Tuesday.The rights panel observed that such incidents inside the jail point towards "negligence by the prison authorities" resulting in "gross violation" of human rights of the inmates in custody of the state."The National Human Rights Commission has taken suo motu cognisance of a media report alleging increasing incidents of violence among inmates in Tihar Jail of Delhi," the NHRC said in a statement.Reportedly, in yet another incident of inmate clash inside the prison, a 25-year-old prisoner was allegedly beaten up by another on September 22, which is the sixth incident in this month alone, the rights panel said.The NHRC observed that the contents of media reports, if true, raise serious issue of human rights violations of the prisoners in custody of state.Taking cognisance, it has issued notices to the chief secretary and the director general of prisons of the government of Delhi, seeking a detailed report within four weeks, including steps taken or proposed to be taken to address the issue of violence at Tihar jail, the statement said.According to the media report, carried on September 24, the latest victim of violence in the Tihar jail told during investigation that he was first abused and beaten up by another inmate.The same day a head matron was injured during a scuffle with an inmate. Reportedly, about 30 inmates have been injured during September this year due to clashes in the jail, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhrc-sends-notice-to-delhi-govt-over-rising-cases-of-violence-among-tihar-jail-101632849051863.html
28-09-2021||India||France, India on same page regarding terror threats from Afghanistan, says French ambassador||French ambassador to India Emmanuel Lenain on Tuesday said that the Taliban in Afghanistan has not delivered on any of the promises it made to the international community after its takeover of the country. He also assured that France is along with India regarding the conditions that they have set for the Taliban.“We want an inclusive government and that the country is not used as shelter for terrorists, training camps or does not export terrorism. We had [the] same assessment. Right now, Taliban has not delivered on any demand of international communities,we are going to be pretty stringent,” news agency ANI quoted Lenain as saying.Further, he also said that France expects the Taliban to respect human rights and women’s right to education.“We are on the same page with India on the conditions which we have set for Afghanistan. We want unfettered humanitarian access, we want all those who want to leave will be able to do so, we want respect for human rights, [the] right of women to education,” he added.Also read | From music to women's education in Afghanistan: What Taliban said so farThe remarks from the ambassador came as some news reports showed repeated explosions and terrorist attacks in the Afghan city of Jalalabad. While the Taliban have said that it would allow women to study in universities, it has banned co-education in universities and schools.India has, on several occasions previously, insisted that the Afghan soil should not be used as a safe haven for terrorists or terror activities. Earlier in August, Indian ambassador to Qatar Deepak Mittal met with the Taliban’s Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai in what was the first publicly acknowledged and formal contact by the Indian side with the Taliban. During the meeting, India conveyed its concerns that the Afghan soil should not be used for “anti-Indian” activities and terrorism in any manner, to which the Taliban had responded positively, the ministry of external affairs (MEA) had said.Following the Taliban takeover, India has evacuated over 550 people from the country, including 260 Indians, the foreign ministry had said in August. The ministry also said that the vast majority of Indians who wished to return were evacuated.Further, the French envoy also said that the two countries are working closely on the issues related to Afghanistan and the cooperation between India and France has been “intense from the beginning,” ANI also reported. “You may have seen the first flight of evacuation (from Afghanistan) manned by France included 31 of your elite Gurkha soldiers who were protecting our embassy,” he added.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/france-india-on-same-page-regarding-terror-threats-from-afghanistan-says-french-ambassador-101632847554845.html
28-09-2021||India||Day of resignations: 4 Cong leaders who quit after Sidhu’s exit as party's Punjab chief||Tuesday marked a day of resignations for Congress – the ruling party in Punjab. The saga was kickstarted by Navjot Singh Sidhu, who submitted his resignation as the party’s state unit chief earlier in the day. In his resignation letter addressed to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Sidhu cited being required to “compromise” as the reason behind his move that shocked the state’s political fraternity.“The collapse of a man’s character stems from the compromise corner; I can never compromise on Punjab's future and the agenda for the welfare of Punjab,” his letter read.However, Sidhu noted that he will continue to serve the party.The cricketer-turned-politician’s exit garnered widespread reactions, including former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh who stressed on his viewpoint that Sidhu is “not a stable man.” “I told you so…he is…not fit for the border state of Punjab,” Captain tweeted without naming or tagging anyone.Meanwhile, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi – who was Sidhu’s choice in the top post of the state cabinet, said that all issues that “upset” the latter will be “settled.” Channi, however, cleared the air around himself, saying that Sidhu is “not upset with him.”
28-09-2021||India||6 months visa to be granted to Afghan soldiers being trained in India: Report||India would grant six months e-visa to around 180 Afghan soldiers and cadets being trained in the different military academies in the country after they complete their courses here.However, around 140 of these Afghan soldiers and cadets have applied for visas for western countries including Canada, England and Germany."E-visas for six months would be given to all the Afghan cadets and soldiers who are training in our academies. They have the option of deciding upon their course of action regarding their future in this period," government sources told ANI.Around 140 of them have applied for asylum in different countries mostly in the west including Canada and Europe. Many of them also want to stay in India and they have been put in touch with agencies who have been working with Afghans already living in the country, they said.The future of these cadets became uncertain as the Taliban are strengthening their control over areas in Afghanistan.India decided to allow around 180 of these cadets to complete their respective courses in the military academies of defence forces here. The Indian defence forces have been training Afghan soldiers as part of the capacity-building programme.As many as 180 Afghan military personnel are being trained at different institutions, with a bulk of them at the Indian Military Academy (IMA) at Dehradun, the Officers' Training Academy (OTA) at Chennai and the National Defence Academy (NDA) at Khadakwasla in Pune.Defence officers said the training and other expenses of these officers and cadets were being borne by India as part of nation-building efforts in Afghanistan after 2001. The future of these cadets and officers is uncertain as their army has already surrendered and the Taliban are in power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-months-visa-to-be-granted-to-afghan-soldiers-being-trained-in-india-report-101632843008302.html
28-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi records 2 Covid-19 deaths after 10 days and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi reports first deaths due to Covid-19 in 10 days; 2 patients succumb to infectionThe national capital has been witnessing less than 50 daily Covid-19 cases since September 15 – when as many as 57 fresh infections were reported, according to the health bulletin data. Read more here. Alia Bhatt wishes Ranbir Kapoor with pic from their Jodhpur holiday: ‘Happy birthday my life’Alia Bhatt has shared a picture from her Jodhpur holiday to wish boyfriend Ranbir Kapoor on his 39th birthday. Read more here. Adah Sharma, in a pink Banarasi, looks right out of a fairytaleNeed some tips on how to look ravishing in a Banarasi saree and create a vintage outlook? Adah Sharma is here to be your guide. Read more here. From AI to computer vision: How cult.fit stepped up to deliver holistic solutions post Covid-19Covid-19 locked us in our homes and shut gyms down, amongst other things. But here's a company that stepped up its game to change things for the better, virtually and otherwise. Read more here. Human asks dog to bring him something, she listens and gets him this. WatchThe video, shared on Instagram, shows how sweetly the dog listens to her human and obliges when he asks her for a favour. Read more here. 'For 10 yrs..': France attacks US amid warship deal with Greece after AUKUS snub||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-records-2-covid-19-deaths-after-10-days-101632842576107.html
28-09-2021||India||Section 144 imposed in poll-bound Bhabanipur till voting ends on September 30||Ahead of the crucial Bhabanipur bypolls, the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Tuesday imposed Section 144 in the assembly constituency in the heart of Kolkata. The prohibitory order against the assembly of five or more people will remain in force from 6:30pm on Tuesday till the end of the poll on September 30, the EC notification stated. The Bhabanipur assembly bypoll was necessitated after West Bengal agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay vacated the seat recently.Although Trinamool Congress won the assembly elections with a thumping majority and formed the government in West Bengal for the third consecutive time, chief minister Mamata Banerjee lost against Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram assembly constituency. Chattopadhyay’s resignation paved the way for Banerjee to contest from the seat she had won in the 2011 and 2016 elections, to continue to hold the chief ministerial post.Meanwhile, the BJP accused the Trinamool Congress of fanning violence ahead of the bypolls. BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh alleged that he was attacked by TMC workers during the last day of the campaign for the September 30 bypoll. He also alleged that one of the BJP workers who were accompanying him during campaigning was also beaten up. On the other hand, the Trinamool Congress rubbished the charges and said the BJP was trying to foment unrest ahead of the polls.Subsequently, the West Bengal BJP unit wrote to the Chief Electoral Officer of the state demanding a ‘free and fair’ poll in the Bhabanipur constituency. In the letter, the BJP also alleged that its candidate for the Bhabanipur bypoll, Priyanka Tibrewal, was "molested" by the deputy commissioner of police of Kolkata's South division.The BJP urged the EC to impose Section 144 in the constituency to ensure no untoward incident or malpractice takes place during polling.Calcutta high court orders Bhabanipur by-poll to be held as scheduledThe Calcutta high court on Tuesday refused to stay the September 30 Bhabanipur bypoll, stating that the information furnished by the chief secretary of the state to the Election Commission was contrary to the facts regarding Covid-19 restrictions that had been extended up to September 30.However, the bench, headed by Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj, observed: "We record our strong reservation about the conduct of the Chief Secretary in writing a letter to the Election Commission stating that there would be 'constitutional crisis' in case by-election to the Bhabanipur Constituency is not held."The court further said that what constitutional crisis the government could face with one person losing or winning the election, was not explained.Bypoll will be held in the Bhabanipur constituency on September 30 and results will be declared by October 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/section-144-imposed-in-poll-bound-bhabanipur-till-voting-ends-on-september-30-101632839623714.html
28-09-2021||India||In Kanhaiya’s inaugural speech, a dash of new lingo and call for greater unity||Announcing that India needs Bhagat Singh’s courage, Mahatma Gandhi’s unity, and BR Ambedkar’s equality, Kanhaiya Kumar, one of India’s prominent young politicians, joined the Congress from the oldest Communist party on Tuesday.His entry marked a new chapter in the Congress’ efforts to unite forces from different spectrums of polity to take on the formidable Bharatiya Janata Party led by PM Narendra Modi. Kanhaiya’s inaugural speech, a dash of a new lingo invoking a host of freedom fighters and a call for greater unity, repeatedly mentioned “this is time for urgency” and hailed the Congress as the only force that “can lead in this ideological war to save the idea of India.”He also clarified, “I alone can’t do anything,” echoed many pet talking points of Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and pointed out that “out of 545 Lok Sabha seats, 200 seats are where the Congress is in a direct fight with the BJP.”Independent MLA in Gujarat, Jignesh Mevani, sitting beside Kumar, also pledged support to the Congress. He didn’t officially join the party as it would result in losing his assembly membership. But the entry of these two firebrand young leaders was a welcome relief for the Congress that has lost at least three key young leaders such as Jyotiraditya Scindia, Himanta Biswa Sharma and Jitin Prasad in recent years to the BJP. Both Mevani and Kumar harped on the need for larger participation of people. While the Gujarat MLA hoped to create the “charm and ambience of the freedom struggle”, Kumar said, “when the entire shopping mall is on fire, you can’t save your shop” indicating a larger fight against the BJP.Kumar wasted no time in hitting out at the Sangh Parivar and even compared PM Modi with Bollywood actor Govinda for frequently changing attires. “Which pariwar would ask people to shun their families to join the pariwar?” he said, hinting at the RSS. He invoked Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Maulana Azad, Sarojini Naidu, Jagjivan Ram Bhagat Singh, Ashfakulla Khan, Buddha, Kabir, Nanak and said, “Many people felt if the Congress doesn’t survive, the country won’t survive.”Mevani claimed that “the story that started in Gujarat” has now led to devastation in the country. “It’s a war against democracy, Constitution and idea of India,” the MLA said, “If we have to save all these, we have to be a part of the party that fought freedom struggle.” He also announced that he will fight the next assembly election, due next year, on the Congress ticket. He acknowledged that he was “born” in the CPI, but left it as “we need to speed up our struggle and open up our ideological barrier.” Kumar announced that he doesn’t take the BJP seriously and quipped, “Those who sought clemency, have now become Veer (a dig at Savarkar). Those who vowed to create a Godse’s India, are now chanting Gandhi’s name” to underline how the political legacy is now being diluted. He announced that he will be taking some responsibility in the organization. Both Mevani and Kumar repeatedly referred to Rahul Gandhi and echoed his lines. Congress general secretary (organization) KC Venugopal described Kumar as “a symbol of fighting freedom of expression” and said, “the way he fought against fundamentalism throughout his student period, his joining will enthuse cadre of Congress party.”“Jignesh is also fighting for the same cause. Jignesh believed in Congress ideology to carry everybody along. It will give a very strong message that young people fighting for needy, poor people, fighting for freedom, non-violence are joining the Congress,” he said. Mevani presented a copy of the Indian Constitution to Rahul Gandhi while Kanhaiya gave him a photo of Mahatma Gandhi, Ambedkar and Bhagat Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-kanhaiya-s-inaugural-speech-a-dash-of-new-lingo-and-call-for-greater-unity-101632839940916.html
28-09-2021||India||‘If I join…’: Jignesh Mevani cites this reason for not joining Congress||Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mevani on Wednesday said he couldn’t join Congress due to “technical reasons” but will fight the upcoming Assembly polls on the party symbol. Mevani was in Delhi along with the former Communist Party of India (CPI) leader Kanhaiya Kumar, with the latter joining Congress in the presence of former party president Rahul Gandhi.Addressing a media briefing, Mevani said that he might not have continued as an independent MLA, had he joined the party. The convener of the Rashtriya Dalit Adhikar Manch was referring to the anti-defection law under which an independent lawmaker becomes disqualified if the person joins a political party after the election. Mevani, however, stressed that he is ideologically aligned with Congress.“I could not join the Congress formally due to technical reasons. I am an independent MLA, if I join a party, I may not continue as an MLA... I am part of the Congress ideologically, will fight the upcoming Gujarat polls from Congress symbol,” the Gujarat lawmaker from Vadgam constituency said.“To save democracy and the idea of India, I have to be with a party that lead the Independence struggle and dragged the British out of the country. This is why I am here with the Congress today,” he added.In the 2017 Gujarat Assembly elections, Mevani had contested from Vadagam seat of Banaskantha district as an independent candidate had but received outside support from Congress. Then sitting Congress MLA Manibhai Vaghela said that the party's state unit had asked him to contest from the seat, reserved for Scheduled Caste (SC), “as a part of an agreement” with Mevani.Kanhaiya Kumar told the press conference that Congress is like a “big ship” that can protect the aspirations of Mahatma Gandhi, Bhagat Singh and BR Ambedkar.“Congress party is like a big ship. If it's saved, I believe many people's aspirations, Mahatma Gandhi's oneness, Bhagat Singh's courage & BR Ambedkar's idea of equality will be protected too. This is why I have joined it,” the former JNU student union president said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-i-join-jignesh-mevani-cites-this-reason-for-not-joining-congress-101632837850697.html
28-09-2021||India||Covid-19: Suspension of international flights extended till October 31||The Centre on Tuesday extended the suspension on international scheduled commercial flights till October 31 owing to the coronavirus diseases (Covid-19) pandemic.The latest circular issued by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) continued to keep international cargo flights and those approved by the regulator to operate.The DGCA also said that scheduled international flights might be allowed on selected routes on a case to case basis.The Indian government banned international commercial flights since March 23, 2020, to check the spread of the Covid-19 infection. It eased the restrictions on flights in certain countries with which India has had an air bubble arrangement during the past year.The air bubble pact between the two countries allows the operation of special international flights by the national carrier between their territories. India has formed air bubble pacts with around 25 countries, including the United States, the United Kingdom, the United Arab Emirates, the Maldives, the Netherlands, France, Germany, Qatar and Bhutan.India was considering lifting the restrictions on international commercial flights on September 30. However, it extended the ban in the face of a looming threat of the third wave of infection and the rising cases of the Delta variant of the Covid-19 in several countries.Even as the restrictions on international air travel continued, India allowed operating special flights on specific routes, especially to repatriate stranded citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-suspension-of-international-flights-extended-till-october-31-101632836954203.html
28-09-2021||India||Home ministry warns states, UTs against Covid-19 complacency amid festive season||Ahead of the festive season the Centre asked governments of states and Union territories to take adequate measures to ensure that a surge in new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases is not seen after the celebrations. The home ministry warned against complacency due to the recent drop in the number of cases.Ajay Bhalla, Union home secretary, in his letter to chief secretaries of states and Union territories, said that attention should be paid to the casual approach towards adhering to Covid-19 norms which can arise due to fall in the number of cases. He said that it is critical to adhere to Covid-19 appropriate measures during the festive season.“Utmost vigil has to be maintained in respect of mass gathering events, so as to avoid any possibility of surge in Covid-19 cases,” Bhalla wrote in his letter highlighting that large-scale gatherings in fairs, festivals and religious events and functions have the potential to create a fresh surge in the number of cases.The home ministry in its letter also asked the state and Union Territories’ administration to monitor case positivity, hospital and ICU bed occupancy of every district falling under their jurisdiction. It also asked them to take proactive containment measures in districts with a high positivity rate. “It is important to identify warning signs of potential surges early on and to take appropriate measures to curb the spread. This would require a localized approach,” the letter said.It also said that administrations should not divert from the main tenets of containment of Covid-19 which is — Test-Track-Treat-Vaccination-Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. The letter highlighted that this is necessary for safely navigating through the festive season. It also highlighted that vaccination should continue in an accelerated fashion and all beneficiaries should be vaccinated with priority including those who are about to receive their second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-ministry-warns-states-uts-against-covid-19-complacency-amid-festive-season-101632834657495.html
28-09-2021||India||AAP says ‘big announcements’ expected during Arvind Kejriwal’s 2-day visit to Punjab starting Sept 29||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday said that its national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal would visit Punjab on a two-day trip beginning Wednesday where he is expected to make “big announcements.”Kejriwal would visit Ludhiana on Wednesday, where he would meet with the businessmen and industrialists in the evening and on Thursday, he will hold a press conference during which he is expected to make the announcement. Party leader and Delhi MLA Raghav Chadha also confirmed that Kejriwal would make his announcements during his trip to Punjab. “Chief Minister of Delhi Sh. @ArvindKejriwal will be on a two day visit to Punjab, starting tomorrow. Stay tuned for big announcements!,” Chadha tweeted.Hon'ble Chief Minister of Delhi Sh. @ArvindKejriwal will be on a two day visit to Punjab, starting tomorrow.Stay tuned for big announcements!The party is yet to announce a chief ministerial candidate for the state assembly polls next year. Recently, Chadha said that the CM face would be someone who would be from Punjab and somebody who could be called the 'pride of Punjab', news agency PTI reported.The visit has been announced as Punjab is scheduled to go to polls for its state assembly early next year. During his previous visit to the state earlier in June this year, Kejriwal promised that his party, if voted to power in the state, would provide 300 units of free electricity to each household and also assured that pending bills would be waived off.Also read | Sidhu resigns, Amarinder in Delhi: Top 5 Punjab developments you need to know“As soon as the AAP government is formed in the state, we will ensure free power and write off all pending bills of consumers of domestic supply category with the first stroke of pen,” Kejriwal said on June 30, HT had reported. “The 24-hour supply will require strengthening of the distribution network and may take three to four years,” he added. He also said that his government has done this in Delhi and it could be replicated in Punjab if his party wins the polls.Punjab is not the only state where the AAP chief has made such promises. Kejriwal has earlier assured that his party would fulfill the same promises on electricity in Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Goa, all three states where assembly polls would be held in 2022, during his visits to the states previously. In addition, the AAP is also looking to expand its presence in Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh, again set for assembly polls next year, where the party has announced it would contest from all seats. Senior party leader and Delhi’s deputy CM Manish Sisodia is scheduled to visit Gandhinagar, Gujarat, on Wednesday.Meanwhile, the ruling Congress in Punjab has been hit by a series of changes with the latest being the party’s state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu quitting his post on Tuesday. The AAP has criticised the state government with party leader Chadha saying,“Complete and absolute state of anarchy in Punjab Congress.” He questioned how could the people of Punjab expect the “selfish leaders” to provide a “stable, progressive and inclusive” administration and also asked how can the state, which shares a 550 km-long border with Pakistan, be trusted with the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-says-big-announcements-expected-during-arvind-kejriwal-s-2-day-visit-to-punjab-starting-sept-29-101632834638550.html
28-09-2021||India||Muslim artist faces threats for playing the role of Lord Ram in Ramleela||A Muslim theatre artist from Bareilly who has played the role of Lord Ram in Ramleela faced a death threat from a person of his own community. The person, Danish, who has been playing the role for the past few years said that he was also threatened with excommunication as well.The 30-year-old Danish informed the senior superintendent of police Rohit Singh Sajwan in a complaint that the man who threatened him is his tenant.Danish said that his tenant owes him two months' rent which he has not paid and is raising this issue in a bid to avoid it. He said that he was preparing for the Ramleela this time but his tenant, along with his associate, came and threatened him with excommunication and death if he played the role of the Hindu deity.The tenant and the associate allegedly attacked him with a knife but no one was hurt as Danish’s cousin intervened.“It is a matter of dispute with the tenant and shows the wrong intentions of the tenant,” the police said. SSP Sajwan, who received Danish’s complaint, ordered the Kotwali inspector of police to conduct a thorough inquiry along with extending Danish necessary security.“I play the role of Ram in Ramleela, this time also the preparations are on but the tenant is making a communal issue out of it and instigating people against it,” Danish was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. He further added that he is an artist who respects all religions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muslim-artist-faces-threats-for-playing-the-role-of-lord-ram-in-ramleela-101632832847303.html
28-09-2021||India||Indian industry must focus on boosting production of military equipment: Rajnath||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday said the allocated fund llocated fund for domestic procurement in defence modernisation has risen to 64.09%.“The Centre has taken several steps to fulfill the requirements of our private investment and global demands by creating sustainable and long-term linkages,” Rajnath Singh was quoted as saying.Singh was addressing the annual general meeting of Society of India Defence Manufacturing (SIDM). "A compendium has been launched to highlight the efforts of all companies. Their efforts are a big contribution to India's goal of self-reliance," he said.The defence minister said the SIDM has set up its first sub-state office in Lucknow for its expansion process. "It's an important step to promote investment in UP Expressway Industrial Development and UP Defence Corridor. It reflects your vision, approach and quality of patience, Singh further said.Speaking on the occasion, Singh urged private sector defence companies to invest in research and development, especially in technologies relating to cyberspace.He said the rapid changes in global security scenario are expected to increase demand for military equipment and the Indian industry must focus on boosting production.Singh said the Indian defence industry should take advantage of the policy reforms initiated by the Centre in the past few years to ramp up domestic defence manufacturing."You are all aware that the global situation is changing very rapidly. There is no region in the world today that has not been affected by these changes," Singh was quoted as saying by news agency PTI."Its impact can be seen on trade, economy, communication, political equation and military power," Singh said, adding these changes are set to spur demand for military equipment.In this context, he urged the private sector to invest in research and development with a special focus on cyberspace."We are providing a suitable growth environment to the private sector. Accordingly, we have opened up opportunities to build fighter jets, helicopters, submarines and tanks in India through the strategic partnership model," Singh said.The government has initiated a series of measures in the last couple of years to encourage the domestic defence industry.In August last year, Singh announced that India will stop the import of 101 weapons and military platforms like transport aircraft, light combat helicopters, conventional submarines, cruise missiles and sonar systems by 2024.A second negative list, putting import restrictions on 108 military weapons and systems such as next-generation corvettes, airborne early warning systems, tank engines and radars, was issued recently.In May last year, the government announced increasing the FDI limit from 49% to 74% under the automatic route in the defence sector.The government has been focusing on reducing dependence on imported military platforms and has decided to support domestic defence manufacturing.The defence ministry has set a goal of a turnover of $25 billion ( ₹1.75 lakh crore) in defence manufacturing by 2025 that included an export target of $5 billion ( ₹35,000 crore) worth of military hardware.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-industry-must-focus-on-boosting-production-of-military-equipment-rajnath-101632822615645.html
28-09-2021||India||Cheating at REET 2021: District education officer suspended for suspicious role||The Rajasthan government on Tuesday suspended Sawai Madhopur district education officer Radheshyam Meena for his suspicious role in the cheating in Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers (REET) examination, news agency ANI reported.  Some of the candidates who appeared for the exam on Sunday were found wearing slippers fitted with Bluetooth devices.The exam was held across the state under tight security arrangements.The Rajasthan Police have arrested five people, including three REET candidates, in connection with the cheating case. The police said that these people allegedly sold Bluetooth device fitted 'chappals' (footwear) worth ₹6 lakh to candidates appearing for the exam held to select government school teachers in the state.A woman is also among those arrested.The incident of cheating came to light when an aspirant, Ganesh Ram Dhaka (28), who had arrived at the Acharya Shri Dharam Sagar Digambar Jain Secondary Medium School Centre in Ajmer for the REET was found wearing a Bluetooth-equipped slippers.According to police, officials deployed at the centre found a wireless earphone in Dhaka's ear. When questioned, he confessed about the mobile phone and Bluetooth device hidden inside his footwear.Dhaka confessed that he had purchased the pair of footwear from a person named Tuljaram Jat in Bikaner for ₹2.5 lakh."The gang had manufactured 25 Bluetooth-equipped chappals in Bikaner. As Dhaka and Jat were from the same village, Jat sold the chappal to him at ₹2.5 lakh," an official told news agency ANI.Bikaner Police later identified the gang members - Madanlal, Trilokchand, Omprakash, Gopal Krishna, and Kiran. While Dhaka was arrested by the Ajmer police, Tuljaram Jat is absconding. Further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cheating-at-reet-2021-district-education-officer-suspended-for-suspicious-role-101632832065838.html
28-09-2021||India||Amarinder Singh reaches Delhi, says ‘not here to meet any politician’||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh arrived in New Delhi on Tuesday evening, amid political churning in the state, where Navjot Singh Sidhu resigned as the chief of Congress' state unit.Shortly after arriving, Singh told reporters at Delhi airport that he has come to the national capital to vacate Kapurthala House, the residence of Punjab CM in New Delhi.Also Read: Top 5 developments in Punjab politics"I am not going to meet any politician here," news agency ANI quoted Amarinder Singh as saying.He also took a jibe at Sidhu, calling him an "unstable man". "I had said that he (Navjot Singh Sidhu) is an unstable man, he won't stay for long and the same happened," said the former Punjab CM. Singh had attacked Sidhu on Twitter too when the news of Sidhu's resignation emerged.Also Read: 5 reasons why Sidhu may have quitAmarinder Singh resigned as Punjab chief minister on September 18 amid a bitter public feud with Sidhu. This is first visit to Delhi after quitting the post. Before that, Singh made a number of rounds to the national capital to meet the top brass of the Congress party which stepped in to end the infighting and present a united front ahead of assembly elections in Punjab.Part of the plan devised by the high command to calm the tempers in Punjab was to elevate Sidhu as chief of the party's state unit despite opposition from Singh. The top leaders also called a meeting of the Congress legislature party without informing Singh, who was then the chief minister.The two-time chief minister then decided to quit the post just hours before the CLP meeting and later said at a press conference that he felt humiliated. Singh announced that he would keep his political options open and exercise it at the time of his choosing.Though Singh has said that he is not going to meet any politician during his two-day stay in Delhi, there is speculation that a meeting with to leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), including home minister Amit Shah, is planned.A meeting on Wednesday between Shah and the former Punjab CM has not been ruled out. "The meeting will be scheduled when he (Capt) seeks one," said a person aware of the details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-reaches-delhi-says-not-here-to-meet-any-politician-101632831421310.html
28-09-2021||India||IAF seeks to take over rape case against officer||A Tamil Nadu court will on Thursday decide whether to hand over a rape accused officer to the Indian Air Force (IAF) or allow the local police to continue investigating the matter. A colleague has accused flight lieutenant Amitesh Harmukh, 29, of raping her on the campus of Coimbatore’s Air Force Administrative College on September 10. The local police arrested Harmukh and the court on Monday extended his judicial custody until Thursday.Harmukh’s lawyer, N Sundaravadivelu, argued since the accused and the complainant belong to the IAF, they are subject to the special Air Force Act, which is beyond the purview of the Code of Criminal Procedure. “...the Indian Penal Code... will be applied by the court-martial authorities. There is a transgression by the civil police of Coimbatore; they have no right to investigate this matter. So, the judiciary...subordinate courts also have no jurisdiction. This has to be investigated only by the air force authorities by a court of inquiry and court-martial.”He said the trial should happen before the air force authorities because that is the right forum. “I cannot be defending my client in the wrong forum.”Also Read: 4 men rape 2 UP girls in cyber cafe, extort ₹10,000 not to leak video: Police The IAF filed a petition in the court seeking the transfer of the case to it for the probe and a court-martial. “We have cited all rules and procedures for the flight lieutenant to be handed over to us,” said an IAF spokesperson.The police have maintained that the complainant was unhappy with the college’s inquiry and that is why she approached Coimbatore commissioner Deepak M Damor on September 20. Based on her complaint, a police station for women carried out preliminary inquiries, registered a case, and arrested Harmukh on Saturday. “Police have jurisdiction all over,” said a police officer in Coimbatore. “She was assaulted...and they (college) initiated action. But she was not happy with the nature of the action. So, she approached the local police.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iafseeks-to-take-over-rape-case-against-officer-101632830758505.html
28-09-2021||India||Kanhaiya Kumar joins Congress, Jignesh Mevani says with party ideology||CPI leader Kanhaiya Kumar joined the Congress on Tuesday in the presence of party leader Rahul Gandhi in Delhi.Congress general secretary KC Venugopal and Gujarat Congress working president Hardik Patel were present with Rahul Gandhi when Kumar, the former president of Jawaharlal Nehru University, joined the Congress.Addressing the media at Congress headquarters soon after the induction of the youth leader, Venugopal said, “Kanhaiya Kumar is a symbol of the fight for freedom of expression in this country. He fought against fundamentalism as a student leader. The joining of kind of dynamic personality will fill the entire cadre of Congress with enthusiasm.”LIVE: Special Press Conference by Shri @kcvenugopalmp, Shri @rssurjewala and Shri @BHAKTACHARANDAS at the AICC HQ. https://t.co/cwYVpZXvRHMeanwhile, Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mevani, who was also supposed to join the Congress, but couldn't “due to technical reasons”, extended his support to the party."I could not join the Congress formally due to technical reasons. I am an independent MLA, if I join a party, I may not continue as an MLA...I am part of the Congress ideologically but I will fight the upcoming Gujarat polls from Congress symbol," the Dalit leader from Gujarat said.People close to Mevani claimed that for over a year he was weighing various options, including joining the Aam Aadmi Party of which he was earlier a spokesperson and also exploring some national front of like-minded youth leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanhaiya-kumar-joins-congress-jignesh-mevani-says-with-party-ideology-101632828994261.html
28-09-2021||India||Moral policing in Bengaluru and why I remain hopeful||Do you want to know what the sad thing is? It was done for “likes.” The only way that this particular moral policing story is different from the countless others that are sprouting up all over India is that it is a social media phenomenon. In case you didn’t know about this viral video, it happened on Friday, September 17.In it, two men stop a Hindu man (identified as such by the red tikka on his forehead, visible underneath the helmet he is wearing), and his Muslim woman colleague, wearing a burqa. They ask the Muslim woman-- in Kannada and Urdu-- why she is travelling with a non-Muslim. They abuse and threaten the two, even as the woman tries to explain that her colleague is merely giving her a lift home. In between, they slap the man, call the woman’s husband and abuse him as well. They force the woman to get off the bike and put her on an auto. You can see the whole sorry scene on many channels.The weird twist? The accused-- the perpetrators of the attack-- filmed and posted the video of them caught in the act themselves. In other words, the accused publicised their attack. And I thought it couldn’t happen in a cosmopolitan, genteel, progressive city like Bengaluru. Happens in Mangaluru where communal tensions are rife, said my journalist friend, but generally not in Bengaluru.The two accused were arrested quickly, something that Kamal Pant, the Commissioner of Police, Bengaluru tom-tommed on Twitter. “Acting swiftly, @BlrCityPolice has identified and secured two accused persons for assault on a bike rider travelling along with a woman of a different faith. A case is registered and firm legal action is initiated.”Not to be outdone, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai got on the bandwagon and said that such miscreants would not be tolerated by his administration. The surprise was the defence. The two youths, Suhail and Nayaz said that they had posted many such videos in the past and got an appreciation for their “work.” They thought that they would get applause, not an arrest for this escapade too. They told the police that they expected to be lauded for their actions. Ah, the irony-- caught on social media, and caught by posting on social media.When I moved to Bengaluru some 15 years ago, there were some things about its culture that I took for granted. Good weather was a given, as were the drooping rain trees. It was a cosmopolitan progressive city where women went to pubs and pensioners rode on bicycles down MG Road. While there were enclaves-- the Basavangudi Brahmins, the Christians in Cooke Town, the Muslims in Benson Town, everyone came together in places such as Koshys, MTR or MM Road during Ramadan. The difference today is social media which does three things. It holds a mirror to what is happening around us. It accelerates extremes, both the positive and the negative. And it allows for anonymity or at least it gives that false sense of security. When we troll on Twitter, we expect that nobody will find us out. We don’t know that there are ways to harvest data and identities even if we attack and abuse using false names. This is what happened to the two attackers. Although you don’t see their faces, you hear their voices. Plus, they bragged about their ‘work’ on their social media channels. The second is the reactions. When sentiment becomes a hashtag such as #gharwapsi, the encapsulated idea stirs up emotions and a sense of collective angst. This is what happened with #lovejihad and the selective outrage it invokes. The question then becomes: how real is the religious polarization that is supposedly happening in India? The answer is as nuanced and multi-layered as this great country itself. While all of us are in a froth about moral policing evident in the video of these goons, the real story is that at the end of the day, we witnessed one inescapable fact. Actually, several facts nested inside the main story. And each of these small facts gives us hope for India. Let me present them.A man gave his female colleague a lift home. He is Hindu, she is Muslim. She is married. He has been giving her a lift home for many days. Her husband knows about this. She wears a burqa. He wears a tilak. They are comfortable in their faith. They are also comfortable mingling with other genders and other faiths. Each of these sentences offers hope. The greatest hope of all: this continues to happen in Bengaluru and Meerut even though moral policing has become a hashtag.Recently, the company, Manyavar and actress, Alia Bhatt have been trolled because of an advertisement in which Bhatt playing a Hindu bride talks about updating the tradition of “kanyadaan” to “kanyamaan.” Immediately, outraged Twitter trolls rained abuse on the ad, the company and the actress. Many of them said that they would boycott Manyavar although how many would follow through is doubtful. Certainly, Tanishq’s revenues remain healthy even though the company found itself in the middle of a similar controversy sometime back.I, for now, remain hopeful. I believe that India is too vast, heterogeneous and multi-layered country to fit into a Twitter troll’s suffocating label. You can generate as much outrage as you want online. You can brag about morals on social media. But at the end of the day, an Indian Hindu male is still going to offer his married female Muslim colleague a lift. For that, I say, thank God-- this is still India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/moral-policing-in-bengaluru-and-why-i-remain-hopeful-101632829498515.html
28-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Punjab CM Channi says he has ‘complete faith’ in Navjot Singh Sidhu and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.At press meet, Channi focuses on farmers' pains but expresses faith on SidhuMoments after Navjot Singh Sidhu resigned as Punjab Congress president, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi addressed the media but chose to focus on the sufferings of farmers due to the three three laws introduced last year by the Centre. Read moreMedia houses next target, join us to save yourselves: Farm leader Rakesh TikaitFarmer leader Rakesh Tikait said the government’s next target could be media houses and called on their stakeholders to join the months-long agitation against three central agri laws to save themselves. Read more‘Diligently working with WHO to obtain EUL at the earliest’, says Bharat Biotech on CovaxinHyderabad based Bharat Biotech on Tuesday said that the company is working “diligently” with the World Health Organization (WHO) regarding the emergency use listing (EUL) for Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin. Read moreIPL 2021: Why Delhi Capitals left out Prithvi Shaw against Kolkata Knight RidersDelhi Capitals captain Rishabh Pant on Tuesday announced a major change in the team's playing XI in the Indian Premier League 2021 match against Kolkata Knight Riders. After KKR captain Eoin Morgan won the toss and elected to bowl, Pant was asked about his thoughts on batting first. Read moreScam 1992 star Pratik Gandhi recalls financial struggles: ‘Suddenly, the whole family was homeless’Actor Pratik Gandhi, who found overnight fame after starring in the hit series Scam 1992: The Harshad Mehta Story, opened up about the personal struggles that he had to endure before the success of the show catapulted him to stardom. Read moreJaguar opens bookings for I-Pace Black across IndiaJaguar Land Rover India, on Tuesday, has announced that the bookings for Jaguar I-Pace Black have been opened. The all-electric SUV's exclusive new edition comes with features such as Black Pack and a panoramic sunroof. Read moreAnanya Panday gets ready for Pujo in ₹89k ruffled saree and embroidered backless blouseThe festive season is upon us, and we are all on the lookout for some inspiration to ramp up our wardrobe. If you are also going through the same, you just have to take cues from Ananya Panday's latest ad shoot. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-punjab-cm-channi-says-he-has-complete-faith-in-navjot-singh-sidhu-and-all-the-latest-news-101632827296668.html
28-09-2021||India||Don’t ask Sikh students to report early for exams: Minority affairs ministry||In a statement released on Monday, the Ministry of Minority Affairs urged the National Testing Agency and other examination bodies not to haveseparatereporting policies for Sikh examinees vis-a-vis others. The ministry was responding to reports that Sikh students were being called earlier to examination centres than others. “It has been brought to the notice of the National Commission for Minorities (NCM) that students belonging to the Sikh community are asked to report at the examination centers hours in advance vis-à-vis candidates belonging to other communities for the purpose of scanning of Kara and/or Kirpan, which are articles of faith, while appearing in examinations such as the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) etc,” the ministry said in a statement. In addition, in its capacity as the statutory body constituted to safeguard the interest of all minorities, the ministry directed the examination agencies “to consider taking following steps to avoid any discrimination against students belonging to the Sikh community.”Also Read: US Marines let Sikh officer wear turban but with riders, he plans to sue Corps The three steps suggested by the ministry include same reporting time of examination for all candidates irrespective of their religion, no discrimination between Sikh candidates and others on the basis of their articles of faith and screening through a door frame metal detector for reducing time and ensuring proper security procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-ask-sikh-students-to-report-early-for-exams-minority-affairs-ministry-101632828119847.html
28-09-2021||India||‘Diligently working with WHO to obtain EUL at the earliest’, says Bharat Biotech on Covaxin||Hyderabad based Bharat Biotech on Tuesday said that the company is working “diligently” with the World Health Organization (WHO) regarding the emergency use listing (EUL) for Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin. The company also said that it did not want to speculate or comment further about the regulatory process and the timelines.“As a responsible manufacturer with past approvals for our other vaccines, we do not find it appropriate to speculate or comment on the regulatory approval process and its timelines. We are diligently working with the WHO to obtain EUL at the earliest,” the company said on Tuesday.pic.twitter.com/P8HPq75rm6The statement came a day after several news reports showed that the emergency use authorization (EUA) for Covaxin has been delayed by the WHO. The UN health body has asked for more data from Bharat Biotech regarding the vaccine, news agency ANI reported citing sources familiar with the development. However, the Strategic Advisory Group of Expert on Immunization (SAGE) meeting regarding Covaxin’s approval still remained scheduled for October 5 and has not been deferred.Bharat Biotech in its statement, has asked the media organisations “to exercise restraint while reporting on public health related issues and timelines, as it has an impact on millions of lives and livelihoods.”Also read | WHO's nod for Covaxin delayed again over technical queries: Reports“At appropriate times, we will make announcements to indicate the availability of regulatory approvals,” it added.Covaxin is one among the three vaccines being used in the country’s immunisation programme against Covid-19, the other two vaccines being Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India and Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine. Alongside Covaxin, the company is also in the process of developing BBV154, an intranasal vaccine against the disease.Obtaining an EUA from the WHO would imply that the vaccine could be accepted for travel to other countries. A delay from the WHO could affect Indian citizens, especially students and those who are travelling abroad for other reasons. Several government officials, including minister of state for health and family welfare Dr Pravin Bharati Pawar and Niti Aayog member for health Dr VK Paul have said that the EUA from WHO is expected soon for the vaccine.Meanwhile, the number of vaccine doses administered under India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive crossed the 870-million mark, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Tuesday. Also, more than 10 million doses were administered in the 24-hour period ending earlier on Tuesday morning, the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diligently-working-with-who-to-obtain-eul-at-the-earliest-says-bharat-biotech-on-covaxin-101632825466768.html
28-09-2021||India||At press meet, Channi focuses on farmers' pains but expresses faith on Sidhu||Moments after Navjot Singh Sidhu resigned as Punjab Congress president, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi addressed the media but chose to focus on the sufferings of farmers due to the three three laws introduced last year by the Centre.When prodded further on the cricketer-turned-politician’s resignation, Channi said he had no idea about the same, while adding that he had complete faith and confidence in the former. He then said that is Sidhu was upset over any issue, it would be settled. “It will be settled if he is upset... though he is not upset with me,” Channi was quoted as saying when asked if Sidhu was unhappy over bureaucratic set-up and cabinet expansion in state.Channi said the condition of the farmers was getting worse by the day, but the Centre was unaffected. “As the chief minister of Punjab, I want to appeal to the Centre to repeal the three farm laws,” he said, seemingly unfazed by the latest turmoil that unfolded for his party following Sidhu’s sudden move.Sidhu wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi stating that he would not compromise on Punjab's future and the agenda for the state’s welfare. He, however, said he would continue to serve the Congress.Also read | Amarinder Singh’s Delhi visit triggers speculation in political circles"The collapse of a man's character stems from the compromise corner. I can never compromise on Punjab's future and the agenda for the welfare of Punjab. Therefore, I hereby resign as the President of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee. I will continue to serve the Congress," Sidhu wrote in the letter that he shared on Twitter.Soon after, Amarinder Singh, who resigned days ago citing months-long humiliation paving the way for Channi, took to social media and wrote “I told you so…he is not a stable man and not fit for the border state of punjab.”Singh is on his way to Delhi and speculations are rife he may join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) following a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah and party chief JP Nadda.On Singh's visit to the national capital, Channi said the former chief minister must have gone there to discuss Punjab's issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-press-meet-channi-focuses-on-farmers-pains-but-expresses-faith-on-sidhu-101632825299966.html
28-09-2021||India||Manish Kr Gupta gets additional charge as DDA vice president||Manish Kumar Gupta, who is currently the principal commissioner land management at the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), has been assigned additional charge of vice-chairman of the authority, according to a housing and urban affairs ministry order.Anurag Jain, an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of Madhya Pradesh cadre, who took charge as DDA vice-chairman in June last year, was recently transferred as secretary of Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, ministry of Commerce and Industry.Gupta, a 1991 AGMUT officer, was with the South Delhi Municipal Corporation as additional commissioner and then as commissioner from 2011-2014. Gupta has been given the additional charge till November 2021.Also Read: Petrol prices hiked for first time since July 17, diesel costlier by 95 paiseDDA officials said that the next two months are important as the land-owning agency will be holding public consultations to finalise the Master Plan of Delhi-2041. The DDA plans to finalise the MPD-2041 by the end of this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manish-kr-gupta-gets-additional-charge-as-dda-vice-president-101632825057863.html
28-09-2021||India||Sidhu resigns, Amarinder in Delhi: Top 5 Punjab developments you need to know||Turmoil in Punjab Congress continued after a brief lull on Tuesday as Navjot Singh Sindhu, the newly appointed Congress chief in the state, resigned from his post. The situation was furthermore exacerbated as former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, who vacated his post for Charanjit Singh Channi, said he is visiting Delhi. The former chief minister said that he is keeping his political options open and expressed his disappointment with the Congress leadership. Here are top 5 developments you need to know:  1. Amarinder’s Delhi trip: The former Punjab chief minister is set to begin a two-day trip to Delhi and there are speculations that the Congress veteran may meet the BJP senior leadership. His media advisor Raveen Thukral confirmed that these are indeed speculations and shared a tweet saying that ‘too much is being read’ into his visit to New Delhi. A BJP functionary familiar with the developments told HT that a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah and Captain Amarinder Singh will happen once the latter seeks one but the possibility of it happening cannot be ruled out.2. Sidhu’s resignation: Navjot Singh Sidhu, who was among the main detractors of former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and was also assigned as Punjab party chief, resigned from his post two months after his appointment. People familiar with the developments told HT that Sidhu was unhappy because he was not made the chief minister of Punjab. He wrote a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi and said that he ‘cannot compromise on Punjab’s future and welfare’3. Rana Gurjit Singh’s return: Sidhu was also disappointed with Rana Gurjit Singh’s return to the Punjab cabinet. There was some controversy around the inclusion of Kapurthala MLA Gurjit Singh Rana into the cabinet as several Congress leaders wrote to the high command asking them to drop him. Rana Gurjit Singh represents Kapurthala and was a minister in the Amarinder government but resigned after 10 months in 2018 was earlier removed for his alleged connection to the sand mining auction.4. Turmoil on the day portfolios were assigned: Punjab’s new chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi assigned portfolios to his newly inducted ministers on Tuesday, hours before Amarinder and Sidhu made moves which may make the Congress uncomfortable ahead of the polls next year.5. Amarinder vs Sidhu: The former chief minister of Punjab took a shot at his detractor before leaving for Delhi in a tweet. Reacting to Sidhu’s resignation from his post, Amarinder Singh said that his remarks regarding the ‘unstable’ nature of the former Punjab Congress chief remains valid. “I told you so… He is not a stable man and not fit for the border state of Punjab,” Singh said in a tweet before beginning his Delhi trip.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sidhu-resigns-amarinder-in-delhi-top-5-punjab-developments-you-need-to-know-101632824259812.html
28-09-2021||India||'Not a stable man', tweets Amarinder Singh after Navjot Sidhu's resignation||Shortly after Navjot Singh Sidhu resigned as Punjab Congress chief, former chief minister Amarinder Singh took a jibe saying "he is not a stable man". Sidhu fought a long battle with Singh, during which he was named as the chief of Congress' Punjab unit. Singh resigned, but vowed to continue his fight against Sidhu.Also Read: Navjot Sidhu resigns as Punjab Congress chief"I told you so... he is not a stable man and not fit for the border state of punjab," Singh tweeted. He is on his way to Delhi where the former Punjab CM is likely to meet Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership.I told you so…he is not a stable man and not fit for the border state of punjab.After resigning as Punjab chief minister on September 18, Amarinder Singh had said he felt “humiliated.” He had also dubbed Sidhu as "anti-national" and "dangerous", saying he would pit a strong candidate against the state party chief in the upcoming assembly polls.Singh had indicated he was still keeping his political options open, adding that he was talking to his friends before deciding on his future course of action.Singh is coming to Delhi for the first time since his resignation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-stable-man-tweets-amarinder-singh-after-navjot-sidhu-s-resignation-101632823607596.html
28-09-2021||India||3 dead in accident at Bokaro industrial unit in Jharkhand||Three labourers involved in maintenance work at Vedanta ESL industrial unit in Jharkhand’s Bokaro district died in an alleged accident late Monday evening around 8pm. Three employees of ThyssenKrupp Elevator Co. died in an accident in ESL Steel Ltd, a Vedanta group firm, at Bokaro while carrying out elevator maintenance work, a company official said on Tuesday.The incident took place on Monday and ESL Steel plant will investigate the incident, the official said.The three workers were reportedly employed with another firm hired for the maintenance work. Confirming the development, Bokaro deputy commissioner Kuldeep Chaudhary said a disaster management team will asses the cause behind the incident. Chandankiyari legislator Amar Bauri, under whose assembly constituency the industry is located, said he heard from the labourers at the factory that the alleged accident took place due to a security lapse. Also Read: Lukewarm response to Bharat Bandh in J’khand “It is the labourers who shared the information about the deaths of workers. The three labourers are said to be from Ranchi. While we demand adequate compensation, a probe should also be conducted into the ‘lapse’ and action taken,” said Bauri. PTI contributed to this story.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-dead-in-accident-at-bokaro-industrial-unit-in-jharkhand-101632823377868.html
28-09-2021||India||Media houses next target, join us to save yourselves: Farm leader Rakesh Tikait||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said the government’s next target could be media houses and called on their stakeholders to join the months-long agitation against three central agri laws to save themselves.“Everyone should join us. The next target will be media houses. If you want to be saved, join us, else you too will suffer,” said the senior functionary of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) in Chhattisgarh capital Raipur.Tikait, who will address a ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ at Rajim in Gariaband district later in the day, said the biggest problem was that of minimum support prices of crops and vegetables.#WATCH | ... Everyone should join us. The next target will be media houses, if you want to be saved then join us, else you'll also suffer: Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait after arriving in Raipur, Chhattisgarh pic.twitter.com/nnCJgS11Z5“We'll raise the issues of (farmers from) Chhattisgarh. The biggest problem is the MSP in the country. We'll raise this issue. We will talk about how vegetable farmers of the state can be more benefitted and what policies need to be made for them,” the farm leader added.Also read | Bharat Bandh successful, says Tikait. Here's its impact in various statesBesides Tikait, other national leaders in the forefront of the farmers protest like Yogendra Yadav and Medha Patkar would join the event being organised under the aegis of Chhattisgarh Kisan Majdoor Mahasangh (CKMM), an umbrella body of farm outfits, on Krishi Upaj Mandi premises.“Apart from the withdrawal of the three farm laws, we also want the Centre to enact a law to ensure minimum support price (MSP) guarantee for agricultural produce," a member of the group said.The three laws, namely The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020, were passed by Parliament in September last year.Also read | Solution to farmers' protest only through dialogue, says Rakesh TikaitThe farmers have been protesting against the laws that they claim the Centre had introduced trying to bring in corporates and private firms into the agriculture sector at their expense for months now along the borders of the national capital and elsewhere.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/media-houses-next-target-join-us-to-save-yourselves-farm-leader-rakesh-tikait-101632822878501.html
28-09-2021||India||Navjot Singh Sidhu resigns as Punjab Congress chief||In a sudden development, Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu resigned from his post on Tuesday.Sidhu sent his resignation letter to party chief Sonia Gandhi in which he said that he will continue to serve the Congress."The collapse of a man's character stems from the compromise corner, I can never compromise on Punjab's future and the agenda for the welfare of Punjab. Therefore, I hereby resign as the President of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee," Sidhu said in his letter sent to Gandhi.He, however, did not explain about the "compromise" part mentioned in the letter.Also Read: Amarinder Singh tweets 'I told you so' after Sidhu's resignationSindhu's term remained a pretty short one - he was appointed as Punjab Congress chief on July 23 after months of months of feud with Amarinder Singh, who eventually resigned as the state's chief minister.People familiar with the matter in the Congress said that Sidhu is disappointed that he wasn't named the chief minister after Singh. It is learnt that he did not meet the Gandhis before taking the decision to quit the post.He also had issues with inclusion of “tainted” former minister Rana Gurjit Singh in Punjab Cabinet now led by Charanjit Singh Channi. Six MLAs from Doaba had written a letter to Sidhu on Sunday - hours before the swearing-in of the new Punjab cabinet - that Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjit Singh be dropped from the list of ministers over his alleged involvement in corruption. The leaders also demanded that the cabinet berth may instead be filled up “by giving representation to a clean Dalit leader”. A copy of the letter was also sent to Channi, but those advices were ignored and Rana Gurjit took oath as a cabinet minister.The feud between Singh and Sidhu started in 2019 and escalated this year. The decision to elevate Sidhu as the chief of the party's state unit was taken by the Congress high command in a bid to end infighting ahead of the assembly elections next year, but the resignation today has proved that the political turmoil in Punjab is far from over.Sidhu's resignation comes on a day when former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh is coming to Delhi. There is speculation that he will meet home minister Amit Shah, though there is no confirmation from both sides.However, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader said on the condition of anonymity that “the meeting will happen”, adding that “there is definitely movement on that front”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navjot-singh-sidhu-resigns-as-punjab-congress-chief-101632821901671.html
28-09-2021||India||Amarinder Singh’s Delhi visit triggers speculation in political circles||Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s two-day visit to New Delhi has triggered speculation about the miffed Congress leader’s next course of action amid reports about his possible meeting with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership late on Tuesday even as there was no official confirmation from either side.His media adviser, Raveen Thukral, confirmed Singh is scheduled to be in the national capital on Tuesday and Wednesday but called reports about the meeting a “speculation”.“Too much being read into @capt_amarinder’s visit to Delhi. He’s on a personal visit, during which he’ll meet some friends and also vacate Kapurthala house for the new (Punjab) CM (chief minister). No need for any unnecessary speculation,” Thukral tweeted.Also Read: Amarinder Singh back with NDA batchmates, sings ‘o gorey gorey’A BJP leader said there was no appointment scheduled for Singh with the party leadership. But a meeting on Wednesday between Shah and the former Punjab chief minister has not been ruled out. A meeting will be scheduled when Singh seeks one, said a person aware of the details requesting anonymity.Another BJP leader said the meeting will happen. “There is definitely movement on that front,” the second leader said on condition of anonymity.Singh left for Delhi on Tuesday afternoon. This is his first visit to the national capital since his resignation. Singh resigned as the chief minister on September 18, hours before a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party in Punjab was called without informing him in the backdrop of infighting within the ruling party in the state.The two-time chief minister has said he felt humiliated and announced he would keep his political options open and exercise them at the time of his choosing.(Smriti Kak contributed to this story)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-s-delhi-visit-triggers-speculation-101632821577705.html
28-09-2021||India||UP orders probe into videos purportedly showing IAS officer preaching Islam||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe videos purportedly showing Indian Administrative Service officer Mohammad Iftekharuddin preaching Islam at his official residence when he was the commissioner of the Kanpur division (2014-2016). In a statement, the state home department said criminal investigation department director-general GL Meena will head the SIT while addition director general of police (Kanpur zone) Bhanu Bhaskar will be its member.Three short video clips of the Iftekharuddin, who is currently the Uttar Pradesh State Roadways Transport Corporation commissioner in Lucknow, went viral on Monday.Also Read: Minority institutes receiving govt aid have to comply with terms, says SC Commissioner Asim Arun said the Kanpur Police will also look into the matter. He added additional deputy police commissioner Somendra Meena will inquiry to check the authenticity of the videos that date back to the previous Samajwadi Party rule in Uttar Pradesh.Bhupesh Awasthi, who complained against the officer, accused Iftekharuddin of asking some people to convert. He added the officer could be involved in religious conversion. “No officer has the right under the service rules to do religious preaching. In this case, he was using the government accommodation.”Iftekharuddin did not take calls or respond to messages for comments.The clips surfaced days after the Uttar Pradesh Police’s Anti-Terrorism Squad arrested Muslim cleric Kaleem Siddiqui and his three aides in connection with a case related to conversions of unidentified people in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-orders-probe-into-videos-purportedly-showing-ias-officer-preaching-islam-101632820558147.html
28-09-2021||India||Indra Nooyi's memoir hits bookstores. Top quotes from her book||Indra Nooyi, the former chairperson and CEO of PepsiCo, is in the news again as her book—‘My Life in Full: Work, Family, and our Future’—published by Hachette India is out. In the memoir, she talks about how she navigated space dominated by men conventionally and her journey on climbing the corporate ladder becoming the global chief executive of PepsiCo in 2006 and only the 11th woman to lead a Fortune 500 company.Apart from that, she also shares her experience of settling in America negotiating the boardroom and balancing work and family life. She also describes events that shaped her life from childhood to her becoming PepsiCo CEO, a position from which she retired in 2018.1. “Leave that crown in the garage," Nooyi quotes her mother as saying in the book. When Nooyi got promoted as president of PepsiCo, her mother asked her to go out and get milk, an incident that hit headlines in 2017. However, when Nooyi rebelled, her mother said, ‘Leave that crown in the garage’.2. Nooyi goes on to talk about the importance of organisational support in working women’s lives. She mentions she was given three months of paid leave by BCG when her father was diagnosed with cancer. “I believe I would have curtailed my career, by quitting BCG to be with my dad and to help my family, had I not received this paid leave... we would have been in real financial trouble and unsettled,” she writes.3. “I was never sexually assaulted. I did witness and hear about plenty of male behaviour early in my days in the corporate world that offended my sense of decency and my values. I later made it a priority to shut down offensive behaviour as soon as I saw it or it became known,” Nooyi writes. Nooyi says after she became PepsiCo’s president, she instructed the compliance department to address harassment complaints made to their anonymous Speak Up Line immediately. “We were quick to fire confirmed harassers,” she writes.4. As she penned the book during the Covid-19 pandemic, she stresses the importance of job flexibility and remote work to help people take care of home life obligations. “I believe job flexibility and remote work for everyone who needs it should be entirely routine. This will give families the chance to take care of home life obligations during the workday without feeling loaded with emotional consequences,’’ she writes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indra-nooyi-s-memoir-hits-bookstores-top-quotes-from-her-book-101632815190352.html
28-09-2021||India||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij admitted to AIIMS after breathing difficulties||Haryana minister Anil Vij was admitted to the AIIMS here after he complained of breathing difficulties, sources said on Tuesday.Vij, who holds the home and health portfolios in the Haryana cabinet, was admitted to a private ward of the hospital under AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria for investigations on Monday night, they said.A team of doctors is monitoring his conditions."He has complaints of breathlessness, which could be part of post-Covid complications," a doctor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-home-minister-anil-vij-admitted-to-aiims-after-breathing-difficulties-101632818158654.html
28-09-2021||India||BJP delegation complains to EC about alleged violence in West Bengal||A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) delegation led by Union minister Bhupender Yadav met the Election Commission of India on Tuesday seeking action in the case of alleged violence by Trinamool Congress party workers targeting Dilip Ghosh, party’s national vice-president and former chief of BJP’s West Bengal unit.The delegation, which also included Union ministers Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and Anurag Thakur, also apprised the commission of other incidents of violence against BJP leaders in West Bengal ahead of the 30 September by-polls.“We met the commission and told them that polls and violence have become synonymous in West Bengal. It seems that Didi (Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee) and her party workers have more faith in violence than polls. Attack on Dilip Ghosh shows that TMC and the state government consider violence to be democracy. We demand action,” Yadav said.Also Read: Kolkata Police to probe alleged assault on BJP’s Dilip Ghosh, FIR lodgedThe BJP delegation also alleged that some government officials acted unlawfully by not taking action against the perpetrators. The party also dismissed the action taken by the state government as “eye wash”.“We’ve told EC that they should take strict action, also against the officers concerned. The state government, in its report submitted to EC earlier, had said that they’ve arrested 8 people but we think that it’s just an eyewash,” Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-complains-to-ec-about-violence-in-bengal-101632818997644.html
28-09-2021||India||PM Modi releases climate resilient crop varieties: How will they help India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday launched 35 crop varieties which are climate resilient. He said that climate change is a big challenge for agriculture and the entire ecosystem and stressed on the need to step up efforts to fight it.According to the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), the crops launched today have special traits and will lead to awareness about the adoption of climate resilient technologies.What are these crop varieties with special traits?The crop varieties have been developed by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) to address the twin challenges of climate change and malnutrition. They are climate resistant and have high nutrition content, the PMO said in a release.The 35 varieties include a drought tolerant variety of chickpea, wilt and sterility mosaic resistant pigeonpea, early maturing variety of soybean, disease resistant varieties of rice and biofortified varieties of wheat, pearl millet, maize and chickpea, quinoa, buckwheat, winged bean and faba bean.Climate change and its impact on agricultureA report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) last month said that climate change will have economy-wide repercussions in India if not mitigated, and could lead to shrinking of the agriculture cover in the country.The IPCC report also said that the impact of climate crisis, like changing monsoon patters, rising sea levels, deadlier heat waves, intense storms and flooding will pose an acute risk to the agriculture sector.According to ongoing studies by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), farming now consumes up to 30% more water due to “high evaporative demand and crop duration due to forced maturity” in states such as Andhra Pradesh, Punjab and Rajasthan.The need for climate resilient cropExperts have been warning about the adverse effects of climate change for years. And India turned it into an important area of concern for India to ensure food and nutritional security for growing population. Accordingly, National Innovations in Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA) was launched under ICAR on 2011.According to ICAR, the project aims to enhance resilience of crops to climate change through strategic research and technology demonstration. It also covers livestock, fisheries and natural resource management. The ICAR also said that climate change is predicted to reduce agricultural yields by 4.5 to 9 per cent.According to a June presentation by the Union finance ministry, Indian scientists are focussing on developing climate resilient crops, instead of just going for higher yield varieties. "Varieties tolerant to diseases, insects pests, drought, salinity, and flooding, early maturing and amenable to mechanical harvesting also developed," the ministry said in its presentation.The crops will also address the anti-nutritional factorsAccording to PMO, these special traits crop varieties also include those that address the anti-nutritional factors found in some crops that adversely affect human and animal health.According to national library of medicine, anti-nutritional factor can be defined as those substances generated in natural food substances by the normal metabolism of species and by different mechanisms which exert effects contrary to optimum nutrition.The PMO said that crop varieties like Pusa Double Zero Mustard 33, first Canola quality hybrid RCH 1 with <2% erucic acid and <30 ppm glucosinolates, and a soybean variety free from two anti-nutritional factors namely Kunitz trypsin inhibitor and lipoxygenase. Other varieties with special traits have been developed in soybean, sorghum, and baby corn, among others, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-releases-climate-resilient-crop-varieties-how-will-they-help-india-101632817619148.html
28-09-2021||India||Infiltrators' movement along LoC cannot happen sans Pak complicity: Major General||A major general of the India Army on Tuesday spoke about a nine-day counter-infiltration operation that was carried out along the Line of Control (LoC) in the Uri sector in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir since September 18. Major General Virendra Vats, GOC, 19 Infantry Division of Uri, said one terrorist was neutralised, while another was caught during the operation. The surrendered terrorist belonged to Okhara in Pakistan Punjab, the senior army officer said.He said it began on September 18 when the Indian Army’s patrol along the LoC detected infiltration movement, adding the group was supported from Pakistan by porters who came to the border with supplies. The major general said such activities cannot take place without “active complicity of the Pakistan Army”.“When the encounter took place, two infiltrators came across the border, while four were on the other side,” the major general said.“This infiltration attempt was made in the area of Salamabad nallah. It is the same area through which we have had a history of infiltration in 2016 -- that's when a suicide attack at Uri Garrison took place,” Major General Vats was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.It's also revealed that this infiltration group was supported from Pak side by 3 porters who had come till LoC along with supplies.Movement of such large group of people can't take place without active complicity of Pakistani Army deployed on the other side: Maj Gen Virendra Vats pic.twitter.com/UVG3BWqQwg“It is also revealed this infiltration group was supported from the Pakistani side by three porters who had come till the LoC along with supplies. Movement of such a large group of people cannot take place without active complicity of the Pakistani Army deployed on the other side,” he added.Also read | Militant killed, another captured as army foils infiltration bid in Uri“After the firefight, the four terrorists on the Pakistani side took advantage of dense foliage and went back. The two terrorists sneaked to the Indian side. Additional forces were mobilised to cordon two terrorists who infiltrated.“On September 25, an encounter ensued, during which one terrorist was neutralised, another was caught. The surrendered terrorist in custody identified himself as Ali Babar Patra, of Pakistan Punjab. He has admitted he is a member of LeT and was trained by them in Muzaffarabad,” the major general added.“7 AK series weapons, 9 pistols and revolvers and more than 80 grenades and Indian and Pakistani were currency recovered in Uri operation and the one that took place on 18 September in the surrounding areas,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/infiltrators-movement-along-loc-cannot-happen-sans-pak-complicity-army-major-101632816954998.html
28-09-2021||India||Shiv Sena MP Bhavana Gawali’s aide held in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED), late on Monday, arrested Saeed Khan, an aide to Bhavana Gawali, the Shiv Sena Member of Parliament (MP) from Maharashtra’s Yavatmal-Washim, in connection with a money laundering case linked to a trust associated with the lawmaker. Khan was expected to be produced in a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act court on Tuesday.The ED last month carried out searches at premises linked to Khan and Gawali. Khan is accused of converting the trust into a company and becoming its director for wrongful gains. The ED has filed a case over alleged financial irregularities related to the trust. It suspects Gawali’s involvement in money laundering and embezzlement of ₹17 crore as well as misuse of power in obtaining government grants and funds.ED officials said the alleged irregularities related to a loan of around ₹43 crore from the National Cooperative Development Corporation. The money was allegedly misused and not utilised for the purpose for which it was provided.Harish Sarda, a former vice-president of Shiv Sena’s Washim district unit, first raised allegations of misappropriation of funds and complained against Gawali. He also filed a petition in the Bombay high court alleging police inaction. In his complaint, Sarda accused Gawali of money laundering, embezzlement, and misuse of power in obtaining grants and funds for a factory. Gawali’s father Pudalikrao, who also represented the region in the Lok Sabha, was its chief promoter. The factory was set up in 1998 to collect crop residue and use it for making furniture, etc. The basic aim was to provide employment to local farmers.The factory never started functioning. In 1998, the estimated project cost was ₹43.85 crore, but it was allegedly undervalued to ₹7.9 crore before it was sold to Gawali-run Bhavna Agro Products. Sarda accused Gawali’s father of illegally transferring 14.90 hectares of factory land without obtaining necessary permission from competent authorities. Sarda maintained the land belonged to a cooperative society and could not have been transferred to any public trust without the government’s approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-mp-bhavana-gawali-s-aide-held-in-money-laundering-case-101632817078727.html
28-09-2021||India||PM Modi launches 35 crop varieties, highlights climate challenge||Stating that climate change is a big challenge for agriculture and the entire ecosystem, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday stressed the need to step up efforts to fight it as he launched 35 crop varieties that are climate-resilient and have high nutrition content.During a virtual ceremony, Modi also inaugurated the newly constructed campus of the National Institute of Biotic Stress Tolerance, Raipur, Chhattisgarh.He also distributed the 'Green Campus Award' to agricultural universities and interacted with farmers who use innovative methods, before addressing a gathering.Modi said, "Not only agriculture, but climate change is also a big challenge to the entire ecosystem. ...Due to climate change, new types of pests, new diseases, epidemics are coming. Due to this, there is a big threat to the health of humans, and livestock and crops are also being affected.”Climate change impact is on fish production and animal health and output. As a result, farmers and fishermen have to bear the losses, he said."Intensive research on these aspects is necessary continuously. When science, government, and society work together, the results will be better," he added.Modi interacted with farmers from different states, including two women farmers -- Zaitan Begum from Ganderabal district, Jammu and Kashmir, and Darshana Pedenkar from Bardez, Goa.He also interacted with Suresh Rana from Udham Singh Nagar, Uttarakhand, and Thoiba Singh from Thouba, Manipur.These farmers shared how they benefited from different government schemes like PM-KISAN. They also shared how they adopted new farm and processing techniques even in different terrains of Uttarakhand.Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel Union Minister for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Poultry Parshottam Rupala, Ministers of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhary and Shobha Karandlaje, and former-CM of Chhattisgarh Raman Singh were also present at the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-35-crop-varieties-highlights-climate-challenge-101632816825184.html
28-09-2021||India||Maharashtra minister Anil Parab appears before ED||Shiv Sena leader and Maharashtra minister Anil Parab on Tuesday appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Mumbai for questioning in connection with the bribery and money laundering case against former home minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Anil Deshmukh.“I will answer all their questions and fully cooperate with them. So far, it is not clear regarding which case I have been summoned... I have not done anything wrong...,” said Parab.In its charge-sheet against Deshmukh’s two arrested aides, the ED said dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, in his statement, claimed Parab allegedly received crores of rupees through Nagpur’s deputy regional transport officer Bajrang Kharmate as bribe for transfers of 10 police officers in Mumbai last year. The ED earlier questioned Kharmate for seven-and-a-half hours. Kharmate is believed to be a close aide to Parab. His name surfaced in the case following statements of some witnesses in the Prevention of Money Laundering Act case against Deshmukh.ED this month raided places linked to Kharmate in Pune and Nagpur and also recorded statements of witnesses.The money laundering case against Deshmukh was registered after the Central Bureau of Investigation filed a First Information Report against him on April 21. Deshmukh has denied allegations against him as false.Deshmukh is accused of misusing his position as Maharashtra home minister and allegedly collecting ₹4.7 crore from Mumbai’s bars for their “smooth functioning”. The money was later allegedly sent to two brothers in Delhi who operated bogus companies, said the agency. The agency claimed that the two later diverted the money as donations to Nagpur-based Shri Sai Shikshan Sansthan, an educational trust controlled by the Deshmukhs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-minister-anil-parab-appears-before-ed-101632815997003.html
28-09-2021||India||NIBRI reaches an all-time high of 105 in the week ending September 26||The Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) reached an all-time high of 105 in the week ending September 26.The NIBRI is a weekly indicator of economic activity which takes into account Google mobility indices, driving mobility from Apple, power demand and the labour force participation rate. A NIBRI value of 100 refers to pre-pandemic level (23 February 2020) of economic activity and subsequent data entries have been indexed to it. It has emerged as one of the most popular high frequency economic trackers in the post-Covid phase.After the imposition of the 68-day -long nation-wide lockdown beginning March 25, 2020, NIBRI fell sharply, reaching a minimum of 44 in the week ending April 26, 2020. There was a gradual recovery since then, and it come close to the level of 100 (99.3) in the week ending February 21, 2021, before the second wave created another round of disruption. NIBRI fell to 60.3 once again in the week ending May 23, 2021. It started recovering first gradually and then sharply and crossed the psychological threshold of 100 for the first time in the week ending August 15, 2021 and stayed above the 100-mark in the subsequent weeks.To be sure, the latest surge in NIBRI value might not represent a broad-based improvement in economic activity. “The rise was primarily due to a sharp 18 percentage point spike in the Apple driving index over the week, which reflects higher traffic localised in the cities of Hyderabad and Pune”, said a Nomura Global Markets Research note, while releasing the numbers. “Excluding the Apple driving index, we estimate the NIBRI rose by a more modest 2 percentage point (4.6 percentage point with the Apple index included)”, it added.“The upcoming festive season in Q4 2021 and the release of the arrears of ‘dearness allowance’ for public sector employees should support consumption, although supply-side bottlenecks may weigh on near-term manufacturing growth,” the note said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nibri-reaches-an-all-time-high-of-105-in-the-week-ending-september-26-101632814856928.html
28-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Punjab CM allocates portfolios, deputies get key ministries and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Punjab CM Channi allocates portfolios; 2 deputies get key ministriesPunjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday allocated portfolios to his ministers, days after inducting 15 ministers into his cabinet. Channi kept vigilance, justice, civil aviation departments, while deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa got home affairs, cooperation and jails. Another deputy chief minister OP Soni will look after health and family welfare, defence services welfare and freedom fighters. Read moreEC announces by-poll schedule for 3 Lok Sabha, 30 assembly seatsThe Election Commission of India (ECI) on Tuesday announced by-polls to three Lok Sabha and 30 assembly seats on October 30, saying the schedule was finalised after reviewing the situations related to the pandemic, floods, festivals, cold conditions in certain regions and feedback from local authorities. Read moreAhead of joining Congress, Kanhaiya Kumar’s posters pop up at party officePosters welcoming Communist Party of India (CPI) leader Kanhaiya Kumar into the Congress have come up outside the Congress party’s office ahead of his proposed joining on Tuesday. Kanhaiya Kumar and Gujarat legislator Jignesh Mevani are expected to join the party later in the day. News agency ANI reported citing people familiar with the developments that Kanhaiya Kumar and Mevani will join the Congress in the presence of party leader Rahul Gandhi at the party's headquarters in New Delhi on Tuesday evening. Congress general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal and Gujarat Congress working president Hardik Patel are also likely to be present when Kumar and Mevani join the Congress. Read moreHina Khan says she lost out on Kashmiri girl’s role, despite being Kashmiri, due to her ‘dusky’ skin: ‘Felt really bad’Hina Khan, who is from Kashmir, revealed that she was once passed on for the role of a Kashmiri girl due to her ‘dusky’ complexion. She said that she could have done complete justice to the character because she speaks the language fluently. Read more'I was batting slightly lower in first-half of the season': 'Dynamic' Moises Henriques raring to go for Punjab KingsMoises Henriques' wealth of knowledge knows no boundaries in the Indian Premier League. The all-rounder from Australia has turned up for six different IPL franchises – currently representing the Punjab Kings – and yet somehow featured in the XI just thrice this season in IPL 2021. The battle for the four overseas players has always been pretty tight in the IPL, more so for PBKS, who boast Chris Gayle, Nicholas Pooran, Aiden Markram and Adil Rashid to name a few. Read moreTata Altroz hits major production milestone, one lakh units rolled outTata Motors on Tuesday announced that its Altroz premium hatchback has reached a production milestone of one lakh units within 20 months of its launch. The carmaker rolled out the latest unit of Altroz today in red hue from its manufacturing plant in Pune. Read moreJacqueline Fernandez has a Marilyn Monroe moment in ₹45k sexy white off-shoulder gownBollywood star Jacqueline Fernandez just had a Marilyn Monroe moment in a floaty white gown and left us all swooning over her charm and style. The actor starred in a photoshoot recently for an advertisement and looked breathtaking wearing a bridal ensemble. Looking absolutely sensational, Jacqueline chose an off-shoulder silk-satin white gown for the photos. Read moreJames Bond | Tom Hardy, or a woman - who will be Agent 007 after Daniel Craig?Fans gear up to watch Daniel Craig's last film as James Bond, No Time To Die. As Daniel retires, speculation rife over who is going to be the next 007 agent. For many, actor Tom Hardy might take over as the next international spy. Others speculate that a woman could also play the role of spy Bond. Actors who have also been rumoured for the role include Idris Elba, Tom Hiddleston, Richard Madden. Directed by Cary Joji Fukunaga, No Time To Die will hit the big screens on September 30. No Time To Die also stars Lea Seydoux, Rami Malek, Ana de Armas, Ben Whishaw among others. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-punjab-cm-allocates-portfolios-deputies-get-key-ministries-and-all-the-latest-news-101632811729340.html
28-09-2021||India||Punjab CM Channi allocates portfolios; 2 deputies get key ministries||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday allocated portfolios to his ministers, days after inducting 15 ministers into his cabinet. Channi kept vigilance, justice, civil aviation departments, while deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa got home affairs, cooperation and jails. Another deputy chief minister OP Soni will look after health and family welfare, defence services welfare and freedom fighters.Here's the full list of ministers and their allocated portfolios: Portfolios allotted to Punjab ministers; CM Charanjit Channi keeps Vigilance, Justice, Civil Aviation departments; Dy CM Sukhjinder S Randhawa gets Home Affairs, Cooperation and Jails; Dy CM OP Soni to see Health and Family Welfare, Defence Services Welfare and Freedom Fighters pic.twitter.com/PjiKYRMKNGThe ministers took oath of office on Sunday, a week after Punjab witnessed a change of guard with Captain Amarinder Singh resigning from his post and Channi becoming the new chief minister of the state. Punjab governor Banwarilal Purohit administered the oath of office and secrecy to the ministers. Channi’s cabinet reshuffle came after several rounds of meetings between him and the Congress high command.Kapurthala MLA Gurjit Singh Rana made a comeback in the new ministry after resigning in 2018 from the Amarinder Singh ministry. Brahm Mohindra, Manpreet Singh Badal, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Aruna Chaudhary, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Razia Sultana, Vijay Inder Singla and Bharat Bhushan Ashu, who were ministers in the previous Amarinder Singh led cabinet, were retained as cabinet ministers. Few minister who were in the Amarinder Singh-led cabinet, did not find place in the new ministry. They are: Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Balbir Singh Sidhu, Gurpreet Singh Kangar and Sunder Sham Arora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-channi-allocates-portfolios-2-deputies-get-key-ministries-101632810957920.html
28-09-2021||India||Amazon replies to ‘East India Company 2.0' remark, uses ‘Make in India’ rebuttal||A day after the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS)-linked weekly termed Amazon Inc as “East India Company 2.0”, the e-commerce giant issued a statement on Monday highlighting how Indian small businesses have expanded in exports by selling crores of 'Made in India' products to customers across the world. The statement comes in response to an article "East India Company 2.0" in Panchajanya magazine, which accused the leading e-commerce company of conducting activities similar to ‘whatever the East India Company did in the 18th century’. Hitesh Shankar of the Panchajanya posted a cover of the weekly's latest edition on Twitter with a picture of Jeff Bezos, titled “East India Company 2.0”. After receiving criticism for the same, Shankar went on to defend the poster as “factual” in a video message."Whatever the East India Company did in the 18th century to capture India, the same is visible in the activities of Amazon," the article read. It also claimed that Amazon was creating a monopoly in the Indian market as "it has started taking initiatives for seizing the economic, political and personal freedom of the Indian citizens."The allegations come in support of many Indian retailers who have frequently accused e-commerce giants like Amazon, Flipkart and others of giving preferential treatment to large-scale sellers over small businesses, an accusation that Amazon has previously denied.Amazon responded to the cover story saying: “During the pandemic three lakh new sellers joined us... of which 75,000 were local neighbourhood shops (dukaans) from 450+ cities (selling) furniture, stationery, consumer electronics, beauty products, mobile phones, garments, medical products.” "Amazon's exports program is witnessing rapid momentum... today there are 70,000+ exporters from metros as well as Tier II, III and IV cities, selling crores of 'made in India' products to customers in 200 countries across the world - truly taking (it) global," it added.Notably, Amazon is locked in a legal tussle over the takeover of Future Group and is facing a probe by the Competition Commission of India (CCI). Congress has even demanded a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the alleged bribery case involving the e-commerce giant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amazon-replies-to-east-india-company-2-0-remark-uses-make-in-india-rebuttal-101632810837903.html
28-09-2021||India||Mamata's bypoll battle on as Calcutta HC refuses to stay Bhabanipur contest||The Calcutta High Court on Tuesday refused to stay the keenly watched by-election in Bhabanipur on September 30 from where Trinamool Congress supremo and chief minister Mamata Banerjee is seeking a seat in the Assembly.A bench, led by active chief justice Rajesh Bindal, dismissed a petition questioning the Election Commission's contention of a "constitutional exigency" for holding the bypolls to Bhabanipur assembly seat. However, the court slammed the chief secretary for writing to the poll body to expedite the election, a report in LiveLaw said.Also read | At Bhawanipore, campaign is multifaceted in Banerjee vs Tibrewal contestOn September 24, the court had reserved its judgement after hearing both sides on the matter. The petitioner had sought the court’s intervention as the EC had gone ahead to hold the election in the particular constituency "considering the constitutional exigency and special request from the State of West Bengal".The election was necessitated as Banerjee needed to win an Assembly seat to retain the chief minister’s seat as she had lost to her aide-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari from Nandigram in the May election even as her party romped back to power.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has fielded lawyer Priyanka Tibrewal against Banerjee from Bhabanipur. Several top leaders from the saffron camp has been campaigning for the election.Also read | Centre did not let me to go to Rome global peace meet out of ‘jealousy’: Mamata BanerjeeBanerjee had earlier represented the Bhabanipur seat in the Assembly in 2011 and 2016. In the Assembly election held earlier this year, TMC's Sovandeb Chattopadhyay won from the constituency only to make resign later to facilitate the party supremo's election to the legislature.Banerjee has also moved court and challenged her loss to Adhikari in Nandigram which had led to the need for her to contest a by-election.According to the Constitution, a person has to get elected to the legislature within six months of taking oath as a minister. Banerjee took oath as chief minister for the third consecutive term on May 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamatas-bypoll-battle-on-as-calcutta-hc-refuses-to-stay-bhabanipur-contest-101632809456916.html
28-09-2021||India||Rajasthan governor yet to clear bills brought to counter Central farm laws||Three bills passed in the Rajasthan assembly in November last year to counter the Central farm laws, which were enacted in 2020 and have triggered protracted farmer protests, remain pending with governor Kalraj Mishra for 10 months. An official familiar with the matter said Mishra has cited a lack of jurisdiction to amend the Central laws for keeping the proposed legislations on hold. The assembly passed the Essential Commodities (Special Provisions and Rajasthan Amendment) Bill, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Rajasthan Amendment) Bill and the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation and Rajasthan Amendment) Bill.The bills seek to “protect the interest of farmers, farm labourers, those engaged in ancillary and incidental activities relating to production, sale, and marketing of agricultural produce as also consumers and for adherence to the minimum support price mechanism”.Political commentator Avadhesh Akodia said Constitution’s Article 254(2) allows a state to make changes to Central legislation on a subject on the concurrent list only if it gets the Presidential assent.Ruling Congress spokesman and minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said the intention and policy of the state government are clear: “We are with the farmers.” He added they hope the governor will do justice.Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party leader Ram Lal Sharma said the three bills have no constitutional validity. “...the state has no right to bring amendments in Central laws.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-governor-yet-to-clear-bills-brought-to-counter-central-farm-laws-101632809936523.html
28-09-2021||India||EC announces by-polls in 15 states, UTs on October 30. Full schedule here||The Election Commission of India on Tuesday announced by-polls for parliamentary and assembly seats in several states and Union territories (UTs), including Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Haryana, Maharashtra and West Bengal. The decision to hold by-polls was taken after reviewing the pandemic situation and upon receiving feedback from concerned states and UTs, a press note by the election body read. The by-elections will be held on October 30 and the counting of votes will take place on November 2, the poll panel said.“The Commission has reviewed the situations related to pandemic, flood, festivals, cold conditions in certain regions, feedback from concerned States/UT and taken into consideration all facts and circumstances and it has decided to hold bye-elections to fill vacancies in three (3) Parliamentary Constituencies of UT of Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh and thirty (30) vacancies in Assembly Constituencies of various States,” EC said its notification.UT of Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu - Dadra & Nagar HaveliMadhya Pradesh - KhandwaHimachal Pradesh - MandiAndhra Pradesh - Badvel (SC)Assam - GossaigaonAssam - BhabanipurAssam - TamulpurAssam - MarianiAssam - ThowraBihar - Kusheshwar Asthan (SC)Bihar - TarapurHaryana - EllenabadHimachal Pradesh - FatehpurHimachal Pradesh - ArkiHimachal Pradesh - Jubbal- KotkhaiKarnataka - SindgiKarnataka - HangalMadhya Pradesh - PrithvipurMadhya Pradesh -Raigaon (SC)Madhya Pradesh -Jobat (ST)Maharashtra -Deglur (SC)Meghalaya - Mawryngkneng (ST)Meghalaya - Mawphlang (ST)Meghalaya - RajabalaMizoram - Tuirial (ST)Nagaland - Shamtorr-Chessore (ST)Rajasthan - VallabhnagarRajasthan - Dhariawad (ST)Telangana - HuzurabadWest Bengal - DinhataWest Bengal - SantipurWest Bengal -KhardahaWest Bengal - Gosaba(SC)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-announces-by-polls-in-15-states-uts-on-october-30-full-schedule-here-101632808437165.html
28-09-2021||India||Ahead of joining Congress, Kanhaiya Kumar’s posters pop up at party office||Posters welcoming Communist Party of India (CPI) leader Kanhaiya Kumar into the Congress have come up outside the Congress party’s office ahead of his proposed joining on Tuesday. Kanhaiya Kumar and Gujarat legislator Jignesh Mevani are expected to join the party later in the day. News agency ANI reported citing people familiar with the developments that Kanhaiya Kumar and Mevani will join the Congress in the presence of party leader Rahul Gandhi at the party's headquarters in New Delhi on Tuesday evening. Congress general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal and Gujarat Congress working president Hardik Patel are also likely to be present when Kumar and Mevani join the Congress.“Yes, Kanhaiya and I are joining the Congress party in Delhi on September 28,” Mevani said last week after several rounds of meeting with Rahul Gandhi.Also read | Unease in CPI amid reports of Kanhaiya joining CongressKanhaiya Kumar and Mevani, a Dalit leader, may go to Shaheedi Park at ITO in Delhi to garland the statue of Bhagat Singh, a day after the 114th birth anniversary of the freedom fighter, before joining the Congress. Rahul Gandhi is likely to be present with them at ITO along with a large number of Congress workers, the news agency reported.Delhi | Posters welcoming Kanhaiya Kumar into Congress put up outside the Congress office ahead of his proposed joining pic.twitter.com/NucdHRXCt5ANI also reported that Kumar is likely to get a role in the Bihar unit of the Congress party and Mevani in Gujarat, which is scheduled to hold the assembly elections at the end of next year. The agency also cited people in the know of the matter saying that Kumar and Mevani could be part of a campaign to connect with the youth against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government.Also read | Will Kanhaiya Kumar’s entry to Congress herald new start for party in Bihar?Kanhaiya Kumar and Mevani will join the party after several senior Congress leaders left in recent months. Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev has joined the Trinamool Congres, and Jitin Prasada is now in the BJP. And on Monday, veteran Goa Congress leader Luizinho Faleiro resigned from the party.Kanhaiya Kumar is a member of the CPI's national executive, a top decision-making body of the left party. Kumar joined the CPI ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha election and unsuccessfully contested against Giriraj Singh of the BJP from Begusarai in Bihar.A lawyer-activist and a former journalist, Mevani is an independent MLA from the Vadgam constituency in Gujarat and convener of the Rashtriya Dalit Adhikar Manch (RDAM). In the 2017 Gujarat assembly election, the Congress party did not field its candidate against Mevani in the Vadgam constituency. Mevani will join the Congress days after the Congress party named a Dalit the chief minister of Punjab in a bid to woo back Scheduled Caste, traditionally considered the vote bank of the Congress. Charanjit Singh Channi took over from Amarinder Singh.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-joining-congress-kanhaiya-kumar-s-posters-pop-up-at-party-office-101632808913545.html
28-09-2021||India||8-year-old girl hacked to death in Maharashtra, attacker held||A 42-year-old man was arrested on Tuesday, a day after he allegedly hacked an eight-year-old girl with a sickle and wounded a passer-by who tried to save her at Ranshet in Maharashtra’s Palgarh district, police said. Ratnakar Bhose, the alleged attacker, fled to a thick jungle after killing the girl and wounding Vilas Dolade. The police traced him in the jungle after scouring the forested area throughout the night.Dashrath Patil, a local police officer, said Bhose had an enmity with the girl’s parents. “We arrested Bhose under Indian Penal Code’s sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) and have seized the sickle...,” said Patil. He added they will produce Bhose in a Dahanu court on Tuesday.Patil said the girl’s post-mortem report was awaited. “We will take a statement from the injured person as soon as he is able to communicate with us... he is being treated for his grievous wounds,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/girl-hacked-to-death-in-maharashtra-attacker-held-101632808316679.html
28-09-2021||India||On way to ED office, Maha minister Anil Parab says not clear about case details||Maharashtra transport minister Anil Parab said he did not have a clear idea regarding which case he had been summoned as he made his way to the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) office on Tuesday.Stating that he had done no wrong, the Shiv Sena leader said he would fully cooperate with the federal agency.On Saturday, Parab was issued a second summons by the ED which asked him to remain present before the agency’s officials on September 28 for questioning in connection with former home minister Anil Deshmukh’s bribery-cum-money laundering case.Parab told reporters, “I am going to the ED office for the inquiry today. I will answer all their questions and fully cooperate with them. So far, it is not clear regarding which case I am summoned to. But I have already sworn on my daughter and Shiv Sena pramukh (late Balasaheb Thackeray) that I have not done anything wrong. Therefore I am going forward with the investigation."The cabinet minister was summoned for the first time by the anti-money laundering agency on August 31. At the time, the minister had said he could not be present for interrogation as he needed to attend some already scheduled public functions.The Hindustan Times had earlier reported the ED was trying to collect evidence against Parab and Deshmukh to prove allegations of bribery in transfer and postings of government officers.(With inputs from Mumbai bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-way-to-ed-office-maha-minister-anil-parab-says-not-clear-about-case-details-101632807559740.html
28-09-2021||India||There was no love between Jodha and Akbar, her life put at stake for power, says BJP MLA; apologises later||A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker is facing the heat over a controversial statement he made about Mughal emperor Akbar and his wife Jodha Bai. Rameshwar Sharma, the MLA form Huzur seat in Madhya Pradesh's Bhopal, said the there was no love between Akbar and Jodha Bai, and the marriage happened due to ambitions of some power hungry people, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported on Tuesday.Sharma made the remarks while addressing a gathering in Sagar on Hindutva."There was no 'I Love You' between Jodha Bai and Akbar. Was there anything? Did they study together in college? Did they meet somewhere? At coffee house? Or in a gym? When people get power hungry and put their daughters on the line... beware of such robbers," Sharma said in the video posted by Livehindustan.The video soon went viral after which reactions started coming from the Rajput community, which Jodha Bai belonged to. Sharma later apologised and said he made the comments with regards to the Mughals' "divide and rule" policy.In a statement posted on his Facebook page, Sharma said that his intention was not to hurt the sentiments of any community, and that he apologises to the entire Rajput community. The BJP leader said people should understand that Maharana Pratap (a Rajput) was a great leader, and not Akbar.He also said that Rajputs have always protected Hindus and the entire country is proud of their tales of bravery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-was-no-love-between-jodha-and-akbar-says-bjp-mla-apologises-later-101632807037992.html
28-09-2021||India||‘Matter of immense pride’: PM Modi on BJP's 1st Rajya Sabha MP from Puducherry||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said it is a matter of "immense pride" for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that it has got the first-ever Rajya Sabbha MP from Puducherry. The Prime Minister was celebrating the election of S Selvaganapathy."It is a matter of immense pride for every BJP Karyakarta that our Party has got it’s first ever Rajya Sabha MP from Puducherry in Shri S. Selvaganabathy Ji. The trust placed in us by the people of Puducherry is humbling. We will keep working for Puducherry’s progress," PM Modi said on Twitter.It is a matter of immense pride for every BJP Karyakarta that our Party has got it’s first ever Rajya Sabha MP from Puducherry in Shri S. Selvaganabathy Ji. The trust placed in us by the people of Puducherry is humbling. We will keep working for Puducherry’s progress.Selvaganapathy was on Monday declared elected to the lone seat in Rajya Sabha from Puducherry without any contest. The election to the Rajya Sabha seat from the union territory were scheduled for October 4, as incumbent member N Gokulakrishnan's term is ending on October 6.But, Selvaganapathy was declared winner as his nomination alone was found in order during scrutiny of papers while nominations of five other candidates (Independents) were rejected as they did not have the required number of proposers, said secretary to the territorial assembly R Mounisamy.This is the first time the BJP got representation from Puducherry in the Upper House.Selvaganapathy will be the 10th member from Puducherry to the Rajya Sabha since 1962. He is an educationist and proprietor of a higher secondary school and a teachers' college. Selvaganapathy was earlier a nominated MLA in the Puducherry assembly and currently working as the treasurer of the BJP's local unit.He filed the nomination with the support of the All India NR Congress (AINRC) heading the coalition government in Puducherry. Chief minister N Rangasamy was present when Selvaganapathy filed the nomination.The BJP is in power in alliance with the AINRC in the union territory.Apart from Puducherry, bypolls are also being held to Rajya Sabha seats including two in Tamil Nadu and one seat each in West Bengal, Maharashtra, Assam and Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/matter-of-immense-pride-pm-modi-on-bjp-s-1st-rajya-sabha-mp-from-puducherry-101632804163468.html
28-09-2021||India||Chances of formation of another cyclone over the Arabian Sea: IMD||A remnant of cyclone Gulab, which has now weakened into a depression over north Telangana and adjoining Vidarbha, moved west-north-westwards and was over Telangana and adjoining areas of Marathwada and Vidarbha on Tuesday morning. It is likely to move west-north-westwards and weaken into a well-marked low-pressure area later on Tuesday. The system is likely to emerge into the northeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Gujarat coast around September 30 evening and there is a likelihood for it to further intensify over the northeast Arabian Sea during the subsequent 24 hours. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said it has not ruled out chances of formation of another cyclone--Shaheen--over the Arabian Sea from the remnant.The cyclonic circulation over east-central and adjoining northeast Bay of Bengal off Myanmar coast now lies over the northeast and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal. Under its influence, a low-pressure area is likely to form over northwest Bay of Bengal off West Bengal and adjoining Bangladesh coasts during the next 12 hours. In association with these systems, winds are likely to strengthen along the west coast during the next two days. The monsoon trough is lying to the south of its normal position and is likely to remain so during the next four to five days. Heavy to very heavy rain is likely in Gujarat, Madhya Maharashtra, Konkan, Marathwada, Saurashtra, and Kutch, etc., for the next two to three days. Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely at isolated places in Saurashtra, Kutch and heavy rainfall is likely at isolated places in Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal, Odisha, and Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal during next two to three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chances-of-formation-of-another-cyclone-over-the-arabian-sea-imd-101632804415750.html
28-09-2021||India||MP is lawless, officials can take bribe: BSP legislator's 'lesson' in graft||A Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader in Madhya Pradesh, Ramabai, has been caught on camera handing out lessons on taking bribes to officials accused of extorting money from villagers. Ramabai made the remarks during a meeting with the residents of Satua village, who approached the MLA with complaints against two employment assistants, according to reports. The villagers alleged that both of them took taken thousands of rupees from them to allot houses under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, they added.The BSP MLA is heard in the video asking the assembled villagers about the amount of money they had to pay to the officials. In response, one of them said he gave ₹9,000, another said he was made to pay ₹5000 and the third told the politician that he gave a bribe of ₹6,000. The now-viral video shows Ramabai talking to the villagers in her assembly seat of Patharia and then telling the officials that asking ₹1000 is alright. “There is no problem. It’s like salt in flour. But it is not OK when you snatch the whole plate away from people. I am not saying don’t take bribes and I also know that a game of andher nagari chaupat raja is on in the state,” she said referring to the Hindi idiom.The Hindi idiom talks about a place where corruption and disorder is the rule of the land. The video was published by Live Hindustan, the sister publication of the Hindustan Times.म.प्र: दमोह जिले के पथरिया की महिला विधायक रामबाई का यह वीडियो इस समय वायरल हो रहा है। रामबाई वही हैं जिनके पति पर हत्या का आरोप है। समय-समय पर उनके अपने क्षेत्र के लोगों की समस्या के निराकरण के दौरान उऩके संवादों के वीडियो वायरल होते रहते हैं #ViralVideo pic.twitter.com/TAcb6x65FTRamabai also reprimanded both the officials and ordered them to return the money to the villagers. “It is enough that I am not punishing you. All I am saying is you have to return their money to them,” she said.In 2019, Ramabai was suspended by BSP chief Mayawati for supporting the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), which seeks to grant citizenship to non-Muslim refugees who came to India before December 31, 2014, to escape religious persecution in Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan. The MLA later said her statement on Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) was distorted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-is-lawless-officials-can-take-bribe-bsp-legislator-s-lesson-in-graft-101632803649655.html
28-09-2021||India||Petrol prices hiked for first time since July 17, diesel costlier by 95 paise||State run fuel retailers on Tuesday raised petrol rates by 20 paise a litre for the first time since July 17 as international oil prices soared to a three-year high, breaching the $80 a barrel mark following rising demand and supply concerns.Diesel price also jumped by 25 paise per litre on Tuesday, the fourth hike in five days, which made the fuel costlier by 95 paise a litre. The recent diesel price rally started from Friday (September 24) after it was last hiked on July 15 to reach ₹89.87/litre mark on Tuesday.Petrol is currently sold for ₹101.39 per litre in Delhi and diesel at ₹89.57. The previous price hike of petrol that took place 73 days ago had raised its rate to an all-time high of ₹101.84. While fuel rates of the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) in Delhi are the benchmark for the entire country, retail prices of the two fuels differ from place to place because of variations in state taxes and local levies.Public sector oil marketing companies (OMCs) are forced to raise petrol and diesel rates as international oil prices are surging and the rupee is depreciating against the dollar, making import costlier, two executives working in these firms said, requesting anonymity. India imports more than 80% crude oil it processes and pays in dollar.Before the recent rally, oil companies had reduced petrol and diesel rates in small doses by 65 paise per litre and ₹1.25 respectively between mid-August and early September to pass the benefit of softening of global oil price, which had plunged to $68.23 per barrel on August 18. Since then, benchmark Brent crude has surged by over 17%. HT on Tuesday reported that petrol price increase was imminent as OMCs were not expecting any respite from surging international prices. Companies do not expect any immediate relief to the consumer expecting the fuel prices to surge further.There are indications that imported energy would be costlier, the executives mentioned above, said. “As per both IEA [International Energy Agency] and OPEC [Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries], global demand is expected to outpace supply due to which international oil prices will likely remain firm in the near to mid-term. A simultaneous rally in natural gas is also likely to drive demand for alternate fuels, including crude oil,” the first executive said.Global demand for crude oil has been increasing consistently with the easing of pandemic restrictions and improving vaccination rates, the executives said. “Crude Oil prices have reached to near three-year high as global output disruptions have forced energy companies to draw more crude oil out of their stockpiles. Accordingly, US crude oil inventory levels are also nearing a three-year low,” the first executive added.“On the supply side, OPEC+ [including Russia] alliance has been slow in easing output restrictions, contributing to the tightened supply in the market. Additionally, hurricanes Ida and Nicholas have impacted crude oil production in the US Gulf of Mexico region, when they hit in late August and September respectively,” he said.“Companies were holding prices, and expecting some tax relief from the government in terms of GST [Goods and Services Tax], but the proposal to include petroleum products in GST was declined in the GST Council meeting on September 17, forcing companies to think about raising fuel rates,” the second executive said. International oil rates, which are often volatile, directly influence pump prices of petrol and diesel in India. Heavy loads of Central and state taxes are also responsible for astronomically high rates of the auto fuels.Through 2020, as global crude prices plunged (below $20 a barrel in April last year), the Central government raised excise duty on fuel to shore up its finances. States too followed suit as their revenues were hit on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. As a result, the Central and state levies on petrol and diesel are over 50% of their retail prices currently. According to official data, the petroleum sector contributed ₹371,726 crore Central excise revenue in 2020-21, and ₹202,937 crore state levies or value-added tax (VAT). In Delhi, Central levies account for over 32.5% of petrol’s price, and state taxes (VAT) 23.07%. On diesel, the Central excise is over 35.8% while VAT is more than 14.6%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-prices-hiked-for-the-first-time-since-july-17-diesel-costlier-by-95-paise-a-litre-101632803575924.html
28-09-2021||India||India's Covid-19 tally falls below 20,000 mark in more than six months||A significant fall in coronavirus cases was registered on Tuesday with the country seeing one of the lowest fresh case tallies in months since the second wave of the pandemic hit the country earlier this year.According to latest figures available with the Union ministry of health and family welfare, as many as 18,795 new cases were recorded across India in the last 24 hours taking the active caseload to 2,92,206, comprising 0.87 per cent of the total infections at 3,36,97,581.The tally has dropped by 27.8 per cent since Monday's figures when 26,041 new cases were registered. Also read | Covid-19: These five states are reporting more than 1,000 cases dailyThis is the first time in 201 days that India recorded less than 20,000 cases while the active caseload is at a low of 192 days.The current weekly positivity rate stood at 97.81 per cent with the figure remaining less than three per cent for 95 days. The daily positivity rate has also remained below the three per cent-mark for 29 days and it stood at 1.42 per cent at present.As many as 26,030 people were cured from the disease during the day, while 179 patients lost their lives to the virus battle. This took the total recoveries to 3,29,58,002 at -- per cent and fatalities to 4,47,373 at -- per cent.Also read | Govt expert group may recommend inclusion of ZyCoV-D in India vaccination driveThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said 13,21,780 samples were tested for coronavirus during the day taking the total number of tests to 56,57,30,031.Meanwhile, the country reached another milestone of administering 1 crore vaccines against the virus in a day for the fifth time since the drive was launched in January this year. So far, 87.07 crore inoculations have been done across India.Also read | Pfizer begins testing of Covid pill as preventive medicine to ward off virusThe Central government said more than 84.70 crore vaccine doses were provided to states and Union territories so far with another 42.83 lakh doses (42,83,200) being in the pipeline. Over 4.75 crore balance and unutilised vaccine doses were still available with the states and Union territories, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-tally-falls-below-20-000-mark-in-more-than-6-months-101632802734571.html
28-09-2021||India||Delhi weather today: Largely overcast, chances of thunder or lightning||The weather in Delhi is expected to be generally overcast on Tuesday with the possibility of thunder or lightning, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The minimum temperature on Tuesday is likely to be 26 degrees Celsius and the maximum 35 degrees Celsius.The minimum temperature on Monday was around 26.3 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal. The maximum temperature hovered around 34.3 degrees Celsius, which is normal for this time of the year.Delhi’s air quality was in the “moderate” category on Tuesday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 130. On Monday, the average 24-hour AQI was 108 in the moderate category.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/possibility-of-thunder-or-lightning-in-delhi-101632802615552.html
28-09-2021||India||Telangana rain: Depression to weaken into low-pressure area, says IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday that the resultant depression from the Cyclone Gulab currently lay centered over Telangana and its adjoining regions, but is expected to weaken into a well-marked low-pressure area over the next six hours. The IMD has also issued flash flood alerts in Telangana as it said that the downpour will continue at least for the next 48 hours due to the remnants of Cyclone Gulab. Heavy to very heavy rainfall has also been predicted over Gujarat, the Konkan coast, Marathwada, and Maharashtra over the next two to three days, according to the notifications issued by the IMD.Also Read | Cyclone Gulab: Parts of AP, Telangana may continue to witness heavy rainAccording to alerts issued by the Met department, the cyclonic depression progressed overnight from the adjoining south Chhattisgarh region to enter the skies of northern Telangana and adjoining Vidarbha. On Tuesday morning, it covered the entire region of Telangana, Vidarbha, and the adjoining Marathwada as well, the added.In a notification issued at 5:30am, the met department noted, “Depression lay centered at 0530 hrs IST of 28th September 2021 over Telangana and adjoining areas of Marathwada and Vidarbha. To weaken into a well-marked low-pressure area during the next six hours.”Depression lay centered at 0530 hrs IST of 28th September 2021 over Telangana and adjoining areas of Marathwada & Vidarbha. To weaken into a Well Marked Low Pressure Area during next 06 hours. pic.twitter.com/wK9fHxdBI9The IMD is tracking the depression – a remnant of the cyclonic storm ‘Gulab’ – over the course of its trajectory in the coastal regions of India. It is likely to move further west-northwestwards and emerge into the northeast Arabian Sea and the adjoining Gujarat coast on Thursday evening. Although the system is not likely to further intensify over the northeast Arabian Sea during the next 24 hours, the Met department said that there is a possibility of another cyclone, named Shaheen, forming over the Arabian Sea forming from the remnants of Gulab.Meanwhile, Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao declared a state-wide holiday on Tuesday for all government offices and educational institutions due to the heavy rains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-rain-depression-to-weaken-into-low-pressure-area-says-imd-101632799989079.html
28-09-2021||India||HC rejects bail plea of former DRC honorary consul booked for misusing his position||The Bombay high court has rejected businessman Ammeet Agarwal’s anticipatory bail in a case related to alleged misuse of his position as Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC)’s honorary consul in Mumbai even as the African country and the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) withdrew his credentials four years ago. Agarwal moved the court after the Mumbai Police booked him this year.Police inspector Ravindra Katkar said a representative of DRC in India on May 21 complained against Agarwal saying the latter continued misusing the post for years after MEA approved the request to cancel his appointment in October 2017. Agarwal was accordingly requested to stop the misuse.“...Agarwal kept on misusing the post and allegedly enjoyed many privileges and took direct and indirect benefits by attending government and social functions and contacted organisations under the state and Central governments. (He has claimed) authorisation given to him (by Congo and MEA) is still valid,” said V Dhurat, an assistant police inspector.Public prosecutor Sagar Agarkar said they opposed his bail plea and presented in the court government documents, emails, and other accounts explaining how he misused the post. “The judge was convinced...and felt that a thorough investigation is needed and rejected Agarwal’s anticipatory bail application.”Agarwal, who has been charged with cheating by impersonation, was unavailable for his comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hcrejects-bail-plea-of-former-drc-honorary-consul-booked-for-misusing-his-position-101632802195458.html
28-09-2021||India||Meghalaya Police plan action over letter related to ex-rebel’s killing||The Meghalaya Police plan legal action over a letter written purportedly by three ex-policemen using pseudonyms to the brother of former rebel leader Cherish Starfield Thangkhiew, who was killed on August 13, for making “fabricated, scurrilous, and totally unverified allegations”, people aware of the matter said. The letter condemned the police action and alleged that the two Indian Police Service officers “went to kill” Thangkhiew without any evidence on the orders of police chief R Chandranathan and inspector general (law and order) Mukesh Kumar Singh.“...it (the letter) is full of untruths and mischievous loopholes,” a person aware of the matter said on condition of anonymity.The letter claimed there were pending cases against Chandranathan related to his tenure in Assam and blamed Singh for the alleged murder of the criminal.Chandranathan said: “All I can say is one must first verify the facts before publishing anything...” He said he was awaiting a report on the letter.In a press release on Monday, the police accused media houses that reported about the letter of “irresponsible reporting of unverified information”. The police maintained Thangkhiew had a role in a blast in July and was planning another one in Shillong in August.Thangkhiew’s death sparked protests in Shillong with many accusing police of staging the shootout in which the former rebel leader was killed.Police claimed when a police team went to Thangkhiew’s house on August 13 to interrogate him, he “attempted to assault and cause fatal injury to a member of the police team”. They insisted he died when the police team fired in self-defence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-police-plan-action-over-letter-related-to-ex-rebel-s-killing-101632801355286.html
28-09-2021||India||Assam scientist bags Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar award for pioneering work||After a gap of twenty years, a scientist from Assam has bagged the prestigious Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Award for his pioneering research on coal and energy. Dr Binoy Kumar Saikia is among the 11 scientists under 45 years of age who bagged the award given for seven categories by Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) this year. He is the lone recipient in the Earth, Atmosphere, Ocean and Planetary Sciences category. “Dr. Saikia has made outstanding contributions on the formation of fluorescent carbon quantum dots (CQDs) from Indian coal. His indigenous patented CQD technology for diverse applications falls under ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India programme), leading to import substitution,” the CSIR citation for Saikia read. Discovered accidentally in 2004, CQDs are small carbon nano-particles with size less than 10 nm (nano metre). Number of studies have been done worldwide in using fluorescent properties of CQDs, which have high stability, good conductivity, low toxicity and are environmental friendly, for various applications including medicine and environmental science. “I am elated to have been selected for this honour. The award recognises the last five years of work I have done in this field,” said Saikia, a senior scientist at Jorhat-based CSIR-North East Institute of Science and Technology (CSIR-NEIST). Based in Jorhat since the past 11 years, the 44-year-old, who hails from Golaghat in Assam, has been involved in various projects related to coal and petroleum found in the state and the rest of northeast. With 65 published works and several awards including RP Bhatnagar Award in 2015-16 and Rajiv Gandhi Excellence Award in 2012, Saikia plans to continue his research in the field and help bring down import of CQDs. “The fluorescent CQDs of Indian coal developed by us is much cheaper than imported ones and will help reduce dependency on other countries. It can have multiples uses including in medical science,” said Saikia. Saikia is the 5th person from Assam to bag the award after Mihir Kanti Chaudhuri (1989), Jitendra Nath Goswami (1994), Bhupendra Nath Goswami (1995) and Prashant Goswami (2001).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-scientist-bags-shanti-swarup-bhatnagar-award-for-work-on-carbon-quantum-dots-101632799375091.html
28-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: SC to hear final arguments in Bengal post-poll violence plea and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Bengal post-poll violence: Supreme Court to hear today Mamata govt's final arguments against CBI probeThe top court last week decided to go ahead and hear the final arguments on September 28 since the respondent parties were already present in the hearing on caveat. The matter is likely to be taken up as the first case of the day, as consented to by all the parties present. Read MoreTaliban kill child after father suspected of being resistance force memberThe Taliban have executed a child in Takhar province of Afghanistan over suspicion that his father was a part of the Afghan resistance forces, reported Panjshir Observer, an independent media outlet that covers Panjshir and the situation in the country. "Child executed in Takhar province by Taliban fighters after his father is suspected of being in the Resistance. #WarCrimes #Afghanistan," Panjshir Observer said in a tweet. Read MoreCovid origin: WHO sets up crack team for a fresh probeThe World Health Organization (WHO) is looking to revive an investigation into the origin of Covid-19, a US media report said. The world health body is assembling a team of 20 scientists to hunt for new evidence, The Wall Street Journal (WSJ) reported. According to the WSJ report, the new probe comes following an initial WHO inquiry found that the data provided by Chinese scientists was insufficient to answer key questions about the origin of the coronavirus. Read MoreCovid-19: These five states are reporting more than 1,000 cases dailyA steady decline in the coronavirus spread has been recorded in most parts of the country even as some states continue to report more than a thousand daily new cases. According to virus-related data available with the Union ministry of health and family welfare, Kerala has remained the top contributor for weeks now, followed by Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Mizoram. Read MoreFord to invest billions, build four factories, to strengthen EV productionFord Motor Company has announced it will invest $11.4 billion to strengthen its electric vehicle production scale and capacity. Ford stated that it will build four new plants across the US and that these will create around 11,000 new jobs. This, of course, is in clear contrast to its strategy in India where it has opted to shut down local production and only offer high-end vehicles via import route. Read More'He'd be the first name on Shastri, Kohli, Dhoni's minds': Nehra vouches for CSK star's inclusion in India's T20 WC XIIndia selected a strong 15-member squad for the ICC T20 World Cup starting October 17 in Oman and the UAE. Semi-finalists in the last T20 WC in 2016, India have gone ahead with a heavy spin contingent in R Ashwin, Rahul Chahar and Varun Chakravarthy. A strong unit such as this promises to produce a problem of plenty for India as deciding the XI could become tricky for coach Ravi Shastri, captain Virat Kohli and mentor MS Dhoni. Read MoreBest smart TVs under ₹20000 in India for Sept 2021; check out Mi, Samsung, OnidaBuying a smart TV allows users to access a lot of content hosted on the internet that isn’t available on regular TVs without connecting to external streaming devices. However, you don’t necessarily have to spend an exorbitant amount of money when buying a smart TV, as there are plenty of options available at every price range. Read MoreWhen Ranbir Kapoor forced Rishi Kapoor into airplane, flew with him to New York after cancer diagnosisTuesday marks the 39th birthday of actor Ranbir Kapoor. He is the son of late actor Rishi Kapoor and actor Neetu Kapoor but has made his own name in Bollywood. Since he made his debut with Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s Saawariya in 2007, Ranbir has starred in films such as Barfi, Sanju, Rockstar and many others. Not just his work, his personal life has also made headlines, from the women he has dated to even the equation he shared with his father. Read MoreMadhuri Dixit in sheer black Manish Malhotra saree and sleeveless blouse is too glam to give a damnSarees will always carry that eternal grace that no other outfit can beat. Bollywood actor Madhuri Dixit understands this. The actor creates a fashion moment that is better than the last every time she steps out wearing this style statement. The star, who is a judge on the reality TV show Dance Deewane 3, recently shared pictures from the set dressed in a sheer black sequinned saree, leaving us all smitten. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sc-to-hear-final-arguments-in-bengal-post-poll-violence-plea-and-all-the-latest-news-101632797232900.html
28-09-2021||India||Khori Gaon rehab scheme: SC cautions over pseudo allottees||The Supreme Court on Monday told the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) to ensure that only Khori Gaon residents, evicted from Aravalli forest, are rehabilitated under a Haryana government scheme and imposters are not allowed to buy out the accommodation from genuine allotteesA bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari said, “We know that in rehabilitation schemes, in general, the genuine people encash the benefit provided to them and go and encroach somewhere else while pseudo persons come forward to take the benefit.”The court observed while recounting a similar matter dealt with by the Madhya Pradesh high court. “Public property and assets get compromised and the public exchequer affected in the process.”The court made the observations after the municipality submitted details of the alternative housing scheme Haryana government has prepared for residents of the demolished Khori Gaon homes in Lakkarpur village. Of the 2,416 applications received till September 19, only 899 were found eligible as the remaining either had no document to prove they were from Khori Gaon or were persons residing outside Faridabad.Senior advocate Arun Bhardwaj, representing the MCF, said, “After we notified the scheme last month, there has been a rush of people applying for documents that will make them eligible for housing under the rehabilitation scheme.”The state government scheme proposes to house the residents of Khori Gaon at the economically weaker section (EWS) flats at Bapu Nagar and Dabua Colony in Faridabad. To be eligible, residents need to show either a Pariwar Pehchan Patra (PPP) of an adult member of the house, an election ID card of Badkhal constituency, or an electricity connection bill of their premises at Khori Gaon.Bhardwaj said, “Only 899 persons out of 2,416 applications have been found to be eligible. The remaining failed to supply even one of the documents listed above. Some persons from adjoining Delhi have also been found to have applied under our scheme.”The bench asked MCF to consider if additional documents, such as Aadhaar Card, could be considered for deciding the eligibility and file an affidavit by Monday on whether an amount of ₹17,000, to be paid upfront by eligible persons, could be reduced.Senior advocate Sanjay Parikh, who was appearing for some of the evicted residents, had cited the example of Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojna (PMAY) where Aadhaar is an acceptable document of proof for establishing eligibility.Parikh said that nearly half of the residents in Khori Gaon had one of the documents but many lost it at the time of demolition and others have applied for the same. He stated that evacuees can’t deposit ₹17,000, the first instalment of the ₹3.77 lakh, which is payable for the EWS accommodation over a period of 15 years. Parikh enquired if ₹10,000 could be paid initially, with the remaining amount payable in the next 20 years. The court sought the views of the MCF on this suggestion.Unlike PMAY, which provides housing for the homeless, this was a rehabilitation scheme for persons dispossessed of their houses, the bench said. The bench had an interaction with MCF commissioner Yashpal Yadav during the proceedings to know if Khori Gaon properties are numbered.“We carried out a drone survey but have not conducted a physical survey of the area,” the commissioner said, adding, “The structure numbers are given.”Bhardwaj later clarified that structure numbers were privately assigned by residents and not the corporation.If the Aadhaar card is to be relied upon as a document of proof to establish residence in Khori Gaon, the bench said then it should mention the exact premises along with an undertaking that there won’t be multiple applicants for one premise.The bench also reminded the MCF that on October 4, the next date of hearing, it required the chart showing area wise action taken report against unauthorised properties in the forest area. On February 19, 2021, the court directed Aravalli forest land to be cleared of encroachments following which action was taken against 6,600 Khori Gaon structures, clearing 150 acres of Aravalli forest. Besides, 140 properties, including farmhouses, were issued show cause notices but only 10 were demolished. The court on September 20 directed the MCF to provide details of action taken against properties situated in the forest and reasons for not acting against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/khori-gaon-rehab-scheme-sc-cautions-over-pseudo-allottees-101632798414877.html
28-09-2021||India||Covid-19: These five states are reporting more than 1,000 cases daily||A steady decline in the cases of the coronavirus disease has been recorded in most parts of the country even as some states continue to report more than a thousand daily new infections.At present, Kerala accounts for about 55 per cent of all active cases in the nation having recorded more than 15,000 Covid-19 cases daily. Maharashtra has the highest number of active cases at around 37,000. Tamil Nadu is also witnessing a rise in daily coronavirus cases and the number of active cases in the state currently stands at 17,261. In Andhra, the number of active cases is 12,482, while the hill state of Mizoram that has been reporting a spike in daily infections recently has an active caseload of 8,880. Mizoram has been figuring among the top five contributors for over a week now reporting over 1,500 cases on an average every day.Nationally, the pandemic figures are not particularly grim with over 20 states and union territories recording less than 100 new Covid-19 cases a day. For the first time in six months, the total number of Covid-19 active cases in India is below the three lakh-mark.The current active case count in India stands at 299,620. At its peak during the second wave in May, this figure had risen to a high of 3.745 million. This was the fourth consecutive week when the country saw a fall in fresh infections after the cases rose for a week due to a massive surge in Kerala.Since the middle of May, the number of Covid-19 cases has been falling steadily with active cases now comprising 0.89 per cent of total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate stood at 97.78 per cent, the ministry's data stated. Latest figures revealed there was a decrease of 3,856 active cases in the last 24 hours.At present, at least 25,000 new cases are being recorded every day across the country. On Sunday, India registered 26,041 new coronavirus cases of which Kerala contributed 15,951 cases, while Maharashtra reported another 3,200 new infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-these-five-states-are-reporting-more-than-1-000-cases-daily-101632793234471.html
28-09-2021||India||AAP, Congress pay tribute to Bhagat Singh on his 114 birth anniversary||Legendary freedom fighter Bhagat Singh’s 114th birth anniversary was celebrated by the Aam Aadmi Party on Monday and the Congress party will hold programmes on Tuesday to pay tribute to Singh.“On the occasion of the birth anniversary of great freedom fighter Shaheed Bhagat Singh Ji, a program will be organized at the National Students Union of Indian (NSUI) headquarters to pay tribute to his sacrifices for the country’s freedom. The Congress programme is called “Ek sham Shaheed Bhagat Singh ji ke naam,” which means it will be an evening dedicated to martyr Bhagat Singh .Delhi chief minister and the national convenor of AAP, Arvind Kejriwal on Monday paid floral tributes to Bhagat Singh at the Delhi Assembly, an official statement said.Kejriwal said the Delhi government will continue to uphold Bhagat Singh’s values.The chief minister also paid floral tributes to freedom fighters Sukhdev and Rajguru at the Delhi Assembly.“Bhagat Singh ji committed the supreme sacrifice of his life to bring freedom to this country. The Delhi government will always follow the path he left for us to follow. We are making sure we follow his values in our governance and administration,” he said in the statement.The Delhi Assembly also paid tribute to Vithalbhai Jhaverbhai Patel, the first elected Indian speaker of the Central Legislative Assembly.Along with the chief minister, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, assembly speaker Ram Niwas Goel and deputy speaker Kumari Rakhi Birla were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-congress-pay-tribute-to-bhagat-singh-on-his-114-birth-anniversary-101632795894319.html
28-09-2021||India||Maharashtra records lowest daily new Covid-19 cases since February 8||Maharashtra on Monday recorded 2,432 new Covid-19 cases, the lowest number of daily infections since February 8, when 2,216 Covid infections were recorded, at the start of the second wave 231 days ago. In a sign of decline, the number of active Covid-19 infections have also witnessed a major dip, data showsOn Monday, Maharashtra had 37,043 active Covid cases. This is 27.47% less than 51,078 active cases recorded on September 1. State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate attributed the dip to the decreasing number of daily new cases.“The active cases are directly connected to the number of daily infections and since they are declining, it translates into a drop in the active cases. The decline in active cases indicates we have been effective in containing the Covid-19 virus,” said Dr Awate.Currently, there are 37,043 active cases in the state and Pune has most of these with 9,243 cases followed by Thane and Ahmednagar with 5,888 and 5,506 cases respectively. The peak of the virus during the second wave saw active cases climb to more than 0.6 million.Dr Ishwar Gilada, secretary-general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild, said Pune continues to be worst affected due to a variety of reasons. “People from across India come to Pune for work and many don’t follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Another factor is that since Pune has good hospitals, we see people from rural areas coming there for treatment,” said Dr Gilada. He said Ahmednagar has been seeing a surge in cases due to the large number of religious, political and grand wedding events being held.Maharashtra on Monday recorded 32 Covid-19 related deaths. Mumbai recorded 376 new infections with seven deaths, taking the toll to 16,091. The total number of Covid-19 patients registered in Maharashtra so far has now reached 6,541,762.A total of 128,036 Covid tests were done on Monday.The Covid death toll in the state has now reached 138,902 with Pune recording 19,418 deaths followed by 16,091 in Mumbai and 11,367 in Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-recorded-lowest-daily-covid-infection-since-feb-8-101632794274092.html
28-09-2021||India||WHO's nod for Covaxin delayed again over technical queries: Reports||The World Health Organization (WHO) has once again delayed the emergency use authorisation (EUA) for Covaxin, the Covid-19 vaccine developed in India, and sent for more technical queries to its Hyderabad-based manufacturer Bharat Biotech, according to reports. This comes even after Bharat Biotech has said it has submitted all data required for clearance of Covaxin. News18 news television channel cited a person familiar with the matter as saying that this is a routine process and there is no concern in the matter. “It’s the usual process. Experts raise queries, which need to be answered by the company,” the person cited above said.“No, it should not be delayed… Maybe a few weeks,” the WHO official told News18 when asked if the fresh set of queries will delay the approval further.Without the WHO nod, Covaxin will not be considered an accepted vaccine by most countries across the world and the delay is likely to affect students, medical tourists, business travellers and those who want to travel abroad.Also read | Bharat Biotech completes phase 2/3 trials of Covaxin in childrenLast Friday, the Union ministry of health and family welfare hinted that the global health body was likely to give its nod anytime soon. "There is a procedure of submitting the documents for approval. WHO's emergency use authorisation to Covaxin is expected soon," Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar, Union minister of state in the health ministry, said, according to news agency ANI.Before that, Dr VK Paul, chairperson of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration, also said that WHO's approval for Covaxin was likely to come before the end of this month.Also read | Court seeks Centre’s stand on cancer patient’s plea to take Covaxin as 2nd doseBharat Biotech said it has submitted all the necessary documents required for approval on July 9. “ The review process has now commenced with the expectation that we will receive EUL from WHO at the earliest,” Dr Krishna Ella, chairman and managing director of Bharat Biotech, said in a statement.Covaxin and Serum Institute of India’s Covishield were the Covid-19 vaccines first used by the central government in its massive nationwide inoculation drive launched in January this year. Russia-made Sputnik was later added to the country's vaccination drive. Covishield is the only India-made vaccine on the WHO list now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/whos-nod-for-covaxin-delayed-again-over-technical-queries-reports-101632789558234.html
28-09-2021||India||Bengal post-poll violence: Supreme Court to hear today Mamata govt's final arguments against CBI probe||The Supreme Court is expected to hear on Tuesday the final arguments of the West Bengal government against the move by the Calcutta high court to hand over the post-poll violence cases to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The top court last week decided to go ahead and hear the final arguments on September 28 since the respondent parties were already present in the hearing on caveat. The matter is likely to be taken up as the first case of the day, as consented to by all the parties present.The Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress government in West Bengal argues that a “fair probe” in the post-poll violence case is unlikely since the CBI is allegedly acting at the behest of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, representing the Bengal government, also told the Supreme Court that the victim in one of the murder cases registered by the CBI was still alive.Also Read | On BJP's post-poll violence claim, Mamata cites NRC deaths in AssamA bench of justice Vineet Saran and justice Aniruddha Bose hearing the petition sought to clarify whether the CBI was conducting an investigation or an inquiry, to which Sibal replied that the central sleuths were only handling the alleged murder and rape cases, while the rest of the cases were with a special investigation team (SIT), monitored by a retired judge.When asked how long he would take to complete his submissions regarding the petition, Sibal said that it would take him “two to three hours”. The bench observed that it would be better to hear the case continuously on September 28 without any interruptions as the first case of the day; by this time all the documents – including all pre-hearing formalities – can be filed.Also Read | 58% of accused named in post-poll violence cases held, Bengal tells SCIn August this year, the Calcutta high court ordered a court-monitored CBI probe into the incidents of post-poll violence in West Bengal. It also directed to set up the SIT for investigation of relatively less serious crimes. The CBI, which is probing the more serious crimes, like murder and rape, during post-poll violence, has already registered at least 40 first information reports (FIRs).Several incidents of violence were reported at various places after the announcement of the West Bengal assembly poll results on May 2, after which a four-member team deputed by the Union ministry of home affairs also visited the violence-affected areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-post-poll-violence-supreme-court-to-hear-today-mamata-govt-s-final-arguments-against-cbi-probe-101632785931675.html
28-09-2021||NA||BREAKING: Sidhu's resignation not accepted, says Congress MLA Bawa Henry||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Several Rajasthan govt officers, teachers, police personnel suspended over REET cheating scandalThe Rajasthan government has suspended one RAS and two RPS officers, along with 13 government teachers and three police personnel, on suspicion of their role in the REET 2021 cheating scandal, ANI reported quoting the state education department.Sidhu's resignation not accepted: Cong MLA Bawa HenryCongress MLA Bawa Henry told news agency ANI on Tuesday that Navjot Singh Sidhu's resignation as the party's Punjab president has not been accepted, and the matter will be resolved soon. “There are 3-4 issues, they are being discussed in the party forum, high command will resolve them,” he added.60 students of Bengaluru boarding school tested Covid positiveAs many as 60 students from a boarding school in Karnataka's capital Bengaluru tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, ANI reported by quoting J Manjunath, DC Bengaluru Urban District.Deputy commandant of Jaguar unit of Jharkhand Police passes awayThe deputy commandant of Jaguar unit of Jharkhand Police, Rajesh Kumar, who sustained injuries during an encounter in Latehar, succumbed to his injuries, ANI reported quoting the state police on Tuesday.Ban on bursting, sale of firecrackers in Delhi till Jan 1, 2022The Delhi Pollution Control Committee on Tuesday imposed a complete ban on bursting and sale of all kinds of firecrackers till January 1, 2022, ANI reported.Tamil Nadu to reopen schools for classes 1 to 8 from November 1Tamil Nadu government has decided to allow reopening of schools for classes 1 to 8 from November 1.Gautam Seth resigns as Gen Secy (in-charge training) of Punjab Cong after Navjot Sidhu's exitGautam Seth resigns as the general secretary (in-charge training) of Punjab Congress following the resignation of party's state chief Navjot Singh Sidhu earlier in the day, ANI reported.Yoginder Dhingra resigns as General Secy of Punjab Cong in solidarity with Sidhu who resigned as the state party chief, reports ANIYoginder Dhingra on Tuesday resigned as the general secretary of Punjab Congress "in solidarity with Navjot Singh Sidhu" who resigned as the state party president hours before, ANI reported.350-page charge sheet filed in Mumbai's Sakinaka rape and murder case: PoliceMumbai Police has filed an around 350-page charge sheet in the Sakinaka rape and murder case, ANI reported. Earlier, a man was held for the alleged rape of a 30-year-old women, who was also assaulted with an iron rod inserted in her private parts. The victim had later died during the treatment in Mumbai.Punjab cabinet minister Razia Sultana resigns after Sidhu's exitPunjab cabinet minister Razia Sultana resigned on Tuesday in solidarity with Navjot Singh Sidhu, who resigned as the president of Punjab Congress chief hours before. Sultana took oath as a minister two days before.International commercial flight services suspended till Oct 31The office of Director General of the Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Tuesday announced that scheduled international commercial flight services suspension has been further extended till October 31, 2021.‘Not meeting any politician in Delhi’: Amarinder SinghThis man (Navjot Singh Sidhu) is unstable... I am here to vacate Kapurthala House, the residence of Punjab CM in New Delhi. I am not going to meet any politician here: Former Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh in Delhi pic.twitter.com/LNKyRUgaWmAfter reaching Delhi, former Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh said that he is “not going to meet any politician” in the city. “I am here to vacate Kapurthala House, the residence of Punjab CM in New Delhi,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.Home ministry issues Covid guidelines; asks states to follow 5-fold strategy ahead of festive seasonThe Union home ministry on Tuesday issued fresh Covid-19 guidelines for the upcoming festival season, asking states and Union territories (UTs) to follow five-fold strategy and enforce compliance.Kanhaiya Kumar, Jignesh Mevani join Congress in presence of Rahul GandhiKanhaiya Kumar, and Jignesh Mevani join Congress in presence of Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi on Tuesday. Gandhi has called a special press conference in the national capital.Former Goa CM Faleiro to join TMC in Kolkata on Sept 29, reports ANIFormer chief minister of Goa, Luizinho Faleiro, who resigned from Congress on yesterday will join Trinamool Congress (TMC) in Kolkata tomorrow, news agency ANI reported.‘He’s not upset with me': Channi after Sidhu's exit as state Cong chiefIt will be settled if he is upset...though he is not upset with me...: Punjab CM Charanjit Sigh Channi on Navjot Singh Sidhu being upset over bureaucratic set up and his commands not being followed after cabinet expansion in Punjab pic.twitter.com/ckOTGyPahsSoon after Navjot Singh Sidhu's resignation as the Punjab Congress president, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said that whatever was the matter behind the former's resignation “will be settled if he (Sidhu) is upset.” However, Channi quickly noted that Sidhu is “not upset with me.”Punjab Cong treasurer Gulzar Inder Singh Chahal also resignedPunjab Congress treasurer Gulzar Inder Singh Chahal, who is also Navjot Singh Sidhu's protege, has resigned from his post. This development comes soon after Sindhu's resignation as the Punjab Congress chief.‘Living proof of maxim’: Television producer Nikhil Alva on Punjab Congress crisisThe Punjab Congress is living proof of the maxim that reality is stranger than fiction. #PunjabCongressFollowing the resignation of Navjot Singh Singh as Punjab Congress chief and former CM Captain Amarinder Singh's Delhi visit, television producer Nikhil Alva said on Tuesday that the Punjab Congress is “living proof of the maxim that reality is stranger than fiction.”‘Could not bear to see a Dalit’: AAP claims Sidhu's resignation is due to Channi becoming Punjab CMAam Aadmi Party (AAP) alleged that Navjot Singh Sidhu resigned as the Punjab Congress president because he "could not bear" that a Dalit has been made the state's chief minister - referring to Charanjit Singh Channi's recent appointment to the top spot in the state cabinet.UP allows holding of wedding ceremonies, other events at open spacesThe Uttar Pradesh government's home department on Tuesday announced that it will allow holding wedding ceremonies and other events at open spaces, with the number of people in attendance to depend on the area. Till now, the cap at weddings and such events was 100 persons.‘Told you so…he is not a stable man': Capt takes indirect jibe at Sindhu after latter's resignation as Punjab Cong chiefI told you so…he is not a stable man and not fit for the border state of punjab.Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday took to Twitter to indirectly comment on what looked like Navjot Singh Sidhu's resignation as the president of Punjab Congress. “I told you so…he is not a stable man and not fit for the border state of punjab,” Singh tweeted without naming or tagging anyone in the post.Navjot Singh Sidhu resigns as Punjab Congress chiefNavjot Singh Sidhu resigns as the president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC). In his letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Sidhu wrote that he will continue to serve the party. Read more here.Former Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh leaves for Delhi; may meet Amit Shah tonightFormer chief minister of Punjab Captain Amarinder Singh departed for Delhi this afternoon. This is his first trip to the national capital following his resignation from the CM's post. Singh is likely to meet Union home minister Amit Shah tonight.Sensex recovers after plunging over 1000 ptsSensex recovers after plunging more than 1000 points on Tuesday, while Nifty down by 222 points.‘Will raise issues of farmers of state’: Rakesh Tikait in ChhattisgarhAfter arriving in Chhattisgarh's capital Raipur, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said that they will raise the issues of farmers of the state. He added that MSP is the biggest problem in the country, and they will raise that issue as well. “We'll talk about how vegetable farmers of state can be more benefitted and what policies need to be made for them,” Tikait was quoted as saying by ANI.Pakistan home to 12 foreign terrorist outfits: US Congressional reportPakistan is home to at least 12 groups designated as 'foreign terrorist organisations' by the US, including five of them being India-centric like the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM), according to the latest Congressional report on terrorism.1.7 crore saplings planted in seven years of Arvind Kejriwal government: Gopal Rai1.70 crore saplings planted in seven years of Arvind Kejriwal government: Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai.Mayawati demands justice for family of 4-year-old Dalit girl found dead in UP's AligarhBSP president Mayawati expressed serious concern on Tuesday over the recovery of the body of a four-year-old Dalit girl from a paddy field in Uttar Pradesh's Aligarh and demanded justice for the family after a proper inquiry.Delhi court orders in-camera hearing in domestic violence case against Honey SinghDelhi court orders in-camera hearing in domestic violence case filed against Punjabi singer Yo Yo Honey Singh by his wife, reports PTI.India's drug regulator allows Serum Institute to enrol children between 7-11 for its Covid vaccine trialIndia's drug regulator on Tuesday allowed vaccine manufacturer Serum Institute to enrol children between seven and 11 years of age for its Covid-19 vaccine trial, reports Reuters.Need to enhance use of modern drones: PM ModiNeed to enhance use of modern drones and sensors to get high quality farm data and real time solutions: PM Modi.WHO asks for more data from Bharat Biotech for CovaxinWorld Health Organization (WHO) has asked for more data from Bharat Biotech for its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin. The Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) for the vaccine will be delayed by a few more days: WHO sources to ANI.UP allows staging of Ramleelas in open spacesUttar Pradesh government has allowed staging of Ramleelas in open spaces and the number of people to attend will depend on the size of the area.PM Modi dedicates to nation 35 crop varieties with special traitsPM Narendra Modi dedicates to the nation 35 crop varieties with special traits. He also inaugurates the newly constructed campus of the National Institute of Biotic Stress Tolerance Raipur, Chhattisgarh.Calcutta HC refuses to stay September 30 Bhabanipur bypollsCalcutta High Court refuses to stay 30th September Bhabanipur bypolls.Around 25 inmates of Mandoli Jail no.11 caused injuries to themselvesAround 25 inmates of Mandoli Jail no.11 caused injuries to themselves. Two inmates wanted to go out of the ward without any reason. On not being permitted, they caused injuries to themselves and also instigated some others to self-inflict injuries: Prison officialsED arrests aide of Shiv Sena MP in money laundering caseThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday arrested an aide of Shiv Sena MP Bhavana Gawali in connection with an alleged money laundering investigation, officials said.Election Commission to hold by-elections for 3 parliamentary segments, 30 assembly seats on October 30By-elections to three Parliamentary Constituencies of UT of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh and 30 Assembly constituencies of various states to be held on 30 October: Election Commission.India records 18,795 new Covid-19 cases, 179 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia recorded 18,795 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 33,697,581, while the death toll climbed to 447,373 with 179 daily fatalities, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday. Microsoft CEO Calls TikTok deal ‘strangest thing’ he’s worked onMicrosoft Corp. Chief Executive Officer Satya Nadella said the company’s bid to acquire the US assets of ByteDance Ltd.’s TikTok was the “strangest thing” he’s ever worked on.US State Department 'condemns' North Korea missile launchThe US State Department said Monday it "condemns" North Korea's apparent missile launch and urged Pyongyang to engage in dialogue.Petrol, diesel pricesThe price of petrol and diesel in Delhi is at ₹101.39 per litre and ₹89.57 per litre respectively today.Petrol and diesel prices per litre- ₹107.47 & ₹97.21 in Mumbai, ₹109.85 and ₹98.45 in Bhopal, ₹101.87 and ₹92.67 in Kolkata, ₹99.15 and 94.17 in Chennai respectively.PM Modi to chair a meeting of Council of Ministers todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi to chair a meeting of Council of Ministers today, reports ANI.Japan set to lift all virus emergency steps nationwideJapan is set to lift all coronavirus emergency measures when they expire later this week as the infections slow and the nation tries to reactivate its economy.Deshbhakti curriculum in Delhi govt schools from todayThe Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi will be rolling out its deshbhakti curriculum from Tuesday with an aim to instil patriotism among students and inspire them to feel proud for their nation.Bengal post-poll violence: Supreme Court to hear today Mamata govt's final arguments against CBI probeThe Supreme Court is expected to hear on Tuesday the final arguments of the West Bengal government against the move by the Calcutta high court to hand over the post-poll violence cases to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).Top US diplomat to travel to India on October 6, 7A top American diplomat will visit India next month to hold talks with her Indian counterparts on bilateral and regional issues, the US State Department said on Monday, days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a successful bilateral summit here with President Joe Biden.US VP Kamala Harris hires two advisers as her portfolio growsVice President Kamala Harris has hired two new advisers at a time when she is leading the charge for the Biden administration on a number of issues including voting rights and immigration from Central America.North Korea fires suspected ballistic missile into seaNorth Korea on Tuesday fired a suspected ballistic missile into the sea, Seoul and Tokyo officials said, the latest in a series of weapons tests by Pyongyang that raised questions about the sincerity of its recent offer for talks with South Korea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-september-28-2021-101632785483460.html
28-09-2021||India||Clashes mark the last day of Bhabanipur campaign||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has sought that the by-election in Bhabanipur assembly constituency, scheduled for September 30, be held after imposing prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and under the supervision of central forces -- a move prompted by an incident that saw one of its leaders being surrounded and heckled by a crowd of Trinamool Congress (TMC) supporters, forcing his bodyguards to brandish pistols. The section restricts movement and assemblies as well as the carriage of anything that can be used as a weapon.The TMC was quick to highlight images of the pistols being waved around by the bodyguards as another instance of the BJP trying to provoke people into creating an incident.The two parties fought a bitter battle in the assembly polls earlier this year that the TMC won easily, although its leader and chief minister Mamata Banerjee lost. She is now contesting the Bhabanipur by-election, which saw the last leg of campaigning on Monday.On Monday, BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh was among the 80 leaders from the party who hit the streets to campaign for the party’s candidate, Priyanka Tibrewal , but at Jadu Babu Bazar, he ran into a crowd that obstructed his path and shouted “go back”. He shouted “Jai Shri Ram” in return. But as the crowd swelled, people started pushing and jostling each other and Ghosh’s guards had to draw their weapons to keep an angry crowd at bay and escort him to safety.While the BJP alleged that two its workers were assaulted by the crowd, the ruling party countered by saying one of their men landed in hospital after being hit by Ghosh’s guards. BJP state vice-president Arjun Singh, who was campaigning at Sambhunath Pandit Street, faced similar demonstrations when he approached the location where Ghosh was surrounded and had to leave the spot.The EC sought a report on the incident. The returning officer was also asked to examine video footages, an official said on condition of anonymity. There was no further update from EC till the time of going to press,About an hour after Ghosh talked of deferring the poll, the BJP moved EC, accusing the Kolkata Police of not taking any action. In its official letter to EC, the BJP demanded that deputy commissioner of police (south) Akash Magharia be removed from election duty and TMC legislator Madan Mitra, who lives in Bhabanipur, asked to leave the area. The letter, addressed to the chief electoral officer of West Bengal, Aariz Aftab, did not demand postponement of the election. However, BJP MP Swapan Dasgupta, who signed the letter along with two other leaders, said the election in Bhabanipur can be held only after imposing prohibitory orders under CrPC Section 144.TMC leaders alleged that the BJP leaders came to Bhabanipur to create trouble on the last day of campaigning. “I saw on television that Dilip Ghosh was laughing and shouting the ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogan. The protests were held by local people and not TMC workers. We want to know what prompted Ghosh’s security personnel to point their guns at people. This is the disruptive politics BJP is known for,” said TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy.Adhikari moves HC, seeks Roy’s disqualificationBJP leader Suvendu Adhikari on Monday moved the Calcutta high court seeking disqualification of the party’s former national vice-president Mukul Roy as a member of the West Bengal legislative assembly. Roy, who joined the BJP in 2017 and returned to the TMC on June 11 this year, has not yet officially resigned from the BJP. Mukul Roy, who is unwell, could not be contacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/clashes-mark-the-last-day-of-bhabanipur-campaign-101632782457730.html
28-09-2021||India||Covid origin: WHO sets up crack team for a fresh probe||The World Health Organization (WHO) is looking to revive an investigation into the origin of Covid-19, a US media report said.The world health body is assembling a team of 20 scientists to hunt for new evidence, The Wall Street Journal (WSJ) reported.According to the WSJ report, the new probe comes following an initial WHO inquiry found that the data provided by Chinese scientists was insufficient to answer key questions about the origin of the coronavirus.It stated that the new team of scientists, which includes specialists in laboratory safety and biosecurity and experts in geneticists, may be charged with examining whether the virus emerged from a lab, as well as broader inquiries into future virus risks and the links with human behaviour.Meanwhile, parts of the US health system “are in dire straits”, as the spread of the Delta variant forces some states to prepare for rationed medical care, Rochelle Walensky, head of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said.“That means that we are talking about who is going to get a ventilator, who is going to get an ICU bed,” Walensky said on CBS’s Face the Nation on Sunday.Pfizer said on Monday it has started a large study testing its investigational oral antiviral drug for the prevention of Covid-19 infection among those who have been exposed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-origin-who-sets-up-crack-team-for-a-fresh-probe-101632779973301.html
28-09-2021||India||‘Hold judiciary in high esteem’: Tripura CM Biplab after row over his ‘contempt’ remark||A day after courting controversy with statements on contempt of court, video of which went viral on social media, Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Monday defended himself, saying that his speech was distorted and taken out of context. He also said that he holds all judicial institutions in the ‘ highest esteem’ and never told officers to disregard courts. “The reporting of my speech on 25/9/21 is being twisted and wrongly reported by some print and electronic media to project disregard to the judiciary and judicial institutions. I firmly and unequivocally clarify that I hold all the judicial institutions in the highest esteem and am duty-bound to uphold the majesty of the judiciary. I have not told the officers or even remotely intended to convey any message to disregard courts or disrespect court orders as reported. My words have been published out of context,” Deb wrote on his Facebook. In the meantime, RTI activist Saket Gokhale wrote to the advocate general of Tripura high court Siddhartha Shankar Dey and requested court proceedings against Deb for his comments on the judiciary. Gokhale has recently joined Trinamool Congress. In the letter, Gokhale said that no person, including the chief minister of a state, is above law and orders of the judiciary apply to all. “Your consent is, therefore, sought in this matter to enable the undersigned to initiate proceedings for criminal contempt of court against Sh. Biplab Kumar Deb for the aforementioned comments about the judiciary, “ he wrote in his letter.No petition was known to have been filed in the high court. However, no comment from the advocate general was made available on the issue. Deb, while speaking at a biennial conference of the Civil Service Officers’ Association on Saturday, said that the officers should work for people without thinking about contempt of court. His comments became viral on social media, especially after Trinamool Congress general secretary Abhishek Banerjee tagged a video clip of Deb’s speech in his tweet on Sunday. In the video, CM was heard saying, “ Contempt of Court is said in such a way as if a tiger is sitting. I am the tiger. The power lies with the person who runs the government. It means that all power lies with the people. We are a ‘ by the people’s government and not ‘ by the court ‘ government.”He made this comment while speaking on holding back promotions of public servants following a pending court matter. In the programme, Deb also asked the officials to follow three rules, ‘niyat (intention), neeti ( principle) and niyam (regulations)’ while working and also advised them to work on their own to become exceptional.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hold-judiciary-in-high-esteem-tripura-cm-biplab-after-row-over-his-contempt-remark-101632773028934.html
28-09-2021||India||India increasingly important for Germany due to role in Indo-Pacific, says ambassador||India is an increasingly important partner for Germany because of its strategic role in the Indo-Pacific and the next government in Berlin is expected to continue a policy of working closely with New Delhi, German ambassador Walter Lindner said on Monday. Speaking shortly after the centre-left Social Democrats (SPD) claimed victory in Germany’s federal election by securing an edge over Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union party, Lindner said all German political parties have largely similar security, global strategic and environmental interests in which the “importance of India is obvious”. With India set to become the world’s most populous country, major global issues – including global warming, climate change, population growth, vaccines, trade and terrorism – cannot be resolved without India, both at the multilateral and bilateral level, Lindner told a group of journalists. India and the Indo-Pacific may seem far away from Germany, but the region is increasingly taking on a central role in the German government’s vision because of its importance to global trade. Noting that a significant chunk of trade routes used by an export-driven economy such as Germany pass through the Indo-Pacific, Lindner said these routes could be “blocked by turmoil” or affected by states that don’t follow international rules. Germany’s focus on the Indo-Pacific is not a military strategy but part of an overall effort to protect the country’s interests, the ambassador said. As a part of these initiatives, Germany has sent a frigate to the Indo-Pacific, with the warship making stops in several countries. This was done despite some resistance to the move in Germany because of the increased interest in the Indo-Pacific and the frigate will also travel to Mumbai, Lindner said. The enhanced cooperation between the militaries of the two countries has dovetailed with the increased interest in the Indo-Pacific, he added. The two sides have also had a very strong strategic partnership for 12 years and bilateral trade is currently worth more than $20 billion. Some 2,000 German companies have a presence in India with 600,000 jobs and Germany is one of India’s biggest development partners. Germany is also home to about 25,000 Indian students, one of the largest concentrations in Europe. Lindner was confident that the next German chancellor would have enough advisers to help steer relations with India. Relations between France and Germany, which are the “motor of the European Union”, too will be crucial, he said. Responding to questions on the situation in Afghanistan, Lindner said Germany and other countries will have to talk to the Taliban to ensure preservation of human rights and formation of an inclusive government, to facilitate the distribution of humanitarian aid, to ensure the evacuation of those who wish to leave, and to prevent any “fostering of terrorism”. “Do we talk to the Taliban? Yes, we do [like others] but not to establish relations, but to get those people out whom we still have there...we still have people there who worked for us,” he said. States will also have to talk to the Taliban to provide immediate relief through the UN and “so that we have some sort of influence” on issues such as human rights, guaranteeing the rights of women and children, inclusiveness of the government, and “no more fostering of terrorism”, he said. Lindner acknowledged that there was a “misjudgement of the Taliban and the velocity of the spread of the Taliban everywhere” by most countries. “No one predicted this outcome, everyone thought it would take longer and there would be more time to get people out,” he said about the fall of Kabul on August 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-increasingly-important-for-germany-due-to-role-in-indo-pacific-saysambassador-101632772849051.html
28-09-2021||India||Bengaluru police extend Covid curbs despite a dip in daily cases||Even as the city continues to see a dip in Covid cases, police commissioner Kamal Pant on Monday extended prohibitory orders in Bengaluru till October 11, 6 am. Night curfew will remain in force from 10 pm till 5 am. The order restricts the assembly of more than four persons in public places and activities except those which are permitted under the guidelines. Any violations of this order will be dealt with under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020, and under Section 188 of the IPC, according to the order. The prohibitory orders come despite the state government’s decision to extend further relaxations from October 1.A member of the Technical Advisory Committee said that the recent decision of the government to allow cinemas, auditoriums, multiplexes, and pubs to operate at100% seating capacity was against the recommendation of the TAC. “We understand that the decrease in Covid cases, especially the positivity could be a motivator to allow more relaxations, but the R-value in the city is still above 1,” said the experts who didn’t want to be named. R is the number of people that one infected person will pass on a virus to, on average. “We have seen in the past that after a big dip, an increase in the cases are witnesses. So, at least till the entire population has received at least one dose of vaccination, no further relaxations should be allowed,” said the expert. Talking to the media, Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar said that the government is preparing for a potential third wave, even though the numbers are coming down. “We have augmented our capacity in beds and oxygen supply significantly. The number of ICU beds in Karnataka before Covid was only 725. Currently, the state has 3,877 ICU beds in government medical colleges and government hospitals -- an increase of 5-6 times. There were 4,847 oxygenated beds before Covid,” he said. He also added that decision to allow 100% occupancy in theaters was announced after realizing the vaccination programme had reached a large number of people. “We are only allowing people with at least 1 dose in these places. We have allowed the economy to pick up as well, but we are doing it all precautions in the place,” he said. Karnataka on Monday reported 504 new Covid-19 cases, out of which 181 were reported in Bengaluru. Apart from Bengaluru, all other districts reported less than 100 new cases. 20 deaths were reported on Monday, out of which 5 were reported in the city. The total number of active cases in the state is at 12,804. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.54%, the case fatality rate (CFR) was at 1.16%. The state has been consistently reporting less than 1,000 cases a day for more than two weeks now, which begs the question of whether more relaxations should be provided. Meanwhile, shopkeepers and business owners have voiced their dissent against the state government’s decision to continue with the daily night curfew from 10 pm till 5 am, claiming to shut down shops while keeping the traffic movement normal at night shows the ineffectiveness of the Covid-19 regulation. A member of the Bangalore Commercial Street Merchants Association said that they have been given assurances that the curbs will be relaxed since the number of Covid cases have come down, but so far nothing has happened. “This night curfew has been in place for more than 200 days now. When the government announced a lockdown to control the spread of the virus, we cooperated because it was important. But we can’t understand the purpose of the night curfew now,” said the officer bearer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-police-extend-covid-curbs-despite-a-dip-in-daily-cases-101632772549537.html
28-09-2021||India||Bengaluru traffic police to install cameras to check speeding||As the city continues to witness instances of speeding resulting in accidents, the Bengaluru traffic police are now planning to install speed monitoring cameras capable of recording registration plates of the vehicles. In the initial phase, the traffic police have identified 14 flyovers in the city, where the cameras will be installed. “We have been seeing instances of drag racing and another speeding on empty roads at night very often. Since most of such instances are reported post-midnight, we don’t have any traffic police present on the road. To tackle this, we will be installing these cameras, and based on these inputs from their feeds we will act,” said senior officials of the Bengaluru traffic management center. The officer added that deploying traffic police in the middle of the night is not a viable option since large manpower is required to cover all major streets in Bengaluru. “Unlike a drink and drive test, we can’t set up checkpoints because they would race in a different location. So, the cameras will be an effective way to stop this menace,” said the officer. According to official records, the Bengaluru traffic police have a sanctioned strength of 5,262 personnel to regulate traffic across 44,000 intersections and they are 600 men short of the sanctioned strength. The officer added that the use of technology will help the department cope with this shortage as well. It will also work as a pilot project for Bengaluru police’s plans to introduce an artificial intelligence-based CCTV network in the city. In the last Karnataka budget, ₹699 crore has been set aside to install 7,500 surveillance cameras which will enable the state capital’s police to introduce facial recognition technology and machine-learning-based video monitoring. The implementation of these cameras by traffic police is expected to be the first step towards the project. A senior police officer said on condition of anonymity that the 7,500 cameras will include fixed day-and-night surveillance cameras, body-worn cameras, and drones equipped with high-resolution image capturing devices. The police will also procure facial recognition cameras and registration plate recognition devices. All cameras will be connected to a 40-seat Command and Control Centre, with two centers that will be mobile. The 7,500 cameras are only the front-end of the entire project. According to another senior officer, close to 30% of the funds will be used to create a back end. The officer said that to optimize the CCTV network, the police will introduce technologies such as facial recognition. “We want to have surveillance capability where a vehicle spotted at one traffic signal can be identified and tagged so that other cameras can trace the vehicle and predict its possible path. Similarly, we want to track ‘persons of interest’ using facial recognition and other AI-based technologies,” said an officer who is in charge of the project implementation. On September 25, a luxury car that was speeding rammed into a private taxi on HAL Airport Road in east Bengaluru before hitting a compound wall late night. The impact of the crash was such that the taxi with two passengers inside it overturned, however, no injuries were reported. The driver of the Porsche, identified as Zuhair Mevani, 32, a resident of Fraser Town, allegedly lost control of the wheel. This was the third incident in last month, where speeding cars on joyrides have crashed in Bengaluru. On September 1, DMK MLA Y Prakash’s son Karunaa Sagar and six of his friends died after the SUV they were in jumped onto the pavement and rammed into the compound wall of a building. On September 15, two friends were killed on Electronics City flyover when they were mowed down by a speeding car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-traffic-police-to-install-cameras-to-check-speeding-101632772249680.html
28-09-2021||India||UP withdraws plea on closure of sugar mills from SC ahead of polls||Just months ahead of assembly elections in the state, the Uttar Pradesh government on Monday withdrew from the Supreme Court an appeal that was filed in 2010 to reclaim the state’s authority to shut down its sugar mills and transfer the land for other purposes.The appeal was filed during the regime of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati (2007-12) after the Allahabad high court held in April 2010 that the state could not have passed a law assuming the power to close down the sugar mills or change the land use where the sugar factories stood.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, permitted withdrawal of the state’s appeal after it was informed that the state government has taken a decision to repeal all the provisions in the 2009 law that paved way for divestment, sale or closure of the sugar mills owned by the Uttar Pradesh State Sugar Corporation Limited.The development came less than 24 hours after chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced a ₹25 per quintal hike in the purchase prices of sugarcane. Addressing a gathering of farmers in Lucknow on Sunday, the chief minister had also attacked Mayawati for allegedly selling 21 sugar factories at throwaway prices during the BSP’s rule.Adityanath’s statements, ahead of the upcomig polls in 2022, was viewed as an outreach to farmers, a section of which has been protesting the three contentious farm laws since November last year.During the hearing, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the state government, submitted that the state does not wish to prosecute its appeal any further since it wants to do away with all the contentious provisions relating to the 2009 amendment in the Uttar Pradesh Sugar Undertakings (Acquisition) Act, 1971.“As the legality of the high court’s judgment dated April 1, 2010, dealing with constitutional validity of the 2009 Amendment Act, is pending for adjudication before this court in the present matter, the state government is bringing to the court’s notice its decision to repeal the five sub-sections inserted through the amendments,” the solicitor general told the bench, which also comprised justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli.Senior advocate Vivek Tankha, appearing for one of the successful bidders in the sale of sugar mills, resisted the state’s move, saying the bidders had trusted the government with prosecuting the case before the apex court.The bench, however, pointed out that the bidders had not filed any appeal against the high court order independently and therefore, if the state has decided to withdraw its main petition, others cannot oppose. It added that the bidders had also not taken steps to transpose themselves as petitioners in the case.The bench then allowed the state government’s plea while adding that successful bidders could avail of other remedies available to them in law.There are 119 sugar factories in Uttar Pradesh. At least half of them are state-run mills. Uttar Pradesh is the leading producer of sugarcane and the second largest producer of sugar in the country.By inserting sub-sections 3-A, 3-B, 3-C, 3-D and 3-E in the Act in 2009, the Mayawati government had assumed powers to divest, sell, transfer or otherwise part with the sugar mills run by the corporation, besides changing the land use in relation to the land belonging to the schedule undertakings of the corporation.After the amendments, 21 sugar mills were sold between 2010 and 2011 during the BSP’s rule. The controversy began in 2013 when the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) said in a report that the sugar mills had been sold at dirt cheap prices and the irregularities led to a loss of ₹1,179 crore to the exchequer.Naseemuddin Siddiqui, once a close aide to Mayawati and a former minister in her government, claimed in 2017 that the “sugar mills were sold on the instructions of then chief minister Mayawati and BSP general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra”. After his claim, Mayawati said Siddiqui, who was later ousted from the party, alone was to blame for the irregularities.While the Akhilesh Yadav government (2012-17) did not take any action in the matter despite the CAG’s report in 2013, in April 2018, the Yogi Adityanath-led Bharatiya Janata Party government in Uttar Pradesh handed over the investigation into the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).The state government asked the CBI to investigate the entire sale proceedings of 21 sugar mills, including use of bogus companies and documents in the purchase of seven closed mills in Deoria, Bareilly, Laxmiganj, Hardoi, Ramkola, Chittauni and Barabanki.In his address at the farmers meet held in Lucknow on Sunday, Adityanath had highlighted how his government started reviving the sugar industry in Uttar Pradesh. “During BSP’s rule, 21 sugar mills were shut down and 11 were closed during the rule of Samajwadi Party. Sugar factories worth ₹250 crore to ₹300 crore were sold at throwaway prices,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-withdraws-plea-on-closure-of-sugar-mills-from-sc-ahead-of-polls-101632771948713.html
28-09-2021||India||Karnataka to set up Forensic labs in 6 cities: CM Bommai||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said that Forensic Science Laboratories (FSL) would be set up in six cities across the state to help speed up investigations and crime detection.New laboratories would be set up in Kalaburagi, Hubballi-Dharwad and Mysuru, he said.The chief minister also stated that he has already discussed this issue with the Union home minister Amit Shah.There have already been discussions over the need for forensic science labs to be used more to help not just in solving crimes but also increase the rate of prosecution.The conviction rate in Bengaluru, known for its prowess in technology and science, is just around 50% that is below the state average of around 51.2%, data from National Crime Records Bureau show.The conviction rate in Bengaluru is the lowest among the biggest cities in India that includes Delhi and Mumbai. The state conviction rate average is only second to that of West Bengal with 13.4% but miles behind Delhi which has a rate of 85.6% and Tamil Nadu’s 66%, data shows.Bommai further said that a training centre in the model of National Defence Academy in Khadakwasla (near Pune) would be set up for the mid level personnel of the state police department.“For the first time officers on crime scene are being appointed in the state. Apart from this, 16,000 police constables and sub-inspectors are being appointed, he said. Officers of rank of deputy SP and above should not restrict themselves to the office and administrative works, instead, they need to visit police stations and also should work on field,” according to a statement by the chief minister’s office (CMO), attributing the comments to Bommai.He also added that an additional 500 police stations would be built over the next five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-to-set-up-forensic-labs-in-6-cities-cmbommai-101632771948970.html
28-09-2021||India||Congress leader Sudheeran quits AICC, days after resigning from pac in Kerala||Two days after he quit the party’s political affairs committee (PAC), sulking Congress leader V M Sudheeran on Monday announced his resignation from the All India Congress Committee (AICC), the second-highest decision-making body of the party after the Congress Working Committee. His announcement came in the wake of his scheduled meeting with AICC general secretary Tariq Anwar who rushed to the state to sort out problems arising out of the recent elevation of a new set of state and district leaders. While Sudheeran, former PCC chief and five-time MP, did not disclose reasons behind his sudden decision leaders close to him said he was not happy with the functioning of new PCC chief K Sudhakaran and opposition leader V D Satheesan. There are complaints that decisions are taken unanimously, and senior leaders are often ignored. But the PCC chief said Sudheeran was consulted before announcing the DCC list. Hectic efforts are on to placate the senior leader, and Anwar is expected to call on him in the evening. Former CM Oommen Chandy and senior leader Ramesh Chennithala also termed his resignation unfortunate and asked the party leaders to talk to him. Known for his clean image he quit the PCC chief’s post after the party’s rout in the 2016 assembly elections. But there are allegations against him that he forced then CM Chandy to take some unpopular decisions like the new liquor policy. Firework started in the faction-ridden party with the appointment of new party president K Sudhakaran, a tough leader from Communist heartland Kannur and opposition leader V D Satheesan, sidelining two powerful blocs led by former CM Oommen Chandy and senior leader Ramesh Chennithala who ruled the party for more than one and a half-decade. Problems aggravated after the DCC presidents’ list was released last month. Now the party has 150-odd secretaries, and many other office-bearers and the PCC chief made it clear that all new party bodies would be lean and mean. To protect group equations earlier leaders filled maximum posts with their supporters, and often the party took backstage with the rise of powerful groups. And those who were not part of these factions were ignored. Many see it as a major generational shift, but group leaders refuse to buy it, saying it is difficult for the party to surge ahead by sidelining two senior leaders and their followers. After the public display of anger, three senior leaders have quit the party, A V Gopinath, K P Anil Kumar, and PS Prashanth. The last two later joined the ruling CPI(M).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-leader-sudheeran-quits-aicc-days-after-resigning-from-pac-in-kerala-101632770568900.html
28-09-2021||India||Supreme Court grants Tamil Nadu poll panel four months to hold local polls||The Supreme Court Monday granted the Tamil Nadu State Election Commission four more months to conduct urban local body elections.On June 22, the court directed the state election commission to conduct the local body polls in nine new districts carved out of four existing ones in Tamil Nadu by September 15 this year. On Monday, a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India N V Ramana, took note of the submissions that six more municipal corporations and 28 new municipalities have been added now for which it needs to complete the poll-related formalities. “Even if the reasons are very silly, we want to give some more time,” remarked the bench, which included justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohi, while giving four months for completion of the poll process. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the state poll panel, had sought time till April end of next year, but the bench asserted only four months will be given as the final extension. During a brief hearing, the bench also expressed surprise over the consent of the PIL petitioner S Shankar, who had filed the plea for holding the local body elections in the grant of extra time to the poll panel. “Mr (P) Wilson (senior advocate representing the petitioner), you have filed this petition for election. Now you are agreeing for the time and the adjournment,” the bench observed. The senior lawyer replied the poll panel has to conduct elections for more than 600 urban bodies and now, six municipal corporations, 28 municipalities have been constituted and it will lead to a decrease in the number of existing 528 town panchayats in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-grants-tamil-nadu-poll-panel-four-months-to-hold-local-polls-101632770088955.html
28-09-2021||India||Rajasthan: Man gets death penalty for raping, killing 8-year-old||A 26-year-old man was on Monday awarded a death sentence for raping an eight-year-old child and strangling her before dumping her body in a drain in Sirohi near here last September.Special Judge Ajitabh Acharya of the POCSO court gave capital punishment to convict Nikram alias Bharma, terming his heinous offence as “the rarest of rare”.The court had held the accused guilty of rape and murder on September 24 and had slated Monday for announcing the quantum of sentence.After hearing arguments on the quantum of the sentence from the prosecution and defence counsel, the judge ruled that it was a rarest of rare case deserving nothing less than a death term. “Children have all the right to live in society happily without any fear and insecurity. If children are not safe outside the home, this is a matter of huge concern,” the judge said, underlining the gravity of the offence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-man-gets-death-penalty-for-raping-killing-8yearold-101632770031341.html
28-09-2021||India||Arrested YouTuber’s ‘links’ with political bigwigs in Kerala under scanner||After self-proclaimed antique collector and YouTuber Monson Mavunkal was arrested in Kochi on Sunday for allegedly swindling money, many photos and videos have started appearing in social media showing how he flaunted his high connections to cheat people. He is currently in judicial custody.Senior politicians like state Congress president K Sudhakaran and deputy inspector general of police S Surendran figure in some of the photos and videos. Hindustan Times could not verify the authenticity of these photos and videos. Sudhakaran, in his response on Monday, said that he knew him and visiting him for skin treatment but was unware of his unlawful activities. “I approached him in connection with skin treatment. I was recommended by one of my old friends in Kochi. I was not aware of his past or his degree,” he said in Kannur (north Kerala). He said many VIPs used to visit him and that his name has been singled out and is deliberately being dragged to defame him. Sudhakaran, who is a betnoire of the CM Pinarayi Vijayan, blamed the CM’s office for this. Like Sudhakaran, DIG S Surendran also said he was unaware of his unlawful activities.Mavunkal runs a big museum in the port city and many VIPs were frequent visitors here. Police said he promised partnership for gullible investors in an upcoming archaeological museum in Kochi and collected money from many businessmen. There are also complaints that he gifted antiques to many VIPs and that he collected money from them later saying his payments were delayed due to some technical glitches abroad. Police, however, later found that he did not have any foreign bank account and his doctorate and medical degrees were also fictitious. There were many attempts to hush up cases against him and around six victims later approached the CM who later directed a special team to investigate complaints against him which later led to his arrest. He was reportedly close to many senior police officers as well. “We have been complaining about him for quite some time. But he used his influence with the police to hush them up. Many VIPs were frequent visitors there. He claimed he’s a cosmetologist from Germany. Many people were cheated but fearing backlash and bad publicity they didn’t lodge a complaint,” said one of the complainants K T Shameer who said he was duped of ₹3 crore, by offering a share in the fictitious museum. In his YouTube videos Mavunkal claimed that he possess many antique pieces like Mysuru emperor Tipu Sultan’s throne, silver coins Judas received for betraying Jesus Christ, Soloman- era gold coins and rare books on Maratha warrior Shivaji and Mughal emperor Aurangazeb. He also claimed that he is a German-trained cosmetologist and treated many VIPs. Police said that during interrogation, he claimed that the antique gifts he gave were replicas and not the original ones. A senior police officer, who did not want to be identified, said he was a master conman and owned a fleet of luxury cars. “There are around 30 cars in his yard. We have information that he even brought used and abandoned high-end cars to show off. It seems most of the VIPs were not aware of his shady past,” he said, adding he also used private security guards and surrounded by many secretaries. He said graft cases worth ₹20 crore have surfaced so far and more complaints are likely to be filed. He also heads a number of self-made organisations and NGOs. There are unconfirmed reports that some central agencies also sought details about him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arrested-youtuber-s-links-with-political-bigwigs-in-kerala-under-scanner-101632770030234.html
28-09-2021||India||Brahmin groups protest Andhra Pradesh order on welfare department||A gazette notification issued by the Andhra Pradesh government last week bringing the AP Brahmin Welfare Corporation under the control of the Backward Classes Welfare Department sparked controversy as Brahmin groups strongly protested move to club them with the OBCs.Hitherto, the Brahmin welfare corporation was under the purview of the Revenue (Endowments) department, and the gazette notification issued by chief secretary Adityanath Das on September 23 sought to transfer the same to the Backward Classes welfare department.The notification said necessary amendments would be made to the second schedule of the Andhra Pradesh Government Business Rules, 2018. “The decision was taken to improve the synergy among various welfare corporations and make it part of Economically Weaker Sections Corporations in the BC welfare department,” the chief secretary said.Former chairman of AP Brahmin Welfare Corporation Vemuri Ananda Surya said the gazette notification bringing Brahmin welfare under BC Welfare Department was atrocious and showed how much contempt the Jagan Mohan Reddy government had towards Brahmins.“This is not only insulting the Brahmin community but also an attempt to create differences between Brahmins and OBCs. Before the last assembly elections, the YSRC had promised to allot ₹1,000 crore for Brahmin welfare in every budget and construct Brahmin Bhavans in every district. Instead of honouring the promise, the Jagan government is clubbing the Brahmin welfare with that of the OBCs,” Surya said.He warned of state-wide agitation by Brahmins, if the government does not withdraw the gazette notification.All India Brahmin Federation vice-president Dronamraju Ravi Kumar said it was the question of self-respect for Brahmins. “We want the state government to create a separate department for Economically Weaker Sections and bring the Brahmin Welfare Corporation under its purview, instead of creating unnecessary controversies,” he said.A senior official in the state government, who preferred anonymity that it was the previous Telugu Desam Party government led by N Chandrababu Naidu that the AP Brahmin Welfare Corporation was first incorporated under the Backward Classes Welfare Department through a government order (GO No. 11 dated December 8, 2014).“Subsequently, the Naidu government transferred the Brahmin welfare corporation into the Revenue (endowments) department, in March 2015, following protests from the Brahmin community,” the official said.However, some people had moved the court later, challenging this decision, alleging that the government was diverting funds meant for the restoration of temples for Brahmin welfare. “The issue is still in the court. To avoid litigations, the government has decided to transfer the Brahmin welfare corporation back into the BC Welfare department,” the official added.The latest decision of the Jagan government also angered Brahmin seers. “We strongly oppose the move to bring Brahmin welfare corporation into the purview of BC Welfare Department. We shall discuss the issue with the chief minister’s office to see that the notification is withdrawn,” said Swamy Swaroopanandendra of Visakha Sarada Peetham, considered to be the spiritual advisor to the chief minister.“We propose to create a separate department for EWS and bring all the upper caste welfare corporations under this department. We hope to get a positive decision in this regard,” the seer said.A senior Brahmin leader from YSRCP and deputy speaker of state assembly Kona Raghupathi defended the government’s decision. He said it was meant only for ensuring the release of adequate funds under the BC Welfare Department.“The government has not issued any order including the Brahmins under OBC list. They continue to be under the open category and get the benefits of all the welfare schemes envisaged in the corporation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/brahmin-groups-protest-andhra-pradesh-order-on-welfare-department-101632769968851.html
28-09-2021||India||After four beheadings, Tamil Nadu police arrest 3k in 52 hrs||Tamil Nadu police have arrested 3,325 criminals in a 52-hour long statewide crackdown, triggered by four beheadings reported from Dindigul and Tirunelveli districts earlier this month, the police said on Monday. Despite arresting several people in connection with the killings, the police said such operations would be conducted in future to maintain law and order in the state.The crackdown, called ‘Storming Operation’, started on Thursday on directions of Tamil Nadu DGP Sylendra Babu, in which 21,592 people with criminal backgrounds were questioned, of whom 3,325 were arrested, and 1,117 weapons seized from them, the police said. Of the arrested criminals, 2,526 were released based on a one-year peace bond signed by them. “Peace bond is a judicial power with the police under the Criminal Procedure Code where we ask the offenders to sign a bond for a year promising that they will not be involved in any unlawful activities and if they break it, they will be arrested,” explained a senior police officer in Chennai. “The power for this procedure is with the deputy commissioner for every police division.” In Chennai, the police arrested 257 people after questioning 2,439 people with criminal backgrounds. “During this operation, we also arrested high-profile criminal ‘Arcot’ Suresh, who has five murder cases pending against him,” a senior police official said, not wishing to be named. ‘Arcot’ Suresh, alias V Suresh, is a gangster whom the Chennai police arrested in 2014, but went absconding after getting out on bail. During the operation, police received a tip about his whereabouts and on Sunday, he was arrested from Chennai’s Pulianthope. Suresh, 43, is the main accused in a 2015 murder case, which happened in front of a city court in Chennai and has overall 20 pending cases against him, including five attempts to murder cases. Chennai police also arrested several other notorious criminals, including Vimal Kumar (24), S Ranjith (26), K Venkatesan (51) and S Rathinam (37), who have pending cases against them. The recent beheadings in Tamil Nadu, suspected by police to be revenge killings, were the tipping point to conduct the unannounced operation. On September 23, Nirmala Devi (70) was beheaded in Dindigul and a senior police official of the district said that her severed head was kept in front of the house of a deceased Dalit leader, C Pasupathi Pandian. Devi allegedly gave shelter to the suspects in the killing of Pandian in 2012, and the case is pending at the district’s trial court. Police have so far arrested eight people for Devi’s murder, the official said on the condition of anonymity. On the same day, a textile trader, Stephen Raj (38), was beheaded by unknown assailants. His decapitated head was left at the spot where he was murdered. The police are probing the reason behind the murder. “It’s a coincidence that the two murders happened on the same day, but they are unrelated,” said the official quoted above. In Tirunelveli district, a farmer, Sankara Subramanian (38), belonging to the Thevar caste, was murdered on September 13, and his decapitated head was found near a lake. “How they murdered him and left his head led us to conclude that this was in revenge for the murder of a Dalit man, named Manirathnam, back in 2013,” said a senior police official in Tirunelveli. “The two murders were similar,” he said. Police arrested six people, including Manithiram’s son Maharaja (20). In two days, Subramanian’s killing saw retaliation and a gang murdered a Dalit, Mariappan (32), on September 15. His severed head was found on the same spot where Subramanian was murdered. Mariappan was accused in a murder case of 2014. Police arrested eight people in the case. “Those accused of murder and are out on bail are behind these attacks, but the law-and-order situation is back to normal now,” said the official quoted above. Tirunelveli is heading to rural local body elections on October 6 and 9. AIADMK’s coordinator and deputy opposition leader O Panneerselvam last week urged chief minister M K Stalin to ensure peace in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-four-beheadings-tamil-nadu-police-arrest-3k-in-52-hrs-101632769909423.html
28-09-2021||India||Karnataka Dalit man forced to spend ₹11k on feast for entering temple||Bengaluru: A 24-year-old Dalit man was forced to offer a feast worth ₹11,000 allegedly as a punishment for entering a temple in north Karnataka’s Koppal district, weeks after five people were arrested for a similar incident in the district, police officials said. T Shreedhar, the superintendent of police, Koppal, said the incident took place on September 14, but it came to light on Friday when the man was forced to offer the feast as a punishment. Police said the incident was reported from Lakshmi Devi temple at a village in Karatagi taluk of the district. According to the senior officer, after a theft was reported in the village some time ago, the temple’s priests restricted the entry only to themselves. “The Dalit man had made a vow to conduct some prayers in the temple and on September 14, he entered the temple. When the priests came to know about this on Friday, they demanded that he must make amends by offering a feast,” said the officer. Police said based on the information from the man, they have registered a case under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). So far, eight people have been detained for questioning in the case, a police officer said, adding further probe was on. In a similar incident on September 4, parents of a Dalit boy were fined ₹23,000 after their 2-year-old son entered a Hanuman temple on his birthday at Miyapura village near Hanumasagar in the same district. According to people aware of the incident, Dalits in the village are not allowed inside the temples and they only pray from outside. Police had said that the man wanted to pray from outside the temple. However, the toddler in excitement ran inside the temple, after which the temple authorities leveled a fine of ₹23,000. Upon receiving the information regarding the incident, the police registered a case and arrested five people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-dalit-man-forced-to-spend-11k-on-feast-for-entering-temple-101632769728048.html
28-09-2021||India||Minority institutes receiving govt aid have to comply with terms, says SC||The Supreme Court on Monday held that minority institutions receiving aid from the government have to comply with conditions imposed on it under the law. The remark was made in a judgment where the top court upheld a 2010 policy decision of the Uttar Pradesh government to outsource appointment of Class IV employees in all state-run and aided institutions and schools.Stating that the institutions receiving aid from the government cannot be distinguished based on their minority character, a bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh said, “When it comes to aided institutions, there cannot be any difference between a minority and non-minority one. Article 30 of the Constitution of India (dealing with rights of minorities to establish and administer educational institutions) is subject to its own restrictions being reasonable. A protection cannot be expanded into a better right than one which a non-minority institution enjoys. Law has become quite settled on this issue and therefore does not require any elaboration.”The apex court further stated that there cannot be a fundamental right to get an aid from the government and no institution can seek aid on its own terms. “With the grant of an aid, the conditions come. If an institution does not want to accept and comply with the conditions accompanying such aid, it is well open to it to decline the grant and move in its own way. On the contrary, an institution can never be allowed to say that the grant of aid should be on its own terms.”The top court was deciding on a petition by the UP government that challenged a November 19, 2018 Allahabad high court order, which scrapped the state’s policy of outsourcing class 4 employees due to huge financial burden. The high court order came on petitions filed by colleges and individuals, who challenged a government order of September 8, 2010 that abolished recruitment of all permanent posts of Class IV staff.The appeals by the state filed through advocate Harish Pandey and argued by additional solicitor general (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati questioned the order of the HC in examining the policy decision of the state which applied equally to all aided and state institutions. The state argued that by way of a law notified in 1992, the state’s approval was mandatory for filling up vacancy of any non-teaching posts in recognised aided institutions. In 2013, this regulation was amended by which Class “IV” employees were to be filled up by the institutions through “outsourcing”.The minority institutions argued before the top court that a distinction has to be carved out for minority institutions, otherwise the regulation would violate the fundamental rights granted to minority institutions under Article 30(1) of the Constitution of India.Referring to a 2020 decision of the Supreme Court in SK Mohammad Rafique case, the bench held, “The haze between a minority and non-minority institution is no longer in existence….On the aforesaid issue we have no hesitation in reiterating the principle that an institution receiving aid is bound by the conditions imposed and therefore expected to comply. Once we hold so, the challenge made on various grounds, falls to the ground.”The court further stated that the decision to grant aid is by way of policy where the government is not only concerned with the interest of the institutions but the ability to undertake such an exercise. “Financial constraints and deficiencies are the factors which are considered relevant in taking any decision qua aid, including both the decision to grant aid and the manner of disbursement of an aid,” the bench added.The decision came as a succor to the state reeling under the impact of the HC order. The burden to pay the salaries of the contractual Class IV employees was transferred to the institutions. Justice Sundresh, writing the judgment for the bench, said, “The respondents/writ petitioners and similarly placed persons who are recruited by the institutions including the respondents shall be continued with the same scale of pay as if they are recruited prior to 08.09.2010 for which the entire disbursement will have to be made by the institutions alone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minority-institutes-receiving-govt-aid-have-to-comply-with-terms-says-sc-101632769368815.html
28-09-2021||India||Akash Prime, the new version of Akash missile, successfully tested in Odisha||New Delhi A new version of the Akash missile was successfully flight-tested on Monday from the integrated test range at Chandipur in Odisha, officials said. The missile -- ‘Akash Prime’ -- intercepted and destroyed an unmanned aerial target mimicking an enemy aircraft in its maiden flight test, they said The flight testing took place at around 4:30 pm, the officials said.“In comparison to the existing Akash system, Akash Prime is equipped with an indigenous active RF seeker for improved accuracy. Other improvements also ensure more reliable performance under a low-temperature environment at higher altitudes,” said an official. The modified ground system of the existing Akash weapon system was for the flight test. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has congratulated the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), Indian Army, Indian Air Force and other stakeholders on the successful trial of the Akash prime missile.He said the successful flight test proves the competence of the DRDO in designing and developing world-class missile systems. DRDO Chairman G Satheesh Reddy also congratulated the team involved in the successful flight trial of the missile.He said Akash Prime system will further boost the confidence of the Indian Army and Indian Air Force as the Akash system is already inducted and now getting improved with more lethal missiles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/akash-prime-the-new-version-of-akash-missile-successfully-tested-in-odisha-101632769129673.html
28-09-2021||India||Cyclone Gulab: Heavy rains batter Andhra Pradesh, red alert in 14 Telangana districts||HyderabadHeavy rains battered Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts in Andhra Pradesh on Monday, after cyclonic storm ‘Gulab’ made a landfall between and north coastal parts of the state and south Odisha around midnight on Sunday.Neighbouring Telangana, too, witnessed moderate to heavy rains in several parts as the cyclonic storm, which weakened into deep depression, moved towards northern Telangana and Chhattisgarh in the last 12 hours.Hyderabad meteorological department director Dr K Nagaratna said red alert had been sounded in 14 districts in North Telangana, which are expected to receive heavy to very heavy rains in the next 24 hours.The Telangana government asked the administrative machineries in Nirmal, Nizamabad, Kamareddy, Jagitial, Rajanna Siricilla, Siddipet, Peddapalli, Karimnagar, Jangaon, Warangal, Hanamkonda, Mahabubabad, Khammam and Bhadradri Kothagudem districts to gear up for any eventualities.Srikakulam district collector Shrikesh B Lathkar said there were reports of six fishermen, all belonging to Manchineelapeta village of Vazrapu Kothuru block, missing in the sea at the time of the Cyclone Gulab making the landfall. “However, five of them managed to swim ashore and another person is feared drowned in the sea,” he said.Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, who held a virtual meeting with district collectors and other officials over the impact of Cyclone Gulab, directed them to expedite relief measures in affected areas.He announced an ex gratia of ₹5 lakh to the families of the deceased, if any, during the cyclone, besides ₹1,000 to each affected family when they return from relief camps.Andhra Pradesh chief secretary Adityanath Das, who had been monitoring the situation from Visakhapatnam, told the chief minister that heavy gales at a speed of 80-90 km per hour caused extensive damage at several places in the north coastal parts of the state. There were reports of uprooting of trees and electric poles, but steps were taken to clear them immediately, the chief secretary said.He added that thousands of people from the affected areas were evacuated to safer areas. Relief measures are in full swing in Visakhapatnam city, which witnessed heavy waterlogging in several areas, including the roads leading to the airport. There was no disruption of flight services from Visakhapatnam, airport authorities confirmed.Several trains passing through north-coastal Andhra districts were cancelled in the last 24 hours, while some trains were running late. The Yeshwanthapur-Howrah Special Express was running five hours behind the schedule, besides Visakhapatnam-Guntur special train, Visakhapatnam-Hazrath Nizamuddin and Chennai Central-Howrah Express were also been three to eight hours behind schedule, according to East Coast Railway authorities.The Andhra CM instructed the authorities to restore power as soon as the rains subside and suggested to keep monitoring the situation every 30 minutes. He asked them to ensure adequate food and water, besides proper medical care to the people in the relief camps, people aware of the details said.Reddy also asked the officials to prepare the report on the enumeration of crop damage in a generous manner and provide immediate relief to farmers. The CM also ordered the authorities to move the people residing in the villages close to Vamsadhara and Nagavali rivers to the relief camps, as these two rivers are expected to receive flash floods due to heavy rains in Odisha, the people added.State disaster management commissioner K Kanna Babu said the Bay of Bengal continued to be turbulent due to cyclonic storm. He appealed to fishermen not to venture into the sea till Tuesday evening while asking the people of north-coastal Andhra not to come out of their houses.The Srikakulam district collector said there was a heavy impact of Cyclone Gulab in Santha Bommali and Vazrapu Kothuru blocks. “Electricity supply in entire Srikakulam district was affected due to uprooting of electric poles and damaging of power distribution network. Instructions have been issued to all the departments to take up restoration works. Teams of national and state disaster response forces are working round the clock to take up rescue operations,” the collector said.Rehabilitation centres were set up in 30 places in Srikakulam district and around 1,500 people were shifted to safer places. The district collectorate has set up a control room and issued toll free number, 08942240557, for those affected.Vizianagaram district witnessed heavy rains since Sunday night, with Gazapathinagaram block receiving the highest rainfall of 20 cm in the last 12 hours, followed by Pusapatirega (19 cm), Nellimarla (14 cm), Garividi (12 cm), Kothavalasa (11 cm) and Saluru (10 cm), officials said.Meanwhile, in Telangana, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao reviewed the rain situation in the state with chief secretary Somesh Kumar and other higher officials. He asked the authorities to ensure that all measures are taken to prevent loss of life and property.The chief secretary said services of NDRF teams in Hyderabad, Kottagudem and Warangal will be sought for rescue operations in the event of any such requirement. A separate control room will be set up in each district collectorate and information regarding the same will be provided to the control room set up in the secretariat, Kumar said.He added that the situation should be reviewed by appointing special officers at affected areas such as inland areas, ponds, ditches and bridges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-gulab-heavy-rains-batter-andhra-pradesh-red-alert-in-14-telangana-districts-101632769073025.html
28-09-2021||India||2 locals held for inciting violence during Assam eviction drive, say police||Assam Police on Monday arrested two persons for allegedly instigating violence during last week’s eviction drive in Darrang district, in which two civilians were killed and nearly 20 others, including 11 policemen, were injured. The clashes between those who were being evicted and the police took place on September 23 at Dholpur-3 village, located nearly 65 km away from Guwahati.District police officials familiar with the development said Chand Mamud, 47, a resident of Kirakara village and Asmat Ali Ahmed, 37, of Dholpur 3 were arrested in connection with a case registered at Sipajhar police station under several sections of Indian Penal Code, including criminal conspiracy, unlawful assembly, rioting with deadly weapon, wrongful restraint, causing grievous hurt to deter public servant from doing duty, assault and attempt to murder. Both are representatives of panchayat bodies in Dholpur.“The two were arrested for instigating the people to attack the police during the eviction drive. They were responsible for inciting violence in the area, which left two persons dead and several others injured, including 11 policemen,” a district official was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. The areas where the eviction drives are underway are part of Assam government’s Garukhuti Project, which aims to remove encroachers from 77,420 ‘bighas’ (25,595 acres) of land located on a massive sandbar close to the Brahmaputra river to hold agricultural and other allied activities for indigenous youths in the region.This year’s state budget mentioned that the government plans to “develop this cluster as a beacon of resurgent Assam” and earmarked ₹9.6 crore for it. Residents of these areas mostly comprise Bengali-speaking Muslims, many of whom are engaged in agriculture. Following the incident last week, the Assam government had decided to institute a judicial inquiry by a retired judge of Gauhati High Court. Assuring rehabilitation to deserving landless residents who have been evicted, chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had alleged on Saturday that there is evidence that the Popular Front of India (PFI) was involved in the violence during the eviction drive and has written to the Centre to ban the outfit. The PFI, however, denied the charge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-local-residents-arrested-for-inciting-violence-during-assam-eviction-drive-police-101632768889795.html
28-09-2021||India||Gulab after-effects may lead to cyclone on western coast : IMD||Cyclone Gulab, which made its landfall in Andhra Pradesh on Monday, may weaken further into a deep depression on Tuesday but intensify into a new cyclone later in the week, officials in India Meteorological Department (IMD) familiar with the developments said.The cyclonic storm is expected to turn into a well-marked low pressure area on Tuesday and emerge in the northeast Arabian sea and Gujarat coast around Thursday. The system may probably intensify on Friday, leading to the development of cyclone Shaheen in the region, the officials cited above said.“Though chances are less, we cannot rule out the possibility of its intensification into a cyclone. The low-pressure area (remnant of Gulab) will move westwards across central India, bringing a lot of rain in the region. It will cross Maharashtra and Gujarat as a low-pressure system. With an incursion of moisture from the Arabian Sea, the system will be reinvigorated. Rapid intensification of the low-pressure system cannot be ruled out now because the ocean and atmospheric conditions are favourable. The cyclone or depression will move towards northern parts of the Arabian Sea,” Sunitha Devi, in charge of cyclones at IMD, explained.In association with the system, winds are likely to strengthen along the western coast in the next two to three days. The monsoon trough is currently lying to the south of its normal position and is likely to remain there for the next four to five days, the weather body said.According to Devi, an east-west trough is also running from north Konkan to a cyclonic circulation associated with the deep depression over south Odisha. It is likely to persist for the next two days. A remnant from a cyclone over the Pacific has also emerged as a cyclonic circulation over east central Bay of Bengal. “These consecutive systems will bring widespread rain over different parts of the country for a week,” she said.Under the influence of these systems, very heavy rainfall to extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) is very likely at isolated areas over north coastal Andhra Pradesh, south Chhattisgarh, Vidarbha, Kerala and Telangana. Heavy to very heavy rainfall is also expected at isolated regions over south Odisha, central Maharashtra, Konkan, Gujarat, north interior Karnataka and Tamil Nadu for the next two days.Sea conditions, the IMD said, will be rough to very rough over west central and adjoining northwest Bay of Bengal, and along and off Andhra Pradesh and adjoining Odisha coasts on Monday night.As on Monday, there has been a 2% deficiency in monsoon rain over the country since June 1. There has been 10% excess rain over south Peninsula, 1% excess over central India, 4% deficiency over northwest India and 24% deficiency over east and northeast India.Patchy to scattered rain is also likely over several parts of northwest India, including Delhi-NCR, due to movement of the remnant of Gulab in a westerly direction. “We are only expecting scattered rain here. However there will be rain in many other parts of the country due to formation of low pressure systems one after the other mainly due to remnants coming from the Pacific. The monsoon season will officially end on September 30 but its withdrawal may be delayed,” K Sathi Devi, head of national weather forecasting centre, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gulab-after-effects-may-lead-to-cyclone-on-western-coast-imd-101632768829050.html
28-09-2021||India||Wildlife Institute of India drops MSc, PhD courses after losing affiliation||Wildlife Institute of India (WII) has suspended its doctoral programmes and postgraduate courses in wildlife science and heritage conservation and management after its affiliation to Rajkot-based Saurashtra University was withdrawn.Saurashtra University in Gujarat withdrew its affiliation earlier this year, citing a 2008 University Grants Commission circular that said that no off-campus study or outreach centre should be established by the university outside the territorial jurisdiction of the state, according to an official at WII, who declined to be named. “We do not have affiliation to any other university now,” said the official at the autonomous institute under the union environment ministry. WII director Dhananjai Mohan said: “The MSc and Phd programmes have been kept in abeyance because of some serious issues pointed by the office of the director general of audits. We are trying our best to get affiliation in Uttarakhand.” Conservationists and WII alumni are concerned about the sudden suspension. “The crown jewel of the academic programmes at WII is one of the oldest and most reputed Master’s courses for Wildlife Science in India. Its national and international impacts can be assessed by looking at the sheer number and contribution of ecologists and conservation leaders who were trained at WII,” the alumni wrote in an online petition to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on September 18.WII is a unique institution in Asia, where scientists, researchers, Indian Forest Service officers and policymakers work in close collaboration, enabling effective translation of research into policy, the alumni said.WII has been a centre for excellence for Saurashtra University since 1987.“We have Phd programmes under Forest Research Institute, which is a deemed University, and (also) under Saurashtra University. Those under Saurashtra University had to be suspended because of a Supreme Court orderwhich states that state universities cannot establish off-campus centres beyond the territorial jurisdiction of the concerned state. A UGC circular also states the same,” said a conservation scientist at WII. “This was brought to the notice of the administration when there was an internal audit a couple of years back. The administration should have acted immediately to get a fresh affiliation, which did not happen,” the scientist said, requesting anonymity. “Last year they tried to get affiliation from Doon University, but it did not materialise. So, the masters and Phd programmes had to be suspended.”“We are aware of the issue. They are also having issues with funding,” an environment ministry official said, but declined to be named. “We will discuss the matter with them.”The alumni of WII, which is running an online campaign to demand resumption of these programmes, tweeted last week: “So far, we have received 134 #signatures supporting the petition that includes @UniofOxford and @Cambridge_Uni. Consider urging @wiiofficial1 well-wishers and alumni you know to support us. MSc & PhD Courses delayed = #wildlife courses denied during #wildlife courses denied during #pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wildlife-institute-of-india-drops-msc-phd-courses-after-losing-affiliation-101632768588739.html
28-09-2021||India||4 men rape 2 UP girls in cyber cafe, extort ₹10,000 not to leak video: Police||Two girls, aged 15 and 16, were allegedly taken hostage and gangraped in a cyber cafe, in Uttar Pradesh’s Kannauj district, where they had gone to get some documents photocopied, police said on Monday.While one person has been arrested, three others were detained in connection with the case, they added.According to the police, the incident took place on September 13 when the minors had visited the cafe run by one of the accused. The girls alleged that they were held captive for several hours and raped by four men who also recorded a video of the incident. The accused later extorted ₹10,000 from the girls by threatening to circulate the clip, police said.The incident, however, came to light when the families of the two survivors found a huge amount of money missing from their homes, Kannauj superintendent of police Prashant Varma said. The 16-year-old alleged that she and her friend (second survivor) stole money from their respective houses to meet the accused’s demand. Subsequently, a first information report (FIR) was filed at Sadar Kotwali against four people under section 376 (rape) of Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act on the basis of the 16-year-old’s statement on Sunday night, Kannauj superintendent of police Prashant Varma said. While one person was arrested from Gorakhpur on Monday evening, the remaining three were nabbed from Kannauj district and detained.The girls, meanwhile, were sent to a district hospital for medical examination. Police said they found signs of prostitution from the cafe. One of the girls also told police that the wife of one of the accused made her phone calls, pressurising her into prostitution, the SP said.Bhanu Bhaskar, additional director general of police, Kanpur zone, said several teams were formed to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-girls-gang-raped-in-cyber-cafe-in-up-s-kannauj-district-say-police-101632768348618.html
28-09-2021||India||Police align with government, then have to pay back with interest: CJI Ramana||Police officers who do the bidding of a government have to “pay back with interest” when the political regime changes, cautioned the Supreme Court on Monday as it took a grim view of the “growing trend”.A bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana was emphatic that such police officers should not expect mercy from a court of law if they choose to align themselves with a particular party in power. “When you (police officer) are too close to the government, a day will come when you will be on the other side and will have to pay for your actions. When you are good with a government, you may extract money, benefits and all...then you have to pay back with interest when the government changes,” remarked the bench, which also comprised justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli. The comments came as the court heard a petition by suspended senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Gurjinder Pal Singh, who faces arrest in a case of extortion. Singh, who was on August 26 granted protection from arrest by the top court in two separate cases involving sedition and corruption charges in Chhattisgarh, approached the apex court for similar relief in a third case of extortion. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for the suspended officer, apprised the bench of the previous order and sought protection from arrest in the new case. The bench, however, expressed anguish at the state of affairs. “You cannot get protection in every case. You started extracting money because you were close with the government. This is what happens if you are close with the government and do such things...you have to pay back one day.”It added: “This is too much...why should we grant protection to such officers? This is a new and growing trend in the country. Why should we protect someone like you?” The senior lawyer replied that officers such as his client need the protection of the court because they are targeted out of vendetta. “This court had come across the facts in the previous cases when he (Singh) was protected from arrest earlier.” To this, the bench said that it would want to hear all the petitions filed by the IPS officer together. The court issued a notice to the Chhattisgarh government and fixed all three petitions for a detailed hearing on October 1. It clarified that Singh will not be arrested till the next date of hearing.In his first petition before the top court, the 1994-batch IPS officer asked for the quashing of a sedition FIR lodged at Raipur on July 8. This followed the FIR registered by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) for allegedly amassing assets.According to the Chhattisgarh Police, when Singh’s house was raided by ACB, the police found some pieces of paper in a drain behind the house which were later reconstructed into some notes and reports against various functionaries of the state government. As per the police, these were intended to tarnish the image of the government and destroy peace and harmony in the state. Subsequently, in addition to a corruption FIR, another FIR invoking the sedition charge was registered against Singh.The third FIR was lodged on a complaint by Kamal Kumar Sen, who cited an incident in 2015 when Singh allegedly extorted money from him after threatening to implicate him in a false case. Singh approached the top court after the high court on September 16 did not protect him from arrest.In his petitions, Singh has claimed that the criminal cases were foisted on him since he did not accede to a demand made by Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel to frame the previous chief minister of the state in certain cases of illegal gratification. Singh has pleaded that the cases be handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation for an unbiased probe. During the hearing of the first two petitions on August 26, the Supreme Court urged police officials to conduct themselves in a responsible way so that the rule of law can endure. It pointed out that till the time they keep favouring political parties, such instances will keep happening.“It is a very disturbing trend...In some way, the police department will have to be held responsible. Rule of law will not exist if police officers do not feel responsible and are made accountable for such behaviour,” the court said then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-align-with-government-then-have-to-pay-back-with-interest-cjiramana-101632767988606.html
28-09-2021||India||Bharat Bandh: Trains halted, highways blocked as farmers’ strike impacts states||The Bharat Bandh call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a collective of over 30 farmer organisations, affected Punjab, Haryana, western Uttar Pradesh, eastern Rajasthan and parts of northern Madhya Pradesh, but its impact in the rest of the country was limited to opposition parties and farm bodies holding symbolic protests.The 10-hour-long national strike was to mark one year of the Centre’s refusal to revoke three farm laws that the organisations are dead against.“There was an unprecedented response to Bharat Bandh,” SKM said in a statement. “The bandh was observed in almost all the states and memorandums were submitted to local government officials.”Among opposition leaders, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to talk to agitating farmers and listen to their legitimate grievances. “Kisano ka ahimsak satyagraha aaj bhi akhand hai, lekin shoshankar sarkar ko ye nahi pasand hai, isliye aaj Bharat Bandh hai (Farmers’ non-violent satyagraha is resolute even today, but the exploitative government does not like this and that’s why it is Bharat Bandh today),” he tweeted.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, however, said the strike was “politically motivated”.“The bandh is politically-motivated to mislead the people and create a divide in the society. Modi ji has tirelessly worked for benefit of farmers and have ensure they get maximum from participation of private players in agriculture sector while protecting their interests,” Reddy said.In Punjab, the protesters laid siege to nearly 500 locations, blocking interstate highways and key rail routes. Educational institutions and government offices reported thin attendance. According to the railways, 14 trains were cancelled, eight were rescheduled, and two short terminated in the Ferozepur rail division. In the Ambala division, 19 trains were cancelled and 15 rescheduled.Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi appealed the Centre to repeal the three farm laws. He held a meeting with his Cabinet colleagues and passed a resolution against the laws. “We urge the central government to repeal the three farm laws and accept demand of farmers,” a government statement read.“It is a near-total bandh in Punjab. The response is overwhelming. We are thankful to social organisations and farmer groups who have come out in support,” said Balbir Singh Rajewal, president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal), a constituent of SKM.In Haryana, the highways from Rohtak to Delhi, Hisar and Chandigarh were blocked for 10 hours, and rail traffic was hit due to protests in Sonepat and Jind districts. The strike also evoked total response in Rohtak, Hisar and Bhiwani, as most traders kept their business establishments closed. The entry and exit gates of Metro stations from Tikri to Bahadurgarh on the outskirts of Delhi were closed, officials said.SKM leader Inderjit Singh said, “Shopkeepers and small factory owners also shut their establishments in support of farmers till 4pm. We occupied highways and rail tracks to raise our voice, though medical staff and ambulances were allowed passage.”In western Uttar Pradesh, farm leader Rakesh Takait led the protests. Highways and roads were blocked in close to 200 locations including the Delhi-Agra expressway. There was, however, little or impact of the strike in central, eastern or Bundelkhand regions of the state. The strike was peaceful as adequate police and security was deployed at different places and they helped stranded vehicles to travel through alternative routes, officials said.Bhartiya Kisan Union’s media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said the strike was successful, and received support from lawyers and traders across districts. “We would continue our fight for rights of farmers,” Malik said.In Madhya Pradesh, where protests were held at agriculture produce markets (mandis), some shops remained closed in cities such as Indore, Gwalior, Jabalpur, Ujjain and Mandsaur. In Bhopal’s Karond Mandi, former chief minister Digvijaya Singh of the Congress party joined the protest, and requested farmer leaders to invite politicians from both the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party to fight against the central government’s three farm bills.The response in Rajasthan was mixed, with farmer organisations taking out rallies in every district, but roads were blocked only in eastern and northern parts of the state. Convener of the All India Kissan Sabha, Sanjay Madhav, said more such protests will take place in the coming days.In the eastern states of Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal, the strike call evoked a tepid response, with political parties such as Communist Party of India (Marxist) in West Bengal and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) in Bihar blocking traffic at some locations in the morning. RJD lawmakers and workers burnt tyres to disrupt traffic and forced closure of shops at several locations.In Jharkhand, the ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha and Congress held symbolic protests, with shops closed in smaller towns having influence of Left labour unions, officials said. There was no impact of the strike in the northeastern states, officials said.Among the southern states, the strike had some impact in Kerala, where the ruling Left and the opposition Congress supported the bandh. In Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, farmer bodies held symbolic protests in the state capitals, Bengaluru and Chennai, and in some district headquarters.Bengaluru Police arrested some farmers from Maurya Circle in the city to prevent them from protesting, said Kurubur Shanthakumar, a farmer leader from Karnataka.Devendra Sharma, an expert on farm issues, said the government should listen to the farmers as they know what is best for them. “Across the world, there are examples where farmers have lost income in the long run due to the introduction of the corporate sector. Countries have come up with provisions to protect farm produce prices,” he said.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-bandh-trains-halted-highways-blocked-as-farmers-strike-impacts-states-101632767809485.html
28-09-2021||India||Kerala HC declines to stay single bench order on early second jab||A division bench of the Kerala high court on Monday declined to stay an order by a single judge bench of the court directing the Union government to the allow the administration of the second dose of Covishield vaccine after a four-week gap to people who wanted it.Declining an interim stay, bench of chief justice S Manikumar and justice Shaji P Chaly posted the plea for further hearing on Thursday.The Centre moved the court questioning the order, on September 6, saying it was not in tune with the vaccine policy of the government. The counsel for the government, assistant solicitor general P Vijayakumar, contended that the verdict will affect the ongoing vaccination drive and create more confusion.Last month, justice PB Suresh Kumar ordered the Union government to allow the second dose of vaccine after a gap of four weeks for those who wanted to take it early, and directed it to make necessary changes in the CoWin portal to facilitate this. The verdict came on a petition filed by the Kitex Group, a Kochi-based apparel making unit, last month questioning 84-day gap between two doses of vaccine.The gap between two doses of Covishield, the Indian version of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine, was increased from 4-6 weeks in January to 12-16 weeks in May. While the government cited scientific evidence for this, it was widely believed that the gap was also increased to account for a shortage of vaccines. The gap between two doses of the other vaccine widely administered in India, Covaxin, has stayed constant at 4-6 weeks.People who need the vaccine to travel for higher studies, however, are allowed to take the jab after four weeks on furnishing visa documents.The single Judge on September 3 had said that if the central and state governments can permit persons travelling abroad to choose between early and better protection from Covid-19, there is no reason why the same privilege cannot be extended to those here who want early protection in connection with their employment or education.On this, the Centre, in its appeal, has said it had offered relaxations in favour of certain persons who were a separate class by themselves and for valid reasons and Kitex cannot claim parity with them.However, in its September 6 order, the high court asked the Union government to allow the administration of the second dose of the Covishield vaccine after a gap of four weeks for those wishing to take the jab early, and willing to pay for it. It also asked the Union government to make necessary changes on the CoWin portal.On Monday, P Vijayakumarsaid any changes in the vaccine policy can be carried out on necessary approvals by a scientific or medical team, and needs clinical trials, and will delay the entire process.But experts have disputed this. Last week, NK Arora, the head of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) said having a different dosing regime for different people is not possible. He also said that scientifically, evidence supports a longe gap.“Scientifically we are very firm on our decision at the moment. But of course, it is a dynamic situation, and if in future there is data to support benefits of reducing the gap, then our experts will look at it. The decision will be driven purely by science,” he told HT on Wednesday.Earlier, on August 27,the Union government opposed the plea saying that 84-day gap between two doses of vaccine was related to efficacy and it was nothing to do with the shortage of doses. It also cited the study of the national expert group on vaccination administration for Covid-19 -- which said what -- to support its point.Kitex, in its plea, contended that it had vaccinated around 5,000 of its workforce with the first dose but unable to administer the second dose due to the prevailing restrictions. It sought judicial intervention to speed up the process in view of high cases in the state and cited recent relaxations allowed by the state and central governments for students, and others.Earlier on September 6, the company counsel had said that if the shorter period was not allowed the vaccines it had bought would get wasted.In United Kingdom, the gap between two doses of Astra Zeneca (called Covisheild in India) is 12 weeks. Recommended gap for two doses of Pfizer in United states is 21 days. “Gap is good as it gives extended immunity and many studies have proven it. I feel at least six-week gap is necessary for efficacy,” said public health expert Dr Padmanabha Shenoy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-hc-declines-to-stay-single-bench-order-on-early-second-jab-101632767403916.html
28-09-2021||India||UP govt allots portfolios to 7 new ministers||Lucknow: Portfolios were allotted on Monday to the seven new ministers, a day after they were sworn in as members of the Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh.Cabinet minister Jitin Prasada has been given charge of the technical education department of Uttar Pradesh.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who held the charge of technical education department portfolio with him up to now, gave information about the distribution of portfolios to the new ministers through a post on social media late on Monday evening.“All the ministers inducted into Uttar Pradesh ministry yesterday have been given responsibilities of departments. I am sure the respective departments will achieve new heights under your able, experienced and diligent leadership,” the CM tweeted.The governor allocates portfolios to ministers on the recommendation of the chief minister.Besides giving charge of the technical education department to Prasada, the chief minister said minister of state Paltu Ram has been allocated Sainik Kalyan (ex-servicemen welfare), home guards, Prantiya Rakshak Dal (PRD) and civil defence departments. Minister of state Chhatrapal Singh Gangwar has been allocated the revenue department. The chief minister holds the charge of these departments allocated to Paltu Ram and Gangwar as ministers of state.Sangeeta Balwant has been made the minister of state for cooperative department, led by cabinet minister Mukut Bihari Verma. Minister of state Dharamvir Prajapati has been allocated industrial development department. He will work with minister for industrial development Satish Mahana. Minister of state Sanjiv Kumar has been allocated social welfare department to work with Ramapati Shastri, who is the cabinet minister. Minister of state Dinesh Khatik has been given responsibility of the Jal Shakti and flood control departments for which Mahendra Singh is the cabinet minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-govt-allots-portfolios-to-7-new-ministers-jitin-prasada-gets-technical-education-department-101632767330743.html
28-09-2021||India||Accept Google’s all requests regarding confidentiality, CCI tells Delhi HC||New Delhi: The Competition Commission of India (CCI) on Monday informed the Delhi high court that it has no objection in accepting all requests by Google regarding confidentiality in the interests of expediting proceedings related to an investigation into the technology company’s agreements with smartphone makers for its Android OS.Justice Rekha Palli was informed by Additional Solicitor General (ASG) N Venkatraman that even though CCI stands by the legality of its September 8 order in which it rejected Google’s appeal to reconsider the confidentiality issue, it is accepting the company’s request to fast track the ongoing investigation. The court was hearing a plea by Google against the leak of sensitive information such as revenue figures, payments made to partners, key agreements with partner OEMs, market shares, etc. to the press in an ongoing investigation by the Competition Commission of India (CCI).Google last week moved the high court seeking an ex-parte injunction directing CCI to ensure that there is no further publication of any part of the Director General’s Report available with the media outlets after several reported parts of the report.The plea sought that CCI write to all media outlets that claim to have a copy of the DG Report or have reported on it requesting them to return all copies and materials in relation to the case or to confirm to CCI that they have destroyed all copies.Additionally, it also sought that the order of September 8, passed by CCI rejecting Google’s appeal against the Director General’s order to reconsider the confidentiality issues, be set aside.On Monday, the ASG maintained his earlier stand that CCI did not leak any information to the media and submitted that the assumption of leak was wrong. He said that an enquiry into the same has been ordered.“CCI was willing to maintain confidentiality..,” the ASG said and wished Google on its 23rd birthday.“It is Google’s 23rd birthday today. We greet them through their counsel and wish them all the best.”Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, for Google, said that in view of the submissions by CCI, its grievances stood satisfied.Taking note of the submissions, Justice Palli disposed of the pleaThe court, however, said that in case Google has any further grievance that the information is being leaked it will be open to take legal recourse.“This court has not expressed any opinion on the claims made by the petitioner (Google) that it is respondent 1 (CCI) which is responsible for the said leaks,” the judge said.Google has said that the “unlawful disclosure” of the Director General’s Report and CCI’s failure to preserve confidentiality “severely affects their right to conduct business, damages its reputation, is prejudicial and renders its rights of defense and due process redundant in proceedings before the CCI and the DG”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/accept-google-s-all-requests-regarding-confidentiality-cci-tells-delhi-high-court-101632766729608.html
28-09-2021||India||In Kerala, Muslim woman performs last rites at crematorium||At the break of dawn, 29-year-old Subeena Rahman, a Muslim woman, is busy cremating a body in Kerala’s Thrissur district.While there are no relatives around because the middle-aged man died of Covid-19, Rahman, clad in protective gear, lights a lamp and performs basic rituals she learned from Hindu friends in order to give the departed a decent final journey.Rahman has been working as a cremator for the past three years in a Hindu cremation ground at Irinjalakuda in Thrissur. Initially, there were loud protests from her community as well as from Hindus, but all came around after noticing her commitment towards her work.According to the Hindu tradition in many parts of the country, women usually don’t accompany the deceased to cremation grounds. An undergraduate (she is yet to complete her B Com), Rahman was initially recruited as a clerk at SNBS Samajam crematorium. Later she took up all jobs like her two assistants.Now, the three employees share their work and each body fetches them ₹500 in fees, which they divide among themselves. Earlier, three to five bodies were cremated every day at the gas-based crematorium, but the number has increased to 10 to 12 due to Covid-19.“After every cremation, I pray no more bodies, but I need money also. It is a big conflict between my need and emotions. A number of times I cried in my PPE (personal protective equipment) kits. But as an employee, we are not supposed to show our emotions in public,” Rahman said.She candidly admitted her work was not part of women’s lib or breaking of another glass ceiling. She said she knocked at many doors as the situation in her home deteriorated, and when the offer came to be a crematorium clerk, she grabbed the opportunity.“Initially, some of them took a dig calling me a tandoor maker. When they criticise, I do ask them to give me a proper job. But they have no answer to offer. I have to keep my hearth burning,” she said, adding her husband KV Rahman fully supports her. They have an eight-year-old son.“I know this is a job any woman would hate to take up, but situation at home was really compelling,” she said, recalling how her husband was without work for many months after the outbreak of Covid-19. Her father, who worked as a woodcutter, is bedridden after a near-fatal fall. Her mother is also down with lifestyle ailments. The family’s economic condition broke down after her sister was married off, Rahman said.“We are staying on rent. I have to meet my son’s school fees also. Thanks to this job we manage it somehow,” she said, while acknowledging that people who looked down upon her have started recognising her work. “It is a profession for me. If people feel it’s a taboo, let them. I am least bothered,” she said.SNBS Samajam president MK Viswambharan recalled how initially he was reluctant to hire a woman for cremation work. “When she came to us three years ago, we initially discouraged her, saying a woman that too from a different community will pose problems. But she was persistent and told us she viewed it as a vocation. A hardworking woman, she is fully committed to her job and we never had any problems with her,” said Viswambharan.SNBS Samajam is a social organisation working for the uplift of Ezhavas, the largest Hindu community in Kerala, comprising roughly 23% of the state’s population. Viswambharan said besides Hindus, members of the Christian community also use the SNBS crematorium.Rahman recalled an unusual experience when a cremation was booked for 2.30 pm, but the body did not arrive until 3 pm. When she enquired, she was told “the old man was yet to die.”She said it takes at least two hours to get the ashes after cremation, and on some days, she has to work for almost 14 hours.Talking about her job, she said cremating young accident victims (mainly two-wheeler drivers) and children really moves her, but she has least regard for those who die by suicide.Rahman wants to become a police officer and has started preparing to complete her graduation. Despite her long duty hours and domestic chores, she keeps abreast of the world around her. She won ₹1.50 lakh in a TV reality show (Flowers Channel) on Sunday. “I dream of a world where there is no hate or mad race. All religions exhort us to love each other,” she said.“Subeena is very particular about the customs of different communities. When my mother died of Covid-19 last year, she arranged a priest in a PPE kit to do her last rites. She is a symbol of brotherhood,” said PK Dayanandan, a schoolteacher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-kerala-muslim-woman-performs-last-rites-at-crematorium-101632766429728.html
28-09-2021||India||ED questions Rajasthan CM AShok Gehlot’s elder brother in PMLA case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday questioned Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s elder brother Agrasain Gehlot in connection with a money laundering probe against him and others linked to the alleged illegal export of fertilisers meant for Indian farmers, people familiar with the development said.Gehlot appeared at the agency’s headquarters in Delhi along with his lawyer around 11.30 am, following which his statement was recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).The agency had raided his office premises in July last year, around the time a political slugfest was going on in the ruling Congress in the state between his chief minister brother and then deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot.The Rajasthan high court last week asked Agrasain Gehlot to cooperate with the probe, while ordering the central anti-money laundering agency not to take any coercive action against him, people cited above said on condition of anonymity.ED’s money laundering probe is based on an investigation by the customs department and the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) in 2009 in the export of muriate of potash (MOP) worth ₹57 lakh in 12 consignments the same year. MOP is a restricted commodity for export under India’s foreign trade policy.The customs department’s investigation report, reviewed by HT, states that Agrasain Gehlot’s company – M/s Anupam Krishi – allegedly played a key role in the irregularities. It is suspected that the MOP was exported to companies in Malaysia and Singapore.The customs probe report states that Agrasain Gehlot “knowingly opted to become a part of the syndicate in the entire chain of conspiracy by facilitating the said consortium (of private companies) by supplying subsidized MOP, which was meant for sale to farmers only and forged documents for which he admittedly gained certain amount as his commission”.(Comments to be updated after examination gets over)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-questions-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-s-elder-brother-in-pmla-case-101632766368296.html
28-09-2021||India||‘Goa unit cruel parody of Congress’: Ex-CM Luizinho Faleiro quits, may join TMC||Former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro on Monday resigned as member of Goa legislative assembly and from the primary membership of the Congress, alleging that the party had become a “cruel parody of what the Congress stands for”.Speculations are rife that Faleiro, who was recently made the Goa Congress’s campaign committee chief for the state polls next year, is likely to join the Trinamool Congress soon. He is also expected to travel to Kolkata on Tuesday.In his resignation letter to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, the Congress leader claimed that the Goa unit of the party is led by a “coterie” of leaders whose priority is personal gains. “Madam, the Congress in Goa is not the same party for which we had sacrificed and fought. It is functioning contrary to every ideal and principle of its founding fathers upheld by Smt Indiraji, Shri Raviji and you,” he wrote. “Shri Rahul Gandhi too has been uncompromising in his fight against the forces that seek to destroy the fabric of our nation. However, the Goa unit of the party has become a cruel parody of what the Congress stands for. Led by a coterie of leaders who prioritize personal gains over the responsibility we owe to our people. We have utterly failed to be an effective opposition... I see absolutely no hope or even the will to prevent the collapse of the party and the change for the better,” he added. Faleiro was a member of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) and was known to be close to Sonia. The MLA from Navelim assembly seat handed over a terse resignation letter to Speaker Rajesh Patnekar shortly after noon. “I, Luizinho Faleiro, hereby tender my resignation of my seat in the house w.e.f. 27th Sep 2021. I thank the people of #Navelim for placing their trust in me & look forward to their continued support in all future endeavors. #Goa #newbeginnings,” he tweeted. Minutes before resigning, Faleiro heaped praises on West Bengal chief minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee, saying the country needs a leader like her to take on Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“I have been a Congressman for 40 years and I will continue to be a Congressman of the Congress family. This family has to come together if we have to fight Modi. Among all the four Congresses, it is Mamata Banerjee who has given a tough fight to Modi and their juggernaut… the Mamata formula has won. She has been able to stand. We in Goa are also going through difficult times. We need such fighters. I would like all the larger parties to come together and fight the next Parliament elections,” he told reporters. “I interacted with my constituents from Navelim, they are my family, and it was important to me to seek their blessings for a #NewBeginning. I might be old, but my blood is young. I am determined to change things. Let’s end this suffering of #Goans and bring a new dawn in #Goa,” he added. Following a bitterly-fought and intense battle with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Banerjee and her party swept the West Bengal assembly elections in May this year and returned to power.Faleiro had earlier remained tight-lipped on his political plans only revealing that he had met members of the Indian Political Action Committee (IPAC) led by political strategist Prashant Kishor as part of their regular surveys in Goa. While on Monday, he did not declare that he was joining the TMC, he hinted at a possible announcement. Faleiro dismissed reports that he was peeved at the party high command’s decision to stick with incumbent state Congress chief Girish Chodankar, who succeeded him back in 2017. “The leadership role they would have given me anytime. My Goa is suffering, my Goa is bleeding and I will fight for Goa. I am a Congressman. I believe in the Congress ideology, philosophy and programmes. I will never join any other party other than Congress,” he said. He said his resignation was to start a ‘movement’ to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “Today my Goa is suffering from maladministration, bleeding because of wrong policies, programmes and I cannot allow Goa to bleed. My resignation is a call for a unification. The Congress of Jawarharlal Nehru and Sardar Vallabbhai Patel was not a party but a movement. I belong to the Congress family, ideology and for what Congress has stood for. The Congress is a divided Congress, there is a need for a unified Congress and those leaders who have shown the way to fight BJP,” he said. ‘It is my dream that in this assembly election we start but in Parliamentary elections ,we should all come together and ensure a movement. Goa needs a credible alternative. My resignation is a call for unification,” he added. With his resignation, the Congress’s strength in the 40-member Goa assembly has been reduced to four. The Congress had won 17 seats in the 2017 state assembly elections, but later a number of MLAs resigned from the party. In July 2019, 10 MLAs quit the party and joined the ruling BJP. Besides Faleiro, several of his loyalists also quit the party earlier in the day. Faleiro was elected to the Goa Legislative Assembly in 1979 and has represented the Navelim constituency since then, except between 2007 and 2017, when he lost the seat to rival Churchill Alemão of the Save Goa Front. Alemão is presently a Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) legislator. Faleiro has had short stints as chief minister during Goa’s turbulent political years when the state saw 13 chief ministers in 12 years between 1990 and 2002. In 1999, when he served as chief minister, he travelled on a junket to Australia only to return to find his place taken by Francisco Sardinha, the present Congress South Goa MP. As general secretary of AICC from 2013 till 2017, he was in-charge of the seven north eastern states of Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Tripura. The TMC’s entry into Goa’s political space is likely to further splinter an already crowded political space in the state. Besides the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress, the Goa Forward Party with three MLAs, the NCP and the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) with one MLA each also are vying for a slice of power. Trinamool MLA Derek O’Brien was in Goa over the weekend and announced that the party was “very serious” about contesting the upcoming polls in Goa but didn’t divulge any detailed plans.Reacting to the developments, Congress Goa incharge Dinesh Gundu Rao said that Faleiro had opted for a ‘voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) package’. “Sometimes when you are retiring, you take a VRS. This could be a VRS. When you feel that now there is nothing for me here, just take something and go. I was not convinced by anything he was saying. It was only very pure I would say, self motivation was there. It is sad that people at the fag end of their careers take these kind of decision... I wish him luck,” Rao said. “For the moment, it is a psychological disadvantage for the Congress because it gives the impression that it is a sinking ship. Faleiro himself is in the twilight of his political career and was unlikely to be re-elected. Beyond that, however, the damage the TMC can potentially cause will be determined by how many people they can bring into the fold and their capacity to split the anti-BJP vote,” political analyst Cleofato Almeida Coutinho said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-unit-cruel-parody-of-congress-ex-cm-luizinho-faleiro-quits-party-may-join-tmc-101632766008378.html
28-09-2021||India||Tired of asking for special status for state, dropping demand: Bihar minister||Bihar’s planning minister Bijendra Yadav on Monday objected to the Niti Aayog’s way of ranking states based on the index of sustainable development goals (SDGs), and said the eastern state needed special assistance from the Centre for faster development.“We have dropped the demand for the status of a special state, as we are now tired of asking for it from the Centre. But now we are seeking special packages for all sectors,” Yadav, an influential member of chief minister Nitish Kumar’s cabinet, said in his remarks on the government think tank’s 2020-21 report that ranked Bihar at the bottom of the table.The state government had sent a memorandum to the Niti Aayog, asking for change in the way to evaluate progress, Yadav said. “The state registered remarkable growth in 10 out of 15 SDG index as compared to last year. But there are some areas, which the state can’t compete with other states owing to its natural limitations, for which the state requires a special package,” the minister said.Buttressing his claim, Yadav said Bihar stands at the front on progress in health care. “Bihar ranked the 5th in case of potable water and sanitation sector. In per capital development expenditure index, the state grew by 17.9% over the last year as compared to the national average of 11.6%. Total fertility rate has come down to 3 (2019-20) vis-à-vis 3.8 in 2011. Still, the state’s progress was adjudged to the bottom,” said Yadav, adding that life expectancy has also improved considerably in the province.The Niti Aayog chose unrealistic data to assess Bihar on the index based on percentage of population below the poverty line, Yadav alleged. “The state can’t help improve on the index for quality employment and economic development based on the number of automated teller machines (ATMs), as it depended on the discretion of banks. Moreover, the index that assess the state based on the percentage of the forest cover to development was not justifiable. The state did well when assessed on the index of change in forest cover, which was done away with in the latest assessment,” the minister pointed out.Through the memorandum, the minister demanded that the index and objectives of development to assess the status of states by Niti Aayog should be finalised in consultation with the states. “Special assistance shall be doled out to those states, which are backwards but striving to grow faster. The Niti Aayog shall frame short, medium and long-term strategies for different states depending on their limitations to achieve the SDGs for progress,” the memorandum said.This is the second time in the recent past when the state government has sounded a dissenting note with the central government. Taking exception to the Centre’s refusal to a caste-based census, the demand for which an all-party delegation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi made on August 23, chief minister Nitish Kumar urged the central government to rethink its decision.The ruling Janata Dal (United) has been demanding the status of a special state for Bihar since 2012. It was a main political agenda of the party during the state’s assembly polls last year. The state legislature had in the past passed unanimous resolutions, asking for the special status to Bihar.However, it was not considered by the Centre. “Even the special package promised by Prime Minister Modi during 2019 election rallies were not considered,” said Prem Chandra Mishra, a leader of the opposition Congress party. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tired-of-asking-for-special-status-for-state-dropping-demand-bihar-minister-bijendra-yadav-101632765948467.html
28-09-2021||India||Indian scientists working on 1st ever dengue DNA vaccine||The world’s first DNA vaccine was approved for use in India recently. Developed by the Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila, ZyCoV-D is, as the name indicates, is a vaccine against Covid-19. Now, some researchers believe the technology -- considered superior because DNA vaccines are easier to make and store, and, most importantly store an enormous amount of information -- can be used to develop a vaccine for another tropical disease, dengue, a viral infection transmitted by mosquitoes.“We know that there are four serotypes of the virus, but what we found was that there were genetic variations within the serotypes -- any sequence with over 6% difference is considered to be a different genotype. So, the team created a consensus sequence that is the same across the genotypes as well,” said Dr Easwaran Sreekumar, senior scientist at Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology-Thiruvananthapuram and one of the corresponding authors of the yet-to-be peer-reviewed paper uploaded on MedRxiv. With the DNA vaccine platform allowing them to pick pieces of genetic material that can be used in the vaccine, the researchers resorted to sequencing the virus from four regions in the country that report dengue cases and selecting the common parts.The virus that causes dengue has four types with four different viral antigens – essentially proteins that cause the infection and against which antibodies are created. The researchers selected a part called EDIII (short for envelope protein domain III) from all the four serotypes of the virus, which is widely considered the most important viral protein. In addition, the researchers also selected the NS1 protein from the DENV2 serotype, which is known to cause severe dengue with internal bleeding and drop in blood pressure. “In the traditional vaccines, the whole envelope protein is used that can lead to Antibody Dependant Enhancement (a phenomenon where the viral antigen is bound to less effective antibodies, something that actually makes the virus more effective) . We have used only the domain III of the envelope protein from all four serotypes to avoid ADE. And, we have added the NS1 protein from DENV2 that is known to generate both T cell and B cell response,” said Dr Arun Sankaradoss, project lead and scientist at Tata Institute of Fundamental Research-Bangalore. T and B cells are lymphocyte or white blood cells that are part of the immune system. This, they say, is likely to provide effective immune response against all four serotypes of the virus, without causing ADE or antibody-dependent enhancement where antibodies generated against some of the serotypes by the vaccine can lead to a severe disease by the other serotypes. This is what is believed to have happened with the only approved vaccine against dengue, where the vaccinated individuals developed more severe disease in the Phillipines. The vaccine uses live weakened virus to elicit immune response. The DNA technology based vaccine candidate was tested on a mice model for DENV2 dengue and a good response was seen. “We still do not have mice models for the other three serotypes; we are trying to create it. The vaccine candidate was found to be protective in the mice model and also neutralised the other three serotypes of the virus effectively in lab experiments. It is usually the DENV2 against which the immune response is the least and we have tested that,” said Sreekumar. This is the second dengue vaccine candidate from India, with the other one being developed by researchers from International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (ICGEB). The ICGEB vaccine uses a virus-like particle using the same EDIII portion of the dengue virus. “So far, DNA vaccines hadn’t been successful in producing good immune response; but with ZyCoV-D we now have a safe and effective DNA vaccine. It is a very versatile platform. It brings down the manufacturing cost. It is stable at room temperature for a year, and at 4 degrees forever. This means it will be a very good candidate for resource constrained settings. That is the reason we have also used sequences from Eastern Africa for the vaccine,” said Sankaradoss. Globally, there are at least five vaccines under development against dengue. Traditionally, the four serotypes have posed a challenge for dengue vaccine. Once developed, the vaccines cannot only help India but the neighbouring countries. Asia contributes nearly 70% of the total dengue burden in the world. The World Health Organisation estimates that there are 390 million dengue virus infections every year, of which 96 million become symptomatic. One hundred twenty-six countries or territories saw dengue infections according to Global Burden Disease (GBD) 2019. The global number of dengue episodes increased 85.47% from 30.67 million in 1990 to 56.88 million in 2019, highlighting the importance of developing an effective vaccine against the viral disease that is a major public health concern globally. “The dengue vaccine is very important as there are pockets across the country that report a flare up in cases every few years, and lead to deaths especially in children like we saw in Firozabad. A vaccine can prevent these deaths. Dengue cases are going up not just in urban centres but also across the rural parts of the country wherever construction activities such as for the roads are being undertaken,” said Dr PL Joshi, former head of the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-scientists-working-on-1st-ever-dengue-dnavaccine-101632765827609.html
28-09-2021||India||Modi launches digital Ayushman health IDs||The Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission (ABDM), through which every citizen can voluntarily create a unique digital health ID containing all medical records, has begun rolling out nationwide, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Monday.“Today we are launching a mission that has the potential of bringing a revolutionary change in India’s health facilities,” the Prime Minster said. “The way technology is being deployed in governance reforms today is unprecedented.”The health ID will collect details such as demographics and location, family and relationship, and contact details. It will then be used to uniquely identify people, authenticating them and threading in their health records.
28-09-2021||India||Bandh in Bharat brings chaos to Capital’s doors||Several of the Capital’s borders were choked on Monday morning as the police set up barricades in response to the nationwide shutdown called by farmer groups opposing three laws passed exactly a year ago, stranding thousands of rush hour commuters in hours-long jams.Transport and businesses within Delhi were unaffected, but interstate and intercity connections were hit, particularly in Punjab and Haryana, where people sat in protests at national highways and railway lines. In all, the Indian railways said roughly 50 trains were affected until the protesters vacated the tracks.The Bharat Bandh was in force from 6am to 4pm, and marked the anniversary of the Union government passing three farm laws that farmer groups oppose. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said the response was “good” from across the country, and contended it proved that the issue resonated across the country. “Some people had described the protest as an issue of farmers only in three states (Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh). But the response and support to today’s bandh across the country has proved that it is a pan-India protest,” said the national spokesperson of the BKU, which is part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha – a collective of roughly 40 farmer groups. “Some people may have faced inconvenience due to the Bharat Bandh today, which is natural, but they should forget it for just one day in the name of farmers,” Tikait said in a statement.Among the worst hit was the Delhi-Gurugram border, where traffic moved slowly for the first half of the day. Other stretches that were badly hit were around Ghazipur and Noida. In most of these places, Delhi Police put up security barricades, often randomly checking cars. “To keep a check on law and order due to the Bharat Bandh, we barricaded a section of Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway at the Sirhaul toll plaza. There was no fixed time for setting up the barricades as such and we could have continued with it for the rest of the day had there not been heavy traffic congestion arising on the national highway from it. We opened more lanes for traffic movement around 10.30am and reduced the barricades,” said Ingit Pratap Singh, deputy commissioner of police (south-west), Delhi Police.Gurugram police officials said there was no gathering of protesters or any disruption on the national highway on Monday. The traffic backlog due to the security checkposts stretched to about 2km into Gurugram. But farmers gathered at one of the other Delhi borders. “Our protesters also staged sit-ins on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway and the Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME), besides the Delhi-Meerut Road. Our call was largely successful. We, however, did not stop any emergency services. We regret the inconvenience to commuters but would like to say that our agitation -- which has been going on for the past 10 months -- is for them,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, farmer leader and UP-Gate site spokesperson from Samyukta Kisan Morcha.As protesters closed down DME at UP Gate, commuters were forced to use other border roads near EDM Mall, Anand Vihar, Surya Nagar, and Seemapuri, leading to heavy traffic on these narrower stretches. “Farmers staged sit-ins at many spots of the DME. Vehicular movement was also affected on Eastern Peripheral Expressway and the Dasna to Hapur section of the DME,” said Mudit Garg, project director, National Highway Authority of India (NHAI).The Ghaziabad traffic police said that the sit-in by protesting farmers ended around 4:15pm.Traders in major markets of Ghaziabad said that they did not down their shutters or support the Bharat Bandh, because they had already suffered financial losses when they had to shut down operations due to pandemic-related restrictions last year.“Our traders have already been facing losses since last year due to the pandemic. So we kept our shops open and did not support the Bharat Bandh call. There were traffic disruptions, which delayed the arrival of our employees at shops, but shops were not closed,” said Pradeep Gupta, convener of Vyapari Ekta Samiti, a traders’ union in Indirapuram, Ghaziabad.At the city’s biggest market in Turab Nagar, shops were open as usual, but traders’ association members said that footfall was low.As hundreds of protesters gathered at the several highways and railway tracks, crowds at the three Delhi borders – Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri – that have become home to a constant sit-in for the last 10 months remained thin.Protesters across the three agitation spots said that several among them had camped at the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) expressway while many others had returned to their villages to work on the fields. Tikait added that the agitation will go on. “If need be, we will continue our protest for the next 10 years. People will say that the Bharat Bandh was a flop, but it is not the case. It has been successful. As part of the protest, we only held up roads and it was not like sealing the roads. If the union agriculture minister calls us for talks, we will go,” he said. Farmer union leaders and the central government have held 11 rounds of talks, but each time the talks have ended in a stalemate. The last time the two parties held talks was on January 22.The government has defended the laws as opening the path to long due reforms, but farmer groups have argued that it will erode their earnings and expose them to coercive trade by big businesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bandh-in-bharat-brings-chaos-to-capital-s-doors-101632765652901.html
28-09-2021||India||SC pulls up govt over changes in NEET-SS entrance pattern||The Supreme Court on Monday told the Union government not to “treat doctors like footballs”, and gave it a week to reconsider its decision on last-minute changes in the entrance examination pattern for super speciality medical courses.The National Eligibility Entrance Test for super specialty courses (NEET-SS) is to be held on November 13 and 14. The examination was notified on July 23, but on August 31, the National Board of Examinations (NBE) came out with an information booklet announcing a change in the examination pattern starting this year.This led to complaints from doctors sitting for the exam since they had prepared based on the pattern used since 2018. NBE’s decision was challenged in the apex court by 41 doctors led by Prateek Rastogi, and notices was issued last week seeking a response from the Centre.A bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna on Monday pulled up the government for its late decision. “You can’t play with the lives of these young doctors in this manner. What was the urgency for you to change the examination pattern after the notification for the examination is issued? Just because somebody has power, you think you can wield it in any manner. Don’t treat these doctors as footballs in this game of power,” the bench said.The Union ministry of health & family welfare was represented by additional solicitor general (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati, NBE by senior advocate Maninder Singh, and the National Medical Commission (NMC) by advocate Gaurav Sharma.The bench asked the three lawyers to get their clients to consider deferring the decision for this year since the doctors have put in years of preparation, and are to appear for the examination in just two months. “We are dissatisfied with the way the authorities have acted. Be prepared for strictures to be passed on next date if you cannot set your own house in order. We cannot allow these young doctors to be placed at the mercy of these insensitive bureaucrats,” the bench said.In all, roughly 16,000-17,000 post graduate doctors appear for NEET-SS for admission to DM, M.Ch (Master of Surgery) and DrNB (Doctorate of National Board) for getting admission to over 4700 seats.The information booklet for NEET-SS released on August 31 said that all the questions would be from general medicine, which is a feeder course. Since 2018, 60% of the questions for the exam have been from the super specialty course opted for by the candidate, and 40% of the questions from the feeder category, which also included general medicine.The petition by the doctors, filed through advocate Javedur Rehman ,said: “The petitioner aspirants who have had the most challenging experiences of their professional lives in this time, being at the forefront of the battle against Covid-19, have all through this period prepared for the NEET-SS 2021 exam legitimately expecting that the pattern is unchanged, just like it was in the previous three years.”Finding fault with the proposed new pattern, the petition argued that if all questions are from general medicine, it will put students from four of five broad postgraduate specialities at a serious disadvantage. Postgraduates from general medicine, anaesthesiology, emergency medicine, paediatrics, and respiratory medicine are all eligible for Doctorate of Medicine (DM) course.Singh, who represented NBE, told the court that changing the examination pattern was not a last-minute decision. “The authorities are mindful of the situation. The exercise for change of examination was going on for a while. The final notification got delayed as NBE was under an impression that approval of ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) and NMC is pending. When they realised these were already in place, they issued the August 31 notification,” he said.To this, the bench replied: “The pattern of study will depend on the pattern of exams to be given. Students begin preparations at least two years in advance. They will be unnecessarily ruffled. Why rock the boat after the notification has been issued? At least allow this batch to go through.”It told ASG Bhati to convene a meeting of MoHFW with authorities from NBE and NMC and take a call before next Monday, when the matter will be heard.“If you are right, we will dismiss these petitions. But be open to strictures from the court on the manner your officers have gone about this decision,” the bench said.Referring to how the authorities at NBE or NMC could also be doctors who passed through the same grind, the bench added: “These doctors who have come on the panel of NBE cannot play with the lives of these young doctors having come from the same system.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-pulls-up-centre-over-changes-in-entrance-examination-pattern-for-super-specialty-medical-courses-101632765588146.html
28-09-2021||India||Varun Gandhi writes another letter to Yogi on sugarcane prices||In a fresh letter to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Varun Gandhi on Monday raised the demand for re-visiting prices of sugarcane crop, saying farmers are in “misery” and have been hoping for a higher increase. On Sunday, Adityanath had announced a ₹25 per quintal hike in the purchase prices of sugarcane in the state, taking it to ₹350 per quintal.While Gandhi thanked the chief minister for increasing the cane rates, he claimed the hike was insufficient amid “rising cost and inflation”.Sharing a copy of the letter on Twitter, the BJP leader said: “Sugarcane rate in the upcoming crushing season in Uttar Pradesh ₹350. Thanks to Yogi ji for declaring ₹350/quintal. I request that please reconsider this according to the rising cost and inflation and declare the rate of ₹400 or please give a bonus of 50/quintal, from the government, above the declared rate separately.” In the letter, the BJP MP from Pilibhit pointed out that the cost of sugarcane had increased significantly in the last four years, but in the last four seasons, it had risen by only ₹10 per quintal. “In the last four years the input cost for farmers such as prices of seeds, fertiliser and power have substantially increased....Farmers are in misery due to economic distress and have been hoping for a higher increase in cane prices,” he wrote. “Expenditure is increasing but prices are not. Sugarcane is a major crop in Uttar Pradesh… 50 lakh farmer families are engaged in (its) cultivation. Lakhs of labourers also get employment from this… With continuous rise in input cost for farmers, cane prices should be fixed at a minimum price of ₹400 per quintal,” he added. Cane is mainly grown in western Uttar Pradesh, which is the epicentre of the farmers’ protest in the state against the Centre’s contentious agricultural laws.This is the second time Gandhi has written to the chief minister on the matter. On September 12, besides seeking more remuneration for sugarcane crop, the BJP leader had sought subsidy in diesel and electricity prices, and doubling of money provided to farmers under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme.Prior to that, he had advocated for re-engaging with the protesting farmers and insisted that their hardships be taken into consideration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/varun-gandhi-writes-another-letter-to-yogi-on-sugarcane-prices-101632765529684.html
28-09-2021||India||‘India will continue to work in framework’: Shringla at UNSC meet on nuclear non-proliferation||India will work within the framework of the UN’s “disarmament triad” to strengthen nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation architecture, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Monday.The country is also ready to support the beginning of negotiations on a Fissile Material Cut-off Treaty (FMCT) at the Conference on Disarmament without prejudice to the priority it attached to nuclear disarmament, Shringla said.He made the remarks while addressing a UN Security Council meeting on the theme “Non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction: Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty” in New York. India is currently a non-permanent member of the Security Council.Recalling India’s credentials as a proponent of nuclear disarmament, Shringla said it was the first country to call for a ban on nuclear testing in 1954 and a non-discriminatory treaty on non-proliferation of nuclear weapons in 1965. India committed to the goal of a nuclear-weapons-free world and complete elimination of atomic weapons, he added.“India would continue to work in the framework of the Disarmament Triad consisting of the Conference on Disarmament, the UN Disarmament Commission and the First Committee of the UN General Assembly, to strengthen nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation architecture,” Shringla said. The Conference on Disarmament, as the world’s sole multilateral disarmament negotiating forum, is well placed to advance the global disarmament agenda and negotiate legally binding instruments on items in its core agenda.“Without prejudice to the priority we attach to nuclear disarmament, India has expressed its readiness to support the commencement of negotiations on a Fissile Material Cut-off Treaty (FMCT) in the Conference on Disarmament on the basis of the mandate contained in CD/1299,” he added. In this context, India has participated in the work of the Group of Governmental Experts (GGE) and the High-level Preparatory Group (HLEPG) on FMCT. India has also contributed to the GGE on Nuclear Disarmament Verification through its membership of the earlier and the current group, which will meet in Geneva later this year. India has supported the strengthening of the global nuclear security architecture and participated in the Nuclear Security Summit process and international conferences on nuclear security organised by the IAEA. India is also a key partner in global non-proliferation efforts and has piloted an annual UN General Assembly resolution on “measures to prevent terrorists from acquiring weapons of mass destruction” since 2002, which is adopted by consensus. Shringla said there is a need for the world community to pay closer attention to the illicit proliferation of networks of nuclear weapons, their delivery systems, components and relevant technologies.With the objective of strengthening the non-proliferation architecture, India has also joined export control regimes such as the Australia Group, Wassenaar Arrangement and Missile Technology Control Regime and harmonised its controls with the Nuclear Suppliers Group lists, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-would-continue-to-work-in-framework-shringla-at-unsc-meet-on-nuclear-nonproliferation-101632760549778.html
28-09-2021||India||Unease in CPI amid reports of Kanhaiya joining Congress||Communist Party of India (CPI) leader and former president of Jawaharlal Nehru University’s (JNU) students’ union, Kanhaiya Kumar kept his colleagues waiting last Tuesday at party headquarters in Delhi, where he was instructed to address a press conference to refute strong speculations of him joining the Congress, CPI leaders told HT.There is a growing uneasiness between Kumar and his party amid media reports of him joining the Congress with Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mevani on Tuesday, September 28. CPI leaders told HT that last Monday, party general secretary D Raja had asked him to address a press conference to “refute” the rumours. But on Tuesday, while his party colleagues waited patiently at Ajoy Bhavan, the CPI headquarters in Delhi, “Kumar’s phone and messages went unanswered”, said a senior leader on condition of anonymity. “So far, he has not publicly denied or reacted to the speculations about him,” noted another party leader. Last Saturday, Gujarat MLA and Dalit leader Mevani told a section of the media that he and Kumar will join the Congress on September 28. “On September 28, I will be joining the Indian National Congress along with Kanhaiya Kumar,” Mevani was quoted as saying. When contacted for a response, D Raja said, “Let us see.” Kumar is reported to be unhappy with his current party where he wanted to play a larger role. On Sunday, a group of CPI leaders in Bihar met Kumar at the party headquarters, ostensibly to persuade him to stay. “During the discussion, Kumar told them that he should be made the state party chief and the chairman of the party’s top election committee that decides candidates for elections,” said a second CPI leader, who didn’t wish to be named. “In any party, no one can make such a demand. It is the party that decides and gives responsibilities to its people. If he has any such ambition, (then) he should tell the top authorities,” said a second party leader. All eyes are now on the party’s national council meeting on October 2. In the meeting, Kanhaiya Kumar’s issues are likely to be discussed among other things.Kumar unsuccessfully contested the Begusarai Lok Sabha election as a CPI candidate and lost to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stalwart and Union minister Giriraj Singh in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanhaiya-kumar-keeps-cpi-guessing-over-reports-of-joining-congress-101632734805358.html
