29-09-2021||India||10 Congress MLAs land in Delhi from Raipur, say there is no crisis in state||RAIPUR: Ten Congress legislators from Chhattisgarh landed in national capital Delhi on Wednesday to meet the party’s state in-charge PL Punia with a message for Rahul Gandhi. The legislators, said Brihaspat Singh who is leading the group, want Gandhi to visit the state for at least four days and not just two.Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, who is in the middle of a tussle with cabinet colleague TS Singhdeo over the chief minister’s chair, first spoke of Rahul Gandhi’s proposed visit on August 28 after a long meeting with the Congress high command on suggestions that Baghel should move aside. News of Rahul Gandhi’s proposed visit to see how the Chhattisgarh government had delivered on its promises, was seen to signal that Baghel has an edge over Singhdeo. Senior minister and Chhattisgarh government spokesperson Ravindra Chaubey told reporters on September 23 that Baghel was scheduled to travel to Delhi in the first week of October to discuss Rahul Gandhi itinerary for his Chhattisgarh trip.Brihaspat Singh, the MLA from north Chhattisgarh’s Ramanujganj seat, said they want Rahul Gandhi to spend more time in the state so that he can visit more places.“We will meet Punia ji (PL Punia) today or tomorrow... Actually, Rahul Gandhi will be visiting Chhattisgarh in next few days for two days and we are here to urge high command to extend the two-day visit so that Rahul ji (Rahul Gandhi) can give more time to our state and meet more people,” Singh told HT on phone soon after his plane landed in Delhi.Also Read: The inside story of the Bhupesh Baghel-TS Singh Deo battle in ChhattisgarhBrihaspat Singh, widely seen as a Baghel loyalist, triggered a political firestorm in Chhattisgarh Congress in July when he accused Singhdeo of engineering an attack on his convoy in Ambikapur. TS Singhdeo, the state’s health minister, had then walked out of the assembly and returned only when home minister Tamradhwaj Sahu issued an unequivocal statement that the allegation was false. Brihaspat Singh also had to issue an apology.Asked if he along with nine other MLAs are in Delhi to discuss political crisis of the state, Singh shot back: “There is no political crisis in Chhattisgarh now ...Around 60 MLAs have verbally told their position to high command via Punia ji last month.. Everything is clear now”.The tug of war between Baghel and Singhdeo is linked to the much speculated two-and-a-half-year power-sharing agreement that was reportedly arrived at between the two leaders.In December 2018, in the aftermath of a dominant Congress performance where the party won 68 of 90 seats, friction between Bhupesh Baghel and TS Singh Deo meant that Tamradhwaj Sahu, now home minister, initially emerged as the frontrunner for chief minister, but pushed by the idea that a third leader would take the top position, Baghel and Singh Deo, along with Punia and Gandhi, reportedly arrived at a power-sharing arrangement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-congress-mlas-land-in-delhi-from-raipur-say-there-is-no-crisis-in-state-101632938542881.html
29-09-2021||India||‘Many opportunities to celebrate will come later’: Centre urges people to spend festive season at home||Ahead of the festive season, Member (Health) of Niti Aayog, VK Paul has appealed to Indians to celebrate inside their households and within their families lest coronavirus disease (Covid-19) becomes dominant again, news agency ANI reported on Wednesday.“My plea would be that this time let us celebrate the great tradition of India within our families, in our own households. Make sure that eligible family members have taken the vaccine,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.The top government official added that people must avoid going outside during the forthcoming festive season, and refrain from being in large gatherings. He stated that while outside, people must maintain social distance and wear masks.“There will be many opportunities to celebrate festivals later. If we take these precautions, then till the end of this year, we will be much safer,” he added.Paul pointed out that although the virus exists more in some areas, and less in others, the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is still present in the country. Therefore, he told ANI, gathering is large groups, in closed spaces, are “not good for us because we are giving a chance to the virus to engulf us yet again.”The Union home ministry of Tuesday issued warning to states and Union territories (UTs) against any reluctance over implementing strict measures to check Covid-19 cases owing to the recent drop in the daily caseload. In his letter, home secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote that “utmost vigil has to be maintained” pertaining to mass gathering events in order to halt any chance of infections rising.Also Read | Take measures to prevent Covid surge during festivals: MHA to statesThe home ministry has also asked all states and UTs to follow five-fold strategy of test-track-treat-vaccination- and adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour.India on Wednesday reported 18,870 fresh coronavirus cases – less than 20,000 for two days consecutively. This took the overall tally to 3,37,16,451, of which, 2,82,520 are active cases. As many as 28,178 new recoveries were registered, taking the total number of recovered patients to 3,29,86,180.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-urges-people-to-spend-festive-season-at-home-with-families-101632936599237.html
29-09-2021||India||Heavy rain poses challenge for CM Mamata, BJP on eve of polls in 3 Bengal seats||As rainfall triggered by a low depression lashed Kolkata and parts of Bengal on the eve of Thursday’s bypoll at Bhawanipore in the state capital and elections at two seats in Murshidabad district, the fear of low voter turnout became a cause for concern among Trinamool Congress (TMC) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders. At Bhawanipore in south Kolkata, where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is pitted against BJP’s Priyanka Tibrewal in her old seat, TMC councillors of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC), were found making all efforts to pump out water from the streets on Wednesday. “One cannot take chances because turnout is always low during repolls,” one of them said on condition of anonymity. Banerjee, who was defeated by BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari at Nandigram in the March-April polls and needs to win Thursday’s election to continue as chief minister, expressed fear of low turnout while addressing her first campaign meeting on September 22. By then, the weather office had predicted the arrival of Cyclone Gulab, which eventually moved towards southern India. “Cast your vote even if it rains. I will suffer if I don’t get even one vote. Don’t be complacent and assume that my victory is ensured. If I do not win, someone else (from the TMC) will become chief minister since we are in the majority,” Banerjee said at the meeting in Ekbalpore, an area with a sizeable Muslim population. BJP leaders, too, said high turnout in earlier elections had increased the saffron camp’s vote share. “In the polls held on April 26, the turnout was 61.79% and we got 35.16% votes,” said BJP leader Shishir Bajoria. TMC’s Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, who won the seat, vacated it so that Banerjee could contest again. Bhawanipore has 2,06,389 voters. According to TMC and BJP leaders, more than 20% residents are Muslims while Sikhs and non-Bengali Hindus comprise around 34% of the local population. The Congress is not contesting the seat as its electoral ally, the CPI (M), has fielded Srijib Biswas, who is a Calcutta high court lawyer like Tibrewal. Incidentally, the chief minister, too, had studied law. “Rain or no rain, Mamata Banerjee’s victory is certain,” said TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy. Extensive security arrangements have been made at Bhawanipore in view of the demonstration TMC workers held on September 27 around BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh, prompting his security personnel to draw their pistols in the middle of a campaign procession. Officials said 35 companies of Central Armed Police Force and a huge Kolkata Police contingent headed by around 30 Indian Police Service (IPS) officers will be deployed in Bhawanipore on Thursday. In Murshidabad, the Muslim population (66.28%) is the highest among all districts in Bengal. With 2,55,998 voters, Jangipur did not witness an election on April 26 as Pradip Kumar Nandi, the Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) candidate, died of Covid-19. Jakir Hossain, the state’s former deputy labour minister who bagged the seat in 2016, has been fielded by the TMC against the BJP’s Sujit Das and the RSP’s Jane Alam Mian. The Congress has left this assembly segment for the RSP as part of the alliance that Congress, the Left parties and Indian Secular Front, a new outfit, inked before the eight-phase polls. Samserganj could not go to the polls because Rezaul Haque, the Congress candidate, died of Covid-19 in early April. TMC’s Amirul Islam, who won the seat in 2016, is apparently in an advantageous position because the local Congress unit has ignored the alliance by fielding Jaidur Rahaman against the CPI (M)’s Md Modassar Hossain. Rahaman initially backed out from the race because he is the brother of Khalilur Rahaman, the TMC Lok Sabha member from Jangipur, but started campaigning 10 days ago. The BJP has fielded Milan Ghosh, a debutant. There are 2,37,750 voters in Samserganj. The Election Commission has deployed 19 companies of Central Armed Police Force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-poses-challenge-for-cm-mamata-bjp-on-eve-of-polls-in-3-bengal-seats-101632934882771.html
29-09-2021||India||HT THIS DAY: Sept 30, 1984 — Golden Temple handed over to high priests; Santa Singh leaves Akal Takht||Amritsar- The historic Golden Temple and other buildings in its premises were handed over to the five high priests and the representatives of the Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee today (September 29), after the Army was completely withdrawn from the complex almost four months after it entered there to flush out terrorists and anti-social elements hiding inside. The handing-over of the Temple complex became possible after an agreement had been reached at midnight yesterday following a meeting between the senior adviser of the Governor, Mr. R. V. Subramanian, and the priests. The meeting was also attended by the representatives of the SGPC and the Akali Dal. Before the handing-over, the chief of the Budha Dal, Baba Santa Singh, came to the Akal Takht with his Nihang followers and performed “ardas” on the successful completion of the “kar sewa”. To avoid any clash between the followers of the Nihang chief and the Akalis, the entry into the Temple premises for the public was banned upto 11 a.m. The Nihang chief, who came to the Temple at 7 a.m., stayed there for about three hours during which he performed “ardas”, gave “saropas” to those who had contributed in the “kar sewa” and addressed his followers. The agreement on allowing the Nihang chief to come to the Akal Takht for performing the “ardas” was a major concession given by the priests as they had earlier declared him a “tankhaiya”, thus barring his right to perform the ‘ardas’ or visit the Akal Takht. During his brief address, the Nibang chief attacked the SGPC and the Akall Dal for not maintaining the sanctity of the Golden Temple. He said that the Army action was against “sinners and criminals”. It was for this reason that “I had not visited the Temple for the last three years”. Baba Santa Singh said that the SGPC and the Akali Dal had created problems in undertaking “kar sewa”. During the period when the Nihang leader was distributing “saropas” the “ragis” from the Golden Temple were reciting “guru bani”. The Sikh priests also kept away from the Temple as long as the Nihang chief was there and came only when a message was flashed to them that Baba Santa Singh had left. Before leaving the Baba, however went to the Temple and made his offering. His followers had a ceremonial bath before they departed in small groups. With the Nihangs leaving, the head priests came with a group of followers, and were handed over the premises by the senior adviser to the Governor who gave them the keys of the ‘Toshakhana”. Major-General A. K. Diwan told newsmen that with today’s handing over, “all men in uniform will withdraw from the premises of the Golden Temple. The entry to the Temple will be made open without any restrictions except for normal patrolling in the city”. An important change introduced is the reopening of the road which divides the Temple from other buildings in the complex. The road will now be open for both traffic and patrolling. The first task undertaken by the priests after they had taken possession of the Akal Takht was to undertake a complete washing of the “Akal Takht” for which they got water from the “sarovar”. After the premises had been washed, an “akhand path” was started which will continue for 48 hours. The Sikh priests obviously heavy over the smooth handing over, said they felt that the remaining issues would also be amicably resolved They were tightlipped and refused to comment on what had transpired during the talks. They said as a part of the agreement they had undertaken not to say anything to the Press. The successful handing-over of the premises and withdrawal of the Army from the Golden Temple complex brought an obvious sense of relief of this strife-torn city which had been waiting anxiously for things to settle down. PTI, UNI add: The “Toshakhana, a storehouse of the precious relies of the Sikh religion, was handed over to the Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee in the presence of the five Sikh head priests here today. The senior adviser to the Governor, Mr R. V. Subrawnaniam, handed over the keys and charge of the ‘Toshakhana” as soon as the Nihans chief, Baba Santa Singh, vacated the premises of the Akal Takht after performing “ardas”. The five Sikh high priests said that the charge of the Golden Temple complex had been handed over to the “Sikh Panth”. “Akhand path” at the Akal Takht had started and all the Sikh rituals and rights would be restored after the bhog ceremony on Oct. 1, they said in a Press release. The high priests appealed to the Sikh community “to act in conformity with history. tradition of unity, amity, peaceful co-existence well-being of the country and wellbeing of everyone.” The duty of the Government was that it should treat people of all religions with equal respect, the note added. The high priest said: “We appeal to the Sikh people that no anti-national slogan should be shouted hi Darbar Sabib, which is the centre of well-being for all. Also, nothing should be done against the dignity and sanctity of this pious place which might disturb its peace and sanctity. “We condemn any and all antinational activity anywhere”, the note said. Thousands of devotees thronged the Golden Temple complex after it was handed over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/htthisday-sept-30-1984-golden-temple-handed-over-to-high-priests-santa-singh-leaves-akal-takht-101632934462750.html
29-09-2021||India||At meeting with Amit Shah, Amarinder Singh says he discussed farm laws||NEW DELHI: Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh called on Union home minister Amit Shah at his residence in national capital Delhi on Wednesday. The two met for a little less than an hour.The meeting stoked speculation that the former Punjab chief minister could join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) or float a separate party that would seek support from the ruling party at the Centre. BJP leaders have refused to speak about the details of the hush-hush meeting.Captain Amarinder Singh’s aide Raveen Thukral, who on Tuesday rebutted reports that the former chief minister could meet BJP leaders on his Delhi visit and insisted that Singh was on a personal visit, tweeted on Wednesday evening that the two leaders discussed the three farm laws and other issues related to farmers.Singh tweeted soon after on his meeting.“Met Union Home Minister @AmitShah ji in Delhi. Discussed the prolonged farmers’ agitation against #FarmLaws & urged him to resolve the crisis urgently with repeal of the laws & guarantee MSP, besides supporting Punjab in crop diversification. #NoFarmersNoFood,” the former chief minister said on Twitter.The former chief minister’s meeting with Shah was being closely watched as it comes close on the heels of dramatic developments in the poll-bound state. After Singh stepped down as the chief minister last week, his bete noire and the Punjab unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu also stepped down from his position. The meeting also comes in the backdrop of the ongoing farmers’ stir demanding a rollback of the farm laws.“There is a section of BJP leaders both at the Centre and in the state who are keen on the former chief minister joining the party. As a Jat Sikh face, a long-standing CM, they feel he has clout with the electorate and can be useful in helping work out a truce between the government and the farmers who are unrelenting from their position of seeking a role back of the farm laws,” said a BJP functionary. On whether a role has been envisaged for the former chief minister to negotiate with the farmers on behalf of the government, the functionary said, “Nothing has been finalised.”The former CM’s public criticism of the Gandhi siblings — he described former president Rahul Gandhi and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi as “inexperienced” — have given ammunition to the BJP to aim at the Gandhi family. “The party has humiliated a tall leader and the message is undoubtedly going to ring loud and clear on the ground,” the functionary quoted above said.However, other leaders who spoke to HT on the condition of anonymity said the “age factor” will be a key consideration. “In the past, a lot of people who were welcomed into the party fold were picked on criteria such as winnability, age and their popularity,” said a second functionary.The BJP follows an unwritten rule of not giving positions of responsibility to those above 75 years of age. It made an exception in the case of BS Yediyurappa but recently replaced the 78-year-old warhorse with BS Bommai, 61. Captain Amarinder Singh is 79.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-meeting-with-amit-shah-amarinder-singh-says-he-discussed-farm-laws-101632931162388.html
29-09-2021||India||Children most vulnerable to sexual crimes: Attorney General tells top court||Attorney General KK Venugopal told the Supreme Court on Wednesday that the controversial decision of the Bombay High Court requiring skin-to-skin contact of the accused with the child victim to establish sexual assault under POCSO Act showed a lack of sensitivity to the fact that children are most vulnerable to sexual crimes as they are unable to defend themselves. Venugopal, while making submissions on his petition challenging the January 19 Bombay High Court decision, said, “The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act 2012 is a special law to protect children against sexual offences as they are more vulnerable. The judge lacked the sensitivity to appreciate that POCSO Act is meant to prevent sexual offences against children who are unable to defend themselves.” Stating that the judgment under challenge created an extraordinary situation leading to a wrong precedent, the top law officer said, “The judge has misinterpreted Section 7 of POCSO (dealing with sexual assault) by implying skin-to-skin contact as an essential ingredient to make out an offence. It will have a devastating effect on pending cases before subordinate courts.” Section 7 of POCSO Act says, “Whoever, with sexual intent touches the vagina, penis, anus or breast of the child or makes the child touch the vagina, penis, anus or breast of such person or any other person or does any other act with sexual intent which involves physical contact without penetration is said to commit sexual assault.” This offence carries a minimum punishment of three years extending up to five years. The HC judgment had acquitted a man for groping a 12-year-old through her clothing. Since there was no actual physical contact, i.e. skin to skin, the man was let off under the stringent POCSO Act. Instead, he was sentenced to one year imprisonment for outraging modesty under Section 354 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).AG further pointed out flaws in the judgment by saying, “The judge makes a reference to Section 354 which is an offence of assault to outrage modesty of a woman. Here, the victim is a child.” He added that “children are the most vulnerable to sexual assault” and it is for this purpose the Parliament enacted the 2012 Act. In March 2020, the Government had informed the Parliament that till December 2019, 2.44 lakh cases were pending before courts of rape and POCSO offences across the country. AG quoted this figure in Court and described it as a “sad state of affairs”. Besides AG, the National Commission for Women (NCW) and the Maharashtra government have also appealed against the January 19 HC order. Based on the same logic of physical contact being a must to prove offences punishable under Section 7 of POCSO, the same HC judge passed another order on January 15 acquitting a man who held the hand of a minor after unzipping his pant. This order too was challenged by the state government and is pending consideration before the Court. The bench of Justices UU Lalit, S Ravindra Bhat and Bela M Trivedi concluded hearing the arguments by AG and NCW represented by senior advocate Geeta Luthra. The Court said, “Whether skin to skin contact is a requirement under Section 7 is the limited question that we will deal with.” The bench has appointed senior advocate Sidharth Dave to assist in the matter as amicus curiae. Dave told the Court that for proving an offence under Section 7, sexual intent is a must. On an earlier occasion, the AG had submitted that if one was to go by the logic adopted in the HC judgment, then, if a person, using surgical glove feels the entire body of a woman, including her private parts, will escape punishment under this provision. Dave supported this argument and said that the HC reasoning will be open to misuse by accused facing trial under other provisions of POCSO Act. The Court decided to continue the hearing of the case on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/children-most-vulnerable-to-sexual-crimes-attorney-general-tells-top-court-101632930502003.html
29-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Congress workers protest outside Sibal residence and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Suniye ji Huzoor': Congress leader's swipe at Sibal; workers protest with ‘Get well soon’ placards, rosesCongress workers demonstrated outside veteran Congress leader Kapil Sibal's residence on Wednesday hours after Sibal addressed a press conference where he raised several questions to the party leadership and said that G-23, the group of rebel leaders, is not for ‘Ji Huzoori’ and they will continue raising questions that need to be asked. [Read more…]Not just flights, Taliban wants scholarships to resume too. India is in no hurryThe Taliban setup in Kabul has been reaching out to the Indian side to explore the continuation of contacts in different fields, ranging from the resumption of commercial flights to scholarships for Afghan students, people familiar with developments said on Wednesday. [Read more...]Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train to miss deadline, 1st phase between Surat-Bilimora to open in 2026Stuck due to land acquisition issues, the Centre’s Mumbai-Ahmedabad high-speed train corridor or bullet train project is likely to miss its 2023 deadline. Instead, the Railway ministry is now planning to open the first phase of the project on the Surat-Bilimora route in 2026. [Read more…]As Congress struggles with Punjab crisis, Ghulam Nabi Azad seeks CWC meetingAs the Congress grapples to stabilize its Punjab unit and prepare for the upcoming polls, the G23 leaders launched a fresh salvo on Wednesday. Party veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad wrote to interim president Sonia Gandhi seeking a Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting to discuss the Punjab and Goa situation as well as the “mass exodus” in the organization. [Read more…]Guaranteed MSP is real farm reform: The case of edible oilTo end the ‘forever war’ with farmers, the central government must announce a law to guarantee minimum support price (MSP) for the purchase of all 23 crops whose calculations are made by the Commission of Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP). [Read Guest Column here]KBC 13: Pratik Gandhi stumps Amitabh Bachchan with questions about 'pochha, TV remotes'Actors Pratik Gandhi and Pankaj Tripathi will appear as guests on Friday's episode of Kaun Banega Crorepati 13, hosted by Amitabh Bachchan. In a new promo video, Pratik stumped Amitabh with questions about middle-class households and how regular people behave. [Read more…]IPL 2021: Arjun Tendulkar injured, Mumbai Indians name replacement for remainder of the seasonArjun Tendulkar would have to wait for at least another season to make his IPL debut as the left-arm bowler sustained an injury, franchise Mumbai Indians announced on Wednesday. He will be replaced by Simarjeet Singh in the squad. [Read more…]Ankita Konwar performs her 'favourite yoga pose,' points out its benefitsAnkita Konwar keeps raising the bar of workout goals for us. Ankita, even on vacation with husband Milind Soman, does not take a day off from her healthy workout sessions. On Wednesday, Ankita went atop a tree branch and did the tree pose. [Read more…]||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-congress-workers-protest-outside-sibal-residence-and-all-the-latest-news-101632926370640.html
29-09-2021||India||Not just flights, Taliban wants scholarships to resume too. India is in no hurry||NEW DELHI: The Taliban setup in Kabul has been reaching out to the Indian side to explore the continuation of contacts in different fields, ranging from the resumption of commercial flights to scholarships for Afghan students, people familiar with developments said on Wednesday.These contacts have come at a time when the Indian government has indicated it is in no hurry to recognise the interim cabinet created by the Taliban, which is dominated by hardliners and members of the UN-designated Haqqani Network. The people cited above said on condition of anonymity that there had been no formal response to any of the Taliban proposals.The Afghanistan Civil Aviation Authority, which is now controlled by the so-called “Islamic Emirate” of the Taliban, sent a formal communication to India’s Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on September 7 regarding the resumption of commercial flights between the two countries from Kabul airport. The letter, addressed to DGCA chief Arun Kumar and signed by “acting minister” Hameedullah Akhunzada, contended that the Kabul airport was “damaged and [made] dysfunctional” by American troops before their withdrawal last month. The airport has been made operational again with aid from Qatar and a NOTAM or “notice to airmen” in this regard had been issued on September 6, the letter added. “The intention of this letter is to keep the smooth passenger movement between two countries based on the signed MoU and our National Carriers (Ariana Afghan Airline & Kam Air) aimed to commence their scheduled flights. Therefore, Afghanistan Civil Aviation Authority requests you to facilitate their commercial flights,” the letter said.In recent days, Taliban officials such as acting foreign minister Amir Khan Muttaqi have reached out to the Indian side through intermediaries to take up issues such as travel by Afghan students who have secured scholarships offered by the Indian government, the people cited above said.Muttaqi was reportedly keen that Afghan students holding Indian scholarships, including those awarded for the 2021 academic session, should be allowed to travel to the country. The people said the Indian side is in no hurry to take a call on recognising the Taliban setup or to respond to the messages from the Taliban, especially at a time when no other country has established official relations with the dispensation in Kabul.Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently cautioned the world community not to rush on the issue of recognising the new setup in Kabul because the change of power in Afghanistan was “not inclusive” and was done “without negotiation”.State-run Air India stopped flights to Kabul on August 15, when the Taliban marched into the Afghan capital following the collapse of the Ashraf Ghani government. The Afghan airspace was declared “uncontrolled” on August 16.On Sunday, the Taliban-run foreign ministry called for the resumption of international flights, promising full cooperation with airlines and insisting that all problems at Kabul airport had been resolved. The appeal was part of the Taliban’s efforts to open up Afghanistan and gain international acceptance.“As the problems at Kabul international airport have been resolved and the airport is fully operational for domestic and international flights, the [Islamic Emirate] assures all airlines of its full cooperation,” foreign ministry spokesman Abdul Qahar Balkhi said.A limited number of aid and passenger flights have been operating from Kabul, but normal commercial services are yet to resume. On September 13, state-run Pakistan International Airlines became the first airline to fly a passenger flight in and out of Kabul in about a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-just-flights-taliban-wants-scholarships-to-resume-too-india-is-in-no-hurry-101632928342359.html
29-09-2021||India||Is China spreading asthma in India through firecrackers? Govt junks fake news||The Centre on Wednesday debunked recent claims doing rounds on social media and messaging platforms about the ministry of home affairs notifying about special Chinese firecrackers and decoratives lights aimed at spreading asthma and eye ailments in India.Calling it fake, the Press Information Bureau's facrt check team posted on Twitter that the ministry has not issued any such notification and asked the people not to pay heed to such misinformation.गृह मंत्रालय के नाम से भेजे जा रहे एक फर्जी मैसेज में दावा किया जा रहा है कि चीन भारत में अस्थमा और नेत्र रोग कारक विशेष प्रकार के पटाखे और सजावटी लाइट भेज रहा है।#PIBFactcheck ▪️ गृह मंत्रालय द्वारा ऐसी कोई सूचना नहीं दी गई है।▪️ कृपया ऐसे फर्जी सन्देशों को साझा न करें। pic.twitter.com/dd7n64eZxGThe so-called ‘claim’ running viral on WhatsApp reads: "As Pakistan cannot attack India directly, according to intelligence, Islamabad is taking help of China. To spread asthma, China is sending special types of firecrackers in India that will release carbon monoxide. Also, to increase eye ailments, special types of decoratives lights is being produced. It is requested to not use Chinese products on Diwali. Spead this message to fellow Indians."The message in the WhatsApp forward claims the notification has been issued by one Biswajit Mukherjee, posing as a senior official of the ministry of home affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-china-spreading-asthma-in-india-through-firecrackers-govt-junks-fake-news-101632926384650.html
29-09-2021||India||Amarinder Singh says he urged Amit Shah to repeal farm laws||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh met Amit Shah and discussed the ongoing farmers' agitation. Captain also urged the Union home minister to repeal the farm laws and guarantee the minimum support price, besides supporting Punjab in crop diversification. Both Captain and his media advisor Raveen Thukral tweeted in this regard after the meeting at Amit Shah's resident in Delhi ended. Amarinder Singh also hashtagged his tweet with #nofarmersnofood.The meeting amid the Punjab crisis triggered speculation about Captain's next political move. However, no word has come out on whether Amit Shah and Amarinder Singh discussed Punjab. Met Union Home Minister @AmitShah ji in Delhi. Discussed the prolonged farmers agitation against #FarmLaws & urged him to resolve the crisis urgently with repeal of the laws & guarantee MSP, besides supporting Punjab in crop diversification. #NoFarmersNoFoodThe meeting between Amarinder Singh and Amit Shah comes at a time when the Congress is grappling with the crisis in Punjab. While Amarinder Singh's resignation from the post of the chief minister was thought to bring the curtains of the Captain-Sidhu clash, Sidhu is not happy with new chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi yet and has resigned from the post of the state party chief. At a time when the Punjab Congress is apparently split into three caps belong to Channi, Sidhu and Amarinder Singh, Singh's meeting with Amit Shah gained significance. Watch | Amarinder meets Amit Shah: Joining BJP or talking farm laws? Capt's aide tweets what happenedAmarinder Singh has not ever dismissed the possibilities of leaving the Congress. In fact, he earlier said he would field a strong candidate against Navjot Sidhu if Sidhu becomes the CM face of the party in the upcoming election.When Amarinder Singh arrived at Delhi on Tuesday, he said no political meeting was scheduled; he was in Delhi to vacate Kapurthala House, his New Delhi residence. Even after saying this, he met Amit Shah at his residence and some reports indicated that Amarinder Singh might have left Amit Shah's residence in Shah's car. Later, it was said that Amarinder Singh did not leave in Amit Shah's car and the speculations arose when Singh left Amit Shah's residence without addressing a press conference. The farm laws were cited as one of the reasons why Amarinder Singh may not extend support to the BJP. Amarinder Singh has been a staunch supporter of the farmers' cause and opposes the farm laws in line with the Congress's response. In addition, Amarinder Singh is one of the most vocal leaders in support of the farmers as the ongoing protest in Delhi border has a majority of Punjab farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-discussed-farm-law-with-amit-shah-tweets-captain-s-aide-101632927598659.html
29-09-2021||India||As Congress struggles with Punjab crisis, Ghulam Nabi Azad seeks CWC meeting||As the Congress grapples to stabilize its Punjab unit and prepare for the upcoming polls, the G23 leaders launched a fresh salvo on Wednesday. Party veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad wrote to interim president Sonia Gandhi seeking a Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting to discuss the Punjab and Goa situation as well as the “mass exodus” in the organization. Another old warhorse, Kapil Sibal, demanded “open dialogue” and introspection, questioning the lack of clarity in the decision-making process. Sibal, a key participant of the G23 or the group that wrote to Sonia in 2019 seeking sweeping changes, reminded the party, “we are G23 but not ‘ji huzoor 23’”. “We don’t have a president. So, who’s taking the decisions? We all know and yet we don’t know. We want a CWC meeting for a dialogue to take place,” he said. Another UPA minister Manish Tewari, publicly stated that the Punjab situation was “mishandled” and the state required “stability”. On Tuesday, Navjyot Singh Siddhu, who was backed by both Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to the PCC chief’s post, resigned barely two months into the job. According to party functionaries, Ghulam Nabi Azad wrote to Sonia Gandhi on behalf of G23 asking for a CWC meeting as “Developments in Punjab and Goa” are “disappointing” in light of poll prospects. He suggested that the CWC, not an extended CWC be called to also look into the issue of mass exodus from the party. A senior Congress leader said the CWC will be called soon and all issues would be discussed threadbare. This group of 23 senior leaders grabbed limelight in 2019 after writing to Sonia Gandhi seeking sweeping changes in the organization, following the party’s dismal performance in elections. Sibal announced that they will not leave the party but took digs at Rahul saying, “People close to them have left them. But those who are not considered close, are with them,” in an indirect reference to the exit of Jyotiraditya Scindia, Sushmita Dev and Jitin Prasada—all were considered close to Rahul. Tewari also posted on a micro-blogging site to vent his frustration. “I would be dishonest if I say that the situation was not completely mishandled. Suffice to say, whatever Capt Amrinder had said has come true. What Punjab needed at this time needed stability &unfortunately those who were in charge of state did not have a clue.” Sibal pledged loyalty and said he “condemns” those who left Congress. “But we also need to ask ourselves, we might have faults. The former Union minister argued the uncertainty in Punjab would be an “advantage” to Pakistan and its spy agency ISI. “We know the history of Punjab. The Congress party should make sure that they remain united. If anyone has issues, a conversation must take place and organizational structure must be strengthened.” He even quoted Gandhi to say, “Democracy can’t work with 20 men sitting at the Centre” suggesting an inclusive approach and more participation for the seniors in the decision-making process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-congress-struggles-with-punjab-crisis-ghulam-nabi-azad-seeks-cwc-meeting-101632927261817.html
29-09-2021||India||'Suniye ji Huzoor': Congress leader's swipe at Sibal; workers protest with ‘Get well soon’ placards, roses||Congress workers demonstrated outside veteran Congress leader Kapil Sibal's residence on Wednesday hours after Sibal addressed a press conference where he raised several questions to the party leadership and said that G-23, the group of rebel leaders, is not for ‘Ji Huzoori’ and they will continue raising questions that need to be asked. Sibal also said he does not know who makes decisions in the party as the party does not have a president. "We know but we don't know," Sibal said, reiterating that the election of a president was one of the demands of the G-23.The sharp criticism did not go down well with a section of party workers who agitated in front of Kapil Sibal's residence with placards that read 'Get well soon, Kapil Sibal'.
29-09-2021||India||BJP is the target, says Faleiro after joining TMC. Why it may hurt Cong in Goa||PANAJI: The Trinamool Congress’ (TMC) move to induct former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro in the party at an event in West Bengal capital Kolkata marks the first step by the Mamata Banerjee-led party to make another attempt to gain a toehold in the tiny western Indian state known for its gorgeous beaches. “My main mission is to defeat the BJP,” Faleiro declared in Kolkata. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), however, will not have to face the first impact of the TMC’s entry. That will be the Congress, as Faleiro tries to carve out a space for the TMC among voters unhappy with the BJP regime in the state.Arvind Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has already declared the party will make a bid for power in Goa in early 2022 and has been on a roll. On a visit to Goa earlier this month, Kejriwal went beyond the free power and water promises and pledged to ensure that 80 per cent of jobs, including those in the private sector, will be reserved for local residents if the AAP comes to power.In this context, political analysts are sceptical about what kind of an impact a new wrestler in Goa’s crowded political ring would have, especially when the effort has been made just about five months before the state votes for a new government in January or early February 2022.“The impact will depend on how many others Faleiro can attract to the TMC. At the moment, besides himself, no one of political significance has joined him,” Cleofato Almeida Coutinho, a political analyst said.Goa’s political space is largely divided along cultural lines. The Congress and the like-minded parties have traditionally wielded influence in parts of Goa referred to as the old conquests -- Bardez, Tiswadi, Mormugao and Salcete talukas -- territories that were first captured by the Portuguese. Since these are coastal areas and are comparatively more densely populated, these areas, which account for a larger share of Goa’s 40 constituencies, also have a greater share of minority Catholic voters.The Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which largely expanded in Goa at the expense of the MGP, have traditionally been strong in areas known as new conquests -- these were captured by the Portuguese only in the 1700s. According to historians, these areas, unlike the old Conquistas, remained predominantly Hindu because by then the Portuguese rulers had no appetite for conversions.To be sure, the BJP’s move to induct 13 Congressmen over the course of the last four and a half years has disturbed some of these patterns and people in constituencies traditionally represented by the Congress are split between the sitting MLA who has joined the BJP, the Congress who identified replacements of their MLAs who switched sides, and the Aam Aadmi Party which has so far been largely restricted to minority-dominated areas. The Trinamool Congress’ entry could add to this competition.For now, the Congress is downplaying the impact that Faleiro’s exit or a ‘new entrant’ such the TMC will have,“It is actually a blessing that he has left. Because now all those who were being blocked by Faleiro will now have the space to grow in the party,” Congress president Girish Chodankar said.It is also being pointed out that Faleiro had a combined tenure of just about nine months back in his two stints as chief minister in 1998 and 1999. Faleiro has represented the Catholic-dominated Navelim constituency, and his area of influence is largely restricted to Salcete, a largely minority-dominated taluka.“The Congress is present in every village of Goa. We did not emerge yesterday. Our ideology is the ideology of the people of Goa. Goa and the Congress cannot be separated. There are many who are coming to Goa. Today the TMC wants to re-enter the state. They will suffer the same fate (as of their previous attempt). Those who joined them will be dumped and they will go back. Trinamool means one that rises from the ground. Here the party is being imposed from the top,” said Chodankar said. “They (TMC) are saying that they are here to defeat the BJP. If they are here to defeat BJP, why are they coming just three months before without doing any work for Goans,” he asked.The Trinamool Congress first entered Goa in 2012. Then too, like they are now, they were heralded into Goa by a former chief minister who was in the twilight of his political career, Dr Wilfred de Souza. The party didn’t win a single seat.Besides the AAP and TMC, the Congress also has to contend with Goencho Avaz, a network of environmental activists, and the Revolutionary Goans, a group of young activists and mining-affected workers who have also decided to put up their own candidates.In Goa’s 40-member house, the BJP currently holds a commanding majority of 27 seats. The Congress is reduced to four, while the Goa Forward Party has three and the MGP, NCP have one each besides three independents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-is-the-target-says-faleiro-after-joining-tmc-why-it-may-hurt-cong-in-goa-101632924021655.html
29-09-2021||India||TMC eyes Samserganj seat in Murshidabad amid Congress-Left differences||Born during delimitation on the eve of the 2011 Bengal assembly polls in which Mamata Banerjee ousted the Left Front, the Samsergunj assembly seat in Murshidabad district was carved out of the old Aurangabad segment where the Congress and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) had a strong base. CPI (M)’s Touab Ali, who won the Aurangabad seat thrice since 1987, retained Samserganj in 2011 despite a Trinamool Congress (TMC) onslaught. TMC’s Amirul Islam, who managed to defeat Ali in the 2016 polls by around 2000 votes, will face the contest again on Thursday. Samserganj could not go to polls on April 26 -- when the seventh of the eight-phase election in Bengal was held -- because Rezaul Haque, the Congress candidate died of Covid-19 in early April. In Murshidabad, the Muslim population (66.28%) is the highest among all districts in Bengal. There are 2,37,750 voters in Samserganj and the Election Commission has installed security cameras in half of the 329 polling booths. Nineteen companies of the Central Armed Police Forces have been deployed. At Samserganj, which comprises the Dhulian municipality and eight panchayat areas, the TMC is in an advantageous position because the Congress has fielded Jaidur Rahaman against the CPI(M)’s Md Modassar Hossain although the two parties contested the March-April polls as allies. This is in sharp contrast to the district’s Jangipur seat -- which also goes to polls on Thursday -- where the Congress has allowed the Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) to contest. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has fielded Milan Ghosh, a debutant. Jaidur Rahaman initially backed out from the race because he is the brother of Khalilur Rahaman, the TMC Lok Sabha member from Jangipur which was earlier held by former President of India Pranab Mukherjee and his son, Abhijit, who joined the TMC in July. “My family does not want me to contest,” Jaidur Rahaman said in July. However, he started campaigning about 10 days ago. “We are confident of winning the seat,” said Sahidul Sheikh, the community block unit president of the Congress. TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee campaigned at Samserganj on September 23 and targeted the Congress. “Only Mamata Banerjee can combat the BJP,” he said. State Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, who represents the Berhampore Lok Sabha seat in Murshidabad, has also campaigned in this constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-eyes-samserganj-seat-in-murshidabad-amid-congress-left-differences-101632921861692.html
29-09-2021||India||Indian hospitals cancel Russia's Sputnik V vaccine orders. Here's why||Some of India's private hospitals have cancelled orders for Russia's Sputnik V vaccine as they struggle to sell COVID-19 shots amid surging supplies of free doses of other vaccines offered by the government.Industry officials said low demand and the extremely cold storage temperatures required have spurred at least three big hospitals to cancel orders for Sputnik V, sold only on the private market in the world's biggest vaccine-producing country."With storage and everything, we have cancelled our order for 2,500 doses," said Jitendra Oswal, a senior medical official at Bharati Vidyapeeth Medical College and Hospital in the western city of Pune."Demand is also not great. There is a class of people, barely 1%, that wanted to go for Sputnik. For the rest, anything would do."From May until last week, private hospitals accounted for just about 6% of all vaccines administered in India, although the government had freed them to buy up to a quarter of domestic output, health ministry data show.India is set to become a major production centre of Sputnik V, with planned capacity of about 850 million shots a year, and low domestic uptake could mean higher exports instead, a step backers are already pushing for. Indian companies have already started making Sputnik doses.The health ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Since a June launch event by Indian distributor Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Ltd, only 943,000 doses of Sputnik V have been administered by hospitals, a fraction of the national total of more than 876 million.Dr. Reddy's, which has imported about 3 million doses of the vaccine from Russia and refunded hospitals for cancelled orders, declined to comment.Its partner the Russian Direct Investment Fund, which markets Sputnik V internationally, also declined to comment.The mainstay of India's inoculation drive is the AstraZeneca vaccine, which can be stored in regular refrigerators, unlike Sputnik V, which needs temperatures of -18 degrees Celsius (-0.4°F), impossible to guarantee in most of India.The vaccine is also as much as 47% more expensive than AstraZeneca on the private market.Avis Hospitals, which runs eight vaccination centres in the southern city of Hyderabad, has also cancelled an order for 10,000 Sputnik V doses, said a source with direct knowledge of the matter who sought anonymity in discussing business matters.Avis did not respond to an email seeking comment.Another Pune hospital, which declined to be identified, said it had also cancelled its Sputnik V orders.Sputnik V is just one of the vaccines suffering from a sharp fall in private sales.Pune's Bharati hospital will end its COVID-19 vaccination programme when it runs out of AstraZeneca doses, as daily inoculations have fallen about 90% to 100 from their June levels, Oswal said.Just 9,000 doses remain of stocks of 62,000 it ordered.Avis's COVID-19 vaccine sales have shrunk 40% with existing stocks expected to last until December, instead of October, said the source.India's monthly production of vaccine, mainly of the AstraZeneca shot known domestically as Covishield, has quadrupled to 300 million doses from April, when a dramatic surge in infections and deaths prompted a halt in exports.Overseas sales are to resume in October.Covishield accounts for 88% of India's inoculations, followed by Bharat Biotech's domestically developed Covaxin. Both are administered for free at government centres since mid-January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-hospitals-cancel-russia-s-sputnik-v-vaccine-orders-here-s-why-101632919372131.html
29-09-2021||India||Amarinder Singh meets Amit Shah at Delhi residence amid Punjab crisis: Reports||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh reached Union home minister Amit Shah's residence in Delhi on Wednesday, reports said. The reported meeting comes at a time when the Punjab crisis is at its peak with a few months left before the assembly election. Speculations were rife after Amarinder Singh arrived in the Capital on Tuesday evening but the Captain said he is in New Delhi to vacate Kapurthala House, his Delhi residence. He also said no political meeting was scheduled in Delhi.Reports said that the meeting went on for around 45 minutes and his car is believed to have left Amit Shah's residence empty with Amarinder Singh might be travelling with Amit Shah at Shah's car, though the destination is not yet known. Later, these reports were dismissed and termed as mere speculations in the wake of Amarinder Singh not addressing a press meet after the meeting. Amarinder Singh's exit from the post of Punjab chief minister was not amicable as the former CM made no attempt to put a lid on his emotions and said that he felt humiliated, insulted by the Congress leadership. At the same time, he did mention that it was not time to hang his boots and hence all eyes are on Captain's next political move.  #WATCH | Former Punjab CM and Congress leader Captain Amarinder Singh reaches the residence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah in New Delhi pic.twitter.com/787frIaou7Reports said the meeting between Amarinder Singh and Amit Shah began at 6pm and it is a departure from the earlier meetings between Amarinder and Amit Shah, which used to take place at the office. The first meeting between Amarinder Singh and Amit Shah after Amarinder stepped down, which may or may not be just a courtesy visit, is taking place at the residence of Amit Shah.G-23 is not Ji Huzoor 23: Sibal's dig at high command amid Punjab row, says Congress has no presidentAmarinder Singh's resignation put a stop to the Captain-Sidhu clash in Punjab Congress, though Sidhu's resignation from the post of the Punjab Congress on Tuesday against new chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi's portfolio allocation proves that the Congress is not likely to solve the Punjab riddle anytime soon. Amarinder Singh earlier said he would oppose Navjot Sidhu's candidature as a chief minister by fielding a strong candidate against him. Whether this plan of 'fielding a strong candidate' against Sidhu involves Captain joining any other party or floating a new party may become clear after the meeting.Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday said he is looking to solve the situation in the state party unit by discussing the points of differences with Sidhu whom he has invited for a talk. Party is supreme and he has no ego or rigidity over those appointments, Channi said. The Punjab crisis has also got veteran Congress leader Kapil Sibal talking about the crisis in the party. Addressing a press meet on Wednesday, the G-23 leader said people who are supposedly close to the high command are leaving while others are standing by, without any specific reference to the ongoing Punjab crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-reaches-amit-shah-s-residence-amid-punjab-crisis-101632919495212.html
29-09-2021||India||'Want to tell my mom Indian Army took care': LeT teen who spills beans on Pakistan||A Pakistani terrorist captured alive by the Indian Army during the operation in the Uri Sector on September 26 was presented before the media persons on Wednesday where 19-year-old Ali Babar Patra confessed that he was given ₹20,000 by his Pakistani handlers to cross over for arms supplies. In the video, he urges his handlers in Pakistan to take him back to his mother, like then sent him to India."We were told that the Indian Army is carrying out a bloodbath, but everything is peaceful here. I want to tell my mother that the Indian Army has taken good care of me," he said.On camera: Lashkar terrorist reveals how Pakistan Army, ISI paid, trained, armed him to attack India "I can hear the azaan (call for prayers) on the loudspeakers five times a day. The behaviour of the Indian Army is completely opposite to that of the Pakistan Army. This makes me feel that there is peace in Kashmir," Patra said.Revealing the Pakistan-ISI-LeT nexus working towards creating disruption in J&K, Ali Babar Patra recounted how he met a man in Sialkot who used to gather youth for LeT and ISI. After his father's death in 2014, Ali Babar came to Sialkot from Pakistan's Punjab to work in a garment factory. "I had no other way as I needed money. I went with him. He gave me ₹20,000 and promised to give ₹30,000 later. He left him with the ISI which transferred me to Pakistan Army which then arranged for my training under a retired Pakistan army person. In our training, we were taught operations of Ak 47 and grenade. Then we were sent to LeT and I got selected."In a rare operation, the infiltration bid was foiled on the intervening night of September 18 and 19 when the encounter broke out between the police and a group of infiltrators. Four of the group retreated back to Pakistan and two sneaked into Uri. In the following days, the police continued its combing operation and finally, one of them was killed and the other, Ali Babar Patra, was taken into custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/want-to-tell-my-mom-indian-army-took-care-let-teen-who-spills-beans-on-pakistan-101632917998955.html
29-09-2021||India||Centre renames Mid-Day Meal scheme, calls it PM POSHAN||The Centre on Wednesday launched the Prime Minister POSHAN scheme or PM-POSHAN scheme for providing one cooked hot meal in government and government-aided schools and announced that it would spend ₹1,30,795 crore on the scheme in the next five years. . The scheme will replace the existing national programme for mid-day meal in schools or Mid-day Meal Scheme.The decision was taken during the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) meeting that was chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The scheme will cover 11.8 crore students enrolled in classes 1 to 8 in over 11.2 lakh schools across the country. “The scheme is for the five-year period 2021-22 to 2025-26 with the financial outlay of ₹54061.73 crore from the Central government and ₹31733.17 crore from state governments and UTs administration. The Central government will also bear the additional cost of ₹45,000 crore on food grains. Therefore, the total budget of the scheme will be ₹130794.9 crore,” the government said in a statement.The scheme will be extended to students studying in pre-primary or Balvatikas running in government and government aided primary schools. Currently, these students were not included in the scheme. The government will also promote nutritional gardens in schools. Officials said the government will not decide items which will be served under the scheme and states can decide on their own. “States will be allowed to include their local nutritional items as well. Earlier the provision was not there... Special provisional has been made to for providing supplementary nutrition items to children in aspirational districts and districts with high prevalence of anaemia,” an official said, adding involvement of farmers and women self-help groups will be encouraged under the scheme.The social audit of the scheme has been made mandatory in all disticts under the scheme. The scheme will be renewed after five years, an official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-renames-mid-day-meal-scheme-calls-it-pm-poshan-101632917001618.html
29-09-2021||India||NIA court rejects Sachin Vaze’s plea for house arrest post cardiac surgery||A Special National Investigation Agency (NIA) Court on Wednesday rejected the plea by dismissed Mumbai police inspector Sachin Vaze, an accused in Antilia explosives scare and Mansukh Hiran murder case, to be kept in house custody for the next three months post a Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting (CABG).Special court judge A T Wankhede rejected Vaze’s plea and directed the jail authorities to take him to Taloja jail after his discharge from the hospital. He will be kept in the jail hospital for a month. However, the judge allowed home food for the dismissed police officer.The surgery was performed on Vaze on September 13 and he was to be discharged on September 28, however, the court had deferred his discharge to Wednesday as it awaited a response to Vaze’s plea from Taloja Jail where the police inspector was lodged after arrest .Vaze had filed a plea for house arrest post bypass surgery, claiming that he had undergone a complex cardiac surgery with five grafts.In his petition, he claimed that post surgery there was a high likelihood of contracting infection in a non-sterile environment, like that of a jail . The plea stated that the jail had a higher rate of tuberculosis and skin infection due to unhygienic conditions and overcrowding.Also Read: MVA terms Sachin Vaze’s allegations against Anil Deshmukh ’politically motivated’ Vaze’s plea also cited the case of Telegu poet Varavara Rao, arrested in the Elgaar Parishad case but given temporary bail for six months on medical grounds by the Bombay high court.Vaze’s plea said there was no question of absconding while recuperating at his home as constables will be posted outside and he was ready to pay for them. He also sought permission to meet his wife, who’s a nurse, and daughter during his home stay. NIA opposed the application saying the case of Dr P V Varavara Rao was completely different from petitioner’s case and stressed that Vaze’s judicial custody couldn’t be converted into a house custody since the investigation against him had been completed and charge-sheet filed. It also argued that the hospitals attached to Taloja jail were modern and capable of handling Vaze’s condition.The prosecution also said it feared there was every possibility that the applicant accused will abscond, if house arrest was granted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-court-rejects-sachin-vaze-s-plea-for-house-arrest-post-cardiac-surgery-101632916342865.html
29-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Cyclone Shaheen likely to form over the Arabian Sea by October 1 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Cyclone Shaheen likely to form over the Arabian Sea by October 1Cyclone Shaheen that is likely to form over the Arabian Sea on Friday is among two extremely intense weather systems developing over India’s eastern and western parts, which could lead to widespread and extremely heavy rain in parts of the country, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. Read moreWest Bengal rains cause waterlogging in Kolkata, East Medinipur and other areas | WatchHeavy rains battered Kolkata and other southern districts of West Bengal on Wednesday owing to low-pressure created by cyclonic storm ‘Gulab’ in the Bengal coast, leading to waterlogging and traffic snarls in several areas. Visuals of waterlogged streets in Kolkata, East Medinipur and other districts have been doing rounds on social media platforms. Watch hereBombay HC grants bail to retired Delhi cop arrested by NIA for supplying weaponThe Bombay high court on Wednesday granted bail to a retired Delhi police officer arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for allegedly providing a firearm to a man linked to the group that was attempting to revive the Khalistan movement. The court held that as the officer was only booked under the Arms Act it was allowing bail but the officer had to attend the NIA office in Mumbai once every month, for six months. Read more'Morgan had every right to nail him': Warne slams Ashwin for 'disgraceful' act during KKR vs DC IPL gameR Ashwin stirred a bit of controversy during Match 41 of IPL 2021 between Kolkata Knight Riders and Delhi Capitals in Sharjah on Tuesday. While batting with Rishabh Pant, Ashwin attempted a second run after the ball had hit the DC captain's bat and deflected off it. This happened on the final ball of the penultimate over of DC's innings as both batsmen completed a couple of runs. Read moreMahindra mulls production of $2.2 million electric hypercar BattistaMahindra is known for its ambitious projects. The carmaker was among the first Indian automobile OEM to enter EV space. The homegrown auto major tried its hand in bringing world-class models in the domestic market by joining hands with Renault and Ford. Read moreAdd kiwis to your diet for these amazing benefitsKiwi, the oval-shaped sweet and tangy fruit with a bright green flesh, is adored by many for its unique taste and multiple health benefits, from controlling blood pressure to easing digestive troubles. Given the tag of 'exotic', kiwifruit also known as Chinese gooseberry, originated in eastern China but also grows in New Zealand and California. According to National Horticulture Board (NHB), kiwi is grown in Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Sikkim, J&K, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh and Kerala. High on Vitamin B & C, antioxidants, phosphorus, potassium and calcium, the fruit is a powerhouse of nutrients and loaded with many health benefits. Read moreGoogle Meet video calls made much easier! You will get Live CaptionsGoogle Meet is one of the most popular video meeting services in the world today, alongside rivals Zoom, Microsoft Teams and other services. However, one advantage that Google has over its rivals is the integration of Google Meet inside Gmail, both in the web app as well as the mobile apps for iOS and Android keeping the service within reach of three billion active Android devices. Another advantage that Google has is the company’s research on natural language processing and voice-related technology, allowing it to offer yet another useful feature on Google Meet – translations for Live Captions. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-cyclone-shaheen-likely-to-form-over-the-arabian-sea-by-october-1-101632914004904.html
29-09-2021||India||Former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro joins Trinamool Congress in Kolkata||Former Goa chief minister and Congress leader Luizinho Faleiro on Wednesday joined the Trinamool Congress in Kolkata. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Trinamool Congress national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and state minister Subrata Mukherjee were among the senior leaders present at the induction ceremony.A former president of Goa Congress, Luizinho Faleiro arrived in Kolkata along with a group of loyalists on Tuesday, days after he resigned from Congress as well as Goa assembly. Although he was tight-lipped on his future political move, until Wednesday, Faleiro extended his support to the Trinamool Congress. Welcoming the senior Goan leader to the party fold, Mamata Banerjee said the Trinamool Congress would “fight divisive forces and work towards ushering in a new dawn" for Goa.It’s a matter of great pride for me to welcome Former Goa CM, 7-time MLA and stalwart Goan leader Shri @luizinhofaleiro to the Trinamool Congress family.Together we will stand up for every Goan, fight divisive forces and work towards ushering in a NEW DAWN for Goa. (1/3)Former Goa Congress general secretaries Yatish Naik and Vijay Vasudev Poi and former state secretaries of the party, Mario Pinto De Santana and Anand Naik and five others also joined the Trinamool Congress along with Faleiro. Sahitya Akademi Award winner and poet Shivdas Sonu Naik and Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party leader Lavoo Mamledar were among them.  The West Bengal chief minister welcomed them all at an event in Kolkata.In a tweet, the Trinamool posted a video earlier in the day from its recently created official handle for Goa unit of the party that big annoucements were in the offing.Goa deserves change, Goa deserves A NEW DAWN!Stay tuned for something big today!#GonychiNaviSakal pic.twitter.com/22SLzzOgceAfter winning the assembly elections in West Bengal held earlier this year with a thumping majority, and forming the government for the third consecutive time, the Trinamool Congress led by Mamata Banerjee is eying to expand its base in other states ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.The Trinamool Congress has already announced to contest the assembly elections in Tripura in 2023 and aims to mark its foot print in Goa which is slated to go to the polls in 2022. Addressing the media after the induction of Faleiro and other Goan leaders, Abhishek Banerjee said that their fight is not against the Congress or any other party but to defeat the BJP. “Our fight is not against the Congress or any political party. We need to save India, and for that it is essential to defeat the BJP,” he said, adding that while the Congress has been in the national opposition space for the past seven years it is the TMC that has been consistently defeating the BJP."If the Congress isn't doing anything, we can't be sitting ducks. The Congress needs to get out of the armchair and hit the streets. It can't be done by the comfort of sitting in their homes. We aren't a party that exists only on social media, the Trinamool Congress national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee was quoted as saying.He said the Trinamool Congress is going to put its entire weight behind the Goa unit with the polls ahead.“When TMC starts the unit in Goa, we will definitely expedite things as 3-3.5 months are left (in polls). The party is going to put its entire weight behind Goa unit and we'll ensure that people of Goa see a new dawn in the days to come,” Banerjee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-goa-chief-minister-luizinho-faleiro-joins-trinamool-congress-in-kolkata-101632913430349.html
29-09-2021||India||PM Poshan scheme gets Centre nod, to subsume mid-day meal programme in schools||The Centre on Wednesday approved the PM Poshan scheme for the next five years to ensure holistic nutrition for students of more than 11.2 lakh government and government-aided schools across India. The Poshan (Prime Minister’s Overarching Scheme for Holistic Nutrition) scheme will also subsume the essential mid-day meal programme which already exists in schools run by Centre and state governments, announced Union minister Anurag Thakur.“Union Cabinet gives nod to start PM Poshan scheme to provide mid-day meals to students of more than 11.2 lakh Govt and Govt-aided schools across the country. The scheme will run for 5 years & ₹1.31 lakh crores will be spent,” the minister said.The Centre's mission aims to eradicate malnutrition among children in India by 2022. Multiple ministries will converge with an objective to reduce the level of stunting, under-nutrition, anaemia and low-birth-weight babies.Over the past one year, the government has invested more than ₹24,400 crore in the scheme, including about ₹11,500 crore on food grains.The scheme will also be extended to students studying in pre-primary or Balvatikas in Government and Government-aided primary schools in addition to all the 11.80 crore children from elementary classes.The concept of Tithi Bhojan -- a community participation programme in which people bring delicacies for children on special occasions and festivals -- will be encouraged extensively. Additionally, the government has also been promoting concept of ‘School Nutrition Gardens’ in more than 3 lakh schools to give children first-hand experience with nature and gardening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-poshan-scheme-gets-centre-nod-to-subsume-mid-day-meal-programme-in-schools-101632913549298.html
29-09-2021||India||Three-cornered contest in Jangipur assembly by-poll in Bengal||Comprising the Jangipur municipality and the community blocks of Suti and Raghunathganj, which includes two gram panchayat areas, the Jangipur assembly seat in Bengal’s Murshidabad district is set to witness a triangular contest on Wednesday. The seat is part of the Jangipur Lok Sabha constituency. Late former President Pranab Mukherjee won the Lok Sabha seat in 2004 and 2009. His son, Abhijit Mukherjee, who joined the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in July, represented the seat in parliament twice. The TMC wrested the Jangipur Lok Sabha seat in 2019. TMC has fielded Jakir Hossain, a former state minister who bagged the Jangipur assembly seat in 2016, for the by-poll. Sujit Das is the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate and Jane Alam Mian is that of RSP. Hossain could not be fielded for the March-April polls as he was critically injured on February 17 in a blast at a railway station along with 21 TMC workers. The National Investigation Agency, which probed the case and filed a charge sheet in August, said the attack was carried out to derail the local assembly poll.Jangipur has been traditionally known as a Congress bastion. Congress has held the seat 11 times since 1951. It left the assembly segment for the RSP as part of an alliance for the March-April polls.Also Read: West Bengal rains cause waterlogging in Kolkata, East Medinipur and other areas TMC lawmaker Abhishek Banerjee, who campaigned in Jangipur last week, said only chief minister Mamata Banerjee can combat the BJP and oust the National Democratic Alliance government at the Centre in 2024. He said both Congress and TMC were confronting the BJP. “But only our party has proved that it can defeat the BJP. The Congress has failed to do so.”Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury has alleged a secret TMC-BJP understanding. “At a time when Sonia Gandhi has called for unity of all opposition parties against the BJP, the chief minister and her nephew (Abhishek Banerjee) are making all efforts to sabotage this unity. The TMC is doing this because it has received favours from (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi.”The Election Commission of India has installed security cameras in half of the 363 polling booths in Jangipur. Y Raghuvamshi, police superintendent of Jangipur, said 18 companies of central armed police forces have been deployed for the polling on Thursday.In Murshidabad, the Muslim population (66.28 %) is the highest among all districts in Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/threecornered-contest-in-jangipur-assembly-by-poll-in-bengal-101632913461163.html
29-09-2021||India||IAF Mi-17 helicopter airlifts 3 people stranded on hut rooftop in Maharashtra. Watch||A team of Indian Air Force (IAF) on Wednesday rescued three people stranded on the rooftop of a makeshift hut in a village in Maharashtra’s Latur after heavy discharge of water from the Manjara dam flooded some places of the Marathwada region. IAF Mi-17 helicopter was used to rescue Nagorao Kisan Tikanare (50), his wife Rukmabai (45) and son Chandrakant (11) from Poharegaon village in Renapur tehsil, reported PTI.In a 36-second clip shared by the IAF media coordination centre, a helicopter can be airlifting a person from the rooftop of the makeshift hut in Poharegaon village. The IAF wrote on Twitter that Mi-17 helicopters have been inducted for flood relief efforts in Maharashtra since September 28. On Tuesday, 16 stranded people were airlifted to safety in the Osmanabad area.Here’s the video: #HADROpsIAF Mi-17 helicopters have been inducted for #floodrelief efforts in Maharashtra since 28 Sep. While16 stranded people were airlifted to safety in #Osmanabad area yesterday, three were rescued today from the rooftop of a makeshift hut in Village Poharegaon, #Latur pic.twitter.com/KfoQazk2KbAfter the heavy showers subsided in Latur on Wednesday, 12 out of the 18 gates of the Manjara dam were closed, reducing the water discharge. The Marathwada region has been witnessing heavy rainfall over the past few days and the Met department on Tuesday forecast 'extremely heavy rains' in the next 24 hours. Districts of Aurangabad, Latur, Osmanabad, Parbhani, Nanded, Beed, Jalna and Hingoli witnessed the rain fury.The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that heavy to very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy falls is very likely at isolated places over central Maharashtra, north Konkan. Heavy rainfall is expected at isolated places over Marathwada.Meanwhile, the remnant of the cyclonic storm ‘Gulab’ has caused a low-pressure area over the south Gujarat region and adjoining Gulf of Khambhat, and is likely to intensify into a depression by morning Thursday morning, according to IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-mi-17-helicopter-airlifts-3-people-stranded-on-hut-rooftop-in-maharashtra-watch-101632912461338.html
29-09-2021||India||G-23 is not Ji Huzoor 23: Sibal's dig at high command amid Punjab row, says Congress has no president||Veteran Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Wednesday expressed resentment over the functioning of the party and said it is ironic that those who were considered to be close to the high command have left them and the others are still standing by. The G-23 leader said the party has to listen to the point of view of the leaders and introspect. "Democracy can not be worked by 20 men sitting at the centre," he said at a time when the party is facing a crisis in Punjab."I believe that one of my senior colleagues has [perhaps written or is about to write to Congress president to immediately convene a CWC so that a dialogue can take place as to why we are in this state," Kapil Sibal said adding that party has no president at present and hence he doesn't know who takes these decisions. "We know and yet we don't know," Sibal said. Senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad has reportedly written a letter to Sonia Gandhi, asking her to convene an urgent meeting of CWC meeting. Sibal said that G-23 will raise issues that need to be addressed. “It is very clear. We are G-23 not Ji Huzoor 23. We will keep talking. We will continue to reiterate our demands,” Sibal said. 'Have no ego': Punjab CM Charanjit Channi says party is supreme, invites Navjot Sidhu for talksSibal's comments come at a time when the Punjab Congress is internally split in several factions with a new drama unfolding every day. Following Captain Amarinder Singh's resignation from the post of CM, which did not happen in an amicable way, Charanjit Singh Channi was chosen as the chief minister. His new Cabinet took oaths and as the new government is set to roll with only a few months left for the election, Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu has resigned from his post expressing dissatisfaction with the portfolio allocation that Charanjit Singh Channi made. "I don't want to talk about Punjab but a border state where this is happening to Congress party means what? It is an advantage to ISI and Pakistan. We know the history of Punjab and the rise of extremism there... we know how forces across the border exploit the situation to create an atmosphere of uncertainty. It is these forces that are the biggest threat to the nation. Congress should make sure that they remain united. If somebody has an issue, it has to be discussed," Sibal said.In his press meet, he addressed the media as a G-23 leader, the group of disgruntled Congress leaders who wrote to the high command that the party needs to elect its president. "I'm speaking to you (media) on behalf of those Congressmen who wrote the letter in Aug last year and are waiting for the actions to be taken by our leadership in respect of the election of the office of the president, to CWC and central election committee," Sibal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/there-is-no-president-don-t-know-who-is-taking-decision-kapil-sibal-on-punjab-crisis-101632912518246.html
29-09-2021||India||Woman claiming to be possessed by goddess held for drugging people||A woman claiming to be possessed by a goddess, and her three relatives, have been arrested for an attempt to murder in Assam’s Dibrugarh district for allegedly trying to cure people, including children, by drugging them. Local news reports claimed the accused planned to sacrifice two women and a girl. But the police have denied this even as they rescued the three along with a man from the woman’s house.“Following a tip-off, our team found a woman in an unconscious state and three others including a man who appeared to be intoxicated from the house of the accused woman. All of them were rescued,” said Dibrugarh police superintendent Shwetank Mishra. “Initial probe shows the accused woman claimed to have been possessed by a goddess and was performing various rituals to treat others of their diseases. It appears she and her family members used to drug those who came for treatment. We found marijuana from her house.”Also Read: Assam man beats ailing mother to death, arrested after father lodges FIR Police said the accused woman, her son, and two other family members have also been booked for possession of illicit drugs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-claiming-to-be-possessed-by-goddess-held-for-drugging-people-101632912562312.html
29-09-2021||India||Ex-Tamil Nadu minister Indira Kumari, her husband sent to jail for 5 years in funds misappropriation case||A special court on Wednesday convicted former Tamil Nadu minister R Indira Kumari, her husband Babu and a retired IAS officer in a funds misappropriation case dating back to 1996.The court dedicated for the trial of lawmakers sentenced the accused to five years of imprisonment, news agency ANI reported.Soon after the verdict was pronounced, Kumari was rushed to a hospital as she complained of breathing trouble.Former Tamil Nadu minister Indira Kumari, her husband Babu convicted in a misappropriation of funds case, filed in 1996. Special Court for MLAs and MPs sentenced them to 5-year imprisonment.The accused were involved in the misuse of government funds during Kumari's tenure as social welfare minister when the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) was in power with the late J Jayalalithaa at the helm between 1991 and 1996. Kumari had joined the M Karunanidhi-led Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam in 2006.According to the prosecution, the accused had siphoned off public money in the name of creating trusts committed towards the education sector, a report in The Times of India said, leading to the government incurring losses worth lakhs.The chargesheet in the case was filed in 2004, but the case had been pending for over 17 years. Wednesday’s verdict was pronounced by additional sessions judge N Alicia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extamil-nadu-minister-indira-kumari-her-husband-sent-to-jail-for-5-years-in-funds-misappropriation-case-101632906732084.html
29-09-2021||India||Chasm between NDA allies widens as JD(U) rethinks on special status demand||The announcement by a JD(U) minister in Bihar that the state was dropping its long pending demand of special status has once again brought to fore the blow hot, blow cold relation between the main allies of the National Democratic Alliance, the BJP and the JD (U). The sudden announcement is seen as a realization by the top JD (U) leadership that it doesn’t fit into the criterion laid down for the special status, though it has been raising the demand since 2005. “The top JD (U) leadership realized that Bihar does not qualify for the status given the conventional criteria for it. Nobody knows this better than Nitish Kumar himself,” feels Nawal Kishore Chowdhary, retired head of department of Economics, Patna University. “The dropping of the demand is quite logical,” said Prabhat P Ghosh, director, ADRI. “One of the reasons for this is that Finance Commission earlier used to differentiate between special category and normal states. Now the Commission has dropped the distinction. Following the recommendations of 14th Finance Commission, the Special Category States cease to exist and thus, no special category status has been granted to any state. Ever since the Commission ceased to differentiate between the two, the JD(U) rightly decided to drop this demand,” he added. However, both Ghosh and Chowdhary justify the special package demand. “The special package was promised when Jharkhand was formed,” said Ghosh. “The special package demand is more pragmatic and beneficial in view of declining state revenues, which has been the main plank of JD(U),” said Chowdhary. However, the JD(U)’s backtracking is also seen as one more instance of the growing chasm between the two parties after the recent setback to Nitish Kumar’s party, which has been championing the issue of caste census. With Kumar maintaining that he will hold discussions with all parties on caste census, the sudden drop of special status is seen as a “possible move to charter a different track in future.” The BJP reacted belligerently after an announcement to this effect was made by senior JD(U) minister Vijendra Prasad Yadav. “We should stop this tendency of begging instead we should develop ourselves in such a manner that we are able to give others. We should be grateful to the PM for providing so much to the state,” advised BJP minister for road construction, Nitin Nabin. “Earlier, the state share of revenue was 32% now it has increased to 42% while the remaining 58% is spent through different Centrally sponsored schemes,” said BJP state president, Dr Sanjay Jaiswal. “What special package are they talking about? The PM gave ₹1.25 lakh crore to the state as special assistance and had also announced to stand by the state in its hour of need,” said BJP spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel. According to BJP leaders, as per the proposed recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission, Bihar is likely to get ₹4,78,751 crore, which is the second highest in the country. “This included ₹4,24,926 crore as central taxes and ₹53,825 crore as grants,” claimed a BJP leader. For urban bodies it is likely to get ₹35,577 crore which would be 66% more than the last amount ( ₹21,413 crore), it got. So where has Bihar been overlooked,” he added. “One cannot deny that there may be an element of politics in the decision to back out,” feels Chowdhary. “The JD(U) might be trying to pressurize BJP and is keeping its option open in the wake of projection of Nitish Kumar as PM material,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chasm-between-nda-allies-widens-as-jd-u-rethinks-on-special-status-demand-101632911060999.html
29-09-2021||India||Manish Sisodia presents AAP’s roadmap for Gujarat, expresses confidence about Gandhinagar civic polls||Delhi deputy chief minister and senior leader of the Aam Aadmi Party Manish Sisodia on Wednesday presented his party’s roadmap in the state of Gujarat and also expressed confidence about the AAP’s performance in the upcoming civic body polls in Gandhinagar.Sisodia, who is currently on a visit to Gandhinagar in Gujarat, interacted with the media and the public where he discussed the party’s plans for Gujarat. “Interacted with journalists and public on Aam Aadmi Party's roadmap in Gujarat and Gandhinagar civic polls to be held on 3 October,” he said in a tweet in Hindi.गुजरात में आम आदमी पार्टी के रोडमैप और 3 अक्टूबर को होने वाले गांधीनगर निकाय चुनाव पर पत्रकारों और जनता से संवाद किया। सूरत ने आम आदमी पार्टी को विश्वास और उम्मीद दी है और गांधीनगर उसी उम्मीद और विश्वास के सहारे गुजरात की हवा बदलेगा। pic.twitter.com/kl2AnhmKVXExpressing confidence about the upcoming civic body polls in Gandhinagar, he said, “Surat has given confidence and hope to the Aam Aadmi Party and Gandhinagar will change the wind of Gujarat with the same hope and confidence.”Also read | AAP says ‘big announcements’ expected during Arvind Kejriwal’s 2-day visit to Punjab starting Sept 29The elections for the Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation (GMC) is scheduled to be held on October 3, almost six months after it was postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The polling will be held for 44 seats in 11 wards between 7am and 6pm on the day and the counting of votes and the announcing the results would be done on October 5, the state election commission (SEC) has said. The BJP is currently in power in all the eight municipal corporations in the state.Earlier this year, the AAP won 27 seats out of the 120 seats in the civic elections for the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) and the BJP won the elections with 93 seats. Also, the Congress party, which had 36 seats in the SMC, was reduced to zero. Sisodia referred to this victory and said that it has given his party confidence about the GMC polls.The AAP is trying to expand its presence across several states outside the national capital and Gujarat is one among them. With an eye on the assembly polls early next year, AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal has already said that the party would contest from all seats.Meanwhile, Kejriwal himself is on a two-day visit to Punjab where he is scheduled to meet with industrialists and businessmen in Ludhiana. The party has also said that the Delhi CM is set to make “big announcements” during his press meet on September 30 in the city.Before his interaction with the people, during the programme named ‘Gandhinagar Samvaad’, Sisodia visited the Akshardham temple in the city. He is also scheduled to hold a road show at 4.30pm, the party had said on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manish-sisodia-presents-aap-s-roadmap-for-gujarat-expresses-confidence-about-gandhinagar-civic-polls-101632910623779.html
29-09-2021||India||Taliban request India for flight resumption, decision under review: Report||The decision to resume commercial flights to Kabul is being jointly reviewed by the Directorate General of Civil aviation and the external affairs ministry, a top government source told news agency ANI. Early this month, on September 6, the civil aviation of Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan wrote to the DGCA urging the resumption of commercial flight operations to Kabul, which were closed after August 15."The Civil Aviation of Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan extends its compliments to the Directorate General of Civil Aviation of India. As you are informed that recently the Kabul airport was damaged and these functional by American troops before their withdrawal. By technical assistance of our Qatar brother the airport became operational once again and a NOTAM in this regard was issued on September 06, 2021," a letter from Afghanistan Civil Aviation Authority to DGCA Arun Kumar stated, according to ANI report. The decision is under review, a government source told ANI.Taliban-appointed Chancellor bars women from teaching or attending university"The intention of this letter is to keep the smooth passenger movement between two countries based on the signed MoU and our national carriers (Ariana Afghan airlines and Kam Air) aimed to commence their scheduled flights. Therefore, Afghanistan civil aviation authority requests you to facilitate their commercial flights." the ACAA letter stated.The letter was written by Afghanistan’s Acting Minister for Civil Aviation and Transport Alhaj Hamidullah Akhundzada.India operated the last commercial flight to Afghanistan on August 15, the day the Capital fell to the Taliban. The following evacuation was carried out by the Army planes. The airspace of the country was closed for commercial flights till September 5, when domestic flights were resumed. Pakistan International Airlines was the first airline to operate the first international charter flight to Afghanistan on September 13, after the Taliban takeover.Air India and SpiceJet used to operate flights between Delhi and Kabul, though Air India's Kabul flights were suspended in the wake of the pandemic in March 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-request-flight-resumption-decision-under-review-report-101632909621866.html
29-09-2021||India||Cyclone Shaheen likely to form over the Arabian Sea by October 1||Cyclone Shaheen that is likely to form over the Arabian Sea on Friday is among two extremely intense weather systems developing over India’s eastern and western parts, which could lead to widespread and extremely heavy rain in parts of the country, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday.There is also a well-marked low-pressure system over western parts of Gangetic West Bengal and neighbourhood. The Joint Typhoon Warning Center suggested it could intensify into a land cyclone but later said that it is only an area of convection. Some European models are indicating intensification of the system. “We do not think it is going to intensify into a cyclone. It will remain well marked for some time. The system is intense which brought extremely heavy rain yesterday (Tuesday) and bring very heavy rains today (Wednesday) also,” said Sunitha Devi, the in-charge of cyclones at IMD.Also Read: Extremely heavy rain likely over Gujarat, other parts of west coastAnother well-marked low-pressure area, a remnant of Cyclone Gulab, is over north Madhya Maharashtra, adjoining Gujarat and southwest Madhya Pradesh. It is likely to move west-north-westwards, emerge into the northeast Arabian Sea and intensify into a depression by Thursday morning. The remnant is likely to move further west-north-westwards and intensify into the cyclonic storm Shaheen during the subsequent 24 hours. Thereafter it is likely to continue to move west north-westwards towards Pakistan.“Though the cyclone will not hit the Indian coast, we can expect high sea around Gujarat and the Gulf of Kutch. Fishermen and coastal populations will be affected,” said Devi.In view of likely tropical cyclone formation over the northeast Arabian Sea, fishermen have been advised against venturing into the north and adjoining central Arabian Sea and along and off Gujarat and north Maharashtra coasts from Thursday. Fishermen, who are out at sea, have been advised to return to safer places by Wednesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyclone-shaheen-likely-to-form-over-west-coast-101632910340934.html
29-09-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi says India is about its people, PM using hatred to break ties||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday renewed his attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government alleging hatred was being used to break the bridge among Indians. He said India was being referred to as a territory, but the country was about its people, relationships and that of ties among religions.Addressing an event in Malappuram in Kerala, the Wayanad MP said, “They say India is a territory, we say India is people, relationships. It's the relationship between Hindu and Muslim, between Hindu, Muslim and Sikh, between Tamil, Hindi, Urdu, Bengali (-speaking people). My problem with the PM is that he's breaking these relationships.”Gandhi is on a two-day visit to Kerala to reportedly quell growing dissent in the party's state unit. His trip to the southern state came amid a fresh turmoil that has gripped the party in Punjab following the resignation of Navjot Singh Sidhu as Congress president.Every time he uses hatred to break a bridge b/w 2 Indians, my job is to use love to rebuild that bridge, & not just my job but our job. I can't build a bridge without understanding different traditions, ideas, different religions, different cultures in this country: Rahul Gandhi pic.twitter.com/WXoKupBo3HHe said every time the PM resorted to hatred to break a bridge, his job and commitment was towards rebuilding the same. “Not just my job but our job. I cannot build a bridge without understanding different traditions, ideas, different religions and different cultures of this country,” Gandhi was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The Congress leader said hurting relationships among Indians was akin to attacking the idea of India. “That is why I oppose him (Modi),” he added.“What happens if an Indian person gets on a plane and goes to America, does he not remain Indian? Of course, he remains an Indian. So for me, India is the people who live here,” he further said.He also hit out at Hindutva ideologue VD Savarkar for whom, Gandhi said, India was a geography. “They take a pen, draw a map and say this is India. Outside this line, it is not India and inside this line, it is India,” Gandhi said.“A question arises, what if there was this map but no people living on this territory. Would you still be here? Of course not, because if there would be no people in this territory, you would not say that it is India,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-says-india-is-about-its-people-pm-using-hatred-to-break-ties-101632905753452.html
29-09-2021||India||Money laundering case: ED summons Shiv Sena MP for questioning in||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned Shiv Sena Member of Parliament Bhavana Gawali on October 4 for questioning in connection with a money laundering case registered against her. The agency arrested her close aide Saeed Khan yesterday. Gawali is accused of conspiring in connivance with Khan to convert Mahila Utkarsha Pratishatan, a trust, into a company through fraud to take over its property.People aware of the matter said ED seeks to interrogate the two together. ED’s Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) case against Gawali is based on a First Information Report (FIR) registered in Maharashtra’s Washim district in May 2020 in connection with alleged financial irregularities in the trust. Gawali, who was also the chairperson of the trust, is the complainant in the FIR. She had accused her personal secretary Ashok Gandule and other employees of conspiring to misappropriate ₹18.18 crore belonging to the Pratishatan.Also Read: Shiv Sena MP Bhavana Gawali’s aide held in money laundering caseIn its remand application for Khan, the ED on Monday told a special PMLA court that Gawali, through Khan and his accomplices, criminally conspired to convert the Pratishthan into a company under the Company Act through forgery in January 2020. ₹69 crore in book value was transferred to the newly formed company. Khan and Shalinitai Pundlikraoji Gawali, the mother of Bhavana Gawali, are the directors of the company.ED informed the court that the accused forged documents, letters, and certificates for submission to the Registrar of Companies.ED last month carried out searches at the premises of Mahila Utkarsha Pratishthan.There was no immediate response from Gawali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-summons-shiv-sena-mp-for-questioning-in-money-laundering-case-101632905420369.html
29-09-2021||India||'Have no ego': Punjab CM Charanjit Channi says party is supreme, invites Navjot Sidhu for talks||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday said he has spoken to Navjot Singh Sidhu and invited him to talks so that the differences can be ironed out. The chief minister's comment comes a day after Navjot Singh Sidhu resigned from the post of the Punjab Congress president saying that he won't be able to compromise with ethics and moral authority. The resignation has not yet been accepted, Congress sources said. Calling Navjot Sidhu as the ‘head of the family’, Channi said, “I have spoken to him on phone and told him let's sit and talk it out.”A day after the dramatic resignation, Sidhu on Wednesday issued a video statement in which he opposed the allocation of some portfolios in the Charanjit Singh Channi's new cabinet. Apparently referring to senior IPS officer Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, who has been given the additional charge of the director-general of Punjab Police, Sidhu said, “When I see those who gave clean chit to Badals six years back…such persons have been given the responsibility for delivering justice.” The appointment of APS Deol as the state's new advocate general has also apparently irked Sidhu. However, Channi underplayed the crisis that the resignation letter might lead to at a time when he is setting up his new government and told reporters that he is not rigid about these appointments. Dismissing that Sidhu's move is to threaten the government, Channi said, “Party is supreme. The government takes note of the need of the party. Today I called him and told him we can sit and talk over the differences. If you feel there is anything wrong, you can point it out like you used to do before.” “This is not a move to threaten the government,” he said adding that he has no ego over appointments but one thing that he will ensure as long as he is the chief minister is that there will be no corruption.The unending crisis in Punjab Congress is a serious concern in front of the leadership especially as the state is going to the elections next year. Senior Congress leader Manish Tewari said Sidhu's resignation from the post of the party chief is distressing. "As a Punjab MP, I am extremely distressed about happenings in Punjab. Peace in Punjab was extremely hard-won. 25,000 people, bulk of them Congressmen, sacrificed themselves to bring peace back to Punjab after fighting extremism and terrorism between 1980-1995," Tewari told ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-charanjit-channi-says-party-is-supreme-has-invited-sidhu-for-talks-101632904578875.html
29-09-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh couple killed on suspicion of black magic||A couple’s neighbours last week allegedly hacked them to death after accusing them of practising black magic in Madhya Pradesh’s Hoshangabad district. Police said the main accused, Karan Singh and Anand Singh, lost their parents after illness and three members of their family are seriously ill. They suspected the couple, Pannalal Kalme, 62, and Kasturibai, 55, of practising black magic and blamed it for the deaths of their parents and illness of relatives, said Gurukaran Singh, superintendent of police, Hoshangabad.The two accused were arrested on Tuesday along with their uncle and cousins for allegedly killing the couple.Also Read: Metal spring found in lungs of 2-year-old child in Madhya Pradesh “The couple was found dead on September 23 at their home in Papariya Khurd village. ...police got information in the evening on September 24 after their son came back home from a family function. During the investigation, all the villagers were talking against the couple and were not willing to share any information...,” said Gurukaran Singh. He said the son suspected the role of Karan and Anand.The two were arrested and confessed to killing the couple while blaming them for black magic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-couple-killed-on-suspicion-of-black-magic-101632904040317.html
29-09-2021||India||Probe ordered into man’s death following his arrest in Odisha||A 35-year-old Dalit man died hours after police on Saturday arrested him in connection with a case related to a clash between two groups in Odisha’s Bargarh in July. Gobinda Kumbhar and four others were charged with rioting, unlawful assembly, wrongful restraint, and criminal intimidation. Hours after his arrest, Kumbhar was rushed to the Bargarh District Hospital in a critical condition before he died.Kumbhar’s widow, Rubi, alleged four policemen barged into their house on September 25 around 2 am and arrested her husband. “I want justice for my husband. I want all the policemen who killed my husband to be hanged.”Bargarh police superintendent Rahul Jain said they were awaiting Kumbhar’s post-mortem report and have ordered a magisterial inquiry into his death. “Action against the policemen will be taken after the inquiry is over,” he said.Also Read: 20-year-old man dies in police custody in MP, 4 cops suspended Suresh Pujari, the Member of Parliament from Bargarh, has sought an impartial probe into the death amid calls for arrest of the policemen who picked up Kumbhar. He cited injuries Kumbhar sustained and said the policemen allegedly responsible for his death be booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder.Dalit leader Ashok Mallick said Kumbhar was beaten in custody. He added he would petition the National Commission for Scheduled Castes and National Human Rights Commission of India and seek ₹50 lakh compensation for Kumbhar’s family as well action again the policemen involved.Another Dalit leader Kamal Lochan Tandi said Kumbhar’s death was not an isolated incident of atrocities against Dalits in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/probe-ordered-into-man-s-death-following-his-arrest-in-odisha-101632903440418.html
29-09-2021||India||Delhi allows muted Dussehra, Durga Puja celebrations, curbs to remain in place||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Wednesday granted permission for celebration of Dussehra and Durga Puja festivals this year amid strict restrictions in place. The DDMA has asked organisers to cap gatherings at venues to the total of seats. Also, no eateries or fairs can be held as part of the festivals. Besides 100 per cent mask compliance, the DDMA has made it mandatory for separate entry and exit points.The DDMA also announced physical reopening of all remaining classes from November 1. Offline classes for students of nine to 12 began a while ago.Delhi on Tuesday reported 34 fresh cases of Covid-19 and two related deaths.The decisions on further easing of curbs were taken at a scheduled meeting of the DDMA amid fears of an impending third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The second wave had wreaked havoc across the national capital.Last year, the government had allowed Durga Puja committees to conduct the rituals but did not allow visitors to the pandals. Dussehra too was allowed in a few locations with a cap on visitors, and enforcement teams were deployed at the venues. This year, Dussehra falls on October 15, while Durga Puja festivities will begin from October 11, with the days preceding the festivals often marked by large crowds in market places as people step out for shopping, eating, and entertainment.Experts have been warning against loosening of too many restrictions that might lead to another rise in fresh infections that have been on a declining trend for a while now.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-allows-muted-dussehra-durga-puja-celebrations-curbs-to-remain-in-place-101632903127059.html
29-09-2021||India||JD (U) seeks to retain two seats in Bihar by-poll||Bihar’s Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan are among the assembly seats where by-election will be held on October 30. The death of lawmakers representing the two seats necessitated the by-poll. The ruling Janata Dal (United), or JD (U), held both seats. It will seek to retain the seats in the assembly where its strength is just 43 in the 243-member House. The ruling National Democratic Alliance has 126 seats and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)-led Grand Alliance 110. State JD (U) president Umesh Kushwaha said they will retain both the seats and added they will soon announce their candidates.RJD is gearing to contest both the seats even as Congress contested one of them last year.“...we have a strong base . But no decision has been taken on seat allocation so far,” said an RJD leader, wishing anonymity.Also Read: Patna doc assaulted: IMA writes to DGP, seeks arrest of culprits Chirag Paswan-led faction of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) is also expected to field candidates for the two seats, which could make the situation difficult for JD(U).The by-polls are expected to test Paswan’s capability to garner votes especially of the weaker sections in case he decides to field candidates. Paswan is seeking recognition of his faction as the real LJP after his uncle, Pashupati Kumar Paras, revolved against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jd-u-seeks-to-retain-two-seats-in-bihar-bypoll-101632902120111.html
29-09-2021||India||Assam police constable dies by suicide||A 57-year-old Assam Police constable allegedly died by suicide early on Wednesday morning in Golaghat district, a police officer said. The constable allegedly shot himself around 3:45 am with his service rifle at the Ghiladhari police station, where he was posted.“Other staff in the station woke up to the noise of the rifle shot. The constable was taken to the nearest hospital but he succumbed before reaching there,” said Sumeet Sharma, superintendent of police, Golaghat. The constable’s phone was found near his body, but there was no suicide note.Police said that the constable had returned from duty on Tuesday without any problems.Also Read: Rajasthan cop shoots himself dead at Delhi high court “There was nothing to indicate that he could kill himself. It could be due to some personal issues. We have intimated his family members. The body has been sent for post-mortem,” said Sharma.The police have lodged a case of suicide and were conducting further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-police-constable-dies-by-suicide-101632900740134.html
29-09-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1pm: Mehbooba Mufti says she is under house arrest again and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti said on Wednesday she was yet again put under house arrest over the plans to visit a village in Tral, Pulwama district, that was allegedly “ransacked by army”. Read more The Enforcement Directorate on Wednesday summoned Shiv Sena MP Bhavana Gawali for questioning in a money laundering case linked to a trust associated with the lawmaker. The agency asked the parliamentarian from Yavatmal-Washim to depose before the investigating officer of the case at the ED office in South Mumbai on October 4. Read more Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed confidence that the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will win the next year's assembly polls in the state easily. In fact, the chief minister said that the party will surpass its 2017 seat tally of 312 and win between 325 and 350 seats. Read more  Legendary Indian cricketer Sunil Gavaskar believes Rohit Sharma should be India's captain in the next two T20 World Cups. BCCI are yet to name India's new T20I captain after Virat Kohli announced that he won't continue as the skipper in the shortest format after the T20 World Cup, slated to take place in UAE and Oman in October-November. Read more British High Commissioner Alex Ellis often takes to Twitter to share various kinds of posts. Amid those are also the shares that showcase him enjoying famous foods in different cities of India. Just like this share where he posted about his experience of eating rasgulla while visiting Kolkata. Read more Actor Naga Chaitanya and his father Nagarjuna came together on Tuesday evening for the success meet of Love Story. The event, which was also attended by Chaitanya's co-star Sai Pallavi and director Sekhar Kammula, was organised to celebrate the film’s grand success. Love Story, which opened in theatres worldwide last Friday, has grossed over ₹20 crores at the box-office as of Tuesday. Read more Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal launched AAP govt's ambitious 'Deshbhakti Curriculum’. The curriculum was unveiled on the birth anniversary of freedom fighter Bhagat Singh. Kejriwal had announced 'Deshbhakti Curriculum' plan on 73rd Independence Day in 2019. The curriculum has been prepared by Delhi govt school teachers with inputs from NGOs, experts. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-mehbooba-mufti-says-she-is-under-house-arrest-again-and-all-the-latest-news-101632895462926.html
29-09-2021||India||Significant drop in electricity theft cases in Uttar Pradesh||There has been a significant drop in electricity theft cases in Uttar Pradesh since special police stations were set up in the state about two years back to check the problem, officials said. This has also helped the Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) receive greater revenue.“We are moving fast towards achieving the target of zero charge-sheets in power theft cases with the help of the anti-power theft police stations and this is a big achievement,” said Kamal Saksena, director-general (vigilance), UPPCL. “Our police convince power theft culprits to get their offences compounded or settle the matters on the spot and get acquitted instead of getting involved in court cases once the charge sheets are filed.”Also Read: Opposition faces credibility crisis, BJP will get 325-350 seats: Adityanath People aware of the matter said in 2020 charge sheets were filed in only 990 power theft cases. The number has dropped this year when 1,06,992 cases were registered from January till September 13. Charge sheets have been filed only in nine of the 8,830 cases disposed of. In 8,810 cases, final reports were sent to the courts which meant 99.77% of cases were closed after the accused agreed to get the offences compounded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/significant-drop-in-electricity-theft-cases-in-uttar-pradesh-101632899960153.html
29-09-2021||India||UIDAI slashes Aadhaar authentication charges. Check details||The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), which issues Aadhaar card in the country, has slashed the price for authentication by customers. The charges has been slashed to ₹3 from ₹20 per instance to enable entities leverage its infrastructure for providing ease of living to people through various services and benefits.UIDAI CEO Saurabh Garg said that the potential of leveraging Aadhaar in the financial technology sector is immense. "We have slashed the rate from ₹20 per authentication to ₹3 and the objective has been to ensure that different agencies, entities should be able to use the power of digital infrastructure which has been created by the state that needs to be used to provide people with ease of living with dignity," Garg said.Till date, more than 99 crore e-KYC have been done using Aadhaar system."I think it gives a cost effective and non-repudiable solution to fintech companies to onboard new customers," Garg added.Last week, the department of telecommunications (DoT) issued a series of orders to implement "contactless, customer-centric and secured KYC processes". The reforms have been brought in to digitise KYC processes and make subscriber acquisition completely online, the DoT said.“Online service delivery has become an acceptable norm in the recent past and most of the customer services are being offered through internet with OTP authentication. Contactless services in the Covid era needs to be promoted for subscriber convenience and also for ease of doing business,” the telecom department said in a statement.Earlier this month, UIDAI announced some changes under which cardholders who have not registered their mobile number can download their Aadhaar cards from the entity's website.UIDAI said the facility will also help cardholders, who do not have a mobile phone or computer, in downloading the document.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uidai-slashes-aadhaar-authentication-charges-check-details-101632898160686.html
29-09-2021||India||Mehbooba Mufti says locked in her house yet again on way to visit Tral||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti said on Wednesday she was yet again put under house arrest over the plans to visit a village in Tral, Pulwama district, that was allegedly “ransacked by army”.She said this was the real picture of Kashmir and the same should be shown to visiting dignitaries instead of the guided ones."Locked up in my house today yet again for attempting to visit the village in Tral allegedly ransacked by army. This is the real picture of Kashmir that visiting dignitaries must be shown instead of GOIs sanitised & guided picnic tours," Mufti wrote on Twitter.Locked up in my house today yet again for attempting to visit the village in Tral allegedly ransacked by army. This is the real picture of Kashmir that visiting dignitaries must be shown instead of GOIs sanitised & guided picnic tours. pic.twitter.com/Hp9wcuw1qTShe also posted a picture of a vehicle that seemed to belong to the security forces and was allegedly blocking the main gate of her residence on Gupkar road.On Tuesday, the PDP chief had said that Army personnel had thrashed a family and ransacked homes in Tral. The daughter of the family had suffered serious injuries in the attack and was undergoing treatment at a hospital, she said, adding she would meet her kin."Army from Yagwani camp in Tral ransacked homes and ruthlessly thrashed a family last night. The daughter owing to her serious injuries was admitted to hospital. Not the first time that civilians from this village have been beaten up by army in this area,” she wrote on the microblogging site.Earlier this month too, the PDP chief had said she had been placed under house arrest and that the administration had told her that situation was far from normal in Kashmir. On September 7, Mufti said her house arrest exposed "the fake claims of normalcy” in the valley by the central government.On November 27, last year, she was detained by the Jammu and Kashmir Police and not allowed to meet the family of senior PDP leader Waheed Parra in Pulwama following his arrest. Mufti had said that her daughter Iltija Mufti was also placed under house arrest.The former chief minister had been detained for more than a year after the Narendra Modi-led central government decided to abrogate Article 370 that granted a special to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. She was later charged under the Public Safety Act (PSA), an official said.At the time, almost all political leaders in the Vally, including National Conference's Farooq Abdullah, his son Omar Abdullah and People’s Conference leader Sajjad Lone, were arrest as the Centre revoked the state's special status and bifurcated it into two Union territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/locked-in-my-house-yet-again-says-pdp-chief-mehbooba-mufti-101632896276656.html
29-09-2021||India||Constable on duty at Delhi high court shoots self with service weapon||A police constable on duty at the Delhi high court allegedly shot himself dead with his service rifle on Wednesday. The constable of the Rajasthan Armed Constabulary had come for duty earlier in the day and was stationed near Gate number 3 of the high court, the Delhi Police said.The deceased was a resident of Kotkasim in Alwar and said to be around 30 years of age. He had joined duty on Wednesday around 9.30 am after coming back from a leave.One Police Constable allegedly died by suicide by shooting himself with his service rifle. He had come for duty this morning and was stationed near Gate number 3 of Delhi High Court: Delhi PoliceFurther investigation was underway. New Delhi deputy commissioner of police Deepak Yadav said no suicide had been recovered yet.“Probe is underway to find out the circumstances prompting him to take this step. No suicide note has been recovered,” Yadav was quoted as saying.The suicide came days after the dramatic shootout of gangster Jitender Mann alias Gogi inside Rohini district court in the national capital.The incident had raised major security concerns on the court premises. (With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/constable-on-duty-at-delhi-high-court-shoots-self-with-service-weapon-101632894916184.html
29-09-2021||India||Navjot Singh Sidhu releases video message, says 'can't compromise with ethics'||A day after resigning from the post of Punjab Congress chief, Navjot Singh Sidhu released a video message on his Twitter handle, in which he obliquely criticised the appointment of induction of tainted MLAs into the cabinet of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and other controversial appointments.Also Read: Punjab deserves better, says Manish TewariIn the video message, Sidhu said that his only religion is to make people's lives better.हक़-सच की लड़ाई आखिरी दम तक लड़ता रहूंगा … pic.twitter.com/LWnBF8JQxu"I can't compromise with my ethics, moral authority. What I witness is a compromise with issues, agenda in Punjab. I can't disguise high command nor can I let them be disguised," Sidhu said in the video message."I don't have any personal rivalry with anyone; 17 years of my political career has been for a purpose, to make difference, to take a stand and to make people's lives better. This is my only religion," he further said.In the accompanying tweet, Sidhu said that he will continue fighting for truth “till his last breath”.Sidhu's resignation came 72 days after he was appointed as Punjab Congress chief, and eight days after Punjab got a new chief minister. He was miffed at not having his way with some senior appointments.According to people familiar with the matter, Sidhu’s resignation was triggered by the inclusion of Rana Gurjit Singh in the state cabinet, the appointed of APS Deol as the state’s attorney general, and Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota as the state’s DGP; and the allocation of the home portfolio to Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. Sidhu was already miffed at not being named chief minister, they added, and saw these as signals from Channi that he (the CM) and not Sidhu was calling the shots.The sudden resignation embarrassed Rahul and Priyanka Gandhi, who together orchestrated Sidhu’s appointment and Amarinder Singh’s exit as chief minister as part of an effort to end factionalism in Punjab Congress and improve the party’s chances in next year’s state elections. It is said that Sidhu did not inform the Gandhis before resigning.The Congress leadership has not accepted Sidhu's resignation and efforts are on to persuade him to take back his resignation. Punjab ministers Amarinder Singh Raja Warring and Pargat Singh met Sidhu at his residence in Patiala. Warring had said yesterday that "there are some minor issues" and that those will be resolved by today.Hours after Sidhu’s resignation on Tuesday, three prominent leaders close to him also quit their posts: cabinet minister Razia Sultana, general secretary Yoginder Dhingra and treasurer Gulzar Inder Singh Chahal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navjot-singh-sidhu-releases-video-message-says-can-t-compromise-with-ethics-101632894338032.html
29-09-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi on 2-day visit to Kerala amid reports of infighting in state Congress unit||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi arrived in Kerala on Wednesday for a two-day visit amid growing dissent in the party's state unit. According to those familiar with the development, Gandhi will be visiting his parliamentary constituency of Wayanad today, and his visit is likely aimed at attempting to douse the fire within the Kerala Pradesh Congress unit. Photos posted by the ANI news agency this morning showed the former Congress president arriving at the Calicut airport in Karipur, from where he is set to proceed to Kozhikode and Malappuram later in the day.Kerala | Congress leader Rahul Gandhi arrives at Calicut Airport, Karipur. He will be visiting Kozhikode and Malappuram, today. pic.twitter.com/jL3RBJNy9PAccording to reports, Rahul Gandhi has three programmes scheduled for Wednesday at his parliamentary constituency of Wayanad, from where he was elected to the Lok Sabha in the 2019 elections. After staying back at Kozhikode, the Congress leader will be flying back to Delhi on Thursday.Reports of infighting in state units of Congress have become too frequent in recent days. Firework started in the faction-ridden party with the appointment of new party president K Sudhakaran, a tough leader from Communist heartland Kannur and opposition leader VD Satheesan, sidelining two powerful blocs led by former CM Oommen Chandy and senior leader Ramesh Chennithala who ruled the party for more than one and a half-decade. Problems aggravated after the DCC presidents’ list was released last month.Also Read | Congress leader Sudheeran quits AICC, days after resigning from pac in KeralaTwo days after he quit the party’s political affairs committee (PAC), sulking Congress leader VM Sudheeran on Monday announced his resignation from the All India Congress Committee (AICC), the second-highest decision-making body of the party after the Congress Working Committee. While Sudheeran, former PCC chief and five-time MP, did not disclose reasons behind his sudden decision leaders close to him said he was not happy with the functioning of new PCC chief K Sudhakaran and opposition leader VD Satheesan.There are complaints that decisions are taken unanimously, and senior leaders are often ignored. It is yet to be seen if Rahul Gandhi's imminent visit to the state will quell the dissent within the party unit, but those in the know say that the former Congress chief may speak to both Sudhakaran and Satheesan in the hopes of settling things.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-on-2-day-visit-to-kerala-amid-reports-of-infighting-in-state-congress-unit-101632887646365.html
29-09-2021||India||India’s strategic autonomy expansion needs foreign policy reorientation: Experts||A discussion document by an independent group of leading policymakers, analysts and thinkers have said that India must maintain an outward orientation of its economy and avoid being pushed to the margins of the regional and global economy in order to enhance its growth prospects and improve people’s welfare.They believe that there is an unmistakable trend towards multipolarity in Asia and the world, and it is in India’s interest to reinforce this trend. The document says that the expansion of India’s strategic autonomy demands a re-orientation of its foreign policy towards mobilising the larger constituency of developing countries and emerging economies with which it has convergent interests and advance them through reinforcing multilateral institutions and processes.The full-version of the document, written by leading policymakers like Yamini Aiyar, Sunil Khilnani, Prakash Menon, Shivshankar Menon, Nitin Pai, Srinath Raghavan, Ajit Ranade and Shyam Saran, is called ‘India’s Path to Power: Strategy in a World Adrift’ and is set to be released on October 2.“The authors of the document believe that the current period of rapid geopolitical change and economic transformation carries risks, but also creates spaces for emerging countries like India to expand its strategic autonomy. However, to leverage opportunities and mitigate risks, critical decisions must be taken now to ensure that the coming decade sets the stage for India’s emergence as a front-ranking power in Asia and beyond. The recommendations in this document are directed towards this objective. Strategic autonomy, openness and inclusive economic growth are the key guiding principles,” their statement read.Also Read: Public-private partnership can bring ‘defence production revolution’: Rajnath They recommended that India should further strengthen its partnership with the United States, Japan and Europe as they share India’s security concerns and are the key source of capital, trade and technology, which will enhance India’s development prospects.The authors said that India faces an existential threat from climate change. They suggest that while working towards a supportive global regime on climate change, India needs to reorient growth strategies to prioritise sustainability by leveraging advanced technologies.To overcome the challenges faced in cyberspace, they said India must draw on the talent within and outside the government to urgently develop offensive cyber capabilities.While acknowledging the China challenge, the authors believe that India is the only country with comparable area, population, history, manpower, and scientific and technological capabilities to not only match but to surpass China as a parallel state.On the increasing threat posed by collusion between China and Pakistan, they said, there was a need for a politically guided strategic approach that identifies, prioritises and develops pertinent forms of power, which are housed in structures that promote centralised planning and decentralised execution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-strategic-autonomy-expansion-needs-foreign-policy-reorientationexperts-101632892579219.html
29-09-2021||India||Covid: India's new case tally below 20k for 2 days, recoveries at record high||India reported less than 20,000 coronavirus cases for two straight days even though a slight rise in the daily figures was seen on Wednesday. The latest updates on the health ministry bulletin showed 18,870 new Covid-19 cases were registered in the last 24 hours. The figures were 18,795 on Tuesday.With 28,178 patients being cured during the same period, the recovery rate now stood at 97.83 per cent, which is the highest since March 2020.There were 2,82,520 active cases at the moment and counted for 0.84 per cent of the total cases -- 3,37,16,451 -- that have been registered in the country since the pandemic struck last year. The active caseload is also at its lowest since March 2020.Also read | 60 students of Bengaluru boarding test positive for Covid-19, school shutThe fresh figures have raised hopes of the authorities amid major fears of an impending third wave as officials continue to warn against giving up on Covid-appropriate behaviour. As many as 378 people lost their lives to the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll 4,47,751.The weekly positivity rate, which has remained less than three per cent for 96 days, was 1.83 per cent at the moment, while the daily positivity rate that has been less than three per cent for 30 days was 1.25 per cent.Also read | Suspension of international flights extended till October 31The Indian Council of Medical Research said 15,04,713 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the last one day, taking the total figure to 56,74,50,185.The government has so far administered 87,66,63,490 doses of vaccines against the virus. Of these, 54,13,332 were inoculated in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-india-s-new-case-tally-below-20k-for-2-days-recoveries-at-record-high-101632890806327.html
29-09-2021||India||CISF detains passenger carrying gold paste worth ₹42 Lakh inside rectum at Imphal airport||The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) on Monday seized gold paste weighing over 900 grams and valued at ₹42 lakh from a passenger at the Imphal airport, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported. A total of four packets of gold were recovered from the man who was later detained by the security force, the Livehindustan report said.During inspection, CISF sub-inspector B noticed the man was hiding something inside him, the report quoted a police official as saying.The passenger, identified as Mohammad Sharif - a resident of Kozhikode - was later detained at the Imphal airport. He was scheduled to take a flight from Imphal to Delhi.The security forces took him for questioning to the security hold area, however, they could not get a response from him. The man was later taken for a medical examination of his lower body.The medical examination revealed metallic items inside his body, Livehindustan reported.Before this, the CISF had detected four gold bars weighing about 300 gm worth approximately ₹14 lakh at Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport during pre-embarkation security check and passenger was handed over to Customs Officials for further action in the case.The troops of the paramilitary force detected the gold bars at about 5.15am on September 23 during pre-embarkation security check through X-BIS machine at domestic Security Hold Area (SHA) of Terminal-3 at IGI Airport.The gold bars were seized from the possession of an Indian passenger identified as Abdul Majid Mohammed Vtaniya, who arrived from Riyadh Via Doha by Qatar Airways flight and further bound for Ahmedabad by Vistara Airlines flight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cisf-detains-passenger-carrying-gold-paste-worth-42-lakh-inside-rectum-at-imphal-airport-101632889242696.html
29-09-2021||India||Public-private partnership can bring ‘defence production revolution’: Rajnath||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday said the government has created an atmosphere of jointness to ensure modernisation of the armed forces in the rapidly evolving global security scenario. In his address at Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers (SIDM) annual meeting, he added public-private partnership can bring a “Defence Production Revolution” and help achieve the vision of “Aatmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India)”.“Through a strategic partnership model that will help our private companies become global giants in the years to come. The recent contract of 56 transport aircraft for the Indian Air Force is one such example,” he said. Singh added due to these steps, defence exports have crossed ₹38,000 crore mark in the last seven years. He said over 10,000 Small and Medium Enterprises have joined the defence sector and there has been an increase in research and development, start-ups, innovation, and employment.“Countries around the world are now focusing on the modernisation of their militaries and the demand for military equipment is rapidly increasing due to emerging security concerns, border disputes and maritime dominance,” Singh said. “India is capable of meeting these needs through a cost-effective and quality approach. By India, we mean public sector, private sector, academia, research and development. We believe in taking them all on board together.”Also Read: Centre dissolves ordnance factory board, transfers assets to seven DPSUs Singh said the Indian defence industry is home to manufacturers who can create a perfect blend of state-of-the-art, high quality and cost-effective hardware to bolster national security and make India a “net defence exporter”. He underlined the importance of indigenisation and spoke about the reforms undertaken to integrate the private sector and achieve Atmanirbhar Bharat. “The reforms include earmarking 64.09% of Capital Acquisition Budget for 2021-22 for domestic capital procurement and 15% of capital procurement budget for direct procurement from private industry; setting up of Defence Industrial Corridors in Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu; introduction of Innovation for Defence Excellence; free Transfer of Technology through Defence Research & Development Organisation and increase in FDI in defence up to 74% through automatic route and up to 100% through government route.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/publicprivate-partnership-can-bring-defence-production-revolution-rajnath-singh-101632889519119.html
29-09-2021||India||Income limit of differently abled dependents raised for family pension||The defence ministry has enhanced the income criteria for grant of family pension to children or siblings suffering from mental or physical infirmities. In a statement on Tuesday, the ministry said that such dependents shall be eligible for family pension for life, given that “their overall income from sources other than family pension remains less than the entitled family pension at ordinary rate, i.e 30% of the last pay drawn by the deceased government servant or pensioner concerned plus the dearness relief admissible thereon.” Also Read: Delhi’s south corporation makes life certificates mandatory for pensions Presently, the differently-abled child or siblings are eligible for family pension “if their overall monthly income from sources other than family pension is not more than ₹9,000/- along with dearness relief thereon.”The ministry said that the financial benefit in such cases shall accrue with effect from February 8, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/income-limit-of-differently-abled-dependents-raised-for-family-pension-101632888439694.html
29-09-2021||India||ED attaches assets worth ₹578 crores of UK-based Wadhawan Global Capital Limited||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets worth ₹578 crores of United Kingdom-based Wadhawan Global Capital Limited in connection with the Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) employees’ provident fund scam allegedly involving the Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL).The company is owned by Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, who are under investigation by multiple agencies in various cases of alleged cheating and fraud.“During the investigation by ED, it is revealed that DHFL in connivance with UPPCL officials had illegally received ₹4122.70 Crore of GPF and CPF funds of UPPCL’s employees in fixed deposit in DHFL. Out of this total investment of ₹4122.70 Crore by UPPCL in DHFL, ₹2267.90 Crore of principal amounts of provident fund (GPF+CPF) of UPPCL is still outstanding to be paid by DHFL. These illegal investments had been received by the DHFL during the period, where DHFL was engaged into disbursement of high value loans to its promoter related companies,” ED said in a statement.A significant portion of such loans was allegedly siphoned off and not used for the stated purpose. Over ₹1,000 crores was also allegedly diverted to the UK by the Wadhawans through seven levels of layering and laundering via over 30 beneficially owned/controlled Indian companies.
29-09-2021||India||Ex-Goa CM Luizinho Faleiro expected to join TMC today||Former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro is likely to join the Trinamool Congress (TMC) with a group of his loyalists in Kolkata on Wednesday. The TMC called him an eminent leader when Faleiro, a former Congress president of Goa, arrived in Kolkata on Tuesday.Falerio this week resigned from Congress as well as the Goa assembly. He has been tight-lipped on his future plans even as he said he would “definitely support" TMC.“Definitely, I will support (West Bengal chief minister) Mamata (Banerjee) because she has fought; she has succeeded... She symbolises women empowerment which can bring this country back on the rails of development and progress,” Faleiro said in Goa. He declined to elaborate.Former Goa Congress general secretaries Yatish Naik and Vijai Pai are among those who have arrived in Kolkata from Goa and are expected to join the TMC as well. After sweeping the 2021 West Bengal assembly polls, TMC lawmaker Abhishek Banerjee in June announced they plan to expand their base to other states ahead of the 2024 national polls to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party.The TMC has renewed its contract with the Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC), the company launched by election strategist Prashant Kishor, till the 2024 polls in which Mamata Banerjee wishes to see her party play a bigger role in national politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exgoa-cm-luizinho-faleiro-expected-to-join-tmc-today-101632885483969.html
29-09-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9am: Patchy rain to continue in Delhi, NCR in coming days and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Patchy rain to continue in Delhi, NCR in next few daysPatchy rains are likely to continue in isolated pockets of Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) in the coming few days, but it was unlikely to be enough for the city to record the wettest September month, India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said. Read moreBombay HC to hear today Anil Deshmukh's plea against ED summonsThe Bombay high court will on Wednesday hear a petition filed by former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh against summons issued to him by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in an alleged money laundering case. Last Thursday, the court had asked the ED to respond to Deshmukh's plea seeking quashing of the summons. Read more'Don't think Eoin appreciates it': Dinesh Karthik reveals reason behind Ashwin, Morgan heated argumentR Ashwin and Eoin Morgan had a go at each verbally during the IPL match between Kolkata Knight Riders and Delhi Capitals in Sharjah on Tuesday. The incident took place in the final over of DC's innings when Ashwin top edged a pull to backward square and was out. Read moreKapil Sharma says he realised he had depression through media reports: ‘Paper walo ka bhala ho’Comedian and television host Kapil Sharma has revealed that his wife Ginni Chatrath was his biggest support when he battled depression around 2017-2018. He said that even he had no clue what he was going through at the time. Read moreKate Middleton is a Golden Goddess at No Time To Die premiere, Daniel Craig calls her jolly lovelyIs it a Bond Girl or the Duchess of Cambridge? This is the question many asked as Kate Middleton arrived on the red carpet to attend the world premiere of Daniel Craig's No Time To Die, the 25th film in the James Bond series, in London. Read moreMumbai Indians revive campaign with 6-wicket win over Punjab KingsFive-time and two-time defending champions Mumbai Indians snapped their three-match losing streak with a six-wicket win against Punjab Kings in Abu Dhabi on Tuesday. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-patchy-rain-to-continue-in-delhi-ncr-in-coming-days-and-all-the-latest-news-101632882065389.html
29-09-2021||India||Extremely heavy rain likely over Gujarat, other parts of west coast||Very heavy to extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) is likely over several parts of Gujarat with a low pressure system, a remnant of cyclone Gulab, heading towards the Gujarat coast on Wednesday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The well-marked low pressure area was over northwest Vidarbha on Tuesday. It is likely to move northwestwards and weaken gradually during the next 24 hours and likely to emerge into northeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Gujarat coast around Thursday and there is likelihood for the system to further intensify into a depression over northeast Arabian Sea during subsequent 24 hours. IMD had earlier warned that this could also intensify into another cyclone. An update on the system will be available later today.Another well-marked low-pressure area over northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining coastal areas of West Bengal persists. The associated cyclonic circulation is extending up to mid-tropospheric levels. The east-west trough is continuing to run from north Konkan to north Coastal Andhra Pradesh. Under the influence of these systems, very heavy rainfall with extremely heavy rain is very likely at isolated places over Gujarat. Heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over Gangetic West Bengal, Odisha, Jharkhand, north Madhya Maharashtra & north Konkan; Heavy rainfall at isolated places over Marathwada is likely today, according to IMD.Heavy to very heavy rainfall is also very likely at isolated places over Saurashtra & Kutch; while heavy rainfall is expected at isolated places over Odisha, Gangetic West Bengal and Gujarat on Thursday, the weather department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extremely-heavy-rain-likely-over-gujarat-other-parts-of-west-coast-101632884790280.html
29-09-2021||India||Surgical strike day: Here's how the 2016 operation was carried out||In September 2016, the Indian Army launched surgical strikes against terrorist camps in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir. The strike on September 28, 2016, was in response to an attack by Pakistan-based terrorists on an army base in Kashmir’s Uri on September 18 in which 19 soldiers were killed.Since then, the government has been observing September 29 as "Surgical Strike Day".In an interview to news agency ANI, Prime Minister Narendra Modi revealed the details of the military action saying that the date of the attack was changed twice, keeping in mind the safety and security of the troops.The Prime Minister said the surgical strikes were planned as there was a “rage” building up within him as well as the Army after soldiers were killed in the terror attack in Uri.PM Modi also said that he ordered the troops to not think about the success or failure and be back "before sunrise".How the surgical strike was carried outIn September 2016, terrorists of Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed entered the Army camp in Uri near the Line of Control and killed 20 soldiers in the attack.In retaliation, the Indian Army troops including the commandos from various units of the Para (Special Forces) units deployed in Jammu and Kashmir carried out raids across the border on multiple targets.All these targets were launch pads for terrorists for infiltrating into Jammu and Kashmir for carrying out attacks against military and civilian targets.PM Modi said that while talking to the Army, he realised that they wanted justice for their martyred soldiers and the government gave them the “free hand” to plan and execute the surgical strikes.The surgical strike was hailed by the people of the country as well as the armed forces, with defence minister Rajnath Singh saying that it gave a clear message to the world that "we can kill terrorists on this side as well as by crossing the border if the need arises".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/surgical-strike-day-here-s-how-the-2016-operation-was-carried-out-101632882272993.html
29-09-2021||India||Mansukh Mandaviya addresses 4th Indo-US Health Dialogue; two MoUs signed||Mansukh Mandaviya, Union minister for health and family welfare on Tuesday addressed the closing session of 4th Indo-US Health Dialogue being hosted by India.The two-day Dialogue leveraged as a platform to deliberate upon multiple ongoing collaborations in the health sector between the two countries. The issues related to areas of concern pertaining to strengthening of epidemiological research and surveillance, vaccine development, One Health, zoonotic and vector-borne diseases, health systems and health policies etc. were discussed during the two day dialogue. Two MoUs were also signed on Tuesday at the concluding session. One MoU was signed between the health ministry and the Department of Health and Human Services of the USA concerning cooperation in the field of health and biomedical sciences. Another MoU was signed between Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) & National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases for cooperation on International Centre for Excellence in Research (ICER).“We all know that both India and U.S. are global partners, and we also need to work collaboratively in reforming the global health architecture, whose fault lines have become amply visible during the current pandemic,” the health minister said.Equally important areas where in both India and US can work, relates to managing health emergencies, supporting digital health and innovation, mental health interventions, research coupled with production related to diagnostics, therapeutics and, vaccines considering India offering its low-cost research network and huge production capacities, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mansukh-mandaviya-addresses-4th-indo-us-health-dialogue-two-mous-signed-101632882202496.html
29-09-2021||India||‘Out of gutter, into the drain’: BJP's Kailash Vijayvargiya on Kanhaiya Kumar joining Congress||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kailash Vijayvargiya hit out at former Jawaharlal Nehru University Students' Union (JNUSU) president Kanhaiya Kumar on Tuesday with a pointed remark. Referring to Kumar's decision to leave the Communist Party of India (CPI) and join the Congress instead, Vijayvargiya said, “If someone comes out of the gutter and falls into the drain, then I can only sympathise with him.” Notably, ex-CPI leader Kanhaiya Kumar joined the Congress on Tuesday in the presence of party leader Rahul Gandhi in Delhi. Addressing the media at Congress headquarters soon after the induction of the youth leader, the party's general secretary KC Venugopal had said, “Kanhaiya Kumar is a symbol of the fight for freedom of expression in this country. He fought against fundamentalism as a student leader. The joining of kind of dynamic personality will fill the entire cadre of Congress with enthusiasm.”Also Read | Will Kanhaiya Kumar’s entry to Congress herald new start for party in Bihar?Later on Tuesday, Vijayvargiya's remarks followed BJP IT cell chief Amit Malviya's assertions that Congress is joining ranks with forces that intend to ‘break’ the political unity in India. Ahead of Kanhaiya's joining, Malviya had tweeted, "On the anniversary of the surgical strike, Congress to admit Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mewani of “Bharat tere tukde honge” fame. This can’t be a mere coincidence. Joining hands with “Breaking India” forces is now Congress’s raison d’être.”Vijayvargiya, who was speaking to reporters in Indore, was also quizzed on the recent political developments in West Bengal, including the upcoming by-poll for the Bhabanipur constituency. “It is not possible to have fair elections there, not even one per cent,” Vijayvargiya was quoted as saying by the ANI news agency. “… so what Dilip Ghosh [the former BJP Bengal chief] has said is right, the polling booths will be captured, voters will not be allowed to come out. Hence elections get captured in West Bengal.”Ghosh, who is currently the BJP national vice-president, had said on Monday that there is no point in holding elections if the state administration under the Trinamool Congress (TMC)-led government cannot conduct an ‘unbiased’ election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/out-of-gutter-into-the-drain-bjp-s-kailash-vijayvargiya-on-kanhaiya-kumar-joining-congress-101632878713891.html
29-09-2021||India||Active Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra at 7-month low||Maharashtra recorded 2,844 fresh Covid infections pushing the count to 6,544,606 on Tuesday. The tally of active Covid cases further reduced to 36,794 as 3,029 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours. The current number of active cases have gone below the 37,516 cases reported on February 3 and are the lowest in the last 7 months. The state also saw 60 Covid-related casualties taking the total to 138,962. Ahmednagar reported the highest toll with 12 deaths. The continuing drop in active infections has helped the state government’s decision to lift all curbs from next month. It is reopening in-person classes in schools from October 4, all religious places from October 7 and cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes from October 22. On April 22, Maharashtra reported highest number of active cases 699,858. With 9,243, Pune is at the top among five districts that account for more than 75.29% of the total active cases recorded on September 27. Thane has 5,888 active cases, Ahmednagar 5,506, Mumbai 5,053 and Satara has 2,201. Pune, Ahmednagar and Satara are also among the nine districts with higher weekly positivity rate than the state’s average of 2.11% . Ahmednagar has the highest positivity rate of 4.27%, Sindhudurg 4.04%, Palghar 3.39%, Pune 3.37%, Nashik 2.78%, Osmanabad 2.72%, Sangli 2.54%, Satara 2.36%, and Ratnagiri 2.36%, as per state government data. “We have decided to unlock mindfully, slowly and carefully,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state task force. Also Read: Thane man mistakenly jabbed for rabies instead of Covid-19; doctor, nurse suspended He said that the sero survey conducted in Mumbai also shows reassuring results. “Though it has limitations since it was not a population based survey, yet it shows that 85% of the population has Delta antibodies. The percentage of double vaccinated people has also improved in Mumbai and the state.” With 394 cases reported on Tuesday, Mumbai’s Covid-19 infection count till date has gone up to 742,007. It also recorded six fatalities, taking the Covid death toll in the city to 16,097. Maharashtra also vaccinated 714,410 doses on Tuesday and has administered a total 80,102,038 doses till date, according to the data available on Co-Win portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/active-covid-cases-in-maharashtra-at-7-month-low-101632881118385.html
29-09-2021||India||Exclusive: Opposition faces credibility crisis, BJP will get 325-350 seats, says Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed confidence that the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will win the next year's assembly polls in the state easily. In fact, the chief minister said that the party will surpass its 2017 seat tally of 312 and win between 325 and 350 seats.In an interview with Hindustan Times, Adityanath, 49, rattled off his government's record in terms of governance, economic development, and law-and-order to buttress his claim.Read the full interviewAdityanath is confident that he will overcome any anti-incumbency by focusing on his government’s record of governance and getting the caste equation right."I am totally confident about coming back. I understand the political dynamics of UP very well, as I have been in active state politics for the past 23 years. I am confident about the political understanding and maturity of UP electorate," he said.On September 26, he expanded his cabinet, making room for seven more ministers in a move that he then described as achieving “social balance” and giving “representation to all sections of society”. Adityanath is also clear that the ongoing farmers agitation led by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait will have no electoral impact in western UP, an area that has been the BJP’s bastion in the past.“It is quite clear that our rivals are funding the farmers’ agitation, which has an impact in only states where middlemen, or araathiyas, operate. In UP, the farmer is directly in touch with the government for procurement and compensation. Since the opposition has no other issue to flag, they are trying to fan this so-called farmer agitation.”Still, analysts say that the BJP could suffer some damage in this area which is dominated by the Jat community, a dominant agrarian grouping that has been protesting against the three farm reform laws passed by the Union government last year.The CM, who is the head of the Gorakhnath temple at Gorakhpur, also spoke of strides made in infrastructure (especially expressways and airports) and law-and-order.Answering a question on the ability of a head priest to run a state as large as Uttar Pradesh, Adityanath said: “How can you cage or limit a bhagwa (saffron) wearing yogi to only religion? How I worship is my right. But for my country, for my society, what I have to do and how I have to do, is my prime responsibility. I have been working on this before I became the CM; only now my area of work has got enlarged. But I have never made an attempt to project myself as I believe in teamwork. I am working in the direction of rapidly developing my state and my country.”While the BJP’s election campaign in the state is up and running, the opposition, which is fragmented, has been slow to get theirs going.The opposition has a crisis of credibility, said Adityanath, but given the complexity of the state and the ever-changing caste equations, he is taking no chances - something evident in the recent cabinet expansion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-faces-credibility-crisis-bjp-will-get-325-350-seats-adityanath-101632880783227.html
29-09-2021||India||Arvind Kejriwal's Punjab visit begins today; 'big announcements' expected||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal will begin his two-day visit to Punjab from Ludhiana on Wednesday. The party said on Tuesday that Kejriwal will make "big" announcements" during the visit, which comes just few months ahead of the assembly elections in the states.Kejriwal will hold a meeting with traders in Ludhiana on the first day of his visit, according to AAP. He will hold a press conference on September 30, where AAP national convener will make big announcements, the party said on Twitter on Tuesday.Assembly elections in Punjab are due early next year.Kejriwal's visit comes at a time of turmoil within the ruling Congress party in Punjab. Political observers say the party is sniffing an opportunity as Congress tries to douse the fire within the state unit and present a united face for the state polls.Reacting to Navjot Sidhu's resignation as chief of the state unit, AAP's Punjab president Bhagwant Mann accused the Congress of “insulting” the state and its people in their “fight for the chair”.AAP too has faced internal conflicts for the last two years in its Punjab unit, but is now expecting to see some discontented leaders jump the ship to join its ranks. The party's leaders and their campaign speeches have been highlighting the shortcomings in the rule of both Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and are asking the people of the state to give them a chance.Some AAP leaders, like Kotkapura MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan, says that the party has been receiving good response from the people in Punjab who have visited the farmers' protest sites at Delhi border and seen the work done by AAP government there.AAP won 20 seats to become the principal opposition party in Punjab in 2017, but is now banking on its 'Delhi model' of governance and promise of freebies to emerge on top. Like other states, AAP aims to make high electricity rates in Punjab as one of the focus areas of its Punjab campaign.Kejriwal has already made a populist pitch by "guaranteeing" 300 units of free power for residential consumers, waiver of pending bills and round-the-clock supply if his party comes to power in the state.A "second guarantee" is expected to be made by Kejriwal during his latest visit to the state; however, the poll promise has been not been disclosed as yet.AAP also faces a big question about a chief ministerial face. Pressure is building on the leadership from within the party, including several MLAs and workers, to declare state chief Bhagwant Mann’s name. Kejriwal had, on June 21, announced in Amritsar that the CM candidate will be from the Sikh community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arvind-kejriwal-s-punjab-visit-begins-today-big-announcements-expected-101632878643299.html
29-09-2021||India||Congress reaches out to Sidhu, hectic parleys on | 10 developments||The top Congress leadership has not accepted Navjot Singh Sidhu's resignation, and asked the local party leadership to resolve the matter. Sidhu's resignation as state party chief on Tuesday has intensified the crisis in the Punjab Congress, and triggered discussions and deliberations in the party.He had been holding discussions over political developments in Punjab for the last two days with his principal adviser Mohammad Mustafa. Though his resignation came as a surprise, Sidhu took the decision late on Monday after a marathon meeting with Mustafa, a former director general of police (DGP)-rank officer.Sidhu was appointed as the President of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) on July 23.Here are the latest developments in Punjab after Sidhu's resignation:• Congress general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal termed Sidhu's resignation letter as an "emotional reaction". "Everything will be okay," Venugopal said when asked about Sidhu's resignation.• Congress MLA Bawa Henry said all the issues will be resolved soon. "There are 3-4 issues. They are being discussed in the party forum. Party high command will resolve them," Henry told reporters on Tuesday.• Punjab ministers Pargat Singh and Amrinder Singh Raja Warring met Sidhu at his residence in Patiala yesterday. "There are some minor issues that arose out of some misunderstandings and will be resolved tomorrow (Wednesday)," Warring told reporters while leaving Sidhu's residence.• A series of resignations poured in after Sidhu put in his papers. A minister and three Congress leaders, considered close to Sidhu, stepped down from their posts. Among those were Malerkotla MLA Razia Sultana, the wife of Mohammad Mustafa.• This came as a blow to the Congress leadership, which thought the crisis in Punjab - triggered by the feud between Sidhu and former chief minister Amarinder Singh - was over when Sidhu was appointed the chief of the party's Punjab unit apparently against the latter's wishes.• Congress leader Sunil Jakhar hit out at Navjot Singh Sidhu over his resignation as Punjab unit chief and said "what stands compromised was the faith reposed in him by the Congress leadership". The remarks were in response to the comments made by Sidhu in his resignation letter sent to Sonia Gandhi in which he said he can "never compromise" on Punjab's future. Sidhu had replaced Jhakhar as PCC chief.• After Sidhu's resignation, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said the he is a "misguided missile" that does not know its destination. "He is an egoistic man," Badal said.• Bharatiya Janata Party leader Tarun Chugh on Tuesday targeted Navjot Singh Sidhu over his resignation as Punjab Congress chief and alleged that he is unable to bear that a person from Scheduled Caste community has become the chief minister of Punjab. Chugh alleged that Sidhu is "hungry" for the post of chief minister.• The chief of Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP) Punjab unit Bhagwant Mann accused the Congress of “insulting” the state and its people in their “fight for the chair”.• Sidhu's resignation came just before former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh's visit to Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-reaches-out-to-navjot-singh-sidhu-hectic-parleys-on-10-developments-101632875673600.html
29-09-2021||India||SAD protest march from Mohali to Chandigarh today over land compensation||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) plans to hold a protest march in Punjab on Wednesday from Mohali to the chief minister's residence in Chandigarh over demands for greater compensation for farmers whose lands have been acquired by the government to develop various road projects which will pass through 19 districts of the state. The Sukhbir Singh Badal-led political party also aims to meet the Punjab governor today to submit to him a memorandum in this regard, which details the farmers' demands for a hike in the compensation that they are being offered for their land.Also Read | Farmers protest in Mohali over low land acquisition ratesParty spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said, “We want to highlight the injustice being perpetrated on 2 lakh farmers across 19 districts of Punjab, as their agriculture land is being acquired for road projects under the Bharat Mala scheme at low rates.”According to Punjab Pradesh Road Kisan Sangharsh Committee, a body fighting for fair compensation for farmers, about 25,000 acres of land are being acquired by the Punjab government for developmental projects. “More than 3,000 houses will be demolished and 100 village ponds will vanish,” the committee members said. “One-crore trees will be felled. On completion, the road project will lead to flooding in low-lying areas.”Also Read | Punjab cabinet passes resolution seeking repeal of Centre’s 3 farm lawsSukhbir Singh Dhillion, committee chief, told SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal that the Congress government in the state was only offering ₹30 lakh and ₹70 lakh per acre for rural and urban land, respectively. Pointing out that it is not enough, Dhillon raised the demand for ₹1 crore per acre for rural and ₹3-5 crore per acre for urban land as compensation for the road project.Badal decided to hold the protest march from Mohali to Chandigarh on September 29 after meeting Dhillon last week; the SAD leader also urged the committee representatives and other farmers to join the protests. The road projects in contention include the Delhi-Jammu-Katra, Jamnagar-Amritsar, Ludhiana-Ropar, Amritsar-Una, and Mohali-Fatehgarh Sahib.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sad-protest-march-from-mohali-to-chandigarh-today-over-land-compensation-101632872272291.html
29-09-2021||NA||Breaking news: Amarinder Singh discussed farmers' protest with home minister, Captain's media advisor tweets||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:Tamil Nadu reports 1,624 new Covid-19 cases, 24 deathsTamil Nadu reports 1,624 new COVID cases, 1,639 discharges, and 24 deaths today Active cases: 17,192Total recoveries: 26,09,435Death toll: 35,550Tamil Nadu reported 1,624 new Covid-19 cases and 24 deaths as the state's death toll reached 35,550. The active caseload stood at 17,192, reports ANI.'We want Rahul Gandhi to visit our districts too', says Chhattisgarh MLA Brihaspati Singh in Delhi7-8 (Congress) MLAs have come to Delhi. Total 15-16 MLAs will come. We will meet Chhattisgarh Congress in charge PL Punia. Rahul Gandhi is scheduled to visit Bastar region & we want him to visit our districts too: Chhattisgarh Congress MLA Brihaspati Singh in Delhi pic.twitter.com/lATihZvy1oChhattisgarh Congress MLA Brihaspati Singh said that seven to eight MLAs have come to Delhi and also 15 to 16 MLAs would visit the national capital to meet the party's Chhattisgarh in-charge PL Punia. He also said that the MLAs want Rahul Gandhi, who is scheduled to visit the Bastar region, to visit their districts too, reports ANI.Amarinder Singh discussed farmers' protest with home minister: Captain's media advisor‘Met Union Home Minister @AmitShah in Delhi. Discussed the prolonged farmers’ agitation against #FarmLaws & urged him to resolve the crisis urgently with repeal of the laws & guarantee MSP, besides supporting Punjab in crop diversification’: @capt_amarinder. (File Pics) pic.twitter.com/ENZMj2IM7BAmarinder Singh's media advisor said that the former Punjab chief minister discussed farmers' protest with Union home minister Amit Shah and urged him to repeal farm laws to resolve the crisis urgently. Nitish says demand for special status to Bihar continueBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said on Wednesday that the demand for special status to Bihar would continue, days after a senior JD(U) minister stated otherwise.Schools in Mumbai for classes 8 to 12 to reopen from October 4The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) announced that all schools in Mumbai, public and private, for classes 8 to 12 will reopen from October 4.Maken says Sibal, others shouldn't degrade party that gave them an identityCongress leader Ajay Maken said Sonia Gandhi had ensured that Kapil Sibal becomes a minister in Union Cabinet despite not having organizational background. “Everyone in the party is being heard. Want to tell Mr Sibal others that they shouldn't degrade the organization that gave them an identity,” ANI quoted Maken as saying. Former Punjab CM arrives at home minister Amit Shah residence in New Delhi#WATCH | Former Punjab CM and Congress leader Captain Amarinder Singh reaches the residence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah in New Delhi pic.twitter.com/787frIaou7Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has reached the residence of Union home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi. Singh is meeting Shah a day after Navjot Singh Sidhu resigned as Punjab Congress chief.‘No new Nipah virus cases in Kerala’: Health minister Veena GeorgeNo new Nipah virus cases have been recorded in Kerala, state health minister Veena George said. “NIV Pune has informed us that in some samples collected from bats from a particular place the presence of antibodies against Nipah virus has been found. ICMR is doing further studies on this,” she also said, reports ANI.Covid-19: Over 91% in Kerala given first dose, ‘focus now on second doses’ says state health ministerKerala health minister Veena George said that more than 91% of the state's population has been administered the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. “We are now focusing on the second dose: Kerala Health Minister Veena George,” she said, reports ANI.Mamata Banerjee welcomes Luizinho Faleiro to TMCIt’s a matter of great pride for me to welcome Former Goa CM, 7-time MLA and stalwart Goan leader Shri @luizinhofaleiro to the Trinamool Congress family.Together we will stand up for every Goan, fight divisive forces and work towards ushering in a NEW DAWN for Goa. (1/3)West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee welcomed Luizinho Faleiro to the Trinamool Congress. “Together we will stand up for every Goan, fight divisive forces and work towards ushering in a NEW DAWN for Goa,” she tweeted.Former Goa CM Luizinho Faleiro joins TMC in KolkataFormer Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro joins the Trinamool Congress in Kolkata.3.5-magnitude earthquake strikes 62km northwest of AssamAn earthquake of magnitude 3.5 on the Richter scale was recorded at 62km west-northwest of Tezpur, Assam at 4.12pm, reports ANI citing the National Center for Seismology (NCS).Former Goa CM Faleiro meets West Bengal CM Mamata BanerjeeFormer Goa Chief Minister and MLA Luizinho Faleiro meets West Bengal CM and TMC chief Mamata Banerjee at Nabanna. He had recently quit Congress party and had also stepped down from his post as an MLA. pic.twitter.com/tQCmUgx8obFormer Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro, who recently quit the Congress party, met with West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee, reports ANI.Those who left Cong should come back; we must introspect how to strengthen party, says Kapil Sibal on Punjab crisisSenior Congress leader Kapil Sibal said that people who have left the party should come back, regarding the crisis in Punjab. “This happening in a border state can be exploited by forces across the border,” he said. “We have to introspect how to strengthen party,” he added.Former cop Sachin Vaze's plea for house custody dismissedA Sessions Court on Wednesday rejected the house custody plea of dismissed police official Sachin Vaze who has been arrested by NIA in Antilia Bomb Scare Case and Mansukh Hiren murder case. The court however allowed him home food, and to be kept in hospital facility for a month at the Taloja Jail.‘Safe festivities will be a determining factor’: Dr VK Paul on fight against Covid-19Safe festivities this year will be a determining factor in our fight against the COVID-19 pandemic: Dr. VK Paul, Member (Health), NITI Aayog(File photo) pic.twitter.com/v0LeXnvjWeDr VK Paul, Niti Aayog member, health, said that safe festivities would be a determining factor in country's fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, reports ANI. Union cabinet approves doubling of Nimach-Ratlam, Rajkot-Kanalus railway linesUnion Cabinet approves doubling of Nimach-Ratlam railway line at a total estimated cost of ₹1,095.88 crores and Rajkot-Kanalus railway line at a total estimated cost of ₹1,080.58 crores: Union Minister Anurag Thakur pic.twitter.com/TWcOQ5O4XGUnion cabinet has approved the doubling of Nimach-Ratlam railway line at a cost of ₹1,095.88 crore and Rajkot-Kanalus railway line at a cost of ₹1,080.58 crore, reports ANI.Delhi govt extends Mangu Singh's tenure as DMRC MD till March 31, 2022The Delhi government has extended the tenure of Mangu Singh as the managing director of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) till March 31, 2022, reports PTI citing an official order.‘We will soon announce’: Kejriwal on AAP's CM candidate in Punjab.Arvind Kejriwal said that the AAP would soon announce the party's chief ministerial candidate for the Punjab assembly polls next year. “We will soon announce and you all will be proud of him,” he said.Arvind Kejriwal says Punjab CM Channi should full Amarinder Singh's promisesAAP chief Arvind Kejriwal said that whatever is happening in Punjab is very unfortunate. He also said that Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi should fulfill the promises made by Captain Amarinder Singh. Kejriwal was speaking at Chandigarh International Airport, before leaving for LudhianaNorth Korea missile launches pose threat to region, US to stick to diplomatic path: EnvoyNorth Korea's test-firing of a newly developed hypersonic missile is a threat to the stability of the region but the United States will not be deterred from pursuing a diplomatic path forward, a top US envoy said on Wednesday.Heavy rainfall in Paschim Medinipur causes waterloggingHeavy rainfall in Paschim Medinipur causes waterlogging in various parts of the district.DDMA allows Dussehra, Durga Puja celebrations this yearDelhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) allows Dussehra and Durga Puja celebrations this year but with restrictions such as crowds in venues cannot exceed total seats, no eateries, no fairs, 100% mask compliance, separate entry-exit points. Phased re-opening of remaining classes in schools to begin on November 1, the DDMA decided today. The modalities of the phased re-opening of remaining classes in schools will be decided in first DDMA meeting after Dussehra.Weather likely to improve from tomorrow: IMD KolkataWell marked low pressure rea now lies over western parts of Gangetic West Bengal, neighborhood and associated cyclonic circulation extends upto mid­tropospheric levels. Rainfall likely to continue over districts of South Bengal today. Weather likely to improve from tomorrow: IMD KolkataTaliban regime urges India to resume passenger flights to Kabul, request under reviewTaiban's Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan writes to DGCA (Directorate General of Civil Aviation) to resume commercial flights to Afghanistan (Kabul). Letter is under review by Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA). India had stopped all commercial flight operations to Kabul post August 15, reports ANI.North Korea Says New Missile has hard-to-stop hypersonic gliderNorth Korea said its latest rocket launch was a successful test of a “hypersonic missile,” suggesting the regime had come closer to putting nuclear warheads in high-speed gliders that can evade US missile defenses.UP CM launches "Nirbhaya - Ek Pahal" programme under Mission ShaktiCM Yogi Adityanath launches "Nirbhaya - Ek Pahal" programme under Mission Shakti - Phase 3 in Lucknow"75,000 women would get connected with state banks, get loans at cheaper interest rates and get benefits of state subsidies under PM Mudra Yojana for 3 months," he says.Boeing 737 MAX test flight for China's regulator a successBoeing Co's 737 MAX test flight for China's aviation regulator last month was successful and the planemaker hopes a two-year grounding will be lifted this year, the head of Boeing's China business said on Wednesday.I-T dept asks taxmen to accept applications till Sep 30 for settlement before Interim BoardThe Income Tax department has issued an order asking taxmen to accept till September 30, applications for settlement of pending tax cases.Japan ruling party elects Fumio Kishida leader, next PMJapan ruling party elects Fumio Kishida leader, next PM, repors AFP.ED summons Shiv Sena MP Bhavana Gawali on Oct 4 in money laundering caseEnforcement Directorate summons Shiv Sena MP Bhavana Gawali for Monday- October 4, in a money laundering case, reports ANI.Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi holds a state cabinet meetingPunjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi holds a state cabinet meeting in Chandigarh.Would stand by my commitment for betterment of Punjab: Navjot Singh SidhuA day after he resigned as president of Punjab Congress, Navjot Singh Sidhu uploaded a video on Wednesday, in which he obliquely criticised the appointment of induction of tainted MLAs into the Channi cabinet and appointments of DGP and advocate general. “ l will not misguide the high command or let anyone do so” he asserted, saying he would stand by his principles and commitments for the betterment of Punjab.Mehbooba Mufti claims she has been put under house arrest againLocked up in my house today yet again for attempting to visit the village in Tral allegedly ransacked by army. This is the real picture of Kashmir that visiting dignitaries must be shown instead of GOIs sanitised & guided picnic tours. pic.twitter.com/Hp9wcuw1qTMehbooba Mufti claims she has been put under house arrest again, was planning to visit village in Tral. Suicide reported at Delhi high court precincle An information has been received that one constable of Rajasthan Armed Constabulary, deployed in Delhi high court security, has reportedly committed suicide by his service weapon. He is company from Kotkasim Alwar and is 30-year-old. Today morning he came on duty around 9.30am. He had joined duty today after coming back from leave: Delhi Police.Rahul Gandhi on 2-day visit to Kerala amid reports of infighting in state Congress unitCongress leader Rahul Gandhi arrived in Kerala on Wednesday for a two-day visit amid growing dissent in the party's state unit.No personal rivalry with anyone: Navjot Singh SidhuNo personal rivalry with anyone; 17 years of my political career has been for a purpose, to make difference, to take a stand and to make people's lives better. This is my only religion...: Navjot Singh Sidhu who resigned as Punjab Congress chief, yesterday.Earthquake of 4.3 magnitude strikes Sikkim's LachungAn earthquake of magnitude 4.3 on the Ritcher scale struck the Lachung area of North Sikkim district on Wednesday. The earthquake struck around 9:04 am.US senator lauds India’s decision to resume Covid-19 vaccine exportA top Republican senator has welcomed India’s decision to resume the export of Covid-19 vaccines and asked the country to increase its production to meet its international obligations.India logs 18,870 fresh Covid-19 cases 378 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia recorded 18,870 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which pushed the nationwide tally to 33,716,451, while the death toll climbed to 447,751 with 378 daily fatalities, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Wednesday.US administers 391.2 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines: CDCThe United States has administered 391,152,574 doses of Covid-19 vaccines as of Tuesday morning and distributed 472,646,105 doses, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said.60 students test Covid-19 positive in Bengaluru boarding schoolIn Bengaluru boarding school, 60 students test Covid-19 positive.North Korea tests new hypersonic missile as it ramps up weapon systemsThe projectile North Korea fired off its east coast on Tuesday was a newly developed hypersonic missile, state news media KCNA reported on Wednesday, the latest in a series of new weapons tested by the reclusive state.5 killed in attack on Malian army convoyFive people were killed and four others wounded in an attack on an army-escorted convoy in western Mali, the Malian Armed Forces (FAMa) said on Tuesday on their official website.Arvind Kejriwal's Punjab visit begins today; 'big announcements' expectedAam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal will begin his two-day visit to Punjab from Ludhiana on Wednesday. The party said on Tuesday that Kejriwal will make "big" announcements" during the visit, which comes just few months ahead of the assembly elections in the states.SAD protest march from Mohali to Chandigarh today over land compensationThe Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) plans to hold a protest march in Punjab on Wednesday from Mohali to the chief minister's residence in Chandigarh over demands for greater compensation for farmers whose lands have been acquired by the government to develop various road projects which will pass through 19 districts of the state.Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC IPO to open today; sets price band at ₹695-712/shareThe three-day initial public offering (IPO) of Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC will open for subscription on Wednesday and end on October 1, the company had announced in a virtual press conference on Friday.Bombay HC to hear today Anil Deshmukh's plea against ED summonsThe Bombay high court will on Wednesday hear the plea filed by Maharashtra's former home minister Anil Deshmukh against summons issued to him by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in an alleged money laundering case.DDMA likely to decide today on Ramlilas, reopening of schools for classes 6-8The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) is scheduled to hold a meeting on Wednesday where it is expected to take a call on allowing Ramlilas during the Navratri and reopening of schools for junior classes, news agency PTI reported quoting officials.Gang clash at Ecuador prison kills 24 inmates and injures 48A riot in a penitentiary in coastal city of Guayaquil killed 24 inmates and injured 48 more Tuesday, Ecuadorian officials said.1 in 4 Indians fully vaccinatedIndia’s mass inoculation programme closed in on a yet another major milestone on Tuesday, with almost one in every four eligible Indians (24.8%) having been fully vaccinated by the end of day. Another 43.5% have been party vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-september-29-2021-101632871658284.html
29-09-2021||India||Luizinho Faleiro heads to Kolkata to join TMC; Cong finds his replacement in Goa||PANAJI: Former Goa chief minister and former state Congress president Luizinho Faleiro on Tuesday left for Kolkata a day after he resigned as a primary member of the Congress party and as a member of the Goa Legislative assembly. Faleiro is expected to join the Trinamool Congress on Wednesday.While Faleiro announced his resignation on Monday, he was tight-lipped on his future plans only saying he would “definitely support Mamata Congress.” “Definitely, I will support Mamata Congress because she has fought, she has succeeded... She symbolises women empowerment which can bring this country back on the rails of development and progress,” Faleiro said, declining to elaborate on his next steps.On Tuesday, Faleiro left for Kolkata along with some of his loyalists who also resigned from the Congress along with Faleiro. Among those who accompanied him on his Kolkata visit are former Goa Congress general secretaries Yatish Naik, Vijai Pai, secretary Mariano Pinto, former MGP MLA Lavoo Mamledar, civil rights activists Shivdas Naik and Rajendra Kakodkar and Antonio Clovis da Costa, the president of the South Goa Advocates Association and others.His induction into the Trinamool Congress is expected to happen on Wednesday in the presence of Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee in what his supporters here are describing as a ‘grand induction’ ceremony. The Congress, which was initially taken aback at Faleiro’s move, has started holding meetings with known Faleiro loyalists. Goa in charge Dinesh Gundu Rao called on former Panaji mayor Surendra Furtado and former MLA Agnelo Fernandes, who have been asked to meet the Congress leadership in Delhi to prevent more desertions.The Congress also inducted former MLA Avertano Furtado into the Congress. Furtado, who was elected as an independent MLA with the BJP’s support in 2012, said he was “always a Congressman” from the days when his father began working with Faleiro a few decades earlier, but was forced to part ways with the Congress because his pathway was blocked. Now that the path has reopened, the former lawmaker said, he was back.According to people familiar with the matter, Faleiro is learnt to have been upset with the Congress leadership for ignoring his protests over letting Girish Chodankar continue as state party president. Faleiro expects to lead the state unit of the Trinamool Congress in the upcoming state elections, a leader close to him said.The ruling BJP, which is likely to benefit due to this high-profile switch, has welcomed what it described the start of ‘political tourism in Goa.’ “We are promoting medical tourism, spiritual tourism, we are promoting hinterland tourism and (now) political tourism. I feel it has started in Goa. Elections are close. I welcome all kinds of tourism, so that all my Goan brothers and sisters have access to a new business in Goa. Tourist business should increase in Goa,” Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said on the sidelines of a function held on Monday. Avertano Furtado, the Congress’ replacement for Faleiro, lost to Faleiro in the 2017 assembly elections.The Congress has brushed aside the damage that Luizinho Faleiro’s departure will have on the party, saying that Faleiro opted for a ‘retirement package’ given what it described as his waning political clout back home. The Congress said his departure will be a “blessing in disguise” for the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/luizinho-faleiro-heads-to-kolkata-to-join-tmc-cong-finds-his-replacement-in-goa-101632860822245.html
29-09-2021||India||Supreme Court sets deadline for quota for differently abled in promotions||The Supreme Court on Tuesday gave the Union government four months to issue the necessary instructions to give reservation benefits in promotion to persons with disabilities, telling the Centre that there was no ambiguity in its January 2020 verdict and the Centre should start implementing the provision under the Right of Persons with Disabilities Act 2016.The Supreme Court, on January 14, 2020, ruled that the reservation for persons with disabilities was applicable to promotions as well, and not just recruitment. The provision, however, was not implemented by the Centre, which filed an application in September 2020 to seek certain clarifications on how to go about implementing the reservation.“There is no ambiguity in the (Siddaraju v State of Karnataka) judgment of this court…. We direct the Union of India to issue instructions as per the 2016 Act at the earliest and not later than four months from today,” a bench of justices L Nageswara Rao, Sanjeev Khanna and BR Gavai said on Tuesday.The apex court said the instructions have to be issued under Section 34 of the 2016 Act, which prescribes not less than four per cent reservation for persons with benchmark disabilities.Additional solicitor general (ASG) Madhavi Divan, appearing for the Centre, earlier sought clarifications on issues such as how to compute vacancies in identified and non-identified posts, whether reservations would have to be extended at the time of induction from state civil services (SCS) or non-SCS to Indian Administrative Service as this was considered as promotion, and the extent of reservation within the Group A posts.The Centre also asked whether the implementation of the judgment must follow the 2016 Act or the Act that existed prior to it, namely Persons with Disabilities Act, 1995.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-sets-deadline-for-quota-for-differently-abled-in-promotions-101632857420814.html
29-09-2021||India||Second building collapses in Bengaluru in two days||A day after a building collapsed in south Bengaluru’s Lakkasandra, another three-storied building collapsed in the same locality on Tuesday. Though no injuries were reported, however, according to eye witness accounts some occupants of the building escaped in the nick of time. Three people sustained minor injuries in the incident.According to the department of fire and emergency services, the building was located on the premises of the Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) at dairy circle and it was occupied by the staffers of Bangalore Milk Union Limited (Bamul). Residents noticed cracks in the building on Tuesday morning and the department was alerted. Even before the arrival of the department, occupants of the building, around 18 families, started evacuating the place. Properties worth several lakh including jewellery, furniture, and appliances in the apartments have been damaged, according to officials of the fire and department services. “There were wide cracks had developed in the building and people have started noticing it last evening itself, we have been able to rescue two dogs from the building as well. Three people sustained minor injuries,” said a senior official. MD Satish, managing director of KMF said the building was examined and assessed by the KMF civil engineers and structural experts in 2016. “They had certified that the building is fit for occupation for another 10-years and hence the staff was allowed to stay in the building. However, we will extend all possible support to the families in shifting to a better place,” he said.According to BBMP officials, the building is 60-years-old. BBMP commissioner Gaurav Gupta on Tuesday said that a survey of the old buildings in the city will be conducted. “We have conducted a similar survey two years and instructions were given to evacuate those buildings that were old. In view of the new developments, we will conduct fresh surveys. We have asked this survey to be finished within 30 days,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-building-collapses-in-bengaluru-in-two-days-101632856986471.html
29-09-2021||India||Seriously considering law against forced religious conversions: Karnataka CM Bommai||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said that it was seriously considering a law to ban forced religious conversions in the state. “Such things (conversions) are happening here and there. A couple of days ago, I gave appropriate directions to district administrations not to allow any religious conversion through inducement or by force, as it is illegal,” Bommai said on Tuesday. The statement comes days after the issue was raised in the monsoon session of the state legislature held between September 13 to 24. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)ruled states like Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have already put in place laws to prevent forcible conversion. In the monsoon session, the matter was raised by Goolihatti D Shekar, the BJP legislator from Hosadurga, during the Zero hour on September 20. The legislator said that there has been heightened activity around conversions and that his own mother has been converted after she was “brainwashed”. “In Chitradurga (district) and my constituency (Hosadurga) around 15,000-20,000 people have already been converted,” he said. “Dalits, backward classes and even Muslims are being converted,” he had said. Several other legislators rose to support the proposal, which they said was disturbing the peace of the society. Araga Jnanendra, Karnataka’s home minister said that the government is aware of these developments and deliberating on if it should introduce a law or other measures at the earliest. He also sought details of any such organisations who were slapping false charges which would be investigated and action would be taken against such people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seriously-considering-law-against-forced-religious-conversions-karnataka-cmbommai-101632856984657.html
29-09-2021||India||Appoint Hindu priest in Datta Peeta shrine: Karnataka high court directs govt||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lauded the Karnataka high court order on Tuesday wherein it directed the state government to appoint a Hindu priest at Datta Peeta, a cave shrine in Chikmagalur’s Baba Budangiri mountains. BJPs national general secretary and legislator from Chikmagalur, CT Ravi took to Twitter to express his happiness over the verdict and chide the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government for the injustice it had meted during its rule in the state. “Huge victory for Hindus. Karnataka high court orders the government to appoint hindu priests in Datta Peeta. I welcome the decision of the high court in rejecting the biased report of Justice Nagmohan Das committee,” the BJP leader said in a post on Twitter. Ravi said that it was Siddaramaiah who had weaved a web of lies to instate a Muslim maulvi as the priest of the shrine that dates back several centuries with conflicting accounts of its history. The court quashed the state government order dated March 19, 2018, in which it permitted only a Mujawar (Muslim priest) appointed by Shah Khadri to enter the sanctum of the “Sri Guru Dattathreya Swamy Peeta” otherwise known as “Sree Gurudattathreya Bababudnaswamy Dargha” cave and to distribute ‘teertha’ or holy water to both Hindus and Muslims.The shrine is on the Chandra Drona Range, some of the highest ranges between the Himalayas and the Nilgiris, and history has it that it was a sufi Saint Baba Budan who first brought coffee seeds from Yemen that were introduced in these mountain ranges for the first time. The controversy is around the Peetha which, according to court documents, was a major Muzarai temple under the Mysore Religious and Charitable Institutions Act, 1927, but was taken over by the state Wakf board on April 6, 1973, just before Emergency was declared in the country. This was contested in 1978. The shrine is known as “Sri Guru Dattathreya Swamy Peeta” and “Sree Gurudattathreya Bababudnaswamy Dargha”, depending on who you ask, that has been a bone of contention between the right wing and the Congress, who both accuse each other of twisting history to appease their respective vote banks. The HC order also stated that as per the annual report of the Mysuru Archeological Department, 1932, Shri Guru Dattatreya Swami Peetha is a small cave in Baba Budangiri, which is sacred to both Hindus and Mohammadans. The order stated that the Endowment commissioner’s report had rightly recorded that Shri Dattatreya is well known as son of Sage Athri by his virtuous wife Anasuya and embodiment of Hindu trinity, the gods, Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva. The commissioner had recorded that 1,861 acres of land was granted to Shri Dattatreya Devaru and 111.25 acres to Shri Baba Budan Dharga separately by the then Maharaja of Mysore. The Endowment commissioners report was submitted on March 10, 2010, before the Supreme Court, suggesting that a Hindu archak or priest be appointed by the management committee of the shrine. The issue had gained traction in the run up to the 2018 assembly elections in Karnataka with the BJP accusing Siddaramaiah of pandering to the minorities vote bank. The Karnataka HC said that the order by the state government was unsustainable in law because it was contrary to the Supreme Court’s order that the state cabinet would take a decision in this regard considering the pros and cons of the matter but instead delegated it to a high level committee. The HC also listed five other reasons which included that the high level committee was not free from bias. In its sixth reason, the HC said that the 2018 order “infringes the right of both communities guaranteed under Article 25 of the Constitution by preventing Hindus from performing puja as per their faith and compelling the Mujawar to offer puja contrary to his faith.”“We have already issued orders to form a committee, take its recommendations and appoint a Hindu archak,” V Sunil Kumar, Karnataka’s minister for power, Kannada and Culture said. At least two senior Congress leaders could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/appoint-hindu-priest-in-datta-peeta-shrine-karnataka-high-court-directs-govt-101632856921384.html
29-09-2021||India||Bypolls to two assembly seats in Karnataka on October 30: ECI||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Tuesday announced that the bypolls in Karnataka’s two assembly constituencies, Hanagal and Sindgi, will be held on October 30. The two assembly constituencies fell vacant after CM Udasi, the senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader died on June 8 while MC Managuli, another senior Janata Dal (Secular) leader died earlier in January. Informing that the BJP core committee has discussed the matter, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said, “We are getting a report from the ground and will start the candidate selection process.” The bypolls come at a time when all three major political parties in Karnataka have seen problems and challenges emerging from within their respective outfits. The BJP is trying hard to contain growing dissent from within the party from those who have missed out on Cabinet berths and the former chief minister, BS Yediyurappa, who wants to tour the state ahead of the yet-to-be announced zilla and taluk panchayat elections as well before the 2023 assembly elections. The Congress continues its infighting as its two top leaders--Siddaramaiah and DK Shivakumar—continues to maintain distance on who the chief minister would be if the party does win the 2023 assembly elections. A large faction within the Congress are trying to back Siddaramaiah for the top post again while Shivakumar has made no secret of his aspirations of becoming the chief minister. The JD(S) has seen rebellion within its ranks with at least three legislators openly have spoken out against the top leadership of former prime minister HD Deve Gowda and former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy-led outfit. “Our AICC (All India Congress Committee) has already announced a candidate for one seat and we have to discuss potential candidates and then send a proposal (to high command),” Shivakumar said in Delhi on Tuesday. Shivakumar on Tuesday said that the party had already decided the candidate for one seat and there will be discussions held internally on the second constituency. Ashok Managuli, the son of MC Managuli, had joined the Congress earlier this year and is expected to contest from Sindgi.“Already for Hanagal we have announced a candidate (Nayaz). We have already started working for 2023 assembly elections and this (bypolls) are like a preparatory exams,”HD Kumaraswamy said. The party is currently holding a workshop to strategize for the assembly elections. The JD(S) does not have a very large presence in northern Karnataka. The BJP, however, remains tight lipped on whether Yediyurappa’s son, BY Vijayendra, will contest from Hanagal, considered a safe seat for the party. B Sriramulu, Karnataka’s minister for transport and scheduled tribe welfare on Tuesday said that the party will take a call and that he was not aware of the state BJP’s decision. The Congress and BJP had lost one seat each in the April 17 assembly bypolls as the former took Maski and the latter won in Basavakalyan. The Congress did give a tough fight in the Lok Sabha bypolls in Belagavi where the wife, Mangala Angadi, of late union minister Suresh Angadi managed to win by a slender margin against Satish Jarkiholi of the Congress. The BJP had recently won in Belagavi and Hubbali-Dharwad urban local body polls and is trying to pip the Congress in Kalaburagi where a hung verdict has put the JD(S) in a position to bargain for the best offer. The BJP is eyeing to further strengthen its numbers in the assembly with the victories in the upcoming bypolls and continue its momentum towards the assembly elections in 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bypolls-to-two-assembly-seats-in-karnataka-on-october-30-eci-101632856861937.html
29-09-2021||India||Bengaluru: Five held in fresh case of moral policing, later granted bail||Five members of a Hindu right-wing organisation were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly heckling and harassing a group of medical students at Suratkal in Dakshina Kannada district on Sunday, Mangaluru police said, adding they were later released on bail. According to the police, the incident took place on Sunday evening when six MBBS students from KS Hegde Medical College were driving back from Malpe beach, located around 60 km from Mangaluru city. As they were returning, some members of a Hindu right-wing organisation waylaid their vehicle, hurled abuses, and even tried to assault them, police said, adding that a purported video of the incident went viral on social media. In the 1-min video, they could be purportedly heard asking the woman students why they were travelling with Muslim men. Among the group of students were three male students, including two Christians and one Muslim, and three Muslim female students. One of the students was injured after someone tried to drag him out of the vehicle, said police. HT cannot independently verify the authenticity of the video. Mangaluru city police commissioner N Shashi Kumar identified the accused as Preetham Shetty, Arshith, Srinivas, Rakesh, and Abhishek. All of them are members of the Bajrang Dal, Kumar added. They were booked under sections 341(Punishment for wrongful restraint), 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of the Indian Penal Code. They were later released on bail from the police station, an official said. In their statement to the police, the suspects said they stopped the car as they got information that the group of boys “misbehaved” with girls. “When we investigated the matter, no such thing was found. All belonged to the same class and studied in the second year in their professional courses,” said Kumar. Police said they suspect the students were followed by the group, who saw them go to the beach earlier. After following them for a distance, the fringe elements attacked them, police said. Traffic inspector, Sharif, who reached the spot first, intervened and stopped the attackers from harming the students, said police. In a similar incident on September 17, two youngsters stopped a Muslim biker, who was dropping his female colleague from another religion. The duo assaulted the biker while abusing the woman near Dairy Circle on Hosur Road in Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengalurufive-held-in-fresh-case-of-moral-policing-later-granted-bail-101632856802725.html
29-09-2021||India||India likely to update climate NDC ahead of COP26||New Delhi: India may update its voluntary emissions-control commitments ahead of or at the United Nations climate summit to be held in Glasgow in November. “There are talks of announcing a slightly updated target taking into account our commitments on renewable energy,” said an official at the environment ministry . “This may happen at COP26.” A joint statement issued last week by Quad countries — Australia, India, Japan, and the United States — stated that all member states intend to update or communicate ambitious nationally determined contributions (NDCs) under the Paris Agreement before the climate meet, also known as the 26th Conference of Parties, or COP26. It could mean India will announce an updated NDC ahead of or at COP 26. “The statement states what quad countries intend to do,” another environment ministry official said. “We cannot confirm or deny it because the decision on NDC is taken at the highest level because it involves many sectors.” Both officials declined to be named. India will install 450 gigawatts (GW) of renewable energy by 2030, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had reiterated on September 25 at the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly . “India has established a better balance in both economy and ecology. You will definitely be proud to see India’s efforts on climate action as compared to big and developed countries,” Modi had said. “Today, India is moving very fast towards the target of 450 GW of renewable energy. We are also in the campaign to make India the world’s largest Green Hydrogen Hub.” Quad countries last week said they will pursue efforts to limit global warming to 1.5 degree C above pre-industrial levels, the ambitious target agreed upon in the 2015 Paris climate pact. To this end, Quad countries intend to update or communicate ambitious NDCs by COP26 and welcome those who have already done so. Quad countries will also coordinate their diplomacy to raise global ambition, including reaching out to key stakeholders in the Indo-Pacific region,” the Quad statement had said. “Our work is organized across three thematic areas: climate ambition, clean-energy innovation and deployment, and climate adaptation, resilience and preparedness, with the intent to pursue enhanced actions during the 2020s, contributing to the aim of achieving global net-zero emissions preferably by 2050, and taking into account national circumstances.”Quad countries are focusing on nationally appropriate decarbonisation efforts, which includes decarbonising shipping and port operations and deploying clean-hydrogen technology. It will work for successful outcomes at the COP26 and G20 (meeting of G20 group of nations on October 30 and 31) that uphold the level of climate ambition and innovation, the statement added. India’s present NDC submitted in 2015 consists of three main elements — an economy-wide emissions intensity target of 33% to 35% below 2005 levels, electric power capacity target of 40% installed capacity from non-fossil-based energy resources by 2030 (conditional to international support), and creating a carbon sink expansion target of creating an additional (cumulative) carbon sink of 2.5–3 billion tonnes through additional forest and tree cover by 2030. India’s non-fossil fuel installed power capacity at 153.88 GW is already 39.64% of the total installed capacity, which indicates the country is likely to exceed one of the elements of its NDCs, the environment ministry had said in a statement earlier in September. India has already achieved a drop of 24% in the emissions intensity of its GDP compared to 2005 levels. Experts, however, clarified that the Quad statement doesn’t imply that all four countries will announce net zero emissions by 2050. Net zero is a global goal that has to be achieved collaboratively, factoring in national and economic circumstances of each country, they said. For India, a net zero emissions target could be deeply flawed, warned Chandrashekhar Dasgupta, former ambassador to the European Union and China, and a climate negotiator. “The Quad joint communique refers to the global goal of net-zero emissions by 2050 and pledges that the four partners will ‘contribute’ to this aim. In the case of India, this should not be seen as commitment to a national 2050 net- zero goal,” Dasgupta said. “Each country should contribute to the global goal in accordance with the principles of ‘common but differentiated responsibilities’ and its national circumstances, as required by the UN climate change convention and the Paris Agreement.” “India’s current and historical per capita emissions are very low and these will increase for the next few decades as we pursue our sustainable development goals. A national 2050 ‘net-zero’ commitment would undermine these goals, especially poverty eradication and human resource development,” Dasgupta said. “Given our national circumstances, a national net-zero target for 2050 would be a deeply flawed response to the climate change challenge, in addition to negating the aim of poverty eradication.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-likely-to-update-climate-ndc-ahead-of-cop26-101632856440281.html
29-09-2021||India||Total state of anarchy in Punjab Congress: AAP||Taking note of the latest political turmoil in Punjab Congress, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday slammed the ruling party for “complete and absolute anarchy” in its state unit.Stating that “selfish leaders” are incompetent in running “stable, progressive, inclusive” administration, AAP Punjab co-in-charge Raghav Chadha tweeted: “Complete and absolute state of anarchy in Punjab Congress. How can the people of Punjab expect these selfish leaders to give a stable, progressive and inclusive administration? How can these people be trusted with a state which has 550 km border with Pakistan?”The political crisis within the ruling party deepened after Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu resigned from his post just months ahead of the elections. He had taken over as the state party chief in July amid a bitter leadership tussle with Amarinder Singh, who stepped down as chief minister 10 days ago while accusing the party’s high command of humiliating him.Hours later, Malerkotla MLA Razia Sultana also resigned “in solidarity with Navjot Singh Sidhu”.The AAP is the main opposition party in the state.In a video message to voters, Chadha claimed that the Congress in Punjab had made governance a matter of joke.Seeking support for AAP in the state elections next year, Chadha said: “Only the AAP can ensure you a beautiful future and a stable government in Punjab. Only the AAP can save Punjab.”Besides AAP, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) attacked Sidhu over his resignation.“I had already said that Navjot Singh Sidhu is a misguided missile; no one knows who he would hit... I suggest to him that in case he wants any good for Punjab, he should leave the state and go to Mumbai,” SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said. BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh said: “Punjab is paying a heavy price for the chaos that has gripped the Punjab Congress.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/total-state-of-anarchy-in-punjab-congress-selfish-leaders-cannot-run-stable-govt-aap-101632856380462.html
29-09-2021||India||Tamil Nadu reopens schools for Class 1-8, extends state lockdown till October 31||The Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday announced reopening of schools for classes I to 8 from November 1. However, in view of the upcoming festival season, the state government extended the Covid-19 lockdown till October 31.Chief minister MK Stalin, who held a meeting with all department heads and officials to take stock of the Covid-19 situation, said, “Due to the prolonged closure of schools, medical experts, parents and educationists said students are stressed and facing huge learning loss... All schools will be allowed to conduct physical classes for Classes I to 8 from November 1 by following Covid-19 protocols.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-reopens-schools-for-class-1-8-extends-state-lockdown-till-october-31-101632856142862.html
29-09-2021||India||Active Covid-19 cases in Andhra fall below 12k||The number of active Covid-19 cases dropped below the 12,000 mark to 11,912 in Andhra Pradesh as 771 fresh infections, eight deaths, and 1,333 recoveries were reported in the 24 hours ending 9 am on Tuesday.The gross positives now touched 2,048,230, recoveries 2,022,168 and deaths 14,150.The new cases, from 45,592 tests, ranged from zero to 153 in 13 districts of the state, according to the latest bulletin.Chittoor recorded the highest 153 fresh cases, East Godavari 104 while Kurnool registered four and Vizianagaram nil in 24 hours.The remaining nine districts added between 10 and 95 new cases each.Chittoor, East Godavari and Guntur recorded two Covid-19 deaths each, while Krishna and Kadapa one each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/active-covid-19-cases-in-andhra-fall-below-12k-101632856141449.html
29-09-2021||India||Bill against organised crime ready: Tamil Nadu govt tells Madras high court||A Bill to effectively control organised crimes in Tamil Nadu has been drafted and the same will be placed before the state assembly when it meets next, the Madras high court was informed recently.On the orders of the court in August 2020, a committee was formed and according to its recommendation, a Draft Bill of the Tamil Nadu Control of Organised Crime Act has been prepared and would be placed before the House during the next session, the government counsel told a division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran (since retired) and P Velmurugan.While hearing a habeas corpus petition from E Velu (29), a gangster accused of murdering another in 2018, challenging his detention under the Goondas Act earlier, a division bench headed by Justice Kirubakaran had raised a set of 25 queries including the necessity to come out with a new Act, like the “Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act, 1999” (MCOCA) or similar ones passed by Karnataka and Gujarat which would enable the police to be more powerful and deal with the criminals effectively.When the matter came up recently, the government counsel informed the bench about this.The bench expressed happiness and appreciated the State government for having made ready the draft bill to be presented before the Assembly. “If such an Act is passed, the police will be able to deal with the criminals effectively,” the bench said and disposed of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-against-organised-crime-ready-tamil-nadu-govt-tells-madras-high-court-101632856083646.html
29-09-2021||India||Kerala high court rejects plea against K’taka govt’s move to limit inter-state travel||The Kerala high court on Tuesday dismissed two pleas challenging Karnataka government’s decision to restrict entry from here at borders of Kasaragod and Mangaluru only to those having a negative RT-PCR report, saying the neighbouring state was well within its powers to issue such directions.The high court said it was an admitted fact there was no blockade of the roads from Kerala to Karnataka and the restrictions, like a negative RT-PCR certificate, were imposed within that state in view of the unprecedented surge of Covid-19 pandemic prevalent in Kerala.“Therefore, going by the guidelines issued by the central government, it is clear that under any such circumstances, the states are given the power and responsibility to impose reasonable restrictions, so as to combat the disease.“Therefore, state of Karnataka was well within its powers to issue circulars, orders or guidelines under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, in consonance with various guidelines issued by the central government,” a bench of Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly said and dismissed the two PILs, one by A K M Ashraf, the IUML MLA from Manjeshwar and the other by Jayananda K R, the Secretary of Rastrakavi Manjeshwara Govinda Pai Smaraka Samithi.The bench further said that the Karnataka government has the necessary leverage to issue circulars, taking into account the situations prevailing in the neighbouring states of Kerala and Maharashtra.“Viewed from that angle, it can never be said that a part of cause of action for the writ petitions has arisen within the state of Kerala. This is more so when there is no absolute prohibition for the citizens of Kerala to travel to Karnataka by any means, but we can only view it as restrictions imposed by the state of Karnataka.“Whether the restrictions imposed within the State of Karnataka are reasonable or not, is a matter to be considered and decided by the jurisdictional High Court,” the bench said in its 100-page judgement.It further said that a “wholesome appreciation of the facts and circumstances” would show that no part of the cause of action, as regards the circulars issued by Karnataka government or its officials, would arise in Kerala.“Therefore, we have no hesitation to hold that the petitioners have failed to establish territorial jurisdiction of this court in interfering with the circulars issued by the state of Karnataka dated July 31 and accordingly, we decline the reliefs sought for by the petitioners in the background of the circulars so issued. In the result, the writ petitions are dismissed for want of territorial jurisdiction,” the bench said. The petitioners had contended that the travel restrictions had resulted in people from Kerala being unable to enter Karnataka for any emergent situations and therefore, it was totally illegal and violative of the fundamental rights of citizens.The blockade was also causing disruption in trade, supply of food and other essential items and interfering with the rights of the citizens to move freely throughout the territory of India, the two PILs -- one of them filed by advocate P V Anoop -- had claimed.The pleas had also claimed that people of Manjeshwar rely entirely upon the medical facilities at Dakshin Kannada district/Mangalore city and its adjacent areas, since it is the nearest medical hub available.The Karnataka government had opposed the two pleas on the ground that the entire cause of action arises within that state, and the petitioners should challenge the circulars before the High Court of Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-high-court-rejects-plea-against-k-taka-govt-s-move-to-limit-inter-state-travel-101632856080325.html
29-09-2021||India||Draw up laws on illegal immigrants: Madras high court to govt||The Madras high court has directed the Union home ministry to consider framing necessary laws in three months to prevent illegal immigrants from committing petty crimes to stay back in India. The order was passed on Monday while disposing of a batch of bail petitions filed by nationals of Sri Lanka, Nigeria, China, Iran and Bangladesh booked for various criminal cases. The court noted that in addition to their illegal status, some of them had obtained Aadhar cards using fake documents. Around 13,289 foreigners have overstayed their visa period in Tamil Nadu’s districts of Chennai, Trichy, Coimbatore and Madurai. Justice M Dhandapani said that their bail plea was not accepted as it would be detrimental to the safety and security of the country. He added that “due to the lacunae on the part of the Governmental machinery and the Law Enforcing Agency”, certain petitioners, who are illegal immigrants, have been in India for decades without being deported back to their country of birth. “...and in course of time, the Indian sub-continent would be grazing grounds for the predators of illegal migrants with a devious mind to take over the country, which would lead to a pre-independence scenario,” the justice said in his orders. The court said that it has come to its attention that the illegal migrants, “to circumvent the deportation procedures” and to continue living in the Indian territory “resort to certain subterfuge, like, committing petty crimes and serving simple sentences and come out and do the same once over.” However, no mechanism or law is available as of yet to identify such individuals and to curb such acts.Given this scenario, the court pointed out that there was a lack of coordination between Foreigners Regional Registration Officer (FRRO) and International Check Post (ICP) and the state law enforcing agency, and stated that it is the state set up which is the fulcrum in the setup to identify the illegal immigrants and foreign nationals without valid permission staying in the country. The court insisted that the existing guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs should be followed. The court then went on to issue more directions. It includes the state law agency to send illegal migrants to detention camps as per the union home ministry’s guidelines. The state to take steps to identify the foreign nationals, who are in various prisons and take appropriate steps to have the person deported to his/her country of birth immediately on completion of the sentence. Authorities of the FRRO and ICP have been directed to share the data of the foreign nationals with the state who, in turn, will have to coordinate with hotels, houses under their jurisdiction to monitor their departure from their place of stay. After directing the Union ministry of home affairs to frame laws within three months to deport such illegal immigrants after their sentence is completed, the court posted the matter to January 4, 2022, for agencies of the state and union to file a compliance report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/draw-up-laws-on-illegal-immigrants-madras-high-court-to-govt-101632856020192.html
29-09-2021||India||New complaints against Mavunkal filed, Kerala police role comes under lens||The Kerala police on Tuesday registered fresh complaints against self-proclaimed antique collector and YouTuber Monson Mavunkal, who was arrested on Sunday on charges of fraud, among others. Unverified reports of police’s alleged involvement with Mavunkal also surfaced on social media Tuesday. He is currently in police custody for three days on an Ernakulam court order. A day after alleged videos and photos linking him to Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president K Sudhakaran and deputy inspector general of police S Surendran ‘leaked’ on social media, two more businessmen have filed complaints against him. A rape survivor also alleged that Mavunkal had threatened to release her “inappropriate pictures and video” if she failed to withdraw the case against his close aide. Police expect more complaints against him in the coming days. “When I filed the rape case in Ernakulam, the police started investigation in right earnest. But Mavunkal used his clout to transfer officers probing the case. Later, he started threatening me to withdraw the case against his friend and told me that he would implicate me in honey-trap cases,” she said, adding that Mavunkal told her that he has thousands of social media followers, and once he releases her photos, it will be difficult for her to step out of her house. She said despite stating her case before a magistrate under Section 164 (recording of confidential or confessional statement) last year, it was hushed up. Two more businessmen have filed cheating cases, one in Ernakulam and another in Kozhikode, against Mavunkal. Police are yet to release details of these two complaints. One of the earlier complainants M T Shameer alleged that actor Bala had called him once requesting the former to withdraw the case against Mavunkal. Bala later denied it. Some records on how some earlier complaints against Mavunkal were hushed up have surfaced on social media, exposing the involvement of senior police officials. While DIG S Surendran admitted that Mavunkal was his family friend, he never knew about the latter’s dealings.Reports of cover-up and laxity came to light with Mavunkal’s arrest. Many police officers were regular at his house and museum, and there was a police beatbox outside his house, where the patrol party had to sign frequently, to show they visited the site in particular intervals, officials familiar with the incidents said. Police officials are yet to react to allegations.A two-year-old order of former police chief Loknath Behra giving directions to open a police booth outside his house also surfaced. In the order, Behra mentioned that Mavunkal’s house, also a museum, carries many priceless antiques, and it was worth giving security. In one of the photos, Behra was seen sitting on a throne, which Mavunkal said he obtained from descendants of Mysore king Tipu Sultan. All complaints against Mavunkal, including intelligence reports, were hushed up with the help of officers close to him, officials in the knowing of the matter said. One inspector general of police, a DIG, two SPs and two station house officers are under scanner now. “We were scared to complain against him after his photos with top police officers circulated in social media,” said one of the complainants. Many senior officers do admit that the latest scandal has dented the image of one of the best police forces in the country. A motivational speaker, doctor, cosmetologist, art promoter, peacenik and human rights activist, Mavunkal, only a matriculate, donned several roles for more than five years, and hoodwinked many. In 2019, the state intelligence stated that Mavunkal was a fraudster, and a high-level probed was needed against him, but thanks to his high, connections nothing happened. In his YouTube videos, Mavunkal, 52, claimed that he owns many antique pieces like Mysore emperor Tipu Sultan’s throne, silver coins Judas received for betraying Jesus Christ, Soloman-era gold coins and rare books on Maratha warrior Shivaji and Mughal emperor Aurangazeb. He also claimed that he is a German-trained cosmetologist and treated many VIPs. There are also reports that many cine personalities frequented him quite often. Later, the police found that most of these antiques were made in Kerala and Tamil Nadu by local craftsmen. State Congress chief K Sudhakaran Monday admitted that he knew him personally and sought treatment from him. “I went to him in connection with a skin ailment. I was recommended by one of my old friends in Kochi. I was not aware of his past or his degree,” he said. Party MP Benny Behnan on Tuesday said public workers should be very careful while dealing with such people, and it should be a lesson for all. Bharatiya Janata Party state president K Sudhakaran on Tuesday sought a central agency probe against Mavunkal. “Photos and videos doing rounds in social media show many leaders and senior officers were close to him. We need a central agency probe against him,” he said in the state capital. The ruling CPI(M) has asked Congress to drop its president in the light of fresh allegations. But Sudhakaran said the chief minister office is behind the move to discredit him. “Photos of two present ministers and senior officers also surfaced. My photos were leaked out deliberately,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-complaints-against-mavunkal-filed-kerala-police-role-comes-under-lens-101632855960137.html
29-09-2021||India||TRS-Rajender gear up for Huzurabad bypolls as EC announces date||Battles lines are drawn for the bypolls in Huzurabad assembly constituency in Telangana’s Karimnagar after the Election Commission announced the schedule for three Lok Sabha and 30 assembly seat elections across India on Tuesday. The by-election, scheduled for October 30, is necessitated due to the resignation of sitting MLA and former state health minister Eatala Rajender, who quit the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party in June this year.Rajender was sacked from the state cabinet by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on May 2 following allegations of land grabbing. For the TRS, it is a matter of prestige to win the by-elections to the Huzurabad assembly seat. Huzurabad has been a TRS stronghold ever since its formation as part of the delimitation of assembly constituencies in 2009. Rajender, who had earlier represented the erstwhile Kamalapur assembly constituency, was the TRS MLA from Huzurabad for the last three terms till he resigned from the assembly membership in June this year.Now that Rajender joined the BJP, the ruling party is pulling out all stops to retain its hold on Huzurabad by winning the by-poll. Ever since the seat has fallen vacant, TRS president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao laid special focus on the Huzurabad constituency by pumping in huge money in the name of welfare and developmental activities.“More than for Rajender, it is important for KCR to ensure the victory of the TRS in the by-elections. He forced Rajender to quit the TRS by sacking him from the cabinet on allegations of corruption. A victory for Rajender is a moral loss for KCR. Hence, he is splurging money in an unprecedented manner in Huzurabad to win the by-poll,” said political analyst Ramakrishna Sangem.KCR entrusted the responsibility of leading the party to victory in Huzurabad to his trouble-shooter nephew and state finance minister T Harish Rao. For the last couple of months, Harish has been camping in the constituency, holding meetings with various caste groups, local youth and women organisations and seeking their support.He, along with another minister from Karimnagar Gangula Kamalakar, took up several developmental programmes in the constituency, including laying roads in the interior areas, laying foundations for community halls and irrigation schemes. The TRS government also released funds liberally for the distribution of pensions and issuance of new ration cards to the beneficiaries to garner their votes.The biggest weapon KCR has taken out to attract Dalit voters in Huzurabad is the Telangana Dalit Bandhu scheme, under which, each eligible Dalit family will get a direct benefit transfer of ₹10 lakh into their account for taking up a self-employment programme.Soon after Rajender left the TRS, the chief minister announced the implementation of the Dalit Bandhu scheme as a pilot project in Huzurabad and launched it on August 16 at a public meeting at Shalapalli in the constituency.The officials have identified as many as 23,000 Dalit families as eligible for the scheme and in two weeks, the government released ₹2,000 crores in four instalments exclusively for Huzurabad under the scheme. The chief minister said more money would be released soon to cover all the beneficiaries.“It is nothing but bribing the voters to win the seat at any cost. If KCR has so much love for Dalits, he should implement the scheme for all the Dalits all over the state, instead of just Huzurabad,” Rajender had said.The former minister is also leaving no stone unturned to win the Huzurabad seat once again. “The TRS leadership has lured most of my followers and leaders who were backing me till recently by offering them posts and money. But I am confident of winning the by-poll with the support of the people of Huzurabad, who have been blessing me for the last three terms,” Rajender said.While Rajender is fighting the by-poll on behalf of BJP this time, the TRS has announced the candidature of its student wing leader Gellu Srinivasa Yadav. Both Rajender and Yadav are from other backward classes (OBC) communities.The Congress party, which stood second in the last assembly elections held in December 2018, has hardly any stakes in the Huzurabad by-poll this time, as it has turned out to be a battle between the TRS and the BJP. Congress is yet to identify its candidate.The newly-formed YSR Telangana Party floated by YS Sharmila, sister of Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, has already announced that it won’t contest the Huzurabad by-poll. But Sharmila said she was contemplating fielding a group of unemployed youth in the contest to highlight the issue of the rampant unemployment in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trsrajender-gear-up-for-huzurabad-bypolls-as-ec-announces-date-101632855901600.html
29-09-2021||India||Tussle between Tamil Nadu police, IAF over rape case investigation||A tussle had begun between the police and the Indian Air Force over who is entitled to investigate a rape case filed by a woman officer against her colleague . The alleged crime took place at the Air Force Administrative College campus in Tamil Nadu’s Coimbatore district on September 10. While the police have arrested the accused, the additional Mahila court in Coimbatore on Monday extended his judicial custody until September 30. During the hearing, the counsel of the accused N Sundaravadivelu argued that since the two officers belong to the armed forces and in this case the Indian Air Force, so they are subject to the Air Force Act. “It’s a special Act which is beyond the purview of the criminal procedure code and other punishable sections,” said the advocate and former public prosecutor for the CBI. “As far as the Indian Penal Code is concerned, it will be applied by the court martial authorities. There is a transgression by the civil police of Coimbatore- they have no right to investigate this matter. So the judiciary in subordinate courts also has no jurisdiction. This has to be investigated only by the air force authorities by court of enquiry and court martial. Though I’m appearing for the accused, I’m arguing that the trial should happen before the IAF authorities because that is the right forum. I cannot be defending my client in a wrong forum,” Sundaravadivelu added. Independently, officials from the Indian Air Force have also filed a petition in the court seeking the case to be transferred from the police for them to conduct the probe and a court martial. “We have cited all rules and procedures for the accused to be handed over to us,” said a spokesperson for the IAF on Tuesday.The police contended that the victim was unhappy with the enquiry being conducted by the institute which is why she had approached the Coimbatore city commissioner Deepak M Damor on September 20. Based on the complaint the All-Women’s Police Station in Gandhipuram carried out preliminary enquiries, registered a case against the accused officer and arrested him on Saturday. “Police have jurisdiction all over,” said a senior police officer in Coimbatore. “She was assaulted in the accommodation, and they (institute) had started taking action, but she was not happy with the enquiry, so she approached the police,” the officer added. The court will now decide on whether to hand over the accused to the IAF or allow the local police to continue investigating in the next hearing scheduled for September 30. Around 30 personnel from across India are undergoing training in the institute since August 15. The woman officer (27) had a leg injury around the first week of September while undergoing sports training on campus. She had taken medication for the injury before going to sleep and has reported that on the night of September 10, the accused allegedly came into her hostel room and committed the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tussle-between-tamil-nadu-police-iaf-over-rape-case-investigation-101632855840276.html
29-09-2021||India||Congress asks state leaders to hold negotiations with Sidhu||The Congress party has not accepted its Punjab unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu’s resignation and asked its state leaders to start negotiations with him while moving into a firefighting mode, said senior party leaders on Tuesday.But a section feels that the party leadership might not yield to several demands made by Sidhu, whose abrupt resignation on Tuesday afternoon appeared to take the party by surprise.The leaders pointed out that the appointment of Charanjit Singh Channi as the Punjab chief minister made it very difficult for Sidhu to bag the CM’s post in a post-election scenario. Punjab is scheduled to hold assembly elections early next year.“Sidhu was high command’s choice as the Punjab unit president. While his resignation letter two months after he took charge, is an embarrassment, the party has decided to continue negotiations,” said a senior leader on condition of anonymity.“At an appropriate time, the central leadership will intervene if and when it would be required,” added the leader. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was instrumental in Sidhu’s elevation as the party chief in Punjab on July 23, after months of tense struggle for control of the party with former chief minister Amarinder Singh.The immediate provocation, according to the Congress functionaries, is the appointment of APS Deol as the advocate general of the state.The decision created a political controversy last week with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) questioning the move as Deol was the counsel for a former Punjab director general of police Sumedh Singh Saini, who is embroiled in a 2015 police firing case on people protesting against the sacrilege of the Guru Granth Sahib, the Sikh holy book.Sidhu had made the sacrilege cases a central plank of his attack on former CM Singh.“But clearly, his larger goals and ambitions for unbridled power in Punjab has been cut short,” said a second senior leader involved in the Punjab developments. “Sidhu has been named as the Punjab unit chief and his arch rival Captain Amarinder Singh has been removed as the CM. But it doesn’t guarantee that he will be the CM in the next elections,” said the leader.“It is clear that the party will face election with Channi as its face. Also the deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa getting the important home department portfolio didn’t go down well with Sidhu’s camp. If there is any need to elevate a Sikh face, Randhawa will also be in the reckoning,” said a third leader, requesting anonymity.Sidhu’s resignation came roughly three hours after Channi announced the portfolio allocation on Tuesday.Congress functionaries also added that party president Sonia Gandhi conveyed to the leaders that while Amarinder Singh resigned from the CM’s post, it is not necessary to remove all his loyalists from key posts in the government. Sonia prefers to maintain a balance between two sides ahead of the elections, according to the functionaries.But a section of the party is irked at the way Sidhu resigned. “He shouldn’t have resigned in such a manner and that too, hours before the Congress planned to induct Kanhaiya Kumar and Jignesh Mevani. I think it’s clear case of acting first and thinking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-asks-punjab-unit-leaders-to-hold-negotiations-with-sidhu-101632855660252.html
29-09-2021||India||Ensure India’s culture of tolerance doesn’t weaken, says minority affairs minister Naqvi||New Delhi: Union minister for minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Tuesday slammed conversion based on coercion and said forced religious conversion “cannot be a testament of expansion of and trust on any religion in a country where both, believers and atheists coexist.”At an interaction with prominent members of the Christian community, Naqvi said both, believers and atheists, have equal constitutional and social rights and protection in India.He said India is the only country in the world where festivals and other joyous occasions of all religions are celebrated together. “We need to keep this shared cultural heritage and legacy of co-existence strengthened. Any attempt to disturb this fabric of unity and harmony will hurt the soul of India,” he said.At a time when the political opponents of the BJP frequently accuse the government of fostering anti-minority sentiments in the country, Naqvi said followers of almost all the religions of the world live in India, and constitutional and social guarantee and safety of their religious, social, economic, educational rights.“It is our collective national responsibility to ensure that India’s culture of tolerance and commitment of co-existence is not allowed to get weaken under any circumstances,” he said.Minister of state for minority affairs John Barla; National Commission for Minorities chairman Sardar Iqbal Singh Lalpura; Archbishop Anil Joseph; Bishop Subodh C. Mandal and other prominent people from religious, social, educational, health, art and culture fields from across the country were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-india-s-culture-of-tolerance-doesn-t-weaken-says-minority-affairs-minister-naqvi-101632855420131.html
29-09-2021||India||‘Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission will be affordable, secure’: RS Sharma||By rolling out the Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission this week, India is aiming to take a leap forward in the way the country’s health care ecosystem is structured. In an interview to HT, RS Sharma, chief executive of the National Health Authority, elaborated on the mission, the steps needed for its effective implementation, and concerns on privacy and data security. Edited excerpts:Since enrolling for the mission is voluntary, how will you ensure its effective implementation?Of course, it is voluntary; and convincing people is definitely a challenge in such projects. What we, however, believe is that once you have an open intra-operable system, people do come forward because it becomes easy; it provides ease of living...I agree that initially technology usage is difficult, but once people realise the benefits of technology, they use it. Aadhaar is a good example... So, if we can demonstrate to people that using the digital mission for delivery of health services is going to be much more affordable, easy, will cost less in transport, and other facilities, it will work.Tell us more about the unique digital health ID.The unique ID is basically just a number which will be a reference to get all the records collated, and which a person can share at some point in time. The larger purpose of unique IDs is to ensure that you are able to have access to your documents, and you are able to share them with whomsoever you want to share, including doctors. It will be just a random number devoid of any intelligence, like Aadhaar.How will you ensure data safety?We have made the system very secure. First of all, it is federated data architecture; it is not that this platform is collecting any data. It is only providing linkages; it is just a transaction platform. For example, if you have visited a particular hospital, and that hospital has your digital records, the records will remain with that hospital. The data does not come to this platform; the mission doesn’t have any data. And with regards to data related to doctors, nurses, health care workers, hospitals, etc., that is absolutely secured with us.How do you plan to implement the mission in areas where there’s poor connectivity? ...Any programme which we will launch is going to be inclusive, including this programme, which is not going to exclude the digital have-nots...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayushman-bharat-digital-mission-will-be-affordable-secure-rssharma-101632855300230.html
29-09-2021||India||India fought Covid in best way despite limited resources: Amit Shah at NDMA event||New Delhi: Union home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday lauded India’s response to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic while highlighting the country’s low fatality rate, at an event to mark the 17th Foundation Day celebrations of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA). “If any unbiased agency assesses, then it will say that if the fight against COVID-19 has been fought in any country in the best way in the world, then it has been fought in India. With a population of 130 crores (1.3 billion), limited resources, limited infrastructure, we had the lowest mortality rate in the world, and our number of COVID-19 cases per million people was also very low,” Shah said at the event where he was the chief guest. The Union minister also praised the NDMA for doing “a very good job” in the fight against the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.He also spoke about the trajectory of disaster management in India and highlighted the need to introduce scientific systems for avoiding disasters and preventing loss of lives.Shah said the NDMA, the national disaster response force (NDRF), and state disaster response force (SDRF) have, over the last 17 years, “changed the history of disaster management in the country”. He added that in a country of over 1.3 billion people, where every state has different geographical features, there is a higher need to adopt scientific systems for avoiding disasters to prevent loss of life and infrastructure. Shah also talked about Aapda Mitra and Common Alert Protocol, the two new initiatives launched by the NDMA, while releasing the training manual and plan documents of the initiatives. Shah said Aapda Mitra has been implemented on an experimental basis in 30 flood-prone districts across 25 states. “Work has been done to prepare 5,500 Aapda Mitras and Aapda Sakhis for flood protection. Those who can swim were selected for this and wherever there was a flood, they did a great job,” he said, adding 28 states and Union territories have signed MoUs with NDMA for this scheme. “When we look back at the last 17 years, we have come a long way, but there is still a long way to go and we have not yet reached the stage of being content,” Shah said, adding, “Our goal should be to create such a disaster management system that no matter how severe the disaster may be, not even one person should die…” He said the mechanisms put in place by the states have been successful at reducing the death toll to a great extent. In addition, he pointed out the potential impact of climate change and controlling the intensity and frequency of disasters through disaster management as two major challenges facing the nation. The Union minister acknowledged that while earlier, the government’s approach towards disasters was relief-centric, it has now shifted to prevention and early preparedness. “We should continue this approach and strive for reaching zero loss of life,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-fought-covid-in-best-way-despite-limited-resources-amit-shah-at-ndma-event-101632855241279.html
29-09-2021||India||‘Right to life above right to employment’: SC on firecracker ban||The Supreme Court on Tuesday told firecracker manufacturers that the right to life of innocent citizens was more precious than the right to employment of workers who have been out of job following the 2018 court-imposed ban on the manufacture and sale of traditional firecrackers.The court was hearing a clutch of petitions filed by manufacturers and citizens, the former asking for relaxations citing worker rights and the latter seeking tighter implementation of the ban citing flagrant violations.Appearing for manufacturers, senior ANS Nadkarni urged the apex court to issue directions to the Centre to approve improved crackers and green crackers (with reduced emissions) ahead of Diwali as livelihoods of lakhs of people who work in the industry are at stake.But the bench of justices MR Shah and AS Bopanna was in no mood to consider it. “Under the guise of right to employment we cannot allow a few to play with the lives of citizens. We have to strike a balance between the right to employment and right to life of citizens. But our prime focus is to protect the right to life of innocent citizens who suffer due to the use of firecrackers,” the court said.The court noted that despite an express ban on the manufacture and sale of joined firecrackers or laaris, they are still used in all festivals, religious processions and election victory marches. “...time has come that we must fix responsibility and liability,” the court said.The bench asked Nadkarni why these laaris are still available when their production was banned in 2018. In response, the senior counsel said that the production of big rolls of laaris has stopped.“People are buying small crackers and joining them. They should know this cannot be done,” Nadkarni said.“The problem is implementation,” the bench rued, adding, “We want that our orders must be implemented in true spirit...”Three contempt petitions were also filed by senior advocate Gopal Shankarnaraynan in which he pointed out that the manufacturers have been resorting to novel ways to override the court’s directions. “Initially they delivered goods online even when the October 2018 order specifically banned e-commerce websites from accepting or effecting online sale of firecrackers,” he said, adding that some traditional crackers with prohibited chemical compositions were being sold under the label of green crackers.The 2018 judgment had directed the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO), a government establishment, to review the chemical composition of fireworks.Shankarnaraynan told the court that the government has ignored PESO and come out with proposals by National Environmental Engineering Research Institute for alternative crackers that still contain most of the salts banned by the court order.Additional solicitor general Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the Centre and PESO, contested the petitioner’s claim and said the Centre had filed its response in October 2020 when some of the violations were shown to court by Shankarnaraynan in March that year and the top court had ordered a probe by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the use of toxic chemicals in green crackers.The CBI filed its report in a sealed cover which the court is yet to open. When Nadkarni sought a copy of the report but the court refused.The court will continue hearing the case on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/right-to-life-above-right-to-employment-says-sc-over-firecracker-ban-101632855186778.html
29-09-2021||India||Balbeer Giri named math chief after seer's suicide||Days after the death of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad president Narendra Giri, Shri Panchayati Akhada Niranjani, a collective of Hindu ascetics, has decided to appoint his disciple, Balbeer Giri, as his successor, people familiar with the developments said.Balbeer Giri will be appointed as next Pithadishwar (Math head) of Baghambari Gaddi Math in Prayagraj in a ceremony on October 5.“As per the last will (June 4, 2020) of Maharaj ji (Narendra Giri), Balbeer Giri has been named as his successor. The same wish has been mentioned in the suicide note as well as in his last video found on his cell phone,” said Ravindra Puri , general secretary of Shri Panchayati Akhada Niranjani. “It has been decided that his wishes would be honoured and Balbeer Giri would be made the next head of Baghambari Math.” Puri was referring to a purported suicide note recovered after Narendra Giri was found hanging from a ceiling fan in the Math in Prayagraj on September 20.A video was recovered from his cell phone, which showed him saying things similar to that mentioned in the note.Whoever heads the Baghambari Gaddi Math gains control over property of the Math worth crores.Ravindra Puri said a five-member supervisory board would look after the overall working of the Math. For all major decisions, like sale or purchase of land, the head of the Math would have to seek approval of this body, he said.“This all-important body would include members from the Niranjani Akhada only. Besides myself, other members would be Mahant Dinesh Giri, Mahant Omkar Giri, Keshav Puri and Mahant Har Govind Puri,” he said. “We are following the set practices and traditions of the Akhada and all the decisions are in strict accordance with it.”Many senior seers, including Kailashanand Giri, Acharya Mahamandaleshwar of Shri Panchayati Akhada Niranjani, had dubbed the purported suicide note as fake and had maintained that the collective of renunciates would be taking the final call on Narendra Giri’s successorPuri said senior seers of 13 Akhadas (collectives) and officials of the district administration would be invited for the “pattaabhishek (annointing)” ceremony next week.The ceremony would coincide with the 16-day death ritual of Narendra Giri.In his new role, Balbeer Giri would not only head the Math but also the Bade Hanuman temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/balbeer-giri-named-successor-to-mahant-narendra-giri-101632855061376.html
29-09-2021||India||Working with WHO to get emergency use listing for Covaxin: Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech is working with the World Health Organization (WHO) to obtain Emergency Use Listing (EUL) for Covaxin, its Covid-19 vaccine, the Indian vaccine manufacturer said on Tuesday, urging an end to speculation on the permission being delayed.The company was responding to reports that said the grant of EUL could be delayed further as WHO had more technical queries regarding the inactivated whole virus vaccine.“As a responsible manufacturer with past approvals for our other vaccines, we do not find it appropriate to speculate or comment on the regulatory approval process and its timelines,” Bharat Biotech said in a statement on Tuesday. “We are diligently working with the WHO to obtain EUL at the earliest.”The authorisation, when it comes, will pave the way for wider recognition of Covaxin in documentation sought by many countries that have made inoculation mandatory for entry from their borders. In the past, students seeking to study abroad faced problems because Covaxin is recognised as a Covid-19 vaccine only in a few countries.The company earlier said it had submitted all documents to the WHO for the grant of EUL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/working-with-world-health-organization-to-get-emergency-use-listing-for-covaxin-bharat-biotech-101632855001498.html
29-09-2021||India||Take measures to prevent Covid surge during festivals: MHA to states||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Tuesday asked states and Union territories to take adequate measures to prevent a surge in Covid-19 infections during the upcoming festive season.Warning states against any complacency due to the recent drop in the number of cases, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla asked all district magistrates to take strict measures to implement social distancing, even if they have to impose prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code ( CrPC).The current Covid-19 guidelines have been extended till the end of October.“Utmost vigil has to be maintained in respect of mass gathering events, so as to avoid any possibility of surge in Covid-19 cases,” Bhalla wrote in his letter. These include gatherings in fairs, festivals and religious events.He also asked the states to closely monitor Covid-19 case positivity, hospital and ICU bed occupancy in each district as well as take proactive containment measures in districts with a high positivity rate. “It is important to identify warning signs of potential surges early on and to take appropriate measures to curb the spread,” Bhalla said. “This would require a localised approach.” The letter also said vaccinations should continue in an accelerated manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-measures-to-prevent-covid-surge-during-upcoming-festivals-home-ministry-to-states-101632854765029.html
29-09-2021||India||Centre dissolves ordnance factory board, transfers assets to seven DPSUs||The Union government has ordered the dissolution of the four-decade-old Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) and amalgamated 41 factories under seven new state-owned companies to manufacture defence hardware ranging from munitions to heavy weapons and vehicles.The move, first unveiled as part of the “Atmanirbhar Bharat” (self-reliant India) package in June, is aimed at enhancing efficiency, autonomy and accountability, and introducing a corporate structure for the network of ordnance factories against a backdrop of calls for reforms in the state-run defence industry.According to an official order issued by the department of defence production under the defence ministry on September 24, OFB will be dissolved from October 1 and the assets, employees and operations of the 41 factories will be transferred to the seven defence public sector units (DPSUs).Twelve factories making a wide range of munitions will be brought under Pune-based Munitions India Limited, which will manufacture ammunition and explosives, while five factories making heavy vehicles will be amalgamated under the Avadi-based Armoured Vehicles Nigam Limited. Eight factories that make weapons ranging from small arms to rifles and field guns will be brought under the Kanpur-based Advanced Weapons and Equipment India Limited, which will manufacture weapons and equipment. Four factories will be part of Troop Comforts Limited, which will oversee the manufacture of clothing and other items. Nagpur-based Yantra India Limited will oversee the functioning of eight factories that will manufacture military grade components and ancillary products, while Dehradun-based India Optel Limited will bring together three factories that will make optoelectronic items. The Kanpur-based Ordnance Parachute Factory will be brought under Gliders India Limited, which will be engaged in manufacturing parachutes. Ten non-production units, such as the National Academy of Defence Production and several institutes of learning, will be merged with the seven new companies, while 11 more non-production units, including regional marketing centres, will be handed over to the companies and their employees transferred to different factories, according to the order.A total of 3,152.11 acres of surplus land at 16 ordnance factories will be transferred to the directorate of ordnance (coordination and services).The seven new companies are “required to frame rules and regulations related to service conditions of the absorbed employees and seek an option for permanent absorption from the employees on deemed deputation to that respective DPSU, within a period of two years”, the order stated.In June, after the Union cabinet cleared the corporatisation of the OFB, Singh described the decision as a “historic one.” “It is also a big decision from the point of view of national security,” Singh had said. The move has been opposed by three workers’ unions, which have said the units employ a total of around 80,000 people. The unions, in November 2020, also presented a proposal for restructuring the factories and improving their functioning to achieve production targets.The Kolkata-based OFB was established in April 1979, but the history of some ordnance factories dates back hundreds of years. Some of the oldest factories located in West Bengal were set up in the 18th century. In recent decades, there have been growing demands from the armed forces and experts for reforms in the units to bring in new technologies and production methods and to ensure the production of sophisticated weaponry. The government’s order marks the first major overhaul of the factories in decades and the introduction of a corporate structure will enable the companies to raise capital by going public if the government decides to do so.India has set aside ₹70,221 crore – 63% of the military’s capital budget – for buying locally produced weapons and systems to boost defence indigenisation. The defence ministry recently cleared domestic military purchases worth ₹13,700 crore, including proposals to buy 118 Arjun Mk-1A tanks and equipping armoured fighting vehicles with modern protection systems. The new tanks alone will cost ₹8,380 crore, with the order to be fulfilled by state-run factories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-orders-dissolution-of-ofb-transfers-assets-to-seven-dpsus-101632854349241.html
29-09-2021||India||Man dies after police ‘raid’ at Gorakhpur hotel, 6 cops suspended||Six Gorakhpur policemen were suspended on Tuesday after a businessman from Kanpur was found dead following a police raid at a city hotel where he was staying with two friends from Gurugram.Gorakhpur police said the man, identified as 36-year-old Manish Gupta, slipped during the routine police checking and injured himself. However, one of Gupta’s friends, Hardeep Singh Chauhan, who was staying with him in the hotel, alleged police brutally thrashed Gupta.Talking to reporters, Gupta’s wife Meenakshi and his father Nand Kishore, accused police of beating him.Six policemen, including a station house officer, a chowki in-charge and four constables, were suspended in connection with the death of the Kanpur realtor, Vipin Tada, senior superintendent of police of Gorakhpur, said on Tuesday.“During a routine checking drive, police found that these three men were the only group who were from different places, but were staying together at the hotel... So, they were checked on the basis of suspicion. In the chaos caused by police checking, one of the men slipped and suffered injuries. He was rushed to Baba Raghav Das Medical College, where he died. It was an accident...,” Tada said.Hardeep told reporters that he along with his brother Pardeep Singh Chauhan, 32, and Gupta came to Gorakhpur to meet their friend Chandan Saini.Hardeep said the three of them were sleeping when five to six policemen led by SHO of Ramgarh Tal police station, Jai Narayan Singh, and chowki in-charge of Phal Mandi, Akshay Mishra, knocked at their door and asked for their identity cards around midnight on Monday.“I woke Manish up and asked him to give his card, but he and objected to questioning at the odd hour. At this, the cops became aggressive and started searching our bags and belongings. I asked them why we were being treated like terrorists. At this, Jai Narayan Singh and chowki in-charge Akshay Mishra, who I believe were drunk, threatened to send us to jail and started slapping us. They pushed me out after beating me. Then I saw them dragging Manish, who was in an unconscious state, with blood flowing from his head and face.,” Hardeep told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-man-dies-after-police-raid-at-gorakhpur-hotel-6-cops-suspended-101632854285630.html
29-09-2021||India||Pakistani terrorist captured, 1 killed in anti-infiltration operations in Uri||A Pakistani terrorist belonging to Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) was captured alive while another was killed during an anti-infiltration operation in the Uri sector of Jammu and Kashmir, the Indian Army said on Tuesday.The terrorists, who appeared to be planning a strike, made the infiltration attempt along the Salamabad Nala, which was the same route used for the 2016 suicide attack on the Uri garrison, the army added.Major General Virendra Vats, General Officer Commanding (GOC), 19 infantry division, said the incident took place on September 25 when a brief encounter erupted between the terrorists and security forces near the Nala. “The operation was initially launched on the intervening night of September 18 and 19 when an infiltration bid by six Pakistani terrorists was made along the Line of Control (LoC) in Uri sector. As an encounter broke out, taking advantage of the dark and dense foliage, four terrorists retreated back to Pakistan while the remaining two sneaked into Uri. The combing operation continued for nine days in the area,” he said.“However, on September 25, contact was established again with the two terrorists by one such patrolling party near the LoC, following which one terrorist one killed and the other was taken into custody, after due precautions, as he pleaded for his life,” he added.The deceased was identified as Atiq ur Rehman alias Qari Anas, a resident of Attock in Pakistan’s Punjab province. The second terrorist, who was taken into custody, was identified as Ali Babar Patra from Okara district in the same province.During the interrogation, the officer said, it was learnt that the terrorists infiltrated from Sawai Nala Camp to Hallan Shumali Launch pad to Jabri in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, which led to the Salamabad Nala.“Using the same Nala, terrorists had infiltrated in 2016 with the help of Pakistan Army to carry out a suicide attack on the Uri Garrison,” the GOC said.The officer added that the terrorist was directed by his handlers to drop supplies at Pattan. “But when we went through the recoveries and modus operandi, it suggested that they had come here for some kind of a strike which went beyond the drop of supplies,” he added.The captured terrorist also told interrogators that he was lured into joining the LeT due to poverty. Patra said he underwent three weeks of preliminary training at Garhi Habibullah Camp (KPK) in 2019 and then fresh training this year, the officer said.Patra added that Rehman had given him ₹20,000 for his mother’s treatment and had promised him an additional amount of ₹30,000 on his safe return from Pattan near Baramulla, where the group was to deliver the war-like stores (arms and ammunition).Seven AK-47 weapons, nine pistols and revolvers, more than 80 grenades and Indian and Pakistani currencies were recovered during the latest Uri operation and the one that took place on September 18 in the surrounding area, Vats said.The official said the movement of such a large number of people cannot take place without the active complicity of the Pakistan Army deployed on the other side.“This shows the desperation of Pakistan that when they see peace in Kashmir, they send in terrorists to disturb peace by sensational strike. Seven terrorists have been neutralised in as many days while one has been nabbed alive,” he added.Last week, the army claimed that three terrorists were killed in Hatlanga village in Uri, close to the LoC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistani-let-terrorist-captured-1-killed-in-anti-infiltration-operations-in-uri-101632853983199.html
29-09-2021||India||Kanhaiya Kumar joins Congress, Jignesh Mevani lends support||Announcing that today’s India needs Bhagat Singh’s courage, Mahatma Gandhi’s unity, and BR Ambedkar’s quest for equality, Kanhaiya Kumar, one of India’s prominent young politicians, joined the Congress from the Communist Party of India on Tuesday. His entry marked a new chapter in the Congress’s efforts to unite forces from different spectrums of politics to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the 2024 elections.Independent MLA in Gujarat, Jignesh Mevani, sitting next to Kumar at an event, also pledged support for the Congress. He, however, didn’t officially join the party as it would result in him losing his assembly membership.Kumar’s inaugural speech, with a dash of new lingo invoking a host of freedom fighters and a call for greater unity, repeatedly mentioned “this is time for urgency” and hailed the Congress as the only force that “can lead in this Ideological war to save the idea of India.” He also said: “I alone can’t do anything.” He echoed many pet talking points of Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and pointed out that “out of 545 Lok Sabha seats, 200 seats are where the Congress is in direct fight with the BJP.”The entry of the two popular young leaders is seen by experts as a relief for the Congress, which has lost at least three key young leaders -- Jyotiraditya Scindia, Himanta Biswa Sharma and Jitin Prasada-- in the recent years to the BJP. Both Kumar and Mevani earlier joined Rahul Gandhi in garlanding the statue of Bhagat Singh at the Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh Park .While the Gujarat MLA said he hoped to create the “charm and ambiance of the freedom struggle”, Kumar said “when the entire shopping mall is on fire, you can’t save your shop”, indicating a larger fight against the BJP.Kumar hit out at the Sangh Parivar and even compared Prime Minister Narendra Modi with an actor for frequently changing his attire. He invoked Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Maulana Azad, Sarojini Naidu, Jagjivan Ram Bhagat Singh, Ashfaqulla Khan, Buddha, Kabir and Nanak, and said: “Many people felt if the Congress doesn’t survive, the country won’t survive.” Mevani said that “the story that started in Gujarat” has now led to devastation in the country. “It’s a war against democracy, Constitution and idea of India,” the MLA said.“If we have to save all these, we have to be a part of the party that fought the freedom struggle.”He also announced that he will fight the next assembly election, due next year, on the Congress’s ticket.Kumar acknowledged that he was “born” in the CPI, but left it as “we need to speed up our struggle and open up our ideological barrier”. He said he doesn’t take the BJP seriously and quipped: “Those who sought clemency, have now become Veer. Those who vowed to create Godse’s India, are now chanting Gandhi’s name.”He announced that he will be taking on some responsibility in the organisation. Both Mevani and Kumar repeatedly referred to Rahul Gandhi and echoed his lines, especially on how the BJP has become a threat to the idea of India.Congress general secretary (organization) KC Venugopal described Kumar as “a symbol of fighting for freedom of expression” and said “the way he fought against fundamentalism throughout his student period, his joining will enthuse cadre of Congress party”.“Jignesh is also fighting for the same cause. Jignesh believed in Congress ideology to carry everybody along. It will give a very strong message that young people fighting for needy, poor people, fighting for freedom, non-violence are joining the Congress,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanhaiya-kumar-joins-congress-jignesh-mevani-lends-support-101632852901819.html
29-09-2021||India||Another milestone nears: 1 in 4 Indians fully vaccinated||India’s mass inoculation programme closed in on a yet another major milestone on Tuesday, with almost one in every four eligible Indians (24.8%) having been fully vaccinated by the end of the day. Another 43.5% have been partly vaccinated.The milestone in coverage comes at a time when the number of active cases of Covid-19 in the country has dropped below the 300,000 mark for the first time in at least six months, data shows.As of Tuesday evening, India has administered 876.2 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine to 642.5 million people – making the country second only to China (1.1 billion people inoculated) in terms of the number of people who have received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine.Of these, 233.6 million people have received both doses of the vaccine, while another 408.9 million people have been partially vaccinated. When these numbers are seen alongside the country’s projected adult population of 940 million (according to the Census of India’s National Commission on Population), this means that 68.3% of people above the age of 18 years have received vaccine shots – 24.8% are fully vaccinated and another 43.5% partially vaccinated. The proportion of people fully vaccinated is set to cross the 25% mark as early as Wednesday.The headline number on population coverage, however, glosses over the wide variations across different states. Himachal Pradesh leads the country in not only overall coverage, but also the proportion of people fully vaccinated – with the state’s entire adult population vaccinated with at least one dose and nearly half (48.3%) fully vaccinated. Kerala is on the second spot with 92.1% adults having received at least one dose and 40.3% having received both jabs. Uttarakhand (91.1% at least one dose and 38.2% both doses), Gujarat (85.3% and 38.1%, respectively) and Delhi (79.1% and 37.4%) make up the top five states in the country.At the other end of the spectrum, seven large states are currently behind the national average. Uttar Pradesh with the lowest coverage by both doses (13.6%), Bihar (14.5% adults fully vaccinated) and Jharkhand (16.2% fully vaccinated). In terms of coverage of adults with at least one dose, Jharkhand comes at the bottom with 54.3%, followed by West Bengal (55.5%) and Uttar Pradesh (57.7%).With over 225 million doses already administered across the country in the month of September, India has also bettered the monthly jab record set in August. A total of 183.5 million doses were administered across the country in August, translating to a daily average of 5.92 million doses in the month. Since the figures for September are only for 28 days, it translates to an average of nearly 8 million shots a day throughout the month, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.For context to how much the numbers have increased in September (as well as in August to a good degree), the average daily dose administration through July was 4.35 million, while it was 3.98 million in June and only 1.97 million in May.The jump in numbers through September was achieved through a consistent push in daily vaccination numbers through the month. On September 17, to mark Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday, several states increased daily numbers as the country administered a record 25 million doses through the day. Furthermore, daily jabs crossed the 10 million mark on three more days in the month – September 9, September 20 and September 27, according to government data.Meanwhile, as the daily infections continued to drop across the country, the number of active cases in India on Tuesday dropped to 289,077. This is the lowest number of active cases seen in the country in more than half a year – the last time active cases were this low was on March 19, when the second wave was just kicking off. The number of active cases right now is a drop of more than 92% from what was during the peak of the country’s brutal second wave of infections when it touched 3.75 million on May 9. Active cases – those Covid-19 patients still carrying the virus, and thus under treatment – is a crucial metric representing the country’s battle against the disease because it directly reflects the pressure on the health care system in a region. While the pace of the drive has seen progress, data shows that there is still a long way to go if India wants to achieve its stated target of vaccinating its entire adult population of 940 million by the end of 2021. To achieve this, India needs to administer another billion doses in the remaining 94 days of the year, translating to a daily rate of 10.7 million doses a day. While India has done this on several occasions, it has not been able to do so consistently. At its best, the seven-day average of daily doses has touched 9.8 million (for the week ended September 23), while this number has dropped to an average of 7.2 million in the past week. To be sure, it is unlikely that entire adult population will want to be jabbed.Experts stressed that the need for communication drives to tackle vaccine hesitancy is still needed despite improved coverage proportions. “Various studies had shown that around 40% of India’s population was resistant to vaccines in varying degrees, of which around 25% were on the fence, while 15% were properly against receiving jabs. Surveys have shown that after the second wave, a large proportion of the fence-sitters appear to have shifted to acceptance.The government must still focus its communication outreach, because hesitancy can still remain a major challenge to achieve full coverage in a country the size of India,” said epidemiologist and public health expert Dr Chandrakant Lahariya. “With 68% of India’s population having received at least one dose, and a quarter both doses, with the pace of vaccination maintaining a steady rate, we can say that we have reached a phase where India’s programme has achieved an equilibrium between supply and demand,” he said.“Sero-surveys conducted in India in June-July revealed that over 67% of the country’s population carried antibodies against the disease. And the country saw another two-three month period of high transmission of the disease following the survey period... These figures, along with India’s vaccination coverage, mean that on a broad level, it could be assumed that 85% of the country may have some protection against severe disease for the time being,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-milestone-nears-1-in-4-indians-fully-vaccinated-101632852541094.html
29-09-2021||India||Number Theory: Understanding the business of farming in India’s ‘input markets’||What are the issues facing farmers in input markets? Answering this question adequately and accurately will help us understand the cost side of farm finances.On the revenue side, in the first part of this two-part series, HT reported that over a third of India’s farmers do not get expected prices when they sell their crop and the presumed monopsony of APMCs (agriculture produce market committees), something which the new farm laws seek to end, has a very small role in farmers being dissatisfied with prices for their output.The second part of this series will use unit-level data from the latest Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households and Land and Livestock Holdings of Households in Rural India (SAS) to look at the conditions facing farmers in input markets. The challenges facing Indian farmers in input markets are quite different from what they face in output markets. Poor quality of material inputs are hardly a concern for farmers, but what is really a problem is their lack of awareness in using inputs which can help them hedge risks and ensure sustainability.The category SAS uses for this analysis is agricultural households rather than farmers. Agricultural households are defined as households that have at least one member self-employed in agriculture and an output from specified agricultural activities of at least ₹4,000 in the previous 365 days.1. Fertilisers and manure are the most expensive material inputSAS seeks responses on the cost of 17 inputs used in farming. Of these, nine can be described as material inputs, which exclude cost of human and animal labour, interest and rent for land and equipment. On average, human labour has the biggest share in input costs for an agricultural household engaged in cultivation, while fertilisers and manure have the biggest share in material inputs. Share of different inputs varies the most due to lease rent for land, which increases significantly for cultivators with more land. The share of seeds, fertilisers and irrigation in total input costs goes down as the size of the landholding increases. 2. Only 22% of farmers use own seeds for cultivationOne of the biggest changes that commercialisation of agriculture has brought about is the market for seeds. Unlike in the past, when a farmer would use his own seeds for growing crops, the market for seeds is heavily commercialised now. Only 22% of India’s farmers reported using their own seeds for farming. Because data on source of seeds is collected for individual crops, households growing more than one crop were counted as many times as the number of crops they grew. As many as 71.5% of them brought seeds from private sources, including local markets, dealers, private processors, and contract farming sponsors and companies. A small proportion bought them from cooperatives, government agencies or APMCs. Whether or not farmers buy seeds from private players also depends on the crop they are growing. Forty one percent of farmers reported having used their own seeds to grow fruits compared to 31% of pulse farmers, 20% of cereal farmers, and 18% of vegetable farmers. SAS records data on purchase of seeds for four main crops a farmer reports having grown.3. Satisfaction levels for inputs are higher than prices received for cropsOver one-third farmers are dissatisfied with the sale of their crop. That is not the case with the inputs that go into producing the crop. SAS asks an agricultural household the source and quality or adequacy of seeds for each of the four main crops for which output data is collected. For other inputs for which this data are collected, such as fertilisers or diesel, the information is agnostic of the crop for which it was used.Only 0.3% farmers reported quality of their inputs as being poor. This does not vary significantly across states or source of input. Almost three in four farmers reported the quality as good and the rest as satisfactory. To be sure, there are significant differences in perception about thequality of inputs as good or satisfactory by states.4. Risk-hedging is the real input market challengeWhile the Indian farmer does not face a lot of problems in getting quality material inputs for cultivation, it is in risk-hedging – be it through insurance or deploying technological knowledge efficiently – that they face their biggest challenge. More than 90% of India’s farmers – agricultural households growing more than one crop being counted as many times as the crops being produced – do not insure their crops. Of those who do buy insurance, 6.2% insure their crop automatically as part of taking a crop loan. Only 2.4% insure their crop irrespective of whether they are taking a loan or not. Lack of insurance is more prevalent among smaller farmers. Only 62.8% of the large farmers (with more than 10 hectares of land) are not insured, compared to 95.8% of landless or marginal farmers (who own up to one hectare of land). About 97% of farmers growing fruits and 98% of those growing vegetables were not insured in 2018-19. This figure was 89% of pulses and 92% for cereals. Awareness is the major reason for not availing crop insurance, with 55% households reporting this as a reason for not taking insurance. Awareness as a problem decreases as size of land increases.If a household grew two crops (say both 'wheat' and 'paddy'), it was counted twice for insurance figures; Insurace figures weighted avg. of both seasons; Land size from first visit (July-December season)
29-09-2021||India||PM Modi calls for campaign to mitigate impact of climate crisis on farms||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has warned about threats from the climate crisis to the country’s farming community, saying “science, farmers and society” must work closely. He was speaking via videoconference on Monday at an event to launch 35 new crop varieties designed to withstand extreme weather. He also virtually inaugurated a top farm-research institute in Chhattisgarh’s capital Raipur.PM Modi said Indian scientists have developed several technologies to mitigate the impact of the climate crisis on agriculture, including 1,300 seed varieties that could adapt to various situations. He also called for a campaign to shield agriculture from the climate crisis.“Climate change can bring new challenges such as newer pests, new diseases and new epidemics. These can imperil humans, health of livestock and also impact crops,” Modi said.He said the threats posed by the climate crisis could be overcome if “science and society collaborate closely”.The National Institute of Biotic Stress Management, Raipur, which the PM virtually launched, will be a frontline lab to develop solutions for various pest attacks and other sources of biotic stress on crops.According to climate experts, global warming can give rise to newer pests. “Our focus is very high on more nutritious seeds, adapted to new conditions, especially in changing climates. Let this be the start of a new campaign,” the Prime Minister said, referring to the Raipur institute.The 35 crop varieties with “special traits” have been developed by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) to address the “twin challenges of climate change and malnutrition”, according to an official statement.Scientists have developed two varieties of non-genetically modified basmati rice that can withstand the herbicides, technically called Pusa Basmati 1979 and Pusa Basmati 1985.These varieties also don’t need to be grown in nurseries first before being transplanted on to fields, which is how most paddy is grown. Therefore, they can be directly grown in fields, which can help save water. The ICAR has also developed biofortified varieties of wheat, pearl millet, maize and chickpea, quinoa, buckwheat, winged bean and faba bean.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-calls-for-campaign-to-mitigate-climate-change-s-impact-on-farms-101632824458756.html
29-09-2021||India||EC announces bypoll schedule for 3 Lok Sabha, 30 assembly seats||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Tuesday announced bypolls to three Lok Sabha and 30 assembly seats on October 30, saying the schedule was finalised after reviewing the situations related to the pandemic, floods, festivals, cold conditions in certain regions and feedback from local authorities.The Lok Sabha bypolls will be held to one seat each in the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Madhya Pradesh (Khandwa) and Himachal Pradesh (Mandi). Assembly by-elections will be held at one constituency each in Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Mizoram, Maharashtra, Nagaland, and Telangana; two each in Karnataka, Bihar, and Rajasthan; three each in Himachal Pradesh, Meghalaya and Madhya Pradesh; four in West Bengal; and five in Assam.The counting of votes will take place on November 2.The bypolls were earlier deferred in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.The poll watchdog’s guidelines for holding elections during the pandemic will apply to the by-elections on October 30 and mandate limited participation in the campaign and the use of masks, sanitisers, and gloves.“The commission has reviewed the situation related to pandemic, flood, festivals, cold conditions in certain regions, feedback from concerned States/UT and taken into consideration all facts and circumstances and it has decided to hold by-elections to fill vacancies in three parliamentary constituencies of UT of Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh and 30 vacancies in assembly constituencies of various states,” the poll panel said in a statement.Earlier this month, ECI announced bypolls to four assembly seats on September 30 (Thursday).They include West Bengal’s Bhabanipur, where Mamata Banerjee is contesting as she needs to get elected to the state assembly by November to continue as the chief minister of the state.The fresh bypoll schedule was announced on the day the Calcutta high court rejected a public interest litigation against prioritising the Bhabanipur bypoll.Apart from Bhabanipur, by-polls are also being held to Jangipur, Samerganj (West Bengal), and Pipli (Odisha) seats on Thursday.Welcoming the announcement on bypolls to three assembly seats and one Lok Sabha seat in Madhya Pradesh, state Congress chief Kamal Nath tweeted: “Congress is fully prepared for these elections. We will announce our candidates in due course. We have full faith in the people here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ec-announces-by-poll-schedule-for-3-lok-sabha-30-assembly-seats-101632810896627.html
29-09-2021||India||Number Theory: Understanding the business of farming in India||That Indian agriculture has been distress-ridden is an accepted fact in post-reform India. However, this is often discussed more in terms of farmers’ suicides, especially during the last decade, or abysmally low farm incomes. Both underline the crisis in farming, but neither is helpful in framing a forward-looking approach.If farm incomes have to improve in India, it is important to understand the business of farming. This entails a holistic look at the entire process, from the farmer buying inputs for cultivation to selling his produce. Any such analysis requires information on farm balance sheets.The latest Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households and Land and Livestock Holdings of Households in Rural India (SAS) released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) gives this information from July 2018 to June 2019. SAS is the most comprehensive document on farm incomes in India.This two-part series by Hindustan Times will look at the business of farming using an analysis of unit-level data from SAS. The first part looks at conditions in output markets for farmers. The second part looks at what farmers feel about input markets.One-third of Indian farmers are not happy with the prices they receiveAlmost 40% of India’s retail inflation basket comprises of food items. In the past, food price inflation has been associated with political turmoil in the country and even led to governments losing power. HT’s analysis of SAS data shows that things might have changed dramatically on this front. Every third farmer in India is unhappy with the prices he receives on selling his crop.To be sure, the category SAS uses for this analysis is agricultural households rather than farmers. Agricultural households are defined as households that have at least one member self-employed in agriculture and produced output from specified agricultural activities worth at least ₹4,000 in the previous 365 days. Because data on sale satisfaction is collected for individual crops, households growing more than one crop were counted as many times as the number of crops they grew.Widespread disappointment with prices received by farmers, when read with the constant state of policy paranoia about higher food prices, underlines the basic fault line in Indian agriculture. Dissatisfaction with prices is greater when it comes to horticultural (fruits and vegetables) crops, which are now a bigger part of India’s agricultural production basket than cereals. Inflation data clearly shows fruit and vegetable prices are far more volatile than cereal prices.Will the recent farm reforms help farmers receive better prices?Of the three farm laws the union government brought in 2020, one was targeted at eradicating the purported monopsony – a situation when there is one buyer in the market – of Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs) vis-à-vis farmers. Supporters of these laws have been arguing that the new regime will help farmers receive better prices by selling their products in the open market rather than the APMCs, which it is claimed are dominated by vested interests. SAS data does not support such a claim.APMCs have nothing close to a monopsony as far as the market for agricultural output is concerned. SAS data shows that only 5.4% of farmers sold their output to APMCs and an overwhelming 77.5% sold their produce in local private markets.While dissatisfaction levels vis-à-vis prices are slightly higher in APMCs compared to what they are local private markets, the latter account for a significantly larger share of farmers who were not satisfied with the prices they received.The SAS numbers also underline the promise of promoting cooperatives in farming. The avenue which gives farmers the highest satisfaction is farmer producer organizations (FPOs). It is noteworthy that selling to contract farming sponsors or companies directly – this is often offered as a panacea for low farm incomes in the country – does not offer significant improvements in satisfaction of sale. Here, however, the main cause of dissatisfaction is delayed payments.The limits and strength of ongoing farm protestsThe ongoing farmers’ protests against the three farm laws have displayed a unique characteristic. While they have proved to be remarkably resilient in the green revolution belt of Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, they have, at least until now, failed to have similar impact elsewhere. What explains this dichotomy?The region where farmers’ protests have had the biggest traction, such as Punjab and Haryana, is also where APMCs have a larger share in sale of farm output. Also, farmers with larger landholdings sell a bigger share of their output in APMCs. Average landholding size is much bigger in states such as Punjab and Haryana than the rest of country.While the absence of procurement via APMCs could explain low support for farmers’ agitation in large parts of the country, what has helped the cause of protesting farmers are their arguments around the reforms tilting the scales in favour of large capital vis-à-vis farmers. The SAS data shows that large farmers were hardly better-off when it came to satisfaction over prices received in the markets.Perhaps the political reception towards farm laws would have been very different had the government focused reforms around forming FPOs – they provide maximum satisfaction to farmers – which was part of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s 2019 election manifesto, rather than selling the corporate sector as the harbinger of prosperity in Indian agriculture.(This is the first of a two-part series on the business of farming in India. The second part looks at input markets facing farmers.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/understanding-the-business-of-farming-in-india-101632761567190.html
