30-09-2021||India||TMC’s Faleiro closes the door on pre-poll pacts in Goa, leaves one window open||PANAJI: The Trinamool Congress (TMC) will not get into a pre-poll alliance with any party in Goa and intends to field 40 new faces in next year’s Goa assembly elections, the party’s freshly-minted leader Luizinho Faleiro said on Thursday but appeared reluctant to shut the door on inducting “credible faces” from other parties who may want to shift.Addressing a Press conference after his return from Kolkata where he was welcomed into the party, Faleiro said while the TMC would “like to change the culture of ‘Aaya Ram, Gaya Ram’, the party was looking at “credible leaders”.The TMC leader also ruled out alliances with like-minded parties: “We will go ahead all alone in all constituencies”.“Right now as far as TMC is concerned we would like to give 40 clean, new faces and if there are good people, credible leaders, we would like to have them because ultimately the aim and objective is to serve the people and serve the state,” Faleiro said.“We will... see that we get the best candidates from the grassroots after consulting the people. Trinamool is a movement and that movement has got an appeal because people in Goa are fed up with the BJP. They want a change, so we would like to give them a change,” he added, responding to a question if the party was open to inducting BJP legislators who won on Congress tickets in the 2017 assembly elections.There has been speculation in Goa that several MLAs who switched over to the BJP from the Congress who did not expect to get a party ticket will be open to joining a new party. The Congress has already declared that they are not welcome.The party, he said, would go out across the 40 constituencies in Goa with the help of the Indian Political Action Committee (IPAC) which has started conducting surveys across Goa to gauge the mood and aspirations of the people. Asked why he was relying on the IPAC since he often claimed to be responsible for the past successes of the Congress in the state, Faleiro said,”Elections today is a science and they are experts in it”.On his switch from the Congress to the TMC, Faleiro said he was in touch with IPAC founder. “It was a difficult decision to take, but a decision I had to take in the interest of Goa because this is the only way to go forward,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmcs-faleiro-closes-the-door-on-pre-poll-pacts-in-goa-leaves-one-window-open-101633026391351.html
30-09-2021||India||In Assam, ULFA-I continues recruitment despite ‘ceasefire’, 7 on way to Myanmar held||Despite a unilateral ceasefire, banned United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I) is continuing to recruit young men in Assam, the Indian army claimed on Thursday after a recruitment module was busted and seven young men on their way to Myanmar were nabbed. Based on specific inputs that the terrorist outfit was conducting recruitment, a joint team of police and Joypur battalion of Red Shield division of Spear Corps of the India Army apprehended the seven young men on Wednesday at Namtola in Charaideo district. According to an army release, they were on their way to Myanmar to get training in ULFA-I camps located in the neighbouring country. A pistol and some ammunition were recovered from the youths. “The group included a cadre who had earlier surrendered in 2016 and one who had already tried to join the banned outfit couple of years back…The operation breaks the myth of unilateral ceasefire announced by ULFA-I,” the release said. All the arrested young men have been handed over to Assam Police and they have confessed to having been recruited by ULFA-I handlers, the release said. Since May this year, when the second Bharatiya Janata Party-led government assumed office in Assam, there have been speculations that ULFA-I could join peace talks with the Centre. The outfit, has, however, maintained that the issue of Assam’s sovereignty should be part of talks---a pre-condition, which has been ruled out by the Centre as well as the state government. Citing the Covid-19 pandemic, the outfit declared a unilateral ceasefire in May for three months. It was extended by another three months in August. This year, for the first time since its inception in 1979, ULFA-I didn’t boycott the Independence Day celebrations or called for a ‘bandh’ to mark the occasion. “Our organization is not against talks or belligerent. But it is not possible to deny historic facts or waver from our ideological goals in the name of talks. Indian authorities have maintained that talks with ULFA-I can’t include the question of (Assam’s) sovereignty,” ULFA-I said in a statement released in August. Earlier this month the outfit carried out “structural change” in the organization by creating three new councils with commander-in-chief Paresh Baruah heading the supreme council. No changes were made in the military wing of the outfit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-assam-ulfa-i-continues-recruitment-despite-ceasefire-7-on-way-to-myanmar-held-101633026091602.html
30-09-2021||India||Unprecedented standoff at LAC needed quick response: Naravane||Developments along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh added to challenges faced by the Indian military on the “active and disputed borders” in the western and eastern fronts, army chief, Gen MM Naravane, said on Thursday. The “unprecedented” military standoff with China required an immediate response and large-scale mobilisation of resources at a time when the country was grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic, he said, while addressing the annual session of the PHD Chamber Of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI). Naravane, who spoke on the theme “Resilient India”, outlined the role played by the military in countering the pandemic and the current focus on indigenisation in acquiring advanced hardware and weaponry. He called for doing away with the “L1 system” of awarding defence contracts to the lowest bidder to ensure India gets access to advanced technology. Without naming China, Naravane highlighted the challenges posed by the standoff on the LAC, which began in May last year and resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers and four Chinese troops during a clash at Galwan Valley, the first such fatalities since 1975. “Developments along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh added to the ongoing legacy challenges on our active and disputed borders on the western and eastern front. The unprecedented developments necessitated large-scale resource mobilisation, orchestration of forces and immediate response, all this in a Covid-infested environment,” he said. This was done as the military reinforced the government’s efforts in tackling the health crisis. “Because of our peculiar environment of contested borders and an ongoing proxy war in the hinterland, the Indian Army is in active operations throughout the year, safeguarding the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our nation,” he said. The pandemic was a “unique and unprecedented” challenge and the air force carried out massive evacuation operations for citizens stranded in countries such as China, Iran and Kuwait while ferrying tonnes of medical supplies. The navy launched Operation Samudra Setu to transport food and medical supplies while evacuating thousands of stranded Indians from neighbouring countries. Rapid response medical teams were deployed to several countries. Under Operation Namaste, the army established a large number of hospitals across the country. Nineteen exclusively Covid-19 hospitals and military hospitals were opened to all, and testing labs of the armed forces accounted for an increased load by working round the clock. The military also set up quarantine facilities at Manesar, Mumbai, Chennai, Bhopal, Hyderabad and other cities. During the second wave of infections, air and naval assets airlifted oxygen cylinders, generators and concentrators, cryogenic containers and medical supplies from countries such as Australia, Germany, the UK, the UAE and Israel. Special military trains were used to send medical resources to hotspots and army technicians repaired dysfunctional oxygen plants in government and private hospitals, Naravane said. Pointing to the mantra “reform or perish”, Naravane said the pandemic led to transformational changes across the world. “Disrupted supply chains, unreasonable price escalation and opportunistic resource denials by some greedy nations have reinforced the vision of Atmanirbharta (self reliance),” he said. “The danger that our long-drawn procurement processes and bureaucratic speed-breakers would prevent us from acquiring cutting edge technology is a real one. Much work has been done in bringing about systemic changes with the aim of ease of doing business...There are still archaic rules and processes that defy logic and are at variance to modern best practices,” he added. Naravane said processes in the defence industrial sector that “are out of sync with contemporary times and our future vision must be ruthlessly shed for modern best-practices”. He added, “The L1 system is one such legacy of the colonial era that has lost its relevance in a system that is pushing for indigenisation. After all, why should merely price dictate our choice, when the money is destined to be pumped back into the domestic economy? It’s time we looked at quality and transited to a T1 system, more in tune with our capability development aspirations.” L1 refers to the lowest price and T1, the best technical specification. As part of efforts to promote domestic industry, the army has awarded contracts worth more than Rs16,000 crore to Indian firms in recent months. At the same time, development and prosperity are closely linked to security, and a safe environment is a must for investments to flow in, he said. The emergency powers under DFPDS-2020 (delegation of financial powers to defence services) invoked in June last year and extended till August resulted in 113 contracts for procuring critical ammunition, armament, vehicles, spares and special mountaineering equipment worth almost ₹9,000 crore. Another 68 contracts for capital procurement worth ₹6,500 crore were inked, and savings of about ₹1,700 crore were made due to diligence and financial prudence of the emergency empowered committee at the service headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unprecedented-standoff-at-lac-needed-quick-response-naravane-101633025132503.html
30-09-2021||India||Kanpur realtor had injuries on skull, limbs: Post-mortem report||Kanpur-based realtor Manish Gupta, who died under mysterious circumstances during a police raid at a city hotel earlier this week, sustained severe injuries on several parts of his body, including the skull, a postmortem examination report has showed. The report also mentioned other injuries suffered by the 36-year-old, such as those on his eye, limbs and back.The businessman suffered “swelling of 4×5 cm in the middle of forehead, cut and hematoma (blood clot) in the upper eyelid of the right eye” and showed “marks of deep muscles injury on right arm above elbow and on right forearm”, the report, reviewed by HT, said.The revelations came even as Gorakhpur senior superintendent of police Vipin Tada maintained that the businessman died due to a head injury after he slipped amid the chaos that ensued following the raid at a city hotel on Monday.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, meanwhile, met the family of the deceased at Kanpur’s civil lines and assured a fair probe into the incident. “All those found guilty will not be allowed to go unpunished,” he said.Gupta was staying in the hotel with two friends from Gurugram when the incident took place. Family members of the deceased alleged that he was brutally thrashed by the police during the checking. Following nationwide outrage, six cops were suspended and a case of murder (Section 302 of Indian Penal Code) was registered against them. Efforts are now underway to nab the accused cops who went missing after the incident.Additional director general of police (Gorakhpur) Akhil Kumar, who inspected the hotel, said the probe was handed over to the crime branch in Gorakhpur. “The place of the incident has been inspected. The investigation has been handed over to the crime branch, Gorakhpur, and instructions have been given for a speedy probe. The team will be strengthened and more investigators will be involved. Each and every point will be investigated as to how and why the raid occurred and how many policemen were involved,” he said.Asked about the postmortem exam report, he said: “The statement of the doctors who performed the postmortem exam will also be taken (into consideration) to know the details of injuries and to know in what situation the injuries occurred.”Adityanath has promised a government job to the businessman’s wife, Meenakshi Gupta.“The chief minister has accepted all our demands and we are satisfied with the meeting,” Meenakshi said. She added that the chief minister had asked her to submit an application for an inquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation and also “accepted my plea for a government job as well as financial security for my five-year-old son’s future”.After days of refusal, the family finally cremated the body at 5am on Thursday. The body was taken to Bhairon Ghat and final rites were conducted amid the presence of police and a few close relatives. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav, who rushed to the home of the businessman, demanded a CBI probe under the supervision of a sitting high court judge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanpur-businessman-had-injuries-on-skull-limbs-post-mortem-report-101633025073370.html
30-09-2021||India||VHP demands Bhagavad Gita to be declared as India’s national book||The Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) on Thursday demanded that the Hindu sacred text Bhagavad Gita be declared as India’s national book. The VHP said the book should be made compulsory across all levels of education in the country as the induction of the book in the education system will help the nation stop the ‘erosion of values.’“Bhagavad Gita can protect the social, cultural and spiritual values of our country, end divisions in our society and make India much more stronger. We demand the Bhagavad Gita be declared the national book of India,” the VHP said. It also said that a memorandum will be submitted to PM Modi, President Ram Nath Kovind and Union minister for education Dharmendra Pradhan.“It is because of our faulty education system. We demand that the government must make teaching-learning of Shrimad Bhagavad Gita compulsory across all levels of education to stop the erosion of values. It should be made part of the curriculum,” VHP national secretary Acharya Radha Krishna Manodi was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.It also said that government institutions should organise periodic reading of the scripture to instill a strong sense of duty among bureaucrats fortnightly because it claims that there has been a ‘a continuous collapse of ethical values’. Manodi said that teachers from the minority communities should also be brought under the ambit of teaching-learning of Bhagavad Gita.“The study of the Bhagavad Gita should be made compulsory for all those undergoing teachers’ education and training. Education on the Bhagavad Gita should be made compulsory for all the teachers in India including those belonging to Muslim and Christian communities,” he said.Manodi, who heads the Vishva Gita Sansthan of the VHP, further said that all the 18 chapters should be made part of the teachers’ training curriculum. He also said that Bhagavad Gita can protect the social, cultural and spiritual values by ending division in the society and help India become stronger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vhp-demands-bhagavad-gita-to-be-declared-as-india-s-national-book-101633024652863.html
30-09-2021||India||Odisha bans sale and use of firecrackers in October, cites Covid-19 spread||Claiming to protect the health of the people of the state and to curb the spread of the viral infection, the Odisha government on Thursday announced a ban on sale and use of firecrackers during October.Special Relief Commissioner Pradeep Jena said the decision was taken to protect the health of the people and prevent the spread of infection. As ‘Ravan Podi’ is celebrated on the 10th day of Durga Puja, the state government ban on the sale and use of firecrackers is likely to result in its cancellation.Last year, the Odisha government had ordered a ban on sale and bursting of firecrackers during Diwali.The Rajasthan government on Thursday banned the bursting and sale of crackers in the state from October 1 to January 31 next year. On Wednesday, the Delhi Pollution Control Committee ordered a complete ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers in the national capital till January 1 next year.Last year, the National Green Tribunal had ordered a ban on firecrackers in Delhi during Diwali. It cited the hazardously poor air quality of the city while drawing a link between pollution and a possible Covid-19 surge.Odisha also revised night curfew timings for the twin cities of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack for 10 days in the month of October. The timing for the night curfew in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack from October 11 to 20 will be from 8 pm to 5 am.The decision to ban firecrackers in October met with derision on social media with several on Twitter asking if the government would provide any financial support to the firecracker sellers? “What about liquor and crackers during other festivals and functions,” asked one while another remarked: “Stupidity at its best...Not allowing a source of income for many during these tough times…”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-bans-sale-and-use-of-firecrackers-in-october-cites-covid-19-spread-101633024892968.html
30-09-2021||India||What Amarinder Singh said on leaving Congress, on Navjot Sidhu and Charanjit Channi | 5 points||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday announced that he would be leaving the Congress as he won't be able to put up with the insult. In an exclusive interview with the NDTV and then at an address after he reached Punjab from New Delhi, the Captain spoke on several issues.On Congress-BJPFor the first time after resigning from the post of Punjab chief minister, Amarinder Singh said he will be leaving the party, but not join the BJP. He kept his future political plans secret. He also cited an internal survey done by the Congress and said the Congress is declining in Punjab. Condemning the protest outside Kapil Sibal's house for speaking out against the functioning of the party, Amarinder Singh said the party should not sideline the older generation who are actual thinkers, but the party is doing this which is not yielding any good result. Amarinder Singh removes Congress from Twitter bio, all eyes on Captain's next moveOn Sidhu-Channi equationAmarinder Singh said he thinks Sidhu is undermining Channi's authority. "Sidhu's job is to run party affairs and Channi's job is to run the government. There is never any interference. I have been the PCC chief thrice. The two (the Pradesh Congress Committee chief and the chief minister) consult each other, but the final decision is of Channi, who is the chief minister, not Sidhu," he said.Won’t quit Cong, says Amarinder Singh’s wife Preneet Kaur. There is fine printOn Navjot Singh Sidhu"I have already said that Sidhu is not the right man for Punjab. And from wherever he contests, I will not let him win," Amarinder Singh said adding that the kind of situation Sidhu created was never seen before in Punjab.On meeting with Doval"There are issues related to security, which I raised. For the last four years, I have been seeing what is happening in Punjab. Drones are coming (from across the border) on a daily basis. There are those which are intercepted, but there may be others which one does not know where they are going...all these issues are related to national security," Amarinder Singh said on his meeting with national security advisor Ajit DovalOn Charanjit Singh ChanniThe Captain expressed confidence in Channi who has been a minister in Amarinder Singh's Cabinet. “Channi can do a good job but that fellow (Sidhu) needs to allow him to do his work,” Amarinder Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-amarinder-singh-said-on-leaving-congress-on-navjot-sidhu-and-charanjit-channi-5-points-101633022958156.html
30-09-2021||India||‘Provocative’: India pins blame on China for increased troops, armaments on LAC||NEW DELHI: India on Thursday blamed China’s deployment of a large number of troops and armaments for tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and said it expected the Chinese side to work towards the early resolution of outstanding issues in Ladakh sector. The Indian side has only made counter deployments in response to China’s “provocative behaviour and unilateral attempts to alter status quo” on the LAC and to fully protect the country’s security interests, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said. Bagchi was responding to allegations by Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying on Wednesday that the Indian side was pursuing a “forward policy” and had “illegally crossed the LAC to encroach on China’s territory”. “It was the amassing of large number of troops by the Chinese side, their provocative behaviour and unilateral attempts to alter status quo in contravention of all our bilateral agreements that resulted in serious disturbance of peace and tranquillity along the LAC in eastern Ladakh,” he said. “China continues to deploy large number of troops and armaments in the border areas,” he added. India has already made its position clear and rejected statements from the Chinese side which “have no basis in facts”, Bagchi said. “It was in response to Chinese actions that our armed forces had to make appropriate counter deployments in these areas to ensure that India’s security interests are fully protected,” he said. Bagchi recalled external affairs minister S Jaishankar had told his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi during their meeting in Dushanbe on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation summit earlier this month that the Indian side expects China “will work towards early resolution of the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols”. During a regular news briefing in Beijing on Wednesday, spokesperson Hua Chunying responded to a question regarding the Indian Army deploying sophisticated artillery on the LAC by blaming New Delhi for the military standoff. “The Indian side has long pursued the ‘forward policy’ and illegally crossed the LAC to encroach on China’s territory, which is the root cause of tension in the China-India border situation,” she said. “China opposes any arms race in the disputed border areas for the purpose of competition over control,” she added.On Friday last, India blamed China’s “provocative behaviour” and unilateral attempts to alter status quo on the LAC for disrupting bilateral ties and rejected Beijing’s contention that the Indian side was responsible for the deadly Galwan Valley clash last year. The brutal clash in Galwan Valley on June 15 last year, which saw troops from both sides fighting each other for several hours with rocks, rods and clubs covered with barbed wire, resulted in the first fatalities on the LAC in 45 years. The Indian side lost 20 soldiers while China has acknowledged four deaths. The two sides withdrew frontline troops from the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February and from Gogra in August after several rounds of diplomatic and military talks. India has insisted bilateral ties can be normalised only when disengagement and de-escalation is completed at other friction points on the LAC such as Hot Spring and Depsang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/provocative-india-pins-blame-on-china-for-increased-troops-armaments-on-lac-101633023030974.html
30-09-2021||India||Govt extends motor vehicles documents validity till October 31||In some relief to commuters, the union government on Thursday extended the validity of motor vehicle documents including driving licence, registration certificate, permits and other documents till October 31 this year in view of the ongoing coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. The ministry of road transport and highways has asked enforcement authorities to treat any such documents that has expired since February 2020 or will expire in the coming month as valid till October 31."Taking into consideration the grim situation still continuing due to condition for prevention of Covid-19 across the country, it is advised that the validity of all above referred documents whose extension of validity could not, or was not likely to be, granted due to lockdown and which has expired since February 1, 2020 or would expire by October 31, 2021, the same may be treated as valid till October 31,2021," the road transport ministry said in a letter to all states and union territories.List of documents whose validity has been extended till October 31:This will help citizens in availing transport related services who were facing difficulties in renewing their documents, while ensuring Covid-19 protocols, the ministry said.All states and union territories are required to implement this advisory, effective now, so that no citizen, transporter or any other organisation operating amid these testing times faces difficulties.Validity of motor vehicle documents have been extended several times since March last year by the government, including June 9, August 24 and December 27, 2020; March 26 and June 17, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-extends-motor-vehicles-documents-validity-till-october-31-101633021903081.html
30-09-2021||India||India blames China’s deployment of large number of troops for tensions on LAC||India on Thursday blamed China’s deployment of a large number of troops and armaments for tensions along the Line of Actual Control and said it expected the Chinese side to work towards the early resolution of outstanding issues in Ladakh sector. The Indian side has only made counter deployments in response to China’s “provocative behaviour and unilateral attempts to alter status quo” on the LAC and to fully protect the country’s security interests, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said. Bagchi was responding to allegations by Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying on Wednesday that the Indian side was pursuing a “forward policy” and had “illegally crossed the LAC to encroach on China’s territory”. “It was the amassing of large number of troops by the Chinese side, their provocative behaviour and unilateral attempts to alter status quo in contravention of all our bilateral agreements that resulted in serious disturbance of peace and tranquillity along the LAC in eastern Ladakh,” he said. “China continues to deploy large number of troops and armaments in the border areas,” he added. India has already made its position clear and rejected statements from the Chinese side which “have no basis in facts”, Bagchi said. “It was in response to Chinese actions that our armed forces had to make appropriate counter deployments in these areas to ensure that India’s security interests are fully protected,” he said. Bagchi recalled external affairs minister S Jaishankar had told his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi during their meeting in Dushanbe on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation summit earlier this month that the Indian side expects China “will work towards early resolution of the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh while fully abiding by bilateral agreements and protocols”. During a regular news briefing in Beijing on Wednesday, spokesperson Hua had responded to a question regarding the Indian Army deploying sophisticated artillery on the LAC by blaming the New Delhi for the military standoff. “The Indian side has long pursued the ‘forward policy’ and illegally crossed the LAC to encroach on China’s territory, which is the root cause of tension in the China-India border situation,” she said. “China opposes any arms race in the disputed border areas for the purpose of competition over control. We have always been firm in safeguarding national territorial sovereignty and security, and committed to peace and stability in the China-India border areas,” she added. On Friday, India had blamed China’s “provocative behaviour” and unilateral attempts to alter status quo on the LAC for disrupting bilateral ties and rejected Beijing’s contention that the Indian side was responsible for the deadly Galwan Valley clash last year. The brutal clash in Galwan Valley on June 15 last year, which saw troops from both sides fighting each other for several hours with rocks, rods and clubs covered with barbed wire, resulted in the first fatalities on the LAC in 45 years. The Indian side lost 20 soldiers while China has acknowledged four deaths. The two sides withdrew frontline troops from the north and south banks of Pangong Lake in February and from Gogra in August after several rounds of diplomatic and military talks. India has insisted bilateral ties can be normalised only when disengagement and de-escalation is completed at other friction points on the LAC such as Hot Spring and Depsang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-blames-china-s-deployment-of-large-number-of-troops-for-tensions-on-lac-101633022671077.html
30-09-2021||India||Plan underway by encroachers to alter power equations by 2050, alleges Assam CM||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Thursday claimed that a blueprint is being implemented by encroachers to alter power equations in the state by 2050 through demographic means. Without naming any particular community, Sarma said that these illegal settlers claim to be affected by disasters and move from one area to another with a specific agenda. The CM’s comments come a week after two civilians were killed and 20 others including 11 policemen were injured during an eviction drive in Darrang district. “I’m not naming any particular community. We shouldn’t say it’s being done by followers of Islam as indigenous Assamese Muslims are not part of this. The collective aim of these people (encroachers) is to completely alter the power equation in Assam by 2050,” Sarma told journalists in Dhemaji. The state’s BJP-led government has started evicting settlers who have encroached government land. Most of those targeted in these drives held at Sonitpur, Hojai and Darrang districts are Bengali speaking Muslims with roots in East Pakistan (present Bangladesh). Sarma said that the encroachers claim to be displaced from their place of origin citing some disaster and move to another place and settle illegally there as part of a plan. “That’s why they use terms like ‘landless’, ‘flood affected’ etc. By claiming to be flood-hit, they move from Barpeta to another place. If you inquire, you will find that several of these so-called displaced people own hundreds of ‘bighas’ of land. But if you ask them about it, they will remain silent,” he said Sarma said that encroachers were able to achieve their goal in Batadroba seat in this election. The assembly, which was represented by BJP’s Angoorlata Deka in 2016, was won by Congress’s Sibamoni Bora with support of the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) and other parties in the opposition grand alliance. “This is a blueprint made by them to encroach and control one assembly constituency at a time. As per intelligence input available with me, right now these people want to have Sipajhar, Borsola and Lumding seats in their sight,” the CM alleged. “They want to change the demography of these three seats by the next election, which is in 2026. If we are able to prevent them from achieving that goal, it will be a big deal for us,” added Sarma. Reacting to the claims, opposition All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), a party that has a large base among Bengali speaking Muslims in Assam, said the CM’s statements were sensitive and communal. “These are very communal and sensitive comments. Sarma needs to understand that people who get displaced by floods and other calamities are forced to move and settle in other places out of necessity. By saying that its part of a grand plan, the CM is just following Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s views,” said AIUDF organising secretary Md. Aminul Islam. “Sarma is making these comments now since by-polls to five assembly seats are due next month and he wants to incite voters. He had made similar allegations prior to this year’s assembly polls held in March-April. It is unfortunate that the CM himself is spreading such conspiracy theories and hatred for Muslims,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plan-underway-by-encroachers-to-alter-power-equations-by-2050-alleges-assam-cm-101633019674060.html
30-09-2021||India||Number Theory: The class divide among Other Backward Classes in India||The demand for a caste census is likely to emerge as a major political issue in the run up to the 2024 elections. After the union government filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court saying a caste census cannot be clubbed with the already delayed 2021 decadal census, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) has written letters to 33 leaders of different political parties demanding support for an immediate caste census.The demand for a caste census is not without context. It is linked with a demand for doing away with the Supreme Court imposed 50% limit on reservations. To be sure, this limit has already been breached after the implementation of reservations for economically weaker sections among communities which were hitherto excluded from availing reservations. The demand for doing away with the 50% limit on reservations is mainly coming from Other Backward Class (OBC) leaders who argue that their share in population is far more than the designated 27% quota for OBCs.OBCs, as of now, are entitled to reservations not just on a caste-basis -- unlike the case for Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) population -- but also a class criterion. This makes it imperative that any census to justify the demand for expanding the reservation quota also looks at the economic status of OBCs.Findings of the latest All India Debt and Investment Survey (AIDIS) are useful in answering this question. AIDIS was conducted in 2019 and is the most comprehensive official source of assets and liabilities of Indian households. It gives data on assets and liabilities as of June 30, 2018. Here are four charts which summarise what AIDIS tells us about the economic status of OBCs in India.How representative is the AIDIS in measuring household wealth?Some National Sample Survey (NSSO) databases tend to undercount the rich in India. Is that the case with AIDIS as well? According to AIDIS, average assets of the top 10% of households in rural and urban areas were ₹81.2 lakh and ₹1.5 crore. The richest household in AIDIS had assets of ₹72.3 crore in rural areas and ₹114.8 crore in urban areas. This suggests that while AIDIS excludes the really super-rich in the country, it does cover a significant section of the rich.What about average assets by social groups?AIDIS allows us to separate households into four broad social groups: SC, ST, OBC and others. A look at average asset holdings of each social group underlines the role of caste in economic inequality. Average asset levels of households that do not belong to SC, ST or OBC groups are significantly higher, not just vis-à-vis the SC-ST population but also OBCs.But all groups display high levels of intra-group inequality in IndiaWhile average asset levels do show a relation with social groups, there are large intra-group economic inequalities as well. This is best seen in the fact that the Gini coefficient for asset distribution in each of the social groups is quite high; 0.62 for SCs, 0.64 for OBCs, 0.67 for STs and 0.69 for others. The Gini coefficient can take values between 0 and 1, where 0 denotes perfect equality and 1 perfect inequality.Another way to describe intra-group inequality within social groups can be to compare the assets owned by the top ten percent compared to bottom 50% within each group. The top 10 percent of OBCs own 5.51 times the total assets owned by the bottom 50% of OBC households. This number is 4.45 for SC households, 5.90 for STs, and 7.97 for those who don’t belong to SC-ST-OBC groups.This also means the OBCs are not underrepresented within the richThe most common rhetoric while arguing for doing away with the 50% limit on reservation to accommodate more OBCs is that they are among the poorest in India. An analysis of AIDIS data shows that this is at best a half-truth. Because OBCs are the single largest social group in India, even a low share among the rich is consistent with as many OBCs in these ranks as other social groups, especially those who do not belong to SC-ST-OBC groups. An HT analysis of unit level data from AIDIS shows that OBCs had the largest share among households in each decile class except the top 10%, where households outside the SC-ST-OBC groups account for almost half the total share. The overall share of OBC and non SC-ST-OBC households in AIDIS is 43.5% and 27.2%. Simply speaking, OBCs dominate the ranks of both the rich and poor.OBCs are the single largest population group but they are far from a homogenous cohort, both socially and economically. The union government recognises 2,479 OBC sub-castes in its list as of 2018, according to the social justice ministry’s website. In 2017 the current government set up the Justice Rohini commission to sub-stratify reservation for OBCs on the grounds that certain sub-castes had gained disproportionately from the policy. Because there is no data on sub-caste population, leave alone socio-economic aspects of OBCs, whether or not the economic inequalities between OBCs are a function of sub-caste is difficult to answer.AIDIS numbers cited above underline the problems with any argument selling reservation as a silver bullet to the socio-economic deprivation of OBCs in India. Reservations only offer an edge in competing for government jobs, which are on a declining trajectory from an already small base in India.Given intra-group inequalities within OBCs, the relatively well-off are more likely to gain from such opportunities. Any efforts to tilt the scales in favour of the underprivileged OBCs is likely to run into resistance from the Mandal era parties, where the dominant OBCs are in leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-class-divide-among-other-backward-classes-in-india-101633018770205.html
30-09-2021||India||HT This Day: October 2, 1953 — New era for Andhras begins||Andhra State-India’s first linguistic State-was inaugurated by Mr Nehru this morning. The inauguration marks the fulfillment of the desire of 20 million Telugu-speaking -people of Madras State to have a State of their own.Mr Nehru declared that the new State had been established lawfully and by constitutional methods to fulfil the long-cherished dream of Andhras. It was now the duty of the people of Andhra Desh to build up their State in the best possible manner. Andhra will have a five-man Cabinet headed by Mr Prakasam. Mr N. Sanjeeva Reddy, leader of the Andhra Congress Legislature Party, will be the Deputy Chief Minister. The other Ministers are Mr K. Koti Reddi, Mr T. Viswanatham and Mr D. Sanjivayya.The Ministry was sworn in at Raj Bhavan today by the Governor, Mr C. M. Trivedi. Earlier, at an impressive ceremony at the Andhra Assembly Chamber, Mr Trivedi was sworn in as Governor by the Chief Justice, Mr Rajamannar. The following communique was issued from Raj Bhavan: The Governor received Mr T. Prakasam and invited him to form a Ministry. Mr Prakasam accepted the invitation and the Governor has appointed him to be Chief Minister. On the advice of Mr Prakasam, the Governor has appointed the following gentlemen to be Ministers: Mr N. Sanjeeva Reddy. Mr Koti Reddi. Mr T. Viswanatham and Mr D. Sanjivayya. It is proposed to appoint two more Ministers in the near future.On the advice of the Chief Minister, the Governor has designated Mr Sanjeeva Reddy as Deputy Chief Minister.The city wore carnival appearance and from early hours people were seen making for Cole’s Memorial playground to see Mr Nehru inaugurate the new State. Over 100,000 people braved the heat to listen to Mr Nehru’s speech. After the swearing in ceremony of Ministers Mr Nehru drove in an open car through the decorated streets where scores of arches bore affectionate greetings to him in Telugu. With him in the car were the Trivedis. They arrived at 8-45 at the playground. Mr Nehru was received by the Chief Minister of Andhra who introduced other Ministers. Dr Radhakrishnan, Vice-President, Dr Katju, Mr V. V. Giri, Mr K. C. Reddy, Union Ministers, Mr Rajagopalachari, Mr Hanumenthayya and Mr B. Ramakrishna Rao. Chief Ministers of Madras, Mysore and Hyderabad, respectively, were seated on the platform from which Mr Nebru addressed the gathering. Mr Prakasam, who was back in power today after an interval of six years, was loudly cheered, as he slowly mounted the rostrum. The historic function began with an invocation song in Telugu by Miss T Suryakumari. The Chief Justice next presented to the vast gathering Mr Trivedi, whom, he said, “the President of India had been pleased to appoint as Governor of Andhra and who was sworn in by me.”Mr Trivedi next read out a message from the President. The Governor announced the personnel of the Cabinet and presented Mr Prakasam, Mr Sanjeeva Reddy and other Ministers to the gathering. Mr Prakasam translated the President’s message in Telugu and then requested the Prime Minister to inaugurate the State.NEHRU’S SPEECH In his inaugural speech Mr Nehru said that the progress of Andhra and of India were inter-twined and the one could not develop without the other.He asked Andhras not to think in terms of their State alone but of the country as a whole. “You should dedicate yourselves to the service of the country and your new State,” he declared. Over 100,000 of people cheered the Prime Minister repeatedly. Mr Nehru spoke in Hindustani which is widely understood in these parts “We are gathered here on an auspicious occasion which marks the birth of the new State of Andhra,” Mr Nehru said. “To you, Andhras, who also belong to India. I have come here to offer my good wishes. NO CONTROVERSY Mr Nehru said that for a long time there had been a controversy over the method of formation of an Andhra State and no decision could be arrived at. But all the while the people of Andhra had been dreaming for a State of their own. Today that dream had become a reality. Therefore, today was an auspicious day and a day of historic significance for the whole of Andhradesh. He recalled the prolonged debate on the Andhra State Bill in Parliament and said that the new State had been formed by law and by constitutional methods. Now that their dream had become a reality, it was the bounden duty of the people of Andhra not to get excited but to build up the new State in the best possible manner.Nehru recounted the glorious heritage of Andhras and their historic role as empire builders. The country had seen the rise and fall of several empires. In Andhradesa, great empires were built up and ruined. Andhra State was today being formed under different conditions and in a new shape and a new way. ‘Do not forget that Andhra State is a part and parcel of the mother country,” he told Andhras. GREAT NEIGHROURS The Prime Minister said there were big territories beyond the borders of Andhra like Madras, Mysore and Orissa. Further north, there were the States of Bengal, Bombay, Bihar, Punjab and Kashmir. All those States were Part and parcel of Bharat and Andhra State was now joining the ranks of her brother and sister States in India. Every citizen, in whichever part of India he lived, was a citizen of the great Republic of India.“I am a Kashmiri, I am at Delhi. Now I have come to Andhra. I have as much right here as any Andhra.” That spirit of oneness should prevail if the country was to prosper, he declared. Andhras should not think that by the formation of the new State they were cutting away from the rest of India, Mr Nehru said. On the other hand, they should think they were coming closer and closer to the people in other States. They should get together and make the country big. Every act of theirs should go to make the country strong and united.Outside the country, whether m America or in England, the people, of India were known only as the, citizens of the Indian Republic and ‘ not as Andhras or Tamils. Therefore, Mr Nehru said, it was the primary duty of everyone to safeguard the prestige and preserve the noble traditions of the country. BROADER OUTLOOKHe asked the people to forget narrow communal and caste differences also. If these differences were perpetuated, they would lead to disruption of the country. High or low, rich or poor, they were all citizens of India and they were all equals and they should not encourage sectarianism.Mr Nehru compared India to a big mansion of which each State was a room. There were many rooms in the mansion occupied by Hindus, Muslims, Christians and Parsis. All of them had to live together and be friendly with one another if the country was to prosper, all States should co-operate with one another and march forward. The Prime Minister said he was happy that all controversy over the formation of the State had ended. He wanted Andhras to forget old quarrels. No doubt it was a sorry thing to break up a big and prosperous State like Madras. Sometime it had, however, to be I Andhra and Tamil Nad would like and work together as the common citizens of Bharat.Mr Nehru wanted the Andhras to open a new chapter in their history and concentrate their attention on eradication of poverty. Their new State was like a newborn babe and the people had to carry it like a babe. He appealed to the people of Andhra, men and women, to join in a common endeavor to make their State prosperous by hard work.Mr Nehru commended the bhoodan and shramdan movement of Acharya Vinoba Bhave. Though zamindarls and Jagirdaris had been abolished, much yet remained to be done in the matter of land reform. By moving from place to place, Acharya Vinoba had collected lakhs of acres for distribution to the landless poor. If people in Andhra and elsewhere helped the movement to greater success, the economic structure of the country could be easily and peacefully I changed. The Prime Minister referred to the observance of Gandhi Jayanti tomorrow and appealed to the, people to follow Gandhiji’s principles. The vast gathering responded to Mr Nehru’s call to shout Jai Hind.The Vice-President, Dr Radhakrishnan, in a brief speech in Telugu said that after 40 years of struggle the efforts of Telugus had borne fruit. Swaraj, he declared, should mean to them love of others and service to one’s own fellowmen and not love of power. He deprecated communal differences in Andhra and exhorted the Telugu people to make their State a model one. Mr M. Satyanarayans of the Dakshina Bharat Hindusthani Prachar Sabha translated Mr Nebru’s speech into Telugu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-october-2-1953-new-era-for-andhras-begins-101633018231388.html
30-09-2021||India||HT This Day: October 1, 2010 — Disputed site is Ram birthplace: HC||The Allahabad High Court (HC) took the first step on Thursday (September 30) towards the resolution of the 60-year-old Babri Masjid- Ram Janmabhoomi ownership dispute — by including all the warring parties in the process.The HC gave its stamp of judicial approval to the Hindu belief that Lord Ram was indeed born there. The court also ruled by a majority verdict that the disputed 120 feet by 90 feet plot land be divided into three equal parts among three petitioners — Sunni Wakf Board, Nirmohi Akhara and the party representing Ram Lalla.This also means that the court’s three-way split of the plot to the petitioners — even after dismissing their cases — has kept the window open for further talks.That the judgment is inclusive has been reflected in the reactions of political opponents. There was political acceptance of the verdict by the mainstream parties. Muslim leaders, however, made it clear the next stop was the Supreme Court even as they called it a “step forward”. Congress spokesman Janardhan Dwivedi said: “The court has given the verdict. We should all welcome it.”Justice D.V. Sharma, member of the three-judge Lucknow bench of the high court, ruled in a separate judgment that the disputed site was indeed the birthplace of Lord Ram and the mosque was built by Mughal emperor Babar against the tenets of Islam. “Thus, it cannot have the character of a mosque,” he said in the order.The court said the area under the central dome of the three-domed structure, where LordRam’s idol existed [and is presently kept in a makeshift temple at the same place], belonged to Ram Lala Virajman (the Ram deity).Justices S.U. Khan and Sudhir Agarwal also ruled status quo be maintained at the disputed place for three months.The Sunni Waqf Board and the Hindu Mahasabha indicated they were “partly disappointed” as their cases had been dismissed, but also added that the verdict was a step forward.The victory dance of the lawyers representing the Hindu camp began cheering for theirside even before the judgment came.“We have won it,” declared Ranjana Agnihotri, counsel for one of the defendants, SwamiSwaroopanand Saraswati, Shankaracharya of Dwarka. Reactions from the Muslim side, especially the Wakf Board, were mildly negative. But though the board announced it would go to the apex court, it mentioned categorically that it was open to talks.The Congress and the Hindu right — the RSS, the BJP and the VHP — welcomed the judgment.RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat said it’s not a victory or loss for any party but made it clear theverdict paved the way for building the promised Ram Temple.BJP leader L.K. Advani also said, “The verdict is a significant step towards building of agrand temple.”Nritya Gopal Das, president of Ramjanmbhoomi Nyas, went a step further: “We will go into the appeal that if the court has accepted it as the Ram Janmabhoomi, the entire land should be given for the temple.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ht-this-day-october-1-2010-disputed-site-is-ram-birthplace-hc-101633017875465.html
30-09-2021||India||IndiGo flight to Hyderabad makes emergency landing in Bhubaneswar||An IndiGo flight from Kolkata to Hyderabad (6E 946) was diverted for an emergency landing at Biju Patnaik International Airport in Bhubaneswar, Odisha, after a man complained of having breathing difficulties. The Hyderabad-bound flight landed in Bhubaneswar at around 6 PM on Thursday, airport officials said. The 59-year-old patient, identified as Jayabrata Ghosh, was travelling along with three family members, officials told news agency PTI. He was attended by a doctor onboard who detected cardiac issued and suggested that the patient be immediately admitted to the nearest hospital for further medical assistance.On landing, Ghosh was rushed to a hospital in critical condition by an ambulance of the Airports Authority of India, accompanied by IndiGo staffers. Once he man and his family members were deboarded, the flight took off for Hyderabad with the remaining passengers.In a similar incident on September 6, a Delhi-bound IndiGo flight made an emergency landing in Guwahati after it suffered a bird attack in its engine.The aircraft suffered damages in one of its engine blades in air, forcing the pilots to return to the original airport immediately. All passengers and crew onboard were safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indigo-flight-to-hyderabad-makes-emergency-landing-in-bhubaneswar-101633016208616.html
30-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Amid Punjab crisis, Congress chief hints at CWC meet and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Amid Congress vs Congress following Punjab crisis, party says working committee meet soonCongress president Sonia Gandhi indicated that the working committee meeting will take place soon, party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala told news agency PTI on Thursday at a time when the rumblings of dissent inside the party are growing louder in the aftermath of the Punjab crisis. Read more‘Ridiculous that Kejriwal has to come to Punjab': Badal takes jibe at AAPShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief on Thursday criticised Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal after the latter made six promises to the people of Punjab ahead of the polls next year. Read moreDelhi pollution: Gopal Rai urges citizens to promote carpooling ahead of wintersDelhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Thursday urged the citizens to keep their vehicles off at the red light in traffic and reduce the number of trips to prevent air pollution in the national capital. Read moreUS lost the Afghan war, Kabul collapse rooted in Doha accord, say top US generalsTop US generals told lawmakers at a congressional hearing that America lost the Afghanistan war and that it was caused by miscalculations spanning several administrations and the August collapse of the erstwhile government in Kabul could be traced to the 2020 agreement with the Taliban. Read moreTwinkle Khanna recalls giving it back to director who asked if she can 'do a Mandakini' for rain song sequenceFormer actor Twinkle Khanna recalled an unsavoury encounter with a director, following which he refused to speak with her and never cast her again. Twinkle said that he suggested she should ‘do a Mandakini’ for a song sequence, implying that she should wear see-through clothes. Read more'Did you refuse to hold World Cup': Virender Sehwag recalls 2019 WC final controversy, takes dig at Eoin MorganThe controversy regarding the spat between India off-spinner Ravichandran Aswhin and England captain Eoin Morgan during the Indian Premier League 2021 match between Delhi Capitals and Kolkata Knight Riders refuses to die down. Read moreInternational Coffee Day: Amazing health benefits of drinking coffeeInternational Coffee Day is here again. Coffee holds the reputation of being one of the most popular hot beverages all over the world and hence it is a day to look at all the ways that the beverage benefits us. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-amid-punjab-crisis-congress-chief-hints-at-cwc-meet-and-all-the-latest-news-101633013970043.html
30-09-2021||India||Won’t quit Cong, says Amarinder Singh’s wife Preneet Kaur. There is fine print||Patiala: As former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh declared that he is on his way out of the Congress, his wife and Congress MP Preneet Kaur made it clear that she is going to stay put and not follow her husband out of the party “as of now”.“I will stay in the Congress and will stick to my position (as MP). I have no intention of quitting,”said Kaur, a Lok Sabha MP from Patiala constituency. Amarinder Singh’s Patiala Urban seat which he represents in the Punjab assembly is one of the nine seats that fall under the parliamentary constituency represented by Kaur. It is widely acknowledged that Preneet Kaur used to have the last word on matters related to the nine assembly segments while Amarinder Singh was chief minister. Seven of the nine seats are with the Congress.Preneet Kaur justified Amarinder Singh’s decision, underlining that some Congress leaders humiliated him and set a wrong precedent.“He is the senior-most leader of the Congress in the country. He brought the party back to power in Punjab when it was losing one after another state. He was humiliated and thus decided to leave the party. It is wrong to maltreat a leader who brought historic victory for the party.” The veteran Congress leader met Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday, sparking speculation that he was in exit mode and could either float his own party or join the rival Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).On Thursday, Amarinder Singh confirmed that he wasn’t going to stick around in the Congress.“I will not join BJP (but) I will not stay in the Congress party,” the 79-year-old leader said, adding that he was still thinking through his options in the interest of Punjab as security of the state was the predominant priority for him.“I will not be treated in this humiliating manner...I will not take such insults,” he said, adding that his principles and beliefs do not allow him to stay in the Congress any longer.Asked if it would be awkward for her to continue in the party after her husband’s leaves, Preneet Kaur said,” “It is awkward because some leaders mishandled the situation”.She, however, declined to speak on her future plans.“I won’t comment about future plans, but as of now, every worker is upset about whatever is going on in the party in Punjab. I will stick in the party (Congress) as of now”, she said.Some Congress MLAs from Patiala district, mostly seen as loyalists of Preneet and Amarinder Singh, have decided not to leave the party and join Amarinder Singh.“I will remain in the party”, said an MLA close to Amarinder Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wont-quit-cong-says-amarinder-singh-s-wife-preneet-kaur-there-is-fine-print-101633015470444.html
30-09-2021||India||Unprecedented standoff with China at LAC needed huge mobilisation amid Covid-19: Gen Naravane||Developments along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh added to challenges faced by the Indian military on the “active and disputed borders” in the western and eastern fronts, the army chief, Gen MM Naravane, said on Thursday. The “unprecedented” military standoff with China required an immediate response and large-scale mobilisation of resources at a time when the country was grappling with the Covid-19 pandemic, he said while addressing the annual session of the PHD Chamber Of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI). Naravane, who spoke on the theme “Resilient India”, outlined the role played by the military in countering the pandemic and the current focus on indigenisation in acquiring advanced hardware and weaponry. He called for doing away with the “L1 system” of awarding defence contracts to the lowest bidder to ensure India gets access to advanced technology. Without naming China, Naravane highlighted the challenges posed by the standoff on the LAC, which began in May last year and resulted in the death of 20 Indian soldiers and four Chinese troops during a clash at Galwan Valley, the first such fatalities since 1975. “Developments along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh added to the ongoing legacy challenges on our active and disputed borders on the western and eastern front. The unprecedented developments necessitated large-scale resource mobilisation, orchestration of forces and immediate response, all this in a Covid-19 infested environment,” he said. This was done as the military reinforced the government’s efforts in tackling the health crisis. “Because of our peculiar environment of contested borders and an ongoing proxy war in the hinterland, the Indian Army is in active operations throughout the year, safeguarding the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our nation,” he said. The pandemic was a “unique and unprecedented” challenge and the air force carried out massive evacuation operations for citizens stranded in countries such as China, Iran and Kuwait while ferrying tonnes of medical supplies. The navy launched Operation Samudra Setu to transport food and medical supplies while evacuating thousands of stranded Indians from neighbouring countries. Rapid response medical teams were deployed to several countries. Under Operation Namaste, the army established a large number of hospitals across the country. Nineteen exclusively Covid-19 hospitals and military hospitals were opened to all, and testing labs of the armed forces accounted for an increased load by working round the clock. The military also set up quarantine facilities at Manesar, Mumbai, Chennai, Bhopal, Hyderabad and other cities. During the second wave of infections, air and naval assets airlifted oxygen cylinders, generators and concentrators, cryogenic containers and medical supplies from countries such as Australia, Germany, the UK, the UAE and Israel. Military special trains were used to send medical resources to hotspots and army technicians repaired dysfunctional oxygen plants in government and private hospitals, Naravane said. Pointing to the mantra “reform or perish”, Naravane said the pandemic led to transformational changes across the world. “Disrupted supply chains, unreasonable price escalation and opportunistic resource denials by some greedy nations have reinforced the vision of Atma Nirbharta,” he said. “The danger that our long-drawn procurement processes and bureaucratic speed-breakers would prevent us from acquiring cutting edge technology is a real one. Much work has been done in bringing about systemic changes with the aim of ease of doing business...There are still archaic rules and processes that defy logic and are at variance to modern best practices,” he added. Naravane said processes in the defence industrial sector that “are out of sync with contemporary times and our future vision must be ruthlessly shed for modern best-practices”. He added, “The L1 system is one such legacy of the colonial era that has lost its relevance in a system that is pushing for indigenisation. After all, why should merely price dictate our choice, when the money is destined to be pumped back into the domestic economy? It’s time we looked at quality and transited to a T1 system, more in tune with our capability development aspirations.” As part of efforts to promote domestic industry, the army has awarded contracts worth more than Rs16,000 crore to Indian firms in recent months. At the same time, development and prosperity are closely linked to security, and a safe environment is a must for investments to flow in, he said. The emergency powers under DFPDS-2020 invoked in June last year and extended till August resulted in 113 contracts for procuring critical ammunition, armament, vehicles, spares and special mountaineering equipment worth almost ₹9,000 crore. Another 68 contracts for capital procurement worth ₹6,500 crore were inked, and savings of about ₹1,700 crore were made due to diligence and financial prudence of the emergency empowered committee at the service headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unprecedented-standoff-with-china-at-lac-needed-huge-mobilisation-amid-covid-19-gen-naravane-101633013730290.html
30-09-2021||India||Amid Congress vs Congress following Punjab crisis, party says working committee meet soon||Congress president Sonia Gandhi indicated that the working committee meeting will take place soon, party spokesperson Randeep Surjewala told news agency PTI on Thursday at a time when the rumblings of dissent inside the party are growing louder in the aftermath of the Punjab crisis."Before leaving for Shimla, Congress president Sonia Gandhi had already indicated that a CWC meeting shall be called very soon. Accordingly, the CWC meeting shall be held in the coming days," Surjewala told PTI.How did it start?G-23 is not new. But the Punjab crisis which saw the resignation of veteran Congress leader Amarinder Singh has given voice to the G-23 leaders as Kapil Sibal on Wednesday posed some serious questions in front of the government. He said the party needs to introspect and many people whom the high command used to think of as loyalists are leaving the party. He said G-23 is not ‘Ji Huzoor 23’ and hence the group of rebel leaders will continue raising questions, though ironically these rebel leaders are not the ones who are deserting the party. Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad wrote to Sonia Gandhi requesting a meeting. Hitting back at Sibal, Surjewala had said, "Every Congressman and woman must also seriously introspect whether by their words and actions they are attempting to weaken the Congress in the times of crisis."3 people running Congress, 1 with no designation: Natwar Singh's swipe at RahulG-23 is, however, the grouping of the 23 senior Congress leaders who wrote a letter to the party in 2020 asking for sweeping changes in the party. Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor, Kapil Sibal, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Milind Deora, Renuka Chaudhary, Bhupinder Singh Hooda were some of the prominent signatories of the letter.The comments drew sharp reaction from a section of Congress leaders who agitated in front of Sibal's house with placards reading ‘Get well soon, Kapil Sibal’. Shashi Tharoor supports Kapil Sibal, says he fought many legal battles for CongressAfter the Kapil Sibal incident, Anand Sharma, Manish Tewari, Shashi Tharoor, P Chidambaram tweeted condemning the vandalism outside Sibal's house.Old generation versus new generationFormer Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh who announced on Thursday that he will be severing his ties with the Congress said the party has been sidelining the old generation leaders while they are the actual thinkers. The new generation leaders are best to implement the plans, Amarinder Singh said.Rahul Gandhi under attackSonia Gandhi is the interim party president while Rahul Gandhi's role has brought him under the direct attack of the senior Congress leaders. Without naming anyone, Kapil Sibal on Wednesday said the party has no president and hence he does not know who takes the decision in the party. On Thursday, senior Congress leader Natwar Singh said three people are running the Congress and among them, one has no designation. He named Rahul Gandhi and said he calls the shots in the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-congress-vs-congress-following-punjab-crisis-party-says-working-committee-meet-soon-101633012094415.html
30-09-2021||India||Navjot Sidhu to continue in his post? What happened at Sidhu-Channi meeting?||After the meeting between Navjot Singh Sidhu and Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday, it was reported that all issues between the two were resolved and Sidhu is likely to continue at his post as the chief of Punjab Congress. The concerns that have been raised by Sidhu will be placed before the Cabinet on October 4. However, many of the issues that Navjot Sidhu has raised are regarding the Cabinet appointments only. No official word has been out regarding what transpired between Navjot Singh Sidhu and Channi at the meeting, apart from the date of the Cabinet meeting. DGP IPS Sahota was head of SIT investigating Beadbi case under Badal Govt, he wrongfully indicted two Sikh youth for sacrilege & gave clean chit to Badals. In 2018, I along with INC Ministers, then PCC Pres & present Home Minister assured them of our support in fight for Justice. https://t.co/yX3TT17fCv pic.twitter.com/aQpJ9xq0KQThe Sidhu-Channi meeting scheduled at 3pm on Thursday was an indication of a thaw between Sidhu and Channi as Sidhu travelled from Patiala to Chandigarh to attend the meeting, though just before the meeting Sidhu tweeted his objection to the appointment of Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota as the DGP.Navjot Sidhu-Charanjit Channi meeting. Here's why it is significantOn Tuesday, Sidhu resigned from the post of the president of Punjab Congress saying that he won't be able to compromise on Punjab's future. In a video, he also said that politics for him is taking a stand for the people, for Punjab, not for his own benefit. The resignation apparently took the Congress leadership by surprise as Sidhu did not discuss the issue with any senior Congress leader.While the resignation was not accepted, Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday said he personally called Sidhu for a meeting. Downplaying the crisis at a time when his Cabinet, which has only a few months to work before the election, has just been formed, Channi said, "Party is supreme. The government takes note of the need of the party."Channi also said he was not rigid over the appointments and if Sidhu has any objections then it can be discussed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navjot-sidhu-to-continue-in-his-post-what-happened-at-sidhu-channi-meeting-101633008091873.html
30-09-2021||India||Protect nation’s integrity at any cost, says new IAF chief Air Marshal Chaudhari||NEW DELHI: Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari on Thursday took over as the chief of the Indian Air Force at a ceremony at Air Headquarters in national capital Delhi. He succeeds Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria following his retirement.In his first address to the air force after taking charge, the new Chief of Air Staff `expressed “absolute faith and confidence in their ability to accomplish all assigned tasks with resolute dedication while maintaining IAF’s operational capability at an all-time high.”“Protection of our nation’s sovereignty and integrity is to be ensured at any cost”, Air Chief Marshal Chaudhari said, according to a defence ministry statement.An experienced pilot, Chaudhari has logged more than 3,800 hours of flying on a variety of fighter planes such as MiG-21, MiG-29 and Sukhoi-30. He also flew air defence missions during the 1999 Kargil war with Pakistan.The IAF chief was commissioned into the air force’s fighter stream in December 1982. Before taking charge of his current appointment as vice chief, Chaudhari was the Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the operationally critical Western Air Command (WAC). He commanded WAC at a time when the IAF was inducting its new Rafale fighter jets at Ambala, and operationalising them at the earliest was a top priority amid the border row with China in the Ladakh sector.Chaudhari takes over the top job at a critical time -- the armed forces are working out the details of the theaterisation model to best utilise the military’s resources, and he will also oversee several key projects to sharpen the IAF’s combat potential.In his address on Thursday, the new chief said, ``The enhancement of operational capability through integration of newly inducted platforms, weapons and equipment with existing assets and dovetailing the same in concepts of operations will remain a priority area.’’ The defence ministry statement said he also urged air force personnel to “always uphold the ethos and credo of the ‘Air Warrior’, and strive to be an asset to the IAF in any role tasked for”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protect-nation-s-integrity-at-any-cost-says-new-iaf-chief-air-marshal-chaudhari-101633008389839.html
30-09-2021||India||Will healthcare workers receive Covid-19 vaccine boosters in India? ICMR chief weighs in||Healthcare workers in India were among the first to make it to the government’s priority list for Covid-19 vaccination when the drive to immunise the country against the disease was launched earlier this year. As of Thursday, 99% of the healthcare workers in India have been administered at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and 85% of them have been fully vaccinated, according to the Union health ministry’s data.Director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Balram Bhargava said that discussions about booster doses were “not pertinent", when asked about administering boosters to healthcare workers during a regular press briefing by the health ministry on Thursday.Also read | 25% of India’s eligible population fully vaccinated against Covid-19, says health minister MandaviyaBhargava, however, said that the vaccination drive should focus on fully vaccinating the adult population against the disease. “I think, currently I would say that the talk of booster (doses) is not pertinent and I said this last time also. The call of the hour is to give the two-dose vaccination, which we call as full vaccination, covering the entire adult population. That has to be the goal, that is the agenda and that has to be continued,” he said.Briefing further on why discussions on booster doses were not pertinent at the moment, the ICMR chief said some studies have shown that most of the antibodies against the disease persist for upto a year.“We have had some studies in India, including Bengaluru, where they have looked at the antibodies and they have found that antibodies are persisting for much longer. More than 95% of the antibodies persist for upto a year. Therefore the concept of booster dose is not pertinent at the moment,” he said.When asked about the vaccination coverage among healthcare workers, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that the ministry has pointed out to some states about the issue. “We have also taken this up with the states. There are certain specific states where the second dose coverage is on the lower side and we have drawn their attention,” he said.He also mentioned that a facility in the Co-WIN system has been provided using which a list of those who have missed the second dose of the vaccine could be generated. “So states have got those lists and they are looking at these people and trying to ensure that the second dose is given to these people,” he further said.The US, the UK, France, Germany and some other nations have already announced their plans to provide a booster dose for their citizens while the World Health Organization (WHO) has expressed its concerns about global distribution of vaccines.Recently, WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus also called for a moratorium on providing booster doses at least till the end of this year. However, the countries that have announced the booster doses have opted to proceed with their programmes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-healthcare-workers-receive-covid-19-vaccine-boosters-in-india-icmr-chief-weighs-in-101633007408928.html
30-09-2021||India||In a first, Himanta Biswa Sarma cabinet meets outside Guwahati at Dhemaji||Guwahati: The Assam cabinet on Thursday met at Dhemaji, nearly 450 km east from the state capital Dispur. This is the first time the government headed by Himanta Biswa Sarma is holding a cabinet meeting outside Guwahati. In 2016, the then government headed by Sarbananda Sonowal has organised a cabinet meeting in Majuli. Addressing journalists after the meeting, Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said that the tradition would continue. The next cabinet meeting will be held at Bongaigaon in November followed by another at Halflong in December. “This is not just a one-day thing. We reached here a day ahead of the meeting and covered one district. We spent Thursday at Dhemaji and while going back on Friday we will visit another district where they would inspect different projects and interact with different sections of the people,” said the CM. Sarma informed that as per a meeting with employees of the two closed paper mills of Hindustan Paper Mills, the state government would provide them with a ₹570 crore relief package. The cabinet approved the decision and agreed to spend another ₹130 crore to clear all pending dues of the mills with government agencies. “The employees will get a relief package of ₹570 crore. The rest of the amount will go in clearing other dues. In all ₹700 crore would be given to the liquidator. Once that is done, the 4700 ‘bighas’ of land of the two mills will belong to the state government, which in turn will be converted to industrial estates,” Sarma said. The CM announced that the cabinet approved a sum of ₹1800 crore as waiving off of microfinance loans of nearly 1.1 million women borrowers. The state government has earlier signed MoUs with microfinance companies to waive off these loans. The cabinet also made several announcements for Dhemaji district including ₹50 crore to make the deputy commissioner’s office an integrated unit comprising other departments and another ₹50 crore to set up a sports complex,” he said. The holding of the cabinet meeting with much fanfare had invited criticism from some quarters including from one ruling BJP MLA, but Sarma said that it was needed since Assam no longer wants to project the image of a poor state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-a-first-assam-cabinet-meets-outside-guwahati-at-dhemaji-101633005989604.html
30-09-2021||India||Delhi pollution: Gopal Rai urges citizens to promote carpooling ahead of winters||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Thursday urged the citizens to keep their vehicles off at the red light in traffic and reduce the number of trips to prevent air pollution in the national capital. Every year, Delhi grapples with severe smog around October and November due to stubble burning, vehicular pollution and biomass burning, among other factors. Setting forth the agenda for Delhi’s winter action plan this year, Rai said that the contribution of citizens towards pollution control is as important as the steps taken by the government.Earlier today, the environment minister held a meeting with resident welfare associations (RWA), NGOs and eco clubs in Delhi and took suggestions to improve the pollution control measures being taken by the Delhi government. Senior officials from the Delhi Pollution Control Committee and the environment department also took part in the meeting."We wanted to collect the feedback from these organisations on our efforts and seek their suggestions. Most of the people said that the 'Red light on Gaadi off' campaign should be continued," he told reporters.Rai said that a lot of the suggestions were in favour of promoting carpooling in RWAs. “Residents can plan their work and reduce the number of vehicle trips accordingly, which will help bring down vehicular pollution,” he said. The minister highlighted that the Delhi government will also ensure that security guards and workers in night shift are provided heaters to prevent biomass burning.The environment minister also launched a suggestions forum for the 'Green War Room' launched last year. Any person in Delhi can give suggestions to the government on pollution control measures on the email id -- greenwarroom@gmail.com, he said. The Green War Room monitors and coordinates anti-pollution efforts and updates the "Green Delhi" application to effectively address complaints related to pollution causing activities.The Delhi government will also set up a team of officers to have talks with neighbouring states to jointly fight pollution.“The government is working on a two-line plan of action -- one is to prevent causing pollution and the other to control pollution. For the first one, it is important to create awareness at grassroot levels among citizens,” he said.“We are raising sensitivity among people so that they take it (the problem of pollution in Delhi) as their responsibility... as a collective duty,” he added.Notably, the Delhi government has imposed a complete ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers in the city till January 1, 2022. It has issued detailed guidelines for construction and demolition sites to control dust pollution.Delhi's 'Winter Action Plan' for 2021 will be ready soon, officials told PTI. It will focus on 10 points, including stubble burning, pollution hotspots, working of smog tower and vehicular and dust pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-pollution-gopal-rai-urges-citizens-to-promote-carpooling-ahead-of-winters-101633004293611.html
30-09-2021||India||Shashi Tharoor supports Kapil Sibal, says he fought many legal battles for Congress||As the Congress versus Congress deepens, G-23 leader Shashi Tharoor on Thursday extended support to Congress leader Kapil Sibal and countering the narrative of the pro-high command team that Congress gave recognition to Sibal, Tharoor said Kapil Sibal is a true Congressman who fought many legal battles for the Congress. "As a democratic party, we need to listen to what he has to say, disagree if you must but not in this way. Our priority is to strengthen ourselves to take on the BJP!" Tharoor tweeted.The Punjab crisis has brought the Congress versus Congress clash to the fore after Captain Amarinder Singh resigned from the post of the chief minister of Punjab months ahead of the state election owing to his ongoing clash with Navjot Singh Sidhu. After Amarinder Singh was replaced by Charanjit Singh Channi, Sidhu resigned from the post of the state party unit chief citing differences with Channi. Though the resignation has not been accepted by the high command and Sidhu is likely to continue in his post, the upheaval has given voice to several Congress leaders who are upset with the way the party is functioning.'Shocked, disgusted': Anand Sharma slams 'hooliganism' outside Sibal's houseThat is shameful. We all know @KapilSibal as a true Congressman who has fought multiple cases in court for @INCIndia. As a democratic party we need to listen to what he has to say,disagree if you must but not in this way. Our priority is to strengthen ourselves to take on theBJP! https://t.co/XmtdHapachG-23 leader Kapil Sibal on Wednesday said it is ironic that people considered close to the high command are leaving the party while G-23 leaders who had written to Sonia Gandhi seeking election to the post of the party president will stick to the party and will fight for reforms. Sibal said the party has no president and so he does not know who takes a decision. He also said G-23 is no Ji Huzoor 23 and hence he will continue raising questions.The comments evoked a sharp response from a section of Congress leaders. While Youth Congress leaders protested outside Sibal's house, damaging a car."Those who are trying to defend the command performance last night, this is what happened at Kapil Sibal's house. They damaged the car. Stood on top so it caved in. Threw tomatoes both outside and inside the house. If this is not hooliganism then what else is it?" Congress leader Manish Tewari tweeted.Tharoor termed the act of hooliganism as 'shameful'.Congress leader Natwar Singh on Thursday directly trained the gun at Rahul Gandhi and said three people take decisions in the Congress and one of them has no official designation. "They have decided to remove Amarinder Singh! He is such a veteran politician," Natwar Singh said expressing resentment over the leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shashi-tharoor-supports-kapil-sibal-says-he-fought-many-legal-battles-for-congress-101633004866080.html
30-09-2021||India||Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari takes charge as new chief of Indian Air Force||Protecting India's sovereignty and integrity will be ensured at any cost, Air Chief Marshal Vivek Ram Chaudhari said on Thursday after taking charge as the Chief of the Indian Air Force (IAF). He succeeded Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria following his retirement. "Protection of our nation's sovereignty and integrity is to be ensured at any cost," the new IAF Chief said. Air Chief Marshal Chaudhari added that enhancement of operational capability through integration of newly inducted platforms, weapons and equipment with existing assets and dovetailing the same in the concepts of operations would remain a priority area. In a brief address to the IAF personnel, he also spoke on acquisition of new technology, promotion of indigenisation and innovation, strengthening of cyber security and need for adopting new training methods to deal with future security challenges. The Chief of Air Staff also urged the IAF personnel to "always uphold the ethos and credo of the 'Air Warrior' and strive to be an asset" to force in any role tasked for. Air Chief Marshal Chaudhari was serving as Vice Chief of the Air Staff before assuming the new role. Before becoming Vice Chief of the IAF, he was serving as commander-in-chief of the IAF's Western Air Command (WAC) that looks after the security of India air space in the sensitive Ladakh sector as well as various other parts of north India. An alumnus of the National Defence Academy, Air Chief Marshal Chaudhari was commissioned into the fighter stream of the IAF on December 29, 1982. In a distinguished career spanning nearly 38 years, the officer has flown a wide variety of fighter and trainer aircraft in the inventory of IAF. He has a flying experience of more than 3,800 hours, including operational flying on MiG-21, MiG-23 MF, MiG 29 and Su-30 MKI fighter jets. Air Chief Marshal Chaudhari held numerous important positions. He was the commanding officer of a frontline fighter squadron and has also commanded a frontline fighter base. Apart from various operational issues, Air Chief Marshal Chaudhari will have to also address matters related to the ambitious theaterisation model of the armed forces. The theatre commands are being planned to integrate the capabilities of the three services and to ensure optimal utilisation of their resources. The theatre commands are being set up under a larger mandate of ensuring synergy among the three service chiefs to deal with future security challenges. Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat has been focusing on bringing convergence among the three services and restructuring military commands to effectively deal with future security challenges. There has been a growing perception that the Indian Air Force has some reservations about the theaterisation programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-chief-marshal-vivek-ram-chaudhari-takes-charge-as-new-chief-of-indian-air-force-101633004303538.html
30-09-2021||India||Don't make Congress' internal matters public: Pawan Khera's appeal to party leaders||Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera on Thursday urged the party leaders not to go public with the internal matters as it "hurts" the ground-level workers. The appeal came a day after senior party leader Kapil Sibal raised questions over the functioning of the party and former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh's surprise meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah.Khera asserted that the Congress gives enough freedom to its leaders to express their views but, he added, internal matters should not be discussed publicly for the sake of "discipline". He suggested that they should instead be raised on a proper platform."Crores of Congress workers are in pain due to such acts. Senior party leaders should discuss such matters on a proper platform, not in public. There is a difference between BJP and Congress. While there is no ban on free speech in our party, our leaders need to put their opinion on a proper platform," news agency PTI quoted Khera as saying during an interaction with the media in Ahmedabad."Suppose you have a family dispute, would you prefer to solve it internally or go to your neighbour's terrace and speak about it? There should be discipline, which is necessary to run a family, an organisation and a country," he added.Kapil Sibal yesterday raised questions on the party's high command in the wake of the events unfolding in Punjab, saying that the party workers did not know who was taking decisions in the absence of a full-time president.On a question regarding Amarinder Singh's surprise meeting with Amit Shah days after he resigned as the Punjab CM, Khera said the party felt hurt by his doing."Internal issues should be discussed internally. What was the need to meet when you can talk over the phone. Congress workers, who are fighting against the BJP government and its billionaire friends, are pained to see our own people doing this. I am just sharing the anguish of all those ground level workers with you," the news agency further quoted Khera as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-make-congress-internal-matters-public-pawan-khera-s-appeal-to-party-leaders-101633002361547.html
30-09-2021||India||Zydus Cadila Covid-19 jab soon to be part of India's vaccination programme: Govt||Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Thursday announced that the much-awaited Zydus Cadila's Covid-19 vaccine would be introduced in the national vaccination programme "very shortly".The three-dose needle-free ZyCoV-D vaccine, manufactured by Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila is the first vaccine in the country that has received emergency use authorisation (EUA) for being administered in the 12 to 18 age group.The Centre is working with Zydus Cadila to decide on the price of the ZyCoV-D vaccine, people familiar with the advanced development said, adding that the government is aiming to launch the vaccines on October 2, on the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.The vaccine is based on the plasmid DNA technology and follows a three-dose regimen with a 28-day gap between each dose. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) gave its nod to the vaccine earlier on August 20.Developed in partnership with the department of biotechnology, ZyCoV-D is a first-of-its-kind DNA vaccine that produces the spike protein of the SARS-CoV-2 to elicit an immune response. It is an intradermal vaccine that has to be applied using a ‘needle-free injector’, which the manufacturer says will help in reducing side effects.Earlier this month, Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul said that ZyCoV-D could be made available under the national vaccination programme as early as October.  “We are looking forward to receiving recommendations of the NTAGI on the beneficiary or target group to which the vaccine has to be given. The work is in progress and you will hear more about this in the times to come,” Paul said last week.Zydus Cadila is now looking to begin clinical trials of an mRNA coronavirus vaccine even though a formal announcement is yet to be made.India is presently administering Covishield manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, apart from Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Russia’s Sputnik V vaccines for immunisation against the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zydus-cadila-covid-19-jab-soon-to-be-part-of-india-s-vaccination-programme-govt-101633001557663.html
30-09-2021||India||29 Mumbai medical college students test Covid positive||As many as 29 undergraduate students at the GS Medical College attached to Mumbai’s KEM Hospital have tested positive for Covid-19 over the past three days. The infections have prompted the college dean Hemant Deshmukh to shift all teaching activities online for the next 10 days.“Of the 29 students, 27 have been vaccinated with at least one dose,” Deshmukh told HT. All have mild infections. By 3 pm on Thursday, at least 16 students were shifted to the Seven Hills Hospital in Marol, where they will be kept under observation.Two second-year students tested positive two days ago. A contact tracing exercise was carried out which led to the finding of other infected students.Also Read: Mumbai Mayor issues guidelines for reopening of schools A circular addressed to the students issued by Deshmukh on Thursday said that Covid-appropriate behaviour should be strictly followed as a substantial number of students tested positive. He urged all the students to get tested and strictly use face masks in the hostel premises as well as in their rooms. “Hostel students are instructed not to leave the premises except for giving the swab,” Deshmukh said in his circular. He added all gatherings should be avoided and students should not eat food together. The dean also asked the students to ensure that their rooms are ventilated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/29-mumbai-medical-college-students-test-covid-positive-101633001609297.html
30-09-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5pm: Monsoon withdrawal to begin from Oct 6, says IMD and other news updates||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5PM. Know all the latest news and updates from Hindustan Times.Monsoon is likely to begin withdrawal from some parts of northwest India from October 6, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). The normal date for the commencement of monsoon withdrawal is September 17. Last year, the monsoon started withdrawing from western parts of northwest India on September 28. Read moreAmarinder Singh on Thursday changed his Twitter bio hours after he announced his decision that he will quit the party. His present Twitter bio says Amarinder Singh is an Army veteran, the former chief minister of Punjab who is continuing to serve the state. Read moreTwitter exploded after Ravichandran Ashwin posted a series of Tweets to hit back at the critics bringing ‘spirit of cricket’ argument to frame him as 'wrong' in the heated argument took place between the Delhi Capitals spinner and Kolkata Knight Riders players Eoin Morgan and Tim Southee. On Tuesday in Sharjah, Ashwin first exchanged words with Southee after the New Zealand appeared to have said something to the off-spinner after dismissing him in the last over of the DC innings. Read morePolycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS), is a hormonal condition affecting close to 5 million women in India and is one of the most common causes of infertility in women. However, the condition can be managed by making some lifestyle changes like good diet and exercise, while some may also require certain medications. Dr. Madhuri Roy, Gynaecologist & IVF Consultant, founder, and managing director of Conceive IVF, Pune Lifestyle and Fertility Treatment Options for PCOS suggests some tips for the women suffering from PCOS. Read moreIt is official. WhatsApp blocked is a message that will soon hit many people with these phones. The list of phones includes iPhones too. If you add up the numbers, these phones have sold in the range of tens of millions and that is how many people may be affected. So, even though WhatsApp may have overtaken all of its rival mobile messaging apps, including Facebook Messenger, and boasts over two billion active monthly users, it has indicated its unwillingness to help out certain users with these phones. Read moreActor Naga Chaitanya on Thursday took to Instagram to post a group picture from the recent success bash for his film, Love Story. But curious fans wanted to know why his wife Samantha Akkineni wasn't present at the party. Read moreUnion Minister Nitin Gadkari shared his plans to reduce Delhi’s pollution by developing efficient road networks and reducing the dependency on Petrol-Diesel. Gadkari revealed how an NRI family inspired him to work on reducing the capital’s pollution during one of his visits to London. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5pm-monsoon-withdrawal-to-begin-from-oct-6-says-imd-and-other-news-updates-101632998697091.html
30-09-2021||India||25% of India’s eligible population fully vaccinated against Covid-19, says health minister Mandaviya||As many as 237 million (23.7 crore) people or one-fourth of the eligible beneficiaries have been fully vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Thursday, lauding the country’s Covid-19 vaccination drive.The minister tweeted this a day after the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed the 880-million mark on Wednesday night.India's persistence & determination is creating ripples across the global vaccination campaign.1/4th of the eligible population, a phenominal 23.7 crore people, is fully vaccinated against #COVID19 #SabkoVaccineMuftVaccine pic.twitter.com/mxaLjcvMyQ“India's persistence & determination is creating ripples across the global vaccination campaign,” Mandaviya’s office said in a tweet. “1/4th of the eligible population, a phenomenal 23.7 crore people, is fully vaccinated against #COVID19,” it further said.Addressing the media at the press briefing of the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that 69% of the country’s population over 18 years of age have received at least one dose of the vaccine.Also read | India's new Covid case tally again crosses 20k-mark, active count still lowestThe ministry earlier in the day said that 883,470,578 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in the country to eligible beneficiaries as of 7am in the day.“With the administration of 65,34,306 vaccine doses in the past 24 hours, India’s Covid-19 vaccination coverage crossed the landmark of 88 core (88,34,70,578) as per provisional reports till 7am today. This has been achieved through 85,92,824sessions,” the ministry said in a statement.Earlier on September 20, the ministry said that 22.2% of the country’s population have been fully immunised against the disease. Also, close to 65% of the population was covered with at least one dose of the vaccine as of the same date.Meanwhile, more than 50 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine are remaining unutilised with the states and Union territories in the country as of Thursday, the ministry also noted. Further, another 6.3 million doses are on the supply pipeline to the states and UTs, the ministry also said.India reported 23,529 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday and with 311 more fatalities, the country’s death toll reached 448,062, according to the latest data. Meanwhile, the active caseload remained under the 300,000-mark and was recorded at 277,020, the ministry’s data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-of-india-s-eligible-population-fully-vaccinated-against-covid-19-says-health-minister-mandaviya-101633000249394.html
30-09-2021||India||Maharashtra ATS arrests third terror suspect||The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) has arrested a third terror suspect from Mumbai. The suspect, Irfan Shaikh, will be produced before a special court on Thursday.The ATS earlier arrested two terror suspects--Zakir Hussain Shaikh and Rizwan Momin-- on September 18 and 19. They have been sent in ATS custody till October 4 and booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The two were arrested after the Delhi Police’s special cell busted an alleged terror module. Jaan Mohammad Shaikh alias Sameer Kaliya, a resident of Sion, was arrested along with five others from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, and Rajasthan on September 14.Initially, both the suspects arrested by Maharashtra ATS were remanded in police custody. Subsequently, they were produced in court after their initial remand ended on September 20. On ATS’s request, they were sent in judicial custody for 14 days. On September 24, ATS filed an application in session court to get their custody again. During the course of the hearing on the plea, the ATS informed the court that they have got sufficient evidence to interrogate and confront the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-ats-arrests-third-terror-suspect-101633000829322.html
30-09-2021||India||Ayush ministry to launch ‘Bal Raksha Kit’ to boost immunity among children||With an impending third wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) around the corner, the All India Institute of Ayurveda (AIIA), under the Centre's Ayush ministry, has developed an immunity boosting 'Bal Raksha Kit' to protect the children up to the age of 16 from the viral infection till the time a vaccine is available. As many as 10,000 kits will be distributed free-of-cost on National Ayurveda Day on November 2.The kit aims to help amplify the immunity of children to help them fight SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) infection and keep them healthy, the officials of the ministry said.“Since there is no Covid-19 vaccine available for children in India yet, the Bal Suraksha Kit is a significant development keeping in mind the health of children,” they said.Listing the ingredients of the ‘Bal Raksha Kit’, the ministry said it comprises of a syrup made of basil, giloy, cinnamon, liquorice and dry grapes, which have amazing medicinal qualities, apart from Annu oil, Sitopaladi and Chyawanprash whose regular consumption increases the immunity level among the children.AIIA director Dr Tanuja Nesari told news agency PTI that children often find it difficult to take in decoctions (kadha) and pills due to its bitter taste. This syrup, she said, "has been prepared in which some other medicines have also been mixed to prevent cold and cough."It has been made under the strict guidelines of the ministry of Ayush and manufactured in Uttarakhand by Indian Medicines Pharmaceutical Corporation Limited (IMPCL)."Along with the kit, Suvarnaprashan (Swarna Prashan) will be given to 5,000 children on that day. We have already contacted the schools of Delhi for the purpose,” Dr Nesari said. Swarna Prashana helps in improving the overall health of children, she added.Apart from the ‘Bal Raksha Kit', AIIA has previously been known for preparing 'Swasthya Raksha Kit', 'Arogya Raksha Kit' and 'Ayu Raksha Kit'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayush-ministry-to-launch-bal-raksha-kit-to-boost-immunity-among-children-101632992013806.html
30-09-2021||India||Monsoon likely to begin withdrawal from some parts of NW India from Oct 6: IMD||Monsoon is likely to begin withdrawal from some parts of northwest India from October 6, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). The normal date for the commencement of monsoon withdrawal is September 17. Last year, the monsoon started withdrawing from western parts of northwest India on September 28.Widespread and heavy rain continues in different parts of the country. In aggregate, monsoon rain has amounted to 99% of the long period average as of Wednesday, making it a “normal” monsoon year.“With the westward movement of the depression over northeast Arabian Sea away from Indian coast, Numerical Weather Prediction Model’s consensus indicates the establishment of westerly and north-westerly winds at lower and middle tropospheric levels over northwest India and development of lower-level anti-cyclonic circulation over the region from October 5,” IMD said in a statement on Thursday. Under its influence, drastic reduction in moisture and absence of rainfall over extreme north-western parts of India is very likely. Thus, conditions are very likely to be favourable for the commencement of withdrawal of south-west monsoon from some parts of northwest India from around October 6.Also Read: 59 of 121 rainy days saw deficit, September wettest month: Data The depression over the northeast Arabian Sea and adjoining Kutch separately moved nearly westwards about 60 km west-northwest of Dwarka (Gujarat). It is very likely to move west-north-westwards and intensify into a deep depression over northeast Arabian Sea off north Gujarat coast during the next 12 hours. Then, it is very likely to move further west-north-westwards and intensify into cyclonic storm Shaheen during the subsequent 24 hours. Thereafter, it is likely to continue to move west-north-westwards close to Pakistan, moving away from the Indian coast, IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-withdrawal-to-begin-from-october-6-101632998549238.html
30-09-2021||India||PM Modi praises Kiren Rijiju in a tweet. But for a different reason||Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a tweet applauded Union minister Kiren Rijiju for his dancing skills on Tuesday after the latter shared a video on Twitter of him dancing at a cultural function in Arunachal Pradesh.Our Law Minister @KirenRijiju is also a decent dancer! Good to see the vibrant and glorious culture of Arunachal Pradesh… https://t.co/NmW0i4XUdDPM Modi in his tweet said, “Our Law Minister Kiren Rijiju is also a decent dancer! Good to see the vibrant and glorious culture of Arunachal Pradesh.”Union law minister Kiren Rijiju uploaded his video of dancing during a traditional programme organised by the Sajolang people during his visit to Kazalang village. The Union law minister was monitoring the Vivekananda Kendra Vidyalaya projects in the region.“During my visit to the beautiful Kazalang village to monitor the Vivekananda Kendra Vidyalaya Projects. This is traditional merrymaking of Sajolang people whenever guests visit their village. The original folk songs and dances are the essence of every community in Arunachal Pradesh,” Rijiju said in his tweet which he shared with the video.Rijiju’s tweet garnered more than 2,317 retweets, 199 quote tweets and 18,000 likes.The minister’s dance garnered many positive responses from Twitterati. Several of those who commented on the video praised Rijiju for his energy while others were marvelled at the culture and traditions of Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-praises-kiren-rijiju-in-a-tweet-but-for-a-different-reason-101632998047200.html
30-09-2021||India||Navjot Sidhu-Charanjit Channi meeting. Here's why it is significant||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu who is at the centre of the political crisis in Punjab reached Punjab Bhavan on Thursday for his meeting with chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi. Punjab sports minister Pargat Singh also arrived to attend the meeting. The crucial meeting comes two days after Navjot Singh Sidhu resigned from the post of the state party president, opposing the appointments made by Charanjit Channi. The meeting was organised at the behest of Charanjit Singh Channi who called Navjot Sidhu personally for a meeting to settle things across the table.The meeting assumes significance as it will be Charanjit Singh's first test as the chief minister to settle the issue with Navjot Sidhu.Just before the meeting, Navjot Singh Sidhu tweeted about the appointment of IPS Sahota. "DGP IPS Sahota was head of SIT investigating Beadbi case under Badal Govt, he wrongfully indicted two Sikh youth for sacrilege and gave clean chit to Badals. In 2018, I along with INC Ministers, then PCC Pres and present Home Minister assured them of our support in fight for Justice," Navjot Sidhu tweeted indicating that he was not in a mood to take a step back.'Have no ego': Punjab CM Charanjit Channi says party is supreme, invites Navjot Sidhu for talksCharanjit Singh Channi said on Wednesday that he was not rigid about the appointments. He said he had no ego and whatever might have upset Sidhu can be discussed. The indication is the appointments can be reversed. He also termed Sidhu as the head of the family and said that wherever objection he has can be discussed. Channi also steered clear from making any controversial statement when reporters told that Sidhu's move was to threaten the Channi government. Channi said there is no threat to the government and the situation is not beyond redressal. Punjab will go to the elections in a few months. The removal of Captain Amarinder Singh following his ongoing disagreement with Navjot Singh Sidhu could not bring a solution to the crisis the Congress is facing in Punjab, as it has again come to Sidhu versus chief minister in the border state.   The Congress might go for Navjot Sidhu as the chief minister face for the upcoming assembly election and Charanjit Singh Channi was supposed to be in charge of the government for a few months. However, Channi can come off with flying colours if he can deftly handle the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navjot-sidhu-charanjit-channi-meeting-here-s-why-it-is-significant-101632998065979.html
30-09-2021||India||Adityanath orders dismissal of police personnel involved in serious crimes||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday issued directions for Identifying police officers and personnel involved in serious crimes, collecting evidence against them for their dismissal as per rules, his office said in a statement. He directed against giving important postings to the tainted police personnel and officers.“Of late, there have been complaints of involvement of police officers, police personnel in unauthorised activities. This is not acceptable. The police department has no place for any such persons,” the statement said, quoting Adityanath.The directions were issued a day after six police personnel were booked for murder for allegedly beating Kanpur realtor Manish Gupta before his death during a raid at a Gorakhpur hotel this week. The accused are absconding.Gupta’s family cremated his body on Thursday after much police persuasion as the family insisted they will not conduct the last rites until justice was done.Also Read: Noida residents’ group flags fire safety, seeks helicopters for highrises Adityanath was likely to meet the family in Kanpur during a pre-scheduled visit to the city on Thursday. On Wednesday, the government announced ₹10 lakh compensation to the family. Earlier in the day, former chief minister and Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Akhilesh Yadav met the family. Yadav announced ₹20 lakh from SP to the family and demanded ₹2 crore compensation from the government.Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati demanded a CBI probe into Gupta’s death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adityanath-orders-dismissal-of-police-personnel-involved-in-serious-crimes-101632997349187.html
30-09-2021||India||Amarinder Singh removes Congress from Twitter bio, all eyes on Captain's next move||Amarinder Singh on Thursday changed his Twitter bio hours after he announced his decision that he will quit the party. His present Twitter bio says Amarinder Singh is an Army veteran, the former chief minister of Punjab who is continuing to serve the state.Days after his acrimonious exit from the CM post of Punjab, Amarinder Singh on Thursday announced that he will be quitting the Congress. While the announcement came during an exclusive interview of NDTV, Captain's office letter issued a statement confirming that Amarinder Singh will be exiting from the party. However, Amarinder Singh will not be joining the BJP, his office said keeping the guessing game on. On the question of whether he will float a new party ahead of the election, Amarinder Singh said people will get to know eventually.Amarinder Singh says he will leave Congress but won't join BJPFor the first time after resigning from the post of the chief minister, Amarinder Singh spoke about leaving the party. Earlier, he spoke about how humiliated he felt by the lack of trust of the high command in him. He also spoke about his plan to oppose Navjot Singh Sidhu as the chief minister candidate.Amid speculation of Amarinder Singh's next political move, he met Union home minister Amit Shah at the latter's residence in New Delhi on Wednesday. Following the meeting, Amarinder Singh said he urged Amit Shah to repeal the three farm laws and bring an end to the stalemate situation.A day later, Captain put all speculations to rest as he said that he will not be joining the BJP. The Captain will neither be continuing in the Congress, he clarified, though he is yet to resign from the party. Amarinder Singh said he is not one of those who take decisions in a split second as he needs to weigh the pros and cons, but his exit from the Congress is only a matter of time now as the decision has been taken. Now that the Captain has also dropped Congress from his Twitter bio, it is being speculated that he will resign from the party soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-removes-congress-from-twitter-bio-all-eyes-on-captain-s-next-move-101632995575625.html
30-09-2021||India||HC takes suo motu cognisance of Rohini court firing, seeks suggestions on security||Taking suo motu cognisance of the recent firing at Rohini court leading to the death of three persons, including a dreaded gangster, the Delhi high court on Thursday issued a notice to the Centre, Delhi government and Delhi Police among other stakeholders seeking suggestions on maintaining security on court premises.Stating that there was a need for a sufficient number of police personnel on the premises and installation of CCTV cameras to increase security, the high court asked the respondents to submit their suggestions in the form of an affidavit. The matter was listed for further hearing on October 5.Also read | Lawyers seek security overhaul after Rohini court shootout left three deadA bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh said that besides proper and effective deployment of sufficient number of police personnel and installation of close-circuit cameras, the entry system also needed to be a foolproof one. Installation of high-tech metal detectors and baggage scanners was required, the HC further said.“We have taken suo motu cognizance of the incident which took place in Rohini court. This court wants valuable suggestions from respondents for security at all court complexes in Delhi,” said the chief justice.On September 27, an application was filed urging the high court to direct the Delhi Police to increase security personnel (in consonance with the sanctioned strength) on premises of lower courts and make functional already installed security apparatus such as X-Ray machines, close-circuit cameras and metal detectors.Also read | ‘Gangster got live updates in jail as courtroom gunfight erupted’The shootout at the Rohini court that left jailed gangster Jitender Gogi and his two assailants posing as lawyers dead had drawn national attention towards the safety of citizens at courts. Video footage of the dramatic shootout showed policemen and lawyers rushing out in panic as gunshots rang out inside courtroom number 207.The two gunmen dressed as lawyers are suspected to be members of rival Tillu gang, an official had said, adding that over 30 shots were fired. (With inputs from bureau and agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-suo-motu-cognisance-of-rohini-court-firing-seeks-suggestion-on-security-101632994307902.html
30-09-2021||India||Rakesh Wadhawan can undergo pacemaker implantation: State to HC||Housing and Development Infrastructure Limited promoter Rakesh Wadhawan, who has been under arrest in the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative Bank fraud case, can undergo dual-chamber pacemaker implantation at Mumbai’s Sir J J Hospital. The Maharashtra prison authorities told the Bombay high court this on Wednesday in response to Wadhawan’s bail plea on health grounds. The KEM Hospital, where Wadhawan has been admitted since the beginning of September, and an expert private consultant have said he needed to undergo pacemaker implantation due to fluctuations in his heart.The KEM Hospital informed single-judge bench of justice Bharati Dangre that it did not have the facility to carry out the implantation. The bench later asked the prison authorities to find out whether any other government hospital in Mumbai had the facility or whether they were willing to allow Wadhawan to undergo the procedure at a private hospital at his own cost.Also Read: Money laundering case: ED summons Shiv Sena MP for questioning in Additional public prosecutor Prajakta Shinde submitted a KEM Hospital letter in the court on Wadhawan’s health condition. The letter said he was also suffering from chronic kidney disease and was advised to undergo the dual chamber pacemaker implantation.Senior advocate Aabad Ponda, who appeared for Wadhawan on September 24, presented the medical report of the consultant before the bench backing the KEM Hospital’s findings.Sir J J Hospital’s cardiology department has said Wadhawan’s clinical examination and assessment of detailed medical records were needed to decide about the stability of his health condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rakesh-wadhawan-can-undergo-pacemaker-implantation-state-to-hc-101632994468720.html
30-09-2021||India||‘Time to put foot down, clear the air’: Former Punjab Congress chief slams Sidhu||Former Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Thursday slammed the incumbent state party chief Navjot Singh Sidhu for trying to “undermine” the aurhority of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi.Jakhar remarked that casting aspersions on the appointment of the state's attorney general and the director general of police is directly questioning the integrity and competence of the chief minister and the home minister. Without directly taking any name, Jakhar posted Twitter that the time has come to “put the foot down and clear the air.”Earlier this week, Sidhu stepped down as the chief of Punjab Congress, saying he will continue to serve the party.In a letter to Congress national chief Sonia Gandhi, Sidhu said he cannot compromise on the future of Punjab."The collapse of a man's character stems from the compromise corner, I can never compromise on Punjab's future and the agenda for the welfare of Punjab. Therefore, I hereby resign as the President of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee," Sidhu wrote in his letter.Sidhu was appointed the chief of Punjab Congress on July 23 following a feud with Captain Amarinder Singh, who resigned as the chief minister of Punjab on September 18.Hours after Sidhu quit, cabinet minister Razia Sultana, Congress state general secretary Yoginder Dhingra and treasurer Gulzar Inder Singh Chahal followed suit in solidarity with him.Even though Sidhu did not explain about the "compromise" part mentioned in his letter to Sonia Gandhi, party insiders said the former cricketer-turned-politician was disappointed that he wasn't named the chief minister after captain Amarinder Singh stepped down. Charanjit Singh Channi assumed the chair of the 27th chief minister of Punjab.ALSO READ | Turmoil in Punjab Congress, ripples felt in DelhiSidhu reportedly criticised the induction of ‘tainted’ MLAs, including Rana Gurjit Singh, into the cabinet of chief minister Channi and appointments of APS Deol as the state’s attorney general and Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota as the state’s director general of police.On Wednesday, Punjab Congress leader Sukhwinder Singh Kaka Kamboj said Sidhu's exit doesn't affect the party's prospects to win the election. Kamboj also termed Sidhu's action as betrayal towards the party.Sidhu was appointed the chief of Punjab Congress on July 23 following a feud with Captain Amarinder Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-to-put-foot-down-clear-the-air-former-punjab-congress-chief-slams-sidhu-101632990102300.html
30-09-2021||India||Action ordered against cops not curbing illegal sand mining in Goa||The Bombay high court at Goa has slammed the authorities for failing to crack down on illegal sand mining and ordered police patrolling, seizure and destruction of canoes and impounding of trucks that transport the sand while observing that the authorities were ever ready to be hoodwinked. “Despite several orders, illegal sand mining activity continues… The authorities, who were duty-bound to prevent this sand mining, do not appear to be seriously interested in implementing the orders made by us from time to time. According to us, the persons involved in illegal sand mining are out to hoodwink the authorities. Unfortunately, we find that in many cases even the authorities appear to be too eager to be hoodwinked,” the high court bench of justices M S Sonak and M S Jawalkar, said. The court said that the police authorities, in particular, are most lax when it comes to preventing illegal and unauthorized sand mining. “The director general of police (DGP) must issue strict instructions to the concerned police stations to render all possible cooperation to the authorities taking steps to prevent illegal sand mining. The DGP should also issue strict instructions to all the concerned police stations to attend to the complaints about illegal sand mining, promptly,” the court said.It added that there were instances of cops simply refusing to come to the illegal mining sites and directed the DGP to take action against such police officials who indulge in dereliction of duties. The high court said two sites were ‘hotspots’ of sand mining and directed the authorities to install CCTVs there within 15 days as well as place police personnel round the clock. Also Read: Ahead of Goa polls, Shiv Sena calls BJP real ‘beef party’, will field candidates on 22 seats Goa’s estuarine rivers are hotspots for sand mining as sand from upstream is deposited in areas where the fresh water meets the sea, leading to siltation and the natural formation of sand banks, which are then dredged by the sand miners. However, the miners have been dredging in other areas as well, causing the banks of rivers to collapse, resulting in loss of agricultural land and destruction of crops. In the case of one of the hotspots under a river bridge, the dredging is posing a threat to the foundation of the bridge itself, the high court observed. The court also said that seized canoes are to be “kept at a secured location, away from the river banks.” “These canoes have no good reason to remain parked on the government property. The government also has no good reason to permit such canoes to be parked on its property, particularly when these properties appear to be hot-spots for illegal sand mining,” the HC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/action-ordered-against-cops-not-curbing-illegal-sand-mining-in-goa-101632993331667.html
30-09-2021||India||Amarinder Singh says he will leave Congress but won't join BJP||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday said he won't be staying with the Congress, but dismissed speculations of joining the BJP, a day after he met Union home minister Amit Shah at Shah's residence in New Delhi. The former Punjab chief minister was speaking to a television channel as he said, "So far, I am in the Congress but I will not remain in the Congress. I will not be treated in this manner." Later, his office issued a statement regarding this. Amarinder Singh's media advisor Raveen Thukral also tweeted the interview clippings on his social media handle. On the question of floating a new party, Amarinder Singh said time will tell what will happen. "So you are neither in Congress nor in BJP?" Amarinder Singh was asked. "I have not resigned from the Congress yet but I will resign. I am not one of those who decide on a split second. One has to think of various pros and cons before making a decision. But I can tell you I am not going to stay with the Congress. I am not going to join BJP also," Amarinder Singh said.This is the first time that Amarinder Singh talked about leaving the party. His resignation from the post of Punjab chief minister with a few months left for the election was bitter as he said how insulted and humiliated he felt by the treatment of the party high command. However, he never specifically spoke of leaving the party, though he had said he would oppose Navjot Sidhu as the chief minister by fielding a strong candidate against him. Amid speculations of Amarinder Singh's next political move, the Captain met Union home minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday. Later, Amarinder Singh said that he urged Amit Shah to repeal the three contentious farm laws.On Thursday, Amarinder Singh met national security advisor Ajit Doval possibly to discuss the security issues of Punjab, the bordering state. Earlier, Amarinder Singh had said Navjot Singh Sidhu is a threat to India's national security because of his closeness with Pakistan army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa.Amarinder Singh's association with the Congress goes a long way as he was brought into the party by the late Rajiv Gandhi. He was first elected to the Lok Sabha in 1980 and resigned from the Congress as a protest during Operation Blue Star. He had formed a splinter group breaking away from the Akali Dal and his outfit merged with the Congress in 1998. After resigning from the chief minister's post, Amarinder Singh often talked about his connection with the Congress and said Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi are like his children and they are being misled regarding Punjab. In the interview with NDTV, Amarinder Singh again slammed Navjot Singh Sidhu and said he is an entertainer while the job of the Punjab Congress chief is a serious one.  The Captain, however, is confident about new chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi. "Channi can do a good job but that fellow (Sidhu) needs to allow him to do his work," Amarinder Singh told NDTV.Amarinder Singh on CongressA day after senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal questioned the Congress leadership over the present crisis of the party, Amarinder Singh said senior Congressmen are thinkers, critical to the future of the party.  The younger leadership should be promoted to implement the plans, which the senior leaders are best equipped to formulate, Amarinder Singh said. "Unfortunately, the seniors were being completely sidelined which is not good for the party," he said condemning the attack on Kapil Sibal’s house by Congress workers hours after he said G-23 is not 'Ji Huzoor 23'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-says-he-will-leave-congress-but-won-t-join-bjp-report-101632991635522.html
30-09-2021||India||Jignesh Mevani brings spotlight back on anti-defection laws||Gujarat lawmaker Jignesh Mevani’s decision to support the Congress but not to join it immediately has turned the spotlight again on the Tenth Schedule defining India’s anti-defection laws.Congress leaders said Mevani initially planned to join the Congress but was reminded that the move risks him losing his membership of the Gujarat assembly. “It was felt that since there is more than a year left for the Gujarat assembly polls (due)...in the winter of 2022, it would not be appropriate to quit as a legislator,” said one of the leaders, who did not want to be named.Mewani said Rahul Gandhi told him signing of the Congress’s membership form can be done later even as his friend, former student leader Kanhaiya Kumar, joined the party on September 28.In 2019, the Karnataka assembly speaker suspended an independent member for joining the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) days before the Janata Dal (Secular)-Congress government collapsed in the state. Five Karnataka lawmakers were earlier suspended when as they declared themselves as associate BJP members in 2010.As per the Tenth Schedule, included in the Constitution in 1985 through the 52nd amendment: “An elected member of a House who has been elected as such otherwise than as a candidate set up by any political party shall be disqualified for being a member of the House if he joins any political party after such election.”Also Read: ‘Out of gutter, into the drain’: Vijayvargiya on Kanhaiya Kumar joining Congress Mevani and Congress also avoided having the former as an associate member. Associate membership has no constitutional or legal value in the schedule. He announced he would fight the next poll on Congress ticket.When the Communist Party of India (Marxist) expelled Rajya Sabha member Ritabrata Banerjee in 2017, he did not immediately switch over to the Trinamool Congress (TMC) but remained an independent member for the remainder of the term. Like Mevani, Banerjee just pledged support for TMC.On September 28, Gandhi presented Mevani a copy of the Congress’s constitution. His entry into Congress will happen only before the Gujarat polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jignesh-mevani-brings-spotlight-back-on-anti-defection-laws-101632991708585.html
30-09-2021||India||Farmers protest: SC asks how can highways be blocked perpetually||The Supreme Court on Thursday called for redressal through judicial forum, agitation or parliamentary debates while referring to the nearly year-long blockade of highways by farmers over the three farms laws."The redressal of problems can be through judicial forum, agitation or through Parliamentary debates. But how can the highways be blocked and this is happening perpetually. Where does this end?” the apex court said.A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh was hearing a petition for removal of the road blockades along the borders of Delhi.Stating that it was the executive's duty to implement the law laid down by the court, the SC allowed the Centre to file a formal application to make some farmer unions party to the plea seeking opening of road blockade along the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border at UP Gate. The matter will be heard next Monday when the application is filed.Supreme Court says redressal can be through judicial forum, agitation or parliamentary debates & asks how can highways be blocked & this can't be a perpetual problem, while hearing a plea for removing the road blockades by farmers due to protest pic.twitter.com/tKzzRg9BcMA Noida resident, Monicca Agrawaal, had filed the petition seeking the withdrawal of the roadblock stating it took two hours to reach Delhi from the area, a stretch that could be covered in 20 minutes before the stir began.The bench asked additional solicitor general KM Nataraj what was the government doing in the matter.Nataraj said a meeting had been convened with the protesting farmers and details of the same were mentioned in the affidavit.The bench said, “We may lay down a law but how to implement the law is your business. The court cannot implement it. It is the executive who has to implement it”.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta agreed that it was the duty of the executive to implement the law.The bench said, “When we lay down the law, you will say it is encroachment and we trespassed into the domain of the executive. This has ramifications but there are also grievances which need to be addressed. This cannot be a perpetual problem”.Mehta said a three-member committee was formed to address the grievances of the farmers, but the representatives of the aggrieved agri community refused to join in the discussions.Mehta said the court should allow the petitioner to make the farmers union party to the petition, so that later they would not be able to say that they were not made parties in the matter.The bench told Mehta that it was he who had to move an application for making farmers representative party as the petitioner, a private individual, may not know who their leaders were.“If you feel that someone is to be made party, you will have to make a request. You move a formal application giving details about the steps taken to resolve their grievances and how the impleadment of representatives of farmers will help in the resolution of the dispute”, the bench said, while listing the plea for hearing on October 4. Mehta said an application would be filed by Friday.On August 23, the top court had said that the Centre and Delhi's neighbouring states should find a solution to road blockades on the national capital's borders due to farmers' protest.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-sc-asks-how-can-highways-be-blocked-perpetually-101632988518182.html
30-09-2021||India||Kanpur businessman, allegedly killed in police raid, cremated today||Body of Kanpur realtor Manish Gupta, killed allegedly in a brutal assault by Gorakhpur policemen in a hotel earlier this week, was cremated at 5am on Thursday.His family had earlier refused to cremate the body unless their demands were met by the administration, but following repeated persuasion by Kanpur police, they agreed. The body was taken to Bhairon Ghat in Kanpur at 4 am and cremated in heavy police presence by a few relatives.Earlier in the morning, Gupta’s wife Meenakshi Gupta said she didn’t want any politics over her husbands death. “I need justice and help me get that,” she said in a tweet.The cremation was a big challenge ahead of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s visit to Kanpur and neighbouring Unnao. The CM is likely to meet the Gupta family at the DAV school ground where he was likely to address a public meeting in preparation for the assembly polls next year.Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav met the family and assured them of all help. The Congress general secretary, Priyanka Gandhi, too, had spoken to the family over the phone.On Wednesday, a case of murder was registered against six policemen allegedly involved in the realtor’s death.Also Read: UP CM Adityanath orders FIRs against policemen in Gorakhpur raid case36-year-old Manish Gupta died on Monday during a police raid in a Gorakhpur hotel where he was staying with his two friends from Gurugram. His family alleged that the policemen had thrashed him brutally. Six policemen, suspected to be involved, went missing after the incident and were booked on CM Yogi Adityanath’s instruction.Gorakhpur superintendent of police (SSP) Vipin Tada said: “Prima facie in this case, we had suspended six policemen. Now, on the basis of a complaint by the deceased’s family, we have filed a case against the six cops.”Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati and Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav slammed the law and order in the state.“The state of jungle law is such under this government that police are soft on criminals and behave barbarously with common people,” Priyanka tweeted on Wednesday. In a series of tweets, Mayawati said the incident exposed the BJP government’s claims about law and order. Akhilesh Yadav said the incident was an outcome of the “police encounter culture” that the BJP government gave birth to. He demanded that all the accused are tried for murder. Mayawati has demanded a CBI probe into the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kanpur-man-killed-in-police-raid-cremated-6-cops-booked-101632988528203.html
30-09-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1pm: Fuel prices hiked across India and other news updates||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Diesel prices bounced back to the record price of ₹89.87 per litre in Delhi on Thursday after state-run fuel retailers raised its rate by 30 paise a litre, which is the fifth hike in seven days, resulting in the fuel rate surging by ₹1.25 a litre. Read morePrime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday virtually dedicated to the nation the Central Institute of Petrochemicals Engineering and Technology (CIPET), located in Rajasthan's Jaipur. The occasion also saw PM Modi lay foundation stone of a medical college each in Banswara, Dausa, Hanumangarh and Sirohi districts of the state. Read moreSunil Gavaskar identified KL Rahul and Rishabh Pant as the possible vice-captains for the Indian T20I side after Rohit Sharma takes over from Virat Kohli at the completion of the ICC T20 World Cup in UAE and Oman in October-November. Gavaskar, who had expressed his thoughts of seeing Rohit as the India for the ‘next two T20 World Cups’ in UAE and then in Australia, put his weight behind Punjab Kings skipper KL Rahul and Delhi Capitals captain Rishabh Pant to be Rohit's deputies. Read moreA contemporary fashion that is a preferred choice of people of all class and ages is the fusion wear which is a creative blend of styles of any two or more cultures and Tamannaah Bhatia was seen slaying the same at MasterChef Telugu. Though her silhouette was basically from Western influence, it was blended with Indian textiles and styling that made us fall in love instantly with her look. Read moreMahindra XUV700 is close to an official launch in the Indian car market with the company on Thursday announcing that the bookings process of the much-awaited SUV will start from October 7. The XUV700 will be offered in multiple variants, transmission and seating options. Read moreHiring Hans Zimmer for a project is a spoiler in itself. Here, the legendary German composer has been given essentially the same responsibility that he had on The Dark Knight Rises; being a companion to a character on their last legs, holding out a hand when they need it the most, and providing support when they’re all by themselves. Besides star Daniel Craig himself, Zimmer’s score has perhaps the greatest impact in the moving final moments of No Time to Die, the actor’s fifth and final film as Commander James Bond; a melodrama masquerading as a muscular action picture. Read moreA middle-aged woman was seen fighting a leopard with her stick as it tried to attack her. The bone-chilling incident took place in Mumbai's Aarey colony on Wednesday evening. A CCTV footage of the incident showed the leopard lying in wait outside a house. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-fuel-prices-hiked-across-india-and-other-news-updates-101632984812364.html
30-09-2021||India||Navjot Singh Sidhu to meet Channi at 3pm, day after Punjab CM said 'let's talk'||Navjot Singh Sidhu, the man who triggered a political turmoil in Punjab, on Thursday reciprocated chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi's offer of talks saying he will reach Chandigarh Bhavan at 3pm. Sidhu resigned as the chief of the Congress party's Punjab unit, miffed over some appointments in the Channi cabinet. The chief minister had said that differences over these issues can be resolved through talks.Also Read: Punjab Congress in turmoil, ripples felt in Delhi"Chief Minister has invited me for talks … will reciprocate by reaching Punjab Bhawan, Chandigarh at 3:00 PM today, he is welcome for any discussions!" Sidhu said on Twitter.Chief Minister has invited me for talks … will reciprocate by reaching Punjab Bhawan, Chandigarh at 3:00 PM today, he is welcome for any discussions !He had expressed his anguished in a video message on Wednesday by raising questions over the appointments of the director general of police and the state's advocate general. Sidhu said that his objective had always been to improve the lives of people and “to make a difference”.“My fight is for the issues and an agenda of Punjab,” he said in an over four-minute video clip shared on his Twitter handle.In an apparent reference to the 2015 sacrilege incidents in Faridkot, Sidhu said those who gave clean chits to the Badals six years ago had been given the responsibility of delivering justice. DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota was the head of a special investigation team (SIT) formed in 2015 by the then Akali government to probe the sacrilege incidents. He also apparently questioned the appointment of senior advocate APS Deol as the new advocate general of Punjab. “My soul jitters when I see those who secured blanket bails, they are advocate general. What is the agenda here?” he asked.Also Read: Appointments of 2 officers at the centre of Punjab Congress crisisSidhu's announcement today about the talks came after Channi reached out to him on Wednesday, and offered to resolve issues through talks. The newly-appointed chief minister Channi said the party is supreme and the government follows its ideology."I have spoken to Sidhu sahab over the telephone today. The party is supreme and the government accepts the party's ideology and follows that. (I told him that) You come, sit and talk," Channi told reporters on Wednesday.Efforts are on to placate Sidhu with several party leaders, including ministers Pargat Singh and Amarinder Singh Raja Warring, meeting him at his residence in Patiala.Sidhu has remained confined to his home ever since he resigned.His sudden resignation came as first major political crisis for Channi who took over as Punjab chief minister just 10 days ago. Sidhu resigned barely 72 days after he was appointed the chief of Punjab's Congress unit, pushing the party into a fresh crisis in poll-bound Punjab before it could recover from months of turmoil caused by a bitter tussle between Sidhu and his bête noire, then chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, left the party divided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navjot-singh-sidhu-to-meet-channi-at-3pm-day-after-punjab-cm-said-let-s-talk-101632983340681.html
30-09-2021||India||Kejriwal offers ‘health guarantee’ in Punjab along lines of Delhi: 6 promises||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday offered six promises in Punjab – what he referred to as a “health guarantee” – if the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) came to power in the state after the next assembly elections. Among his offers were free health benefits at public hospitals across the state, treatment at which he promised would be on par with private healthcare. He also said that similar to Delhi, all medicines, tests, treatments, and operations would be free of cost if his party came to power in the state. Kejriwal, however, did not name a chief ministerial candidate for Punjab but promised that an announcement will be made in this regard in due time. He also didn't confirm if former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh would be joining the AAP, calling the theory “hypothetical”.Also Read | Power in 2022: Arvind Kejriwal in Punjab to address problems of industrialists#KejriwalDiDujiGuarantee1️⃣FREE & QUALITY Healthcare for ALL2️⃣All Medicines, Tests, Operations to be FREE3️⃣Health-card for All4️⃣16000 Pind/Mohalla Clinics5️⃣New World-class Govt Hospitals to be built, old ones to be revamped6️⃣Free treatment of all Road Accident Victims pic.twitter.com/Kw87YIT4h6Addressing a press conference in Punjab's Ludhiana, Kejriwal said that except for the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh, all other government-run health centres and institutions in the state are in a “pitiable condition” forcing the common people to look for options at private hospitals. “These private hospitals, in turn, loot the public; meanwhile the government has a serious shortage of staff and infrastructure in its healthcare facilities,” he said.AAP president Arvind Kejriwal announced six guarantees related to healthcare for Punjab residents based on the Delhi model, if the party wins power in the next assembly elections:1. Every Punjab resident to get free and quality treatment.2. All medicines, diagnostic tests, and surgical procedures to be free of cost in government hospitals across the state. “We will ensure all medicines are available and we will ensure the machines are functional. Even expensive surgeries costing ₹15 lakh will be free,” the AAP chief said.3. Every Punjab citizen will get a health card. That card will have all the information and reports pertaining to the person.4. On lines of Delhi's Mohalla Clinic, the AAP chief promised to open ‘Pind Clinics’ at every nook and corner of the rural areas and ward clinics in cities. As many as 16,000 such clinics will be set up across the state, Kejriwal said.5. The infrastructure of all government hospitals in the state will be improved and they will be made fully air-conditioned with all facilities readily available.6. Anyone meeting with an accident will be rushed to the nearest hospital and the cost for their treatment will be borne by the Punjab government, irrespective of whether it is a private or state-run hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-offers-health-guarantee-in-punjab-along-lines-of-delhi-6-promises-101632983072843.html
30-09-2021||India||Amarinder Singh meets NSA Ajit Doval day after talks with Amit Shah||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh met national security advisor Ajit Doval on Thursday. While more information on the visit is yet to emerge, the meeting holds significance coming a day after Singh held talks with Union home minister Amit Shah.Singh, who resigned as the chief minister recently citing months-long humiliation by a section of Congress leaders, said he spoke to Shah about the three centrally introduced agri laws, which have led to massive farmers protests, amid rising speculations over his switching over to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Delhi: Former Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh leaves from the residence of NSA Ajit Doval pic.twitter.com/1pusKM9HhOFollowing Navjot Singh Sidhu’s sudden resignation as the state Congress chief putting the party in fresh turmoil, Singh had said the former was not a stable man fit for a border state like Pakistan. Earlier too, he had raised fears of unrest in Punjab having a larger impact on the country’s security.Also read | Congress Punjab crisis: Ripples felt in Delhi as Amarinder meets Amit ShahMeanwhile, some reports suggested the Congress has been reaching out to its tallest leader in Punjab days after he called it quits as the chief minister and said his options were open. Top functionaries of the grand old party like Ambika Soni and Kamal Nath are said to be making all efforts to pacify him.Some of his loyalists have also been accommodated in the recently announced cabinet in Punjab headed by Charanjit Singh Channi, who took over following Singh’s exit.Also read | Border state like Punjab deserves better, says MP Manish TewariChanni will meet Sidhu later in the day as tweeted by the latter, who was reportedly unhappy with the new cabinet and had resigned over soaring differences. “Chief Minister has invited me for talks … will reciprocate by reaching Punjab Bhawan, Chandigarh at 3:00 PM today, he is welcome for any discussions,” the cricketer-turned-politician wrote on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-meets-nsa-ajit-doval-day-after-talks-with-amit-shah-101632982883588.html
30-09-2021||India||Diesel rates bounced back to record ₹89.87 a litre on Thursday||Diesel prices bounced back to the record price of ₹89.87 per litre in Delhi on Thursday after state-run fuel retailers raised its rate by 30 paise a litre, which is the fifth hike in seven days, resulting in the fuel rate surging by ₹1.25 a litre.The recent price hikes also saw petrol becoming costlier by 45 paise a litre after its rate was raised by 25 paise on Thursday, which is the second hike in three days. Petrol is now sold at ₹101.64 a litre in Delhi.While fuel rates of Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) in Delhi are benchmarks for the entire country, retail prices of the two fuels differ from place to place because of variations in state taxes and local levies.Domestic rates of petrol and diesel continue to soar even as international crude oil prices retreated marginally from $80 a barrel mark it had achieved during Tuesday. Benchmark Brent crude on Thursday opened at $78.46 a barrel, down by 0.23%.An executive working in a public sector oil company said on condition of anonymity that fuel retailers calibrated raising domestic rates of petrol and diesel even as international oil prices saw a northward movement from mid-September and it breached the $80 a barrel mark. “Companies are recovering past dues as the full impact of international oil price hike was not immediately passed on to the customer,” he said.State-run oil refiners are cautiously watching the international oil price movement, which is volatile and expected to move up due to rising demand and continued supply squeeze by the oil cartel -- the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies, including Russia (together known as OPEC+).Also Read: Reduce taxes, give relief to common man: Gehlot to Centre on fuel price hike Domestic petrol prices saw first upward movement from Tuesday after July 17, when it hit an all-time high of ₹101.84 per litre. However, the recent diesel price rally started a bit early from Friday after it was last hiked on July 15 to the record ₹89.87 a litre.Prices are also moving up because the rupee is depreciating against the dollar, which makes imports costlier, the executives said. India imports more than 80% crude oil it processes and pays in dollar. Customers should not expect any instant relief as fuel prices may not soften immediately, he said.Before the recent rally that started from Friday, oil companies had reduced petrol and diesel rates in small doses by 65 paise per litre (petrol) and ₹1.25 (diesel) between mid-August and early September to pass the benefit of global oil price softening, which had plunged to $68.23 per barrel on August 18.According to International Energy Agency (IEA) and OPEC, global demand is expected to outpace supply due to which international oil prices will likely remain firm in the near to mid-term. A simultaneous rally in natural gas is also likely to drive demand for alternate fuels, including crude oil, the executive said.Global demand for crude oil has been increasing consistently with the easing of pandemic restrictions and improving vaccination rates, he said. “Crude Oil prices have reached to near three-year high as global output disruptions have forced energy companies to draw more crude oil out of their stockpiles. Accordingly, US crude oil inventory levels are also nearing a three-year low,” he added.“On the supply side, OPEC+ alliance has been slow in easing output restrictions, contributing to the tightened supply in the market. Additionally, hurricanes Ida and Nicholas have impacted crude oil production in the US Gulf of Mexico region, when they hit in late August and September respectively,” he said.International oil rates, which are often volatile, directly influence pump prices of petrol and diesel in India. Heavy loads of central and state taxes are also responsible for astronomically high rates of the auto fuels.Through 2020, as global crude prices plunged (below $20 a barrel in April last year), the Central government raised excise duty on fuel to shore up its finances. States too followed suit as their revenues were hit on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. As a result, the central and state levies on petrol and diesel are over 50% of their retail prices. According to official data, the petroleum sector contributed ₹371,726 crore Central excise revenue in 2020-21, and ₹202,937 crore state levies or value-added tax (VAT). In Delhi, Central levies account for over 32.5% of petrol’s price, and state taxes (VAT) 23.07%. On diesel, the Central excise is over 35.8% while VAT is more than 14.6%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/diesel-rates-bounced-back-to-record-rs-89-87-a-litre-on-thursday-101632983187982.html
30-09-2021||India||HC upholds Odisha’s move to award liquor shop licences via lottery system||The Orissa high court on Wednesday upheld the government’s move to award liquor shop licences through a lottery system. It said while auction could be one of the modes for allotting the licences, it is not invariably the only method to be adopted.The court rejected a bunch of petitions against the lottery system adopted this year. A division bench of chief justice S Muralidhar and justice BP Routray said the ideal method of determining the fee to be paid is best left to the government. “It is not possible to accept the contention of the petitioners that auction is the only and the best method for parting with the exclusive privilege for sale of liquor.”Also Read: OJEE result 2021 declared; 49,279 candidates allotted ranks The lottery system was adopted to issue licences for 1,156 Indian-Made Foreign Liquor shops and 240 country liquor shops. Under the system, an applicant has to submit a non-refundable application fee of ₹1 lakh online to participate in the lottery. The state government received 19,416 applications for the 1,297 licences with five-year validity.Petitioners contended that there is no provision in the Odisha Excise Act for introducing the lottery system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-upholds-odisha-s-move-to-award-liquor-shop-licences-via-lottery-system-101632981567566.html
30-09-2021||India||Govt to open science museums across India: minister||Union minister of state for science and technology Jitendra Singh has said the government will set up science museums across the country to promote scientific temper. He called for “imbibing scientific thinking to face the challenges of the 21st century.”Singh was speaking after the signing of a memorandum of understanding (MOU) on Wednesday to set up science museums at select Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) laboratories to promote scientific curiosity and awareness. He said the Covid-19 pandemic has emphasised the importance of increasing scientific awareness of society and perpetuating scientific thinking.Singh referred to the Prime Minister’s speech at the UN general assembly this month in which Narendra Modi pointed to the threat of regressive thinking and extremism. He reiterated that science-based, rational and progressive thinking must form the basis for development. Singh said India is strengthening science-based approaches by promoting experience-based learning. He noted the MoU is a step in this direction and will create “a new chapter in the history of science communication and dissemination.” He said it is a matter of pride as this is happening at the opportune time when the nation is celebrating the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav to mark 75 years of India’s independence.Also Read: Want to live forever? Theoretically, you could, study says Singh lauded CSIR’s initiative of setting up virtual labs in partnership with the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay for school students. He welcomed the move of CSIR, and the National Council of Science Museums to set up a museum to showcase technologies and interventions CSIR has developed over the last eight decades.“The museums should not be static but must be dynamic and engaging and should emerge as crucibles of innovation,” he said. “We must tap into the curiosity and enthusiasm of students and youth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-open-science-museums-across-india-minister-101632981147564.html
30-09-2021||India||'Shocked, disgusted': Anand Sharma slams 'hooliganism' outside Sibal's house||Congress leader Anand Sharma has said he is "shocked and disgusted" over the protest outside Kapil Sibal's house. Sharma said on Twitter that such attack has brought disrepute to the party.Reacting to the political turmoil the Congress is facing in Punjab, Sibal had demanded "open dialogue and introspection", questioning the lack of clarity in the decision-making process. This led to protest outside his house by Congress workers who carried placards that read 'Get well soon, Kapil Sibal'."Shocked and disgusted to hear the news of attack and hooliganism at Kapil Sibal's house. This deplorable action brings disrepute to the party and needs to be strongly condemned," Sharma said in a series of tweets.Congress has a history of upholding freedom of expression . differences of opinion and perception are integral to a democracy. Intolerance and violence is alien to Congress values and culture.He asserted that Congress has a history of upholding freedom of expression. Those responsible must be identified and disciplined, Sharma said."Urging Congress president Smt Sonia Gandhi to take cognisance and strong action," he said in a tweet.Sharma, along with Sibal, is part of the 'Group of 23' dissenters which last year had written to Gandhi seeking organisational overhaul of the Congress party.Addressing a press conference in Delhi on Wednesday, Sibal emphasised that G-23 group was not made up of yes men: “We are G23 but not ‘ji huzoor (yes, lordship) 23’.”“We don’t have a president. So, who’s taking the decisions? We all know and yet we don’t know. We want a CWC meeting for a dialogue to take place,” Sibal added.The former Union minister clarified that the G-23 leaders did not plan to exit the party.Several leaders hit out at Sibal for what they said was questioning the leadership from which he had earlier "benefitted".“My appeal to Mr Sibal and others like him is that they should not denigrate the organisation which has given them political identity by rushing to the media every then and now,” Congress general secretary Ajay Maken told news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shocked-disgusted-anand-sharma-slams-hooliganism-outside-sibal-s-house-101632978829772.html
30-09-2021||India||5 dead, 2 missing as bus plunges into river in Meghalaya; rescue ops on||Five persons have died and 16 others were injured when a bus carrying passengers fell into a river in East Garo Hills district of Meghalaya around midnight on Wednesday, officials informed. According to the East Garo Hills police, the incident took place when a Meghalaya Transport Corporation bus carrying 21 passengers and crew fell into the Ringdi river at Nongchram, around 185 km from the state capital. Rescue and fire and emergency services were rushed to the spot immediately after receiving information. A police control room official informed that five people have been confirmed dead. The injured have been admitted at hospitals in Williamnagar and Tura. Also Read: Meghalaya gets first native woman head of bureaucracy “Rescue efforts are still underway as two of the passengers are missing. We hope to find them soon,” East Garo Hills deputy commissioner, Swapnil Tembe, said. Police said nine of the passengers were from Tura while 12 were from Williamnagar. Family members of the passengers have been asked to call East Garo Hills police control room number 8794765696 for more information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-dead-2-missing-as-bus-plunges-into-river-in-meghalaya-rescue-on-101632978507518.html
30-09-2021||India||Venkaiah Naidu to inaugurate helpline for senior citizens on Friday||Vice president Venkaiah Naidu will inaugurate Elder Line, a helpline for senior citizens on the occasion of International Day of Older Persons on Friday. The Ministry of Empowerment and Social Justice (MOSJE) has set up the helpline.“MOSJE decided to establish state helplines at each state level and have a single call management platform and a unique number (14567) that will enable services for the senior citizens through a National level structure. Thus, the Elder Line was conceptualized,” said a statement from the ministry. It added Elder Line will operate on all seven days of the week from 8 am to 8 pm since it is categorised under non-emergency service.Also Read: Incidence of falls among senior citizens can be reduced: SPPU study The Elder line has two key components. It will have a connect centre with officers for understanding the problems faced by the elderly. There will also be field support to take care of “on the field” interventions for services requested by senior citizens.The Elder Line has been made operational on the toll-free number in Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Karnataka, and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naidu-to-inaugurate-helpline-for-senior-citizens-on-friday-101632978027313.html
30-09-2021||India||Bengal bypolls: TMC's Anarul Haque held hours after bombs hurled in Samserganj||A leader of the ruling Trinamool Congress was arrested on Thursday a little after the by-election to the Samserganj Assembly seat began at 7am. Bombs were hurled in the constituency a few hours before voting started and Anarul Haque was arrested in this connection.TMC candidate Amirul Islam, who was seen making rounds of booths, said he was only making sure that his agents were present at each polling station and it was his duty to keep an eye on the same.According to local reports, Islam said Haque and his armed loyalists had attacked a TMC worker's house in the area and they were led by Congress candidate Jaidur Rahaman. Also read | TMC eyes Samserganj seat in Murshidabad amid Congress-Left differencesRahaman, however, said nobody from the Congress was involved in the bombings and it was entirely an issue of inner fighting in the ruling camp. Anarul is Rahaman's nephew.Election could not be held in Samserganj as scheduled on April 26 -- when the seventh of the eight-phase election in Bengal was held -- because Congress candidate Rezaul Haque passed away due to Covid-19 in early April.Islam had defeated CPI (M)’s Touab Ali in the 2016 polls by about 2000 votes.This time, the CPI(M) and Congress have fielded separate candidates even though the two parties had contested the March-April polls as allies. The Left nominee for the seat is Md Modassar Hossain. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) contender is debutant Milan Ghosh.Also read | Bhabanipur bypoll: EC rejects BJP claim of booth rigging, cites mock poll delayMeanwhile, the Election Commission has been tweeting about smooth polls being underway in the minority-dominated constituency. Till 9am, 16.32 per cent polling was recorded across the seat.Besides Samserganj, bypolls are being held in the keenly watched Bhabanipur Jangipur constituencies. Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee is seeking a seat to the Assembly from Bhabanipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-bypolls-tmc-s-anarul-haque-held-hours-after-bombs-hurled-in-samserganj-101632977603173.html
30-09-2021||India||Meghalaya gets first native woman head of bureaucracy||Rebecca Vanessa Suchiang, a 1989-batch Indian Administrative Service officer, has been appointed as Meghalaya’s chief secretary, making her the first native woman of the state to head its bureaucracy. PP Trivedi was the first woman chief secretary of Meghalaya in the late 80s.Suchiang, who had served in departments such as home, finance, personnel, said she feels honoured to have become the first Khasi woman to get the coveted post. “I hope that my service and life can inspire our young brilliant boys and girls… girls specially to believe that no mountain is insurmountable.” She said her message to her colleagues is to remain “committed and ensure you are fair to the people and impartial”.Also Read: Meghalaya Police plan action over letter related to ex-rebel’s killing She said as a public servant, she will ensure the greater good of the state. She refused to elaborate on her immediate plans. “I do not want to hide behind platitudes or excuses. I want to accept the truth as it is and work towards a solution. This will help me carry on the good work of my predecessors and mentors of ensuring good and prompt governance to the people...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meghalaya-gets-first-native-woman-head-of-bureaucracy-101632977547265.html
30-09-2021||India||55-year-old woman, domestic help found dead near Dehradun||A 55-year-old woman and her domestic help were found murdered at Dhaulas near Dehradun in Uttarakhand on Tuesday. Police said Unnati Sharma, the woman, lived with her husband Subhash Sharma, 75, and Rajkumar Thapa, 50, the domestic help.Senior police superintendent Janmejay Khanduri said Subhash Sharma told them he returned home after a morning walk with his wife and did not find Thapa. The husband added his wife went to search for Thapa and did not return too. “It was then he informed the police..,” said Khanduri. He added soon the bodies covered in polythene sheets were found in the courtyard of the couple’s house. Khanduri cited the stiffening of the limbs and said it suggested the two had died 12 to 13 hours before the matter was reported. He added a case has been registered and a probe was on.Also Read: 4-year-old child killed by leopard in front of mother in Uttarakhand An investigator, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said an initial probe suggested the two were murdered after being hit with a blunt object. “It is very unusual that (Subhash) Sharma did not hear any screams or cries when both of them were killed despite being present in the house at the same time. It also seems that they were not murdered by burglars as they would not take the bodies out of the rooms and then cover them with a polythene sheet. Police are not ruling out anything...”He said Subhash Sharma spent 40 years in the UK where he worked in a fashion designing company. A native of Rajasthan, he came to Dehradun about 15 years ago. His wife had come a year earlier. The couple’s two children live in the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-domestic-help-found-dead-near-dehradun-101632976707207.html
30-09-2021||India||Panel to look into Mehbooba Mufti’s letter over ‘harassment’ of scribes||The Press Council of India (PCI) has constituted a three-member fact-finding committee to look into alleged intimidation and harassment of journalists in Jammu and Kashmir. The move comes days after former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti wrote a letter to the PCI highlighting the issues. Dainik Bhaskar’s group editor Prakash Dubey, Gurbir Singh of The New Indian Express, and Jan Morcha editor Suman Gupta will be part of the panel.In a statement on Wednesday, the PCI said the committee will regulate its own procedure and requested authorities in Jammu and Kashmir to extend full cooperation and assistance to the panel.Mufti on Monday wrote to the PCI and Editors Guild of India about the “systematic harassment” of journalists in Jammu and Kashmir. She urged the PCI to send a fact-finding team to independently verify the allegations and take remedial action. In her letter titled “Intimidation, snooping and harassment of journalists in Jammu and Kashmir”, Mufti wrote about police raids at homes of journalists in Kashmir this month. She also tweeted a questionnaire from the administration seeking “personal and bizarre information” from journalists.Also Read: Mehbooba Mufti says locked in her house yet again on way to visit Tral “On one hand pliable journalists are para-dropped here to parrot the normalcy narrative. But local journalists who work under tremendous pressure & speak truth to power are punished,” she tweeted.The PCI has asked the panel to talk to the authorities as well as the affected journalists. “The committee is required to make a thorough probe into the matter holding discussions with the concerned authorities and the affected journalists and collect such information as it deems fit to submit its report to the council at the earliest, “ it said.In a tweet, Mufti thanked the PCI for constituting the committee. “Thankful to the @PressCouncil_IN for their decision to constitute a fact finding committee to probe about journalists being harassed in J&K. Hope the local administration ensures their full cooperation so that this committee can discharge its duty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panel-to-look-into-mufti-s-letter-over-harassment-of-scribes-101632976287485.html
30-09-2021||India||India's new Covid case tally again crosses 20k-mark, active count still lowest||The country’s coronavirus pandemic scenario worsened slightly on Thursday with about a 25 per cent rise in fresh cases over last day’s figures. Following two straight days of fresh case tally remaining below the 20,000-mark, India registered 23,529 cases in the last 24 hours.According to updated data available with the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the active caseload has, however, remained below one per cent of the total cases at 0.82 per cent, the lowest since March 2020. The active caseload now stood at 2,77,020, while the total number of virus-related cases registered so far was 3,37,39,980.Also read | Centre urges people to spend festive season at home with familiesAt 97.85 per cent, recoveries are also at the highest since March last year with 28,718 patients declared officially cured from the disease in the last one day.As many as 311 people also lost their fight with the viral disease during the same period taking the total death toll to 4,48,062.The ministry said 65,34,306 doses of vaccines against Covid-19 were administered in the last 24 hours. This pushed the total number of inoculations done since the drive’s launch earlier this year to 88,34,70,578.Also read | Delhi schools to reopen remaining classes in phased manner Earlier, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said 15,06,254 samples were tested for the virus on Wednesday, taking the total number of tests conducted so far to detect the disease to 56,89,56,439.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-new-covid-case-tally-again-crosses-20k-mark-active-count-still-lowest-101632975377877.html
30-09-2021||India||Army organises cycle rally to commemorate heroes of 1971 war||On the occasion of Swarnim Vijay Varsh and Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, Strike One, or 1 Corps of the Indian Army, organised a commemorative rally of 75 cyclists from Meerut in Uttar Pradesh to the National War Memorial in Delhi. The cyclists were flagged off from Meerut by Brigadier Sudhir Thakur, Commander, Strike 1 Sappers.“The cyclists carrying banners paid homage to our martyrs and also spread the message of Swachh Bharat (Clean India). The cyclists from Strike 1 Sappers reached the National War Memorial after covering a distance of 75 kms from Meerut on 29 Sep 2021,” read an official statement.The flagging in at the National War Memorial was done by Major General Anand Saxena, Chief of Staff, Strike 1. To honour the martyrs and to pay obeisance to heroes for their “selfless sacrifices” wreaths were laid on behalf of all ranks of Strike 1.Also Read: Pak terrorist caught in Kashmir reveals anti-India propaganda The occasion was graced by many of the war veterans of the 1971 war, Mukesh Khetrapal, brother of Second Lieutenant Arun Khetrapal, Pram Vir Chakra (PVC) (P), Colonel VN Thapar, father of Captain Vijyant Thapar, Vir Chakra (Posthumous) VrC(P).In December 1971, the Indian armed forces secured victory over the Pakistan Army, which led to the creation of Bangladesh and also resulted in the largest military surrender after the second world war. The nation is therefore celebrating 50 years of the India-Pak war, also called ‘Swarmim Vijay Varsh’. Various commemorative events are planned across the nation by Strike 1 to celebrate the Swarnim Vijay Varsh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-organises-cycle-rally-to-commemorate-heroes-of-1971-war-101632975627011.html
30-09-2021||India||Maharashtra recorded 3,187 new Covid-19 cases, 49 deaths||Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded 49 Covid-19 deaths, taking the state-wide toll to 139,011 including 87,651 in the second wave since February 10, way higher than the 51,360 deaths caused by the first wave which lasted 11 months between March 9, 2020 to February 9, 2021, official data shows .State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said the number of deaths have been proportionate to the number of cases in the two waves. “In the second wave, we saw higher cases which resulted in higher number of deaths,” said Dr Awate. “However, we have been able to bring down the deaths due to early detection and medication along with mass vaccination,” he added.Dr Satyendra Nath Mehra, medical director Masina Hospital, Byculla, said the current lot of Covid patients have less disease severity. “We are seeing patients with mild Covid-19 symptoms and a majority are those who are unvaccinated till now. The majority of deaths are majorly among those who have other co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, renal disease and others,” said Dr Mehra.Also Read: State-of-the-art city to come up around Shirdi airportMaharashtra on Wednesday recorded 3,187 new Covid-19 cases. Mumbai recorded 525 new Covid cases with six related deaths, taking the metropolis’ toll to 16,103. The total number of Covid-19 patients recorded in Mumbai so far has now reached 6,547,793.There were 155,015 Covid tests done on Wednesday across the state, while the number of recoveries was 3,253.The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 36,675 with the maximum of 9,280 active patients in Pune followed by Thane with 6,083 and Ahmednagar with 5,237.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-recorded-3-187-new-covid-19-cases-49-deaths-101632973526946.html
30-09-2021||India||News updates from HT: Chinese switch to flashlights, generators amid power cuts and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion at 1pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Chinese switch to flashlights, generators amid power cutsChina’s state planner on Wednesday ordered railway companies and provincial authorities to rush coal supplies to regions grappling with unprecedented power cuts. Read moreHeavy rain likely in Saurashtra, Gujarat and Konkan as Shaheen approachesA well-marked low-pressure area is also lying over Jharkhand and adjoining West Bengal. The east-west trough is running from cyclonic circulation associated with the low pressure area over Saurashtra, IMD said. Read moreInitial proof a must for probe against public servants: GovtThe Centre has come up with a new standard operating procedure (SOP) on how the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and state anti-corruption bodies should handle corruption probes against public servants. Read More‘Looked like his IPL career was over then he got a call from Kohli. Can you imagine?’: Brian Lara on Maxwell turnaroundThe fifty in Dubai was Maxwell's fourth of the season, and former West Indies captain Brian Lara feels a lot of the credit for the Australia batsman's change in fortunes goes to Kohli. Read moreKBC 13: Can you answer ₹1 crore question on World War I that made Savita Bhati quit Amitabh Bachchan’s show?Savita Bhati, a senior nursing superintendent from Jodhpur, correctly answered 14 questions to win ₹50 lakh. However, she was unsure of the answer to the ₹1 crore question. Read moreShanaya Kapoor lays bold date night fashion cues in ₹6.6k halter-neck dressEven before her big Bollywood debut, Shanaya Kapoor is making heads turn and her sizzling look in Label Ritu Kumar's black floral print halter-neck short dress is enough to back our claim. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-chinese-switch-to-flashlights-generators-amid-power-cuts-and-all-the-latest-news-101632969265653.html
30-09-2021||India||Voting begins for by-election to Odisha's Pipili seat||The by-poll to Odisha’s Pipili assembly seat is being held with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress hoping to wrest it from the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) that has held it since 2000. It was necessitated after BJD lawmaker Pradeep Maharathy, who won the seat a record seven times, died of Covid in October last year. The by-poll was first scheduled on April 17, but it was postponed after Congress candidate Ajit Mangaraj’s death three days before the polling. It was rescheduled to May 16. The by-poll was deferred again as a lockdown was imposed in view of rising Covid-19 cases.BJD has fielded Maharathy’s son, Rudra, 32, for the by-poll. Ashrit Pattanayak, who lost to Maharathy in 2019, is the BJP candidate and Biswakeshan Harichandan Mohapatra that of the Congress. There are four other contestants including three Independent candidates.The by-poll will be the last major electoral exercise in the state before the panchayat polls in February and urban bodies elections soon after. This is the first election since 2017 for which chief minister Naveen Patnaik did not campaign even virtually. Patnaik did not also campaign for the 2017 panchayat polls in which BJP made significant inroads.Also Read: Probe ordered into man’s death following his arrest in OdishaBJD deputed a dozen ministers and two dozen lawmakers for campaigning. Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan and former central minister Pratap Chandra Sarangi led the BJP campaign. Congress state chief Niranjan Patnaik was in charge of his party’s campaign.The campaigning was restricted due to the pandemic. Door-to-door campaigns were limited to five people. Of the 348 booths in the constituency, 102 have been declared highly sensitive.Chief electoral officer (Odisha) Sushil Lohani said voting at sensitive polling stations was being webcast. Micro observers have been posted at 23 polling booths while 2,000 police personnel have been deployed to ensure a smooth election. All polling agents deployed at booths have been fully vaccinated, Lohani said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/polling-underway-in-bjd-stronghold-in-odisha-101632972027101.html
30-09-2021||India||Heavy rain likely in Saurashtra, Gujarat and Konkan as Shaheen approaches||Cyclone Shaheen is likely to form over northeast Arabian Sea Thursday night or Friday morning and the present weather condition is likely to bring heavy to very heavy rain in Saurashtra,Gujarat and Konkan region, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).A well-marked low-pressure area is lying over Saurashtra and will likely move west-northwestwards, emerge into northeast Arabian Sea and intensify into a depression before moving further west-northwestwards and intensify into cyclonic storm, Shaheen, during the subsequent 24 hours, the weather department forecast said. Thereafter the cyclonic system is likely to continue west-northwestwards, close to Pakistan - Mekran coasts, moving away from the Indian coast. A well-marked low-pressure area is also lying over Jharkhand and adjoining West Bengal. The east-west trough is running from cyclonic circulation associated with the low pressure area over Saurashtra, IMD said. Also Read: IMD alerts: Rainfall likely in these states between September 30 and October 3 Under the influence of these systems, heavy to very heavy rain is likely at isolated places over Saurashtra & Kutch and heavy rain is likely at isolated places over Gujarat region, north Konkan, Gangetic West Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand. Heavy rainfall is also likely at isolated places in Bihar till October 3. Fishermen are advised not to venture into north & adjoining central Arabian Sea and along and off Gujarat and north Maharashtra coasts till October 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-likely-in-saurashtra-gujarat-and-konkan-as-shaheen-approaches-101632971426711.html
30-09-2021||India||IMD weather alerts: Rainfall likely in these states between September 30 and October 3||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has projected rainfall, ranging from light rain to heavy thundershowers, from September 30 to October 3, in various parts of the country. The weather body has given its projection for states such as Delhi, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu etc.(1.) Delhi: As per an IMD bulletin, the national capital will witness cloudy skies on September 30 and October 1, though no rainfall has been predicted for each of the two days. The city will, however, witness light rain in the first week of October, amid a delayed withdrawal of the monsoon.(2.) Maharashtra: On Wednesday, the department forecast forecast extremely heavy rains in Mumbai, Marathwada and other parts of Konkan in the next 24 hours.(3.) West Bengal: Though the Met department has said that there is no possibility of heavy rain in Kolkata on Thursday, it has already issued yellow alert for places such as Burdwan, Purulia, Bankura, 24 Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly.(4.) Tamil Nadu: The weather office has not projected showers in Chennai for September 30. However, isolated rainfall is expected to take place in some parts of the state.(5.) Gujarat: As remnants of cyclone Gulab are likely to enter the Arabian Sea on September 30 and intensify into a cyclonic storm on October 1, heavy to very heavy and extremely heavy showers are expected to lash Gujarat and Dadra and Nagar Haveli & Daman and Diu.(6.) Bihar: Heavy rainfall likely at isolated places from September 30 to October 3 in Bihar, including very heavy showers on October 1 and 2.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imd-alerts-rainfall-likely-in-these-states-between-september-30-and-october-3-101632968306831.html
30-09-2021||India||Bhabanipur bypoll: EC rejects BJP claim of booth rigging, cites mock poll delay||The Election Commission on Thursday said there was some delay in starting the polling process in one of the booths in Bhabanipur from where West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is seeking a seat in the legislature through a bypoll.The polling body said the delay was due to the mock poll drive exercise and not rigging of the booth as alleged by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The BJP has fielded Priyanka Tibrewal against Banerjee and has been raising allegations of a missing level-playing field in the keenly watched constituency. “No rigging took place,” the EC said.Also read | Calcutta HC refuses to interfere with Bhabanipur bypoll scheduleSoon after polling began at 7am in Bhabanipur, Tibrewal alleged that Trinamool Congress MLA Madan Mitra had purposely shut the voting machine at one of the polling stations as he wanted to capture the booth at ward number 72.#WestBengalBypolls | Polling begins in Bhabanipur, polling is scheduled to end at 6:30 pm, according to State CEO (Visuals from Mitra Institution polling booth) pic.twitter.com/fgW9fvMsbbBanerjee needs to win the Bhabanipur seat to retain her post of chief minister. She had lost by a narrow margin the Assembly election from Nandigram against her close aide-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari held earlier this year. Her party, however, romped back to power and she became the chief minister for the third straight term. Check live updates of the bypolls here.The Bhabanipur seat was won by TMC veteran Shobhandeb Chattopadhyay who has now vacated the seat for Banerjee to seek a by-election win.  Besides Bhabanipur, bypolls are being held in two other constituencies of Bengal, namely Samseganj and Jangipur, and Odisha’s Pipili.Counting of votes is scheduled to take place on October 3.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhabanipur-bypoll-ec-rejects-bjp-claim-of-booth-rigging-cites-mock-poll-delay-101632969509505.html
30-09-2021||India||Turmoil in Punjab Congress, ripples felt in Delhi: 10 points||The Congress is facing the heat in Punjab, and the spillover effect is being felt in Delhi. Senior leaders of the party are publicly voicing differences with the leadership, prompting protests by others in the same party.Also Read: Frantic mediations on to end political crisis in PunjabNavjot Singh Sidhu has already shown his defiance, resigning as the president of the party's state unit. Further aggravating the troubles for the Congress, former chief minister Amarinder Singh met Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi, fuelling speculation about a change in camp, though he has officially denied any such move.Here are the latest developments on the political crisis in Punjab:• Taking a swipe at the Congress over Punjab turmoil, Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra on Wednesday said the party has become a vehicle without a driver. Speaking to news agency ANI, the Union minister slammed Sidhu calling him "unstable" and "extremely ambitious".• Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, who is coming to Delhi to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, attacked Rahul Gandhi, alleging he is sinking the Congress party. "Amarinder was removed because of Sidhu, now Sidhu has run away as well. We don't have to do anything as long as Rahul Gandhi is there," said Chouhan.• Meanwhile, Punjab transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Wednesday ensured that all the issues within the party will be resolved soon. Hinting that the party intends to retain Sidhu as the state Congress chief, the minister said, "We are like a family. If Sidhu Ji has said something in anger, then it does not matter. He is our party president and his resignation has not been accepted yet."• Reacting to the developments in Punjab, senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal demanded an immediate meeting of the party's highest decision-making body the working committee and wondered who in the party was taking decisions in the absence of a full-time president.• Sibal, a member of the 'Group of 23' which last year had written to Congress President Sonia Gandhi, said at a press conference that the grouping is "not a Jee Huzur 23" and will continue to put forth the views and will continue to repeat the demands.• He came under attacks from several quarters with some Congress workers also protesting outside his house in New Delhi. Carrying 'Get Well Soon Kapil Sibal' placards, Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee (DPCC) workers said they were "hurt" by his remarks.• Sensing an opportunity ahead of assembly elections in the state, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said that only his party can give a good and honest government to the state. Kejriwal is on a two-day visit to Punjab.• The Congress hit out at Amit Shah for meeting Amarinder Singh, with party leader Randeep Surjewala saying the home minister's residence has become the "new centre of anti-Dalit politics". Surjewala further said that the arrogance of those sitting in power has been hurt ever since a Dalit (Charanjit Singh Channi) has been made the chief minister of Punjab.• Dissension in the Congress' Punjab unit erupted in May but the leadership hoped the appointment of Sidhu as party unit chief and the removal of his arch-rival Singh as chief minister would tamp down tensions.• But Sidhu’s resignation barely 72 days after being appointed took the party by surprise, and embarrassed Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who together orchestrated Sidhu’s appointment and Singh’s exit as part of an effort to end factionalism and improve the party’s chances in next year’s state elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-congress-in-turmoil-ripples-felt-in-delhi-10-points-101632969922775.html
30-09-2021||India||Bhabanipur by-poll starts amid tight security; day of reckoning for Mamata||The by-election to Bhabanipur assembly seat in south Kolkata, being contested by Mamata Banerjee to retain West Bengal’s chief ministership, started at 7am on Thursday amid tight security, officials said. Elections to Samserganj and Jangipur assembly seats in Bengal’s Murshidabad are also being held today after they were deferred in April following the death of two candidates. Counting of votes will be done on October 3. The by-poll became necessary after the Trinamool Congress (TMC) sitting lawmaker from Bhabanipur, Sovandeb Chatterjee resigned so that Banerjee could contest from the seat and retain her berth. Even though the Trinamool Congress swept the assembly polls and returned to power for the third consecutive term after winning 213 seats out of the 292 contested in April this year, Banerjee lost from Nandigram to Bharatiya Janata Party’s Suvendu Adhikari, her protégé-turned-adversary. She, however, took oath as the state’s chief minister on May 5. As per law, the TMC leader needs to get elected to the state assembly by November 5 in order to continue in her post.“Around 35 companies of Central forces have been deployed in Bhabanipur. This apart, 38 police pickets have been set up. One Central police observer has been deployed. There are 287 booths in the constituency,” said an Election Commission of India official. Also Read: After jumping ships, what Babul Supriyo said on TMC’s Parliament ruckusThe heavy rains which lashed Kolkata have stopped even though there is water logging in a few pockets in Bhabanipur. “The water level has receded. Apart from a few pockets, the water level has gone down and people are coming in to vote,” said Firhad Hakim, chairman of the board of administrators that run the Kolkata Municipal Corporation. The constituency has 206,389 electors, out of which 95,143 are female voters, which is around 46%. More than 20% of Bhabanipur residents are Muslims, while Sikhs and non-Bengali speaking Hindus comprise around 34% of the local population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhabanipur-by-poll-starts-amidst-tight-security-101632970111201.html
30-09-2021||India||Delhi sky likely to be overcast with chances of thunder or lightning: IMD||The Delhi sky is expected to be mostly overcast on Thursday with the possibility of thunder or lightning, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.The minimum temperature in the capital city on Thursday is likely to be 27 degrees Celsius, same as Wednesday and the maximum is expected to be a degree higher at 35 degrees Celsius.The minimum temperature on Wednesday was four notches above normal but the maximum was normal for this time of the year.Delhi’s air quality was in the “moderate” category on Thursday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 108.Also Read: Kejriwal in Punjab: Delhi CM to address ‘important’ press conference today An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-sky-likely-to-be-overcast-thunder-lightning-not-ruled-out-101632968786470.html
30-09-2021||India||Orang national park in Assam to reopen for tourists today, Kaziranga tomorrow||The famous Orang National Park (ONP) in Assam will reopen for tourists on Thursday after remaining shut for several months in view of the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic situation and the monsoon season. According to ONP divisional forest officer Pradipta Baruah, the national park is opening for visitors on September 30 for the 2021-22 tourist season, amid a strict vigil over all necessary Covid-19-related norms and protocols. Due to the poor condition of the roads due to recent floods in Assam, only a section of the safari route inside the park will however be opened to tourists at present. The repair work for the remaining section of the road is on, and visitors will be notified regarding it in due time, the forest officer said.Also Read | Biggest stockpile of rhino horns consigned to flames in Assam on World Rhino DayMeanwhile, the Assam government has also given its nod to reopen the famous national parks at Kaziranga and Manas from October 1, in view of the upcoming festive season. However, all coronavirus disease-related necessitated protocols will be followed strictly, and officials have been instructed to ensure at all times that tourists adhere to the norms. The Kaziranga national park (KNP) – famous all across the world for the one-horned rhinos which reside here – also remained shut for the past several months due to the Covid-19 outbreak. It will initially be opened on October 1 with tourists getting partial access to only three ranges, while the rest of the ranges will be unlocked gradually.Also Read | Assam to destroy nearly 2,500 rhino horns; to preserve few as exhibitsTourists, who flock to the largest national park in the northeast from the country and abroad, will be allowed to have only a jeep safari for now, but they won't be able to access the much sought-after elephant ride.The Manas National park, on the other hand, will also reopen its gates from October 1, according to park ranger Babul Brahma. There are no notifications at present regarding certain sections of the park being locked for the time being, unlike the others; officials will, however, continue to monitor tourists for adherence to Covid-19-related protocols, Brahma added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/orang-national-park-in-assam-to-reopen-for-tourists-today-kaziranga-tomorrow-101632963514336.html
30-09-2021||India||Shivraj Singh Chouhan to meet PM Modi today; MP's development, central scheme on agenda||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is set to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi today in New Delhi to discuss multiple developmental projects and central schemes being implemented in the state, according to officials familiar with the matter. Chouhan will also apprise the Prime Minister regarding the central government's ‘Devranya Yojana’ for Scheduled Tribes; the meeting is expected to begin at 4pm on Thursday, as per the officials.“In the meeting, various development works and public welfare topics of Madhya Pradesh will be discussed and the chief minister will apprise the prime minister about Centre's ‘Devaranya Yojana’ for Scheduled Tribes,” the officials said. “Shivraj Singh Chouhan will brief the prime minister about the progress of the ongoing central government schemes in the state. He will discuss the acquisition of crops, diversification, and innovation in agriculture.”Also Read | BJP deputes 42 MLAs, 12 ministers for Madhya Pradesh by-elections on 4 seatsThe issue of better utilisation of the funds under the Compensatory Afforestation Management and Planning Authority (Campa) and the District Mineral Foundation (DMF) is also expected to come up at some point during the meeting.Shivraj Singh Chouhan will also personally thank the Prime Minister for approving ‘medical device parks’ in the state earlier this week. For context, the Narendra Modi-led central government had approved the ₹400 crore-worth ‘Promotion of Medical Device Parks’ across select states to extend government support to the medical devices industry in India. Madhya Pradesh was one of the states which received “in-principle” approval from the central government for the scheme, along with Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu.Also Read | After Amit Shah’s visit, Madhya Pradesh CM holds series of meeting“The chief minister will express his gratitude to the prime minister approving Medical Device Park in the state,” said the officials aware of the developments. According to them, a few other points of discussion between the two ministers will include the Bulk Drug Park, the digital health card, and other programmes under the ‘Suraj Abhiyan’ scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivraj-singh-chouhan-to-meet-pm-modi-today-mp-s-development-central-scheme-on-agenda-101632959285588.html
30-09-2021||NA||‘Quad a peaceful resolution, not against somebody’, says external affairs minister Jaishankar||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Follow all the updates here:‘Quad a peaceful resolution, not against somebody’: S JaishankarExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar said that the Quad was a peaceful resolution and was not “against somebody”, reports ANI.“It's important not to be railroaded into some kind of negative discourse & we should not fall for it. We should be positive,” he said.‘Afghanistan presents issues for the region, Indo-Pacific should be based on rules-based order’: S JaishankarAfghanistan presents issues for the region, the Indo-Pacific is an important region and should be based on a rules-based international order and respecting territorial integrity: EAM S Jaishankar at USISPF Annual Leadership Summit pic.twitter.com/z26OKIxEX9External affairs minister S Jaishankar said that the Indo-Pacific is an important region and should be based on a “rules-based international order”, reports ANI.PM Modi to launch Swachh Bharat Mission - Urban 2.0 and AMRUT 2.0 at 11am tomorrowPM Narendra Modi to launch Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban 2.0 and AMRUT 2.0 tomorrow - 1st October, at 11 am. Missions designed to make all our cities ‘Garbage Free’ and ‘Water Secure: Prime Minister's Office(file photo) pic.twitter.com/n41cYVc6X5Prime Minister Narendra Modi would launch the Swachh Bharat Mission - Urban 2.0 and AMRUT 2.0 at 11am on October 1, reports ANI citing the PMO.Maharashtra sees over 3,000 new Covid-19 cases, Mumbai adds 451With 3,063 new Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra's cases tally reached 6,550,856while the death toll climbed to 139,067 with 56 more deaths today.Mumbai reported 451 new cases and seven deaths, as the city's tally went up to 742,983 and the death toll stood at 16,110.Depression over Arabian Sea off Gujarat coast to intensify into deep depression during next 12 hours: IMDDepression over northeast Arabian Sea off Gujarat coast to intensify into a Deep Depression over northeast Arabian Sea during next 12 hours: India Meteorological Department (IMD)The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the depression over the northeast Arabian Sea off Gujarat coast would intensify into a deep depression during the next 12 hours, reports ANI. Covid-19 vaccination drive: Nearly 890 million doses administered so farIndia’s COVID-19 vaccination coverage has reached nearly 89 crore. This includes over 58 lakh vaccine doses administered till 7 pm today: Government of India pic.twitter.com/MgZcOQ6JNVNearly 890 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in India so far, including 5.8 million doses administered till 7pm today, reports ANI. Congress to ‘soon’ convene Congress Working Committee meeting, says SurjewalaFollowing the demand from G-23 leaders, a meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) will be called soon: Congress leader Randeep SurjewalaG-23 leaders are demanding organizational elections in the party.Congress leader Randeep Surjewala said that following the demand of the G-23 leaders, a meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) would be called soon, reports ANI. Odisha government bans sale, use of firecrackers during festival month of OctoberOdisha government banned the sale and use of firecrackers would be prohibited in the state during the festival month of October, reports ANI citing the Office of Special Relief Commissioner, Odisha.West Bengal relaxes night curfew between October 10, 20 for festive seasonGovt of West Bengal: In view of the festive season, restriction on the movement of people, vehicles between 11 pm to 5 am is relaxed from October 10 to October 20. pic.twitter.com/INjSmFxe26West Bengal government has relaxed the restrictions on movement of people and vehicles between 11pm and 5am between October 10 and 20 in view of the festive season, reports ANI. IndiGo flight to Hyderabad diverted to Bhubaneswar due to medical emergency on board, says Bhubaneswar airport directorHyderabad-bound IndiGo flight from Kolkata diverted to Bhubanes earlier today due to a medical emergency on board, reports ANI citing the director of Bhubaneswar Airport in Odisha.Rajasthan bans sale, bursting of firecrackers from Oct 1 to Jan 31Bursting and sale of crackers banned from October 1, 2021 to January 31, 2022: Govt of Rajasthan pic.twitter.com/VIzhyqhDG8The Rajasthan government has banned the sale and bursting of firecrackers between October 1 and January 31, 2022, reports ANI.‘Informed PM about Covid vaccination, rain situation etc.,’ MP CM on meeting ModiThe Prime Minister's guidance was received on various subjects. I informed about the situation of covid, vaccination status, rain situation, etc in the state: Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan after meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi pic.twitter.com/Mlc3B2K53nMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that he discussed various issues with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and informed him about Covid-19 and rain situations in the state, reports ANI. Kerala reports over 15,000 new Covid-19 cases, 122 deathsKerala adds 15,914 new COVID-19 cases, 122 more deathsKerala reported 15,914 new Covid-19 cases and 122 more deaths, reports PTI.Punjab CM Channi calls cabinet meeting at secretariat on October 4 Punjab CM Charanjit Channi calls cabinet meeting on 4th October at the Secretariat(file photo) pic.twitter.com/3PdHOka5VaPunjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi called for a cabinet meeting on October 4 at the secretariat, reports ANI.Veteran Congress leader Natwar Singh criticises Rahul Gandhi, holds him accountable for problems within party#WATCH | "...(Present situation of Congress) It's not alright at all, there are three people responsible, one of them is Rahul Gandhi who doesn't even hold any designation, and he is calling the shots...," says Former External Affairs Minister Natwar Singh pic.twitter.com/S7QIei0L29Veteran Congress leader and former external affairs minister Natwar Singh criticised Rahul Gandhi. “(Present situation of Congress) It's not alright at all, there are three people responsible, one of them is Rahul Gandhi who doesn't even hold any designation, and he is calling the shots,” he said, reports ANI.Electricity bill for consumers in Delhi to see a marginal increase from OctoberDelhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC) announces new power tariff for 2021-22 and the electricity bills in Delhi are to increase marginally from October.Zydus Cadila Covid-19 vaccine will be shortly introduced to national vaccination programmeZydus Cadila Covid-19 vaccine will be shortly introduced to national vaccination programmeNCW takes suo motu cognisance of report claiming IAF rape case survivor was subjected to two-finger testNational Commission for Women (NCW) takes suo motu cognisance of a media report wherein it has been reported that a female Air Force officer was subjected to two-finger test by Indian Air Force doctors after she had alleged sexual assault against a colleague who has been arrested18 districts in India have positivity between 5% to 10%: Govt18 districts in India are reporting a weekly positivity between 5% to 10%: Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Covid-19 situation in the countrySidhu arrives at Punjab Bhavan to meet CM Charanjit Singh ChanniChandigarh: Navjot Singh Sidhu arrives at Punjab Bhavan to meet CM Charanjit Singh Channi. pic.twitter.com/ExgsBjDK8C‘Sidhu mere crowd-puller': Amarinder Singh Navjot Singh Sidhu mere crowd-puller, does not know how to carry team along, says Amarinder Singh.TMC paying people to cast vote in Bhabnipur: BJP's Priyanka TibrewalPriyanka Tibrewal, the BJP candidate for Bhabanipur by-poll, alleges that Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) is paying some people to cast a vote."A man confessed to me that TMC paid him ₹500 to cast vote. He was from Bansdroni. I have informed the authorities," she said, according to news agency ANI. Former Rajya Sabha member Varinder Bajwa joins SADFormer Rajya Sabha member Varinder Bajwa joins Shiromani Akali Dal, leaving the Congress party. SAD President Sukhbir Badal inducted him into the party on Thusday.Delhi HC takes suo motu cognizance of Rohini Court shootoutDelhi high court on Thursday took suo moto cognisance of the Rohini court firing incident. Calling for for proper and effective deployment of sufficient number of police personnel, the court noted that “there is a need of installation of CCTV camera strategic system along with full proof entry system. Installation of high tech metal detector and baggage scanner is required, there is also a requirement of under vehicle Survelliance system.“Delhi govt bans Chhat Puja celebrations at public placesChhath Puja celebrations were prohibited at public places, river banks to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic, the department of Delhi disaster management authority (DDMA) announced in fresh guidelines on Thursday. According to the guidelines, the community celebrations are banned at public places, river bank and temples. It advised devotees to hold celebration at their home.France's Sarkozy convicted of illegal campaign financing in second trialFrance's Sarkozy convicted of illegal campaign financing in second trial, reports news agency AFP.Alleged coal scam: Ruchira Banerjee appears virtually before Delhi courtRuchira Banerjee, wife of TMC leader Abhishek Banerjee, appears before a Delhi court via video-conferencing in connection with an alleged coal scam case.Germany records over 12,000 new Covid-19 casesGermany records 12,150 new Covid-19 cases and 67 deaths. Tally mounts to 4,227,501 including 93,638 deaths.Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari takes over as IAF chiefAir Chief Marshal VR Chaudhari takes over as new chief of air staff from outgoing air chief RKS Bhadauria, who retired today.Sushant Singh Rajput case: NCB arrests absconding hotelierNCB arrests absconding hotelier Kushal Jani in connection with alleged drugs case related to actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death. Jani was a close friend of Rajput.We will give you a good CM face, says Kejriwal in Punjab's LudhianaI have said repeatedly that when the time comes, we will give you a good CM face, it could be anyone. We are not thinking about it right now: AAP national convener and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal in LudhianaSidhu to meet Punjab CM Channi for talks todayThe chief minister has invited me for talks … will reciprocate by reaching Punjab Bhawan, Chandigarh at 3:00 PM today, he is welcome for any discussions!: Former Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on TwitterAmarinder Singh meets Ajit DovalFormer Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh leaves after meeting NSA Ajit Doval in Delhi.Australia sees highest single-day Covid-19 casesIn a record high, Australia logs more than 2400 new Covid-19 cases, surpassing over 2000 single-day infections for only the second time.Don't need Kejriwal's advice, says Punjab min Pargat Singh on Punjab Congress crisisWe don't need Kejriwal's advice. We will work in the best interests of Punjab. Our fight is over several issues. It's not focused on a particular personality: Punjab minister and Congress leader Pargat Singh on Delhi CM's remarks on induction of 'tainted ministers' in state cabinetGorakhpur incident: CM has ordered FIRs against suspended policemen, says UP law ministerIt's an unfortunate incident. We have taken this matter seriously. CM has instructed to file FIRs against the six suspended policemen, and we'll ensure strict action against them: UP law minister Brajesh Pathak on the death of a businessman during a raid at a hotel in GorakhpurAnand Sharma condemns 'attack' at Sibal's residence by alleged Congress workersSenior Congress leader Anand Sharma condemns “attack” at party colleague Kabil Sibal's residence, allegedly by Congress workers, for Wednesday's press conference on Punjab crisis.Outgoing air chief lays wreath at War MemorialOutgoing chief of air staff, Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria, lays wreath at National War Memorial, Delhi.4 miscreants arrested in Delhi's Jharoda Kalan: Delhi PoliceBased on specific information, four miscreants have been arrested in Delhi's Jharoda Kalan area after they opened fire at police. Police retaliated: Delhi PoliceIndia logs 23,529 new Covid-19 cases and 311 deathsIndia registers 23,529 new Covid-19 cases, 28,718 recoveries and 311 deaths. Total cases mount to 33,739,980.Singapore registers record single-day toll due to Covid-19Singapore recorded eight new deaths due to Covid-19 on Wednesday, its highest in a single-day. Fresh infections at over 2200 for second straight day.568,956,439 samples tested for Covid-19 till now: ICMR568,956,439 samples tested for Covid-19 till September 29, 2021, including 1,506,254 samples on September 29, 2021: ICMRED summons Maharashtra deputy home secretary ED summons deputy secretary (home) of Maharashtra, Kailash Gaikwad, in an alleged money laundering case related to former state home minister Anil Deshmukh. Gaikwad asked to appear before the agency today.Bhabanipur by-polls: BJP accuses TMC of malpracticeTMC's Madan Mitra has intentionally shut the voting machine at polling booth of ward number 72 as he wants to capture the booth: Priyanka Tibrewal, BJP candidateIMD projects light intensity rain in Haryana's YamunanagarLight intensity rain/drizzle would continue to occur over and adjoining areas of Yamunanagar in Haryana during the next two hours: IMDStill ready for talks with North Korea: USNo hostile intent towards North Korea. United States still ready for talks: US State Department.Bhabanipur by-polls: Voting to begin at 7am, end at 6:30pmVoting for by-elections to the crucial Bhabanipur assembly constituency to be held from 7am to 6:30pm today. West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee among candidates in the fray.Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to address press conference in Ludhiana todayDelhi CM and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal will address an “important” press conference in Ludhiana at 11:30 am today, the second and final day of his ongoing Punjab visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-september-30-2021-101632958646285.html
30-09-2021||NA||Highlights: Bhabhanipur records 53% voter turnout till 5pm||Bypolls are being conducted on Thursday in three assembly constituencies in West Bengal – Bhabanipur, Samserganj, and Jangipur; as well as one other constituency in Odisha – Pipili. All eyes are on the Bhabanipur by-election, which will decide Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee's fate as chief minister. According to the schedule issued by the Election Commission earlier this month, the nearly 12-hour process of voting began across the assembly segments at 7am on September 30, while the votes will be counted in all these seats on October 3.  Follow all the updates here:Samserganj records 78% turnout Poll % at 5 P.M.56- Samserganj - 78.60%58- Jangipur - 76.12%159- Bhabanipur - 53.32%TMC's Sovandeb Chatterjee casts his voteTrinamool Congress' Sovandeb Chatterjee, who had resigned as an MLA from Bhabanipur so that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee could contest from the seat for bypolls, casts his vote. "It's my pleasure to vote for her (Mamata Banerjee). She will win," he says pic.twitter.com/Yaw2uJpWJHTMC's Sovandeb Chatterjee, who had resigned as MLA from Bhabanipur for Mamata Banerjee to contest the bypolls, cast his vote, reports ANI. "It's my pleasure to vote for her (Mamata Banerjee). She will win," he said.ISKCON temple monks cast their votes for Bhabanipur bypolls at La Martiniere School, KolkataWest Bengal | ISKCON Temple monks cast their votes for Bhabanipur bypolls at La Martiniere School, Kolkata. "It's an important vote, it will decide the Chief Minister of the state. People should come forward and vote," a devotee says pic.twitter.com/U8BBfP6r8RISKCON temple monks cast their votes at the La Martiniere school in Kolkata for the Bhabanipur assembly constituency bypoll, reports ANI.Mamata Banerjee leaves polling booth after casting voteWest Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee and TMC candidate for Bhabanipur bypoll leaves from Mitra Institution - a polling booth in the assembly constituency - after casting her vote. pic.twitter.com/ykhQS44npdWest Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee left the Mitra Institution polling booth in Bhabanipur after casting her vote, reports ANI.West Bengal bypolls: Samserganj records highest voter turnout with 72.45% as of 3pmVoter turnout in West Bengal assembly bypolls till 3pm: Samserganj - 72.45%Jangipur - 68.17% Bhabanipur - 48.08%59.72% voter turnout till 3pm in Odisha's Pipili59.72% voter turnout recorded till 3pm in Odisha's Pipili assembly constituency.BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal says TMC paying people to cast voteWest Bengal | Priyanka Tibrewal, the BJP candidate for Bhabanipur by-poll, alleges that TMC is paying some people to cast a vote"A man confessed to me that TMC paid him ₹500 to cast vote. He was from Bansdroni. I have informed the authorities," she says. pic.twitter.com/qVCQfKEjyfBJP candidate for Bhabanipur Priyanka Tibrewal said that the TMC was paying people to cast their vote and also said that she has informed the authorities about the same, reports ANI. Bypolls: 45.32% polling recorded in Odisha's Pipili till 1pm45.32% voter turnout recorded till 1pm in Odisha's Pipili assembly bypoll.Mamata Banerjee to cast her vote at Mitra Institution booth at 3:15pmWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will cast her vote at a booth in the Mitra Institution school in Bhabanipur at 3.15pm.EC gets 40 complaints about election rigging, threats; 23 of them lodged by BJPThe poll panel has received around 40 complaints regarding election rigging, threats, and influencing voters in the three constituencies. Out of this, the BJP has lodged around 23 complaints.Bengal bypolls: Samserganj records highest polling percentage at 40, Bhabanipur shows 22% polling till 11amPolling percentage till 11am:Bhabanipur - 22%Samserganj - 40%Jangipur - 36%Pipili bypolls: 24.76% polling recorded till 11amVoting is underway for the bypolls in four assembly segments across India – three in West Bengal: Bhabanipur, Samserganj, and Jangipur; and one in Odisha – Pipli. 24.76% polling has been recorded till 11am in Odisha's Pipili.Aged electors vote in Bhabanipur bypollsAged electors in the waiting place of the Polling Station No. 25 (Sakhawat Memorial Girls' High School) under 159 Bhabanipur Assembly Constituency of Kolkata South District. @SpokespersonECI @ECISVEEP @rajivkumarec pic.twitter.com/1dqkjkgn7GOdisha: BJP candidate Rudra Pratap Maharathy casts vote in Pipili bypollsOdisha | Biju Janata Dal candidate Rudra Pratap Maharathy casts his vote for by-poll in Pipili. The seat fell vacant after his father Pradeep Maharathy's death"There has been no MLA in our constituency (Pipili) since my father's death. Everyone wants their candidate," he says pic.twitter.com/jQpCOUD0kZ7.8 per cent polling recorded in Odisha's Pipili till 9amSo far (till 9am), 7.8 per cent of the voters in Odisha's Pipili have cast their votes in the bypolls. Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) of Odisha, Sushil Kumar Lohani, said that to ensure the safety of voters against Covid-19, each of them is being provided with hand gloves, masks, and sanitisers.Samserganj: Local TMC leader Anarul Haque arrested after bombs hurled ahead of bypollsSamserganj: Local TMC leader Anarul Haque has been arrested in connection with a bunch of bombs that were hurled in the Bengal constituency a few hours ahead of the bypolls. Bypolls underway in 4 assembly segments; here are the polling percentages in Bengal at 9amPolling percentage at 9am:Assembly Constituency 56 - Samserganj - 16.32 per centAssembly Constituency 58 - Jangipur - 17.51 per centAssembly Constituency 159 - Bhabanipur - 7.57 per centExplained: The three-cornered contest in Jangipur bypollsComprising the Jangipur municipality and the community blocks of Suti and Raghunathganj, which includes two gram panchayat areas, the Jangipur assembly seat in Bengal’s Murshidabad district is set to witness a triangular contest on Wednesday.The seat is part of the Jangipur Lok Sabha constituency. Late former President Pranab Mukherjee won the Lok Sabha seat in 2004 and 2009. His son, Abhijit Mukherjee, who joined the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in July, represented the seat in parliament twice. The TMC wrested the Jangipur Lok Sabha seat in 2019. Read MoreBypolls underway in Murshidabad's Jangipur constituency#WestBengalBypolls | Polling underway in Murshidabad for Jangipur constituency, in compliance with COVID norms(Visuals from booth no. 72 & 72A in Ramjanpur Primary School) pic.twitter.com/SVf561F2RrMamata's prestige battle: Voting in Bhabanipur by-poll amid tight security after bitter campaignEVM malfunction reported in Odisha's Pipili, glitches mar voting machines in 3 boothsVoting was delayed in a booth of Pipili due to EVM malfunction while glitches in the EVM machine were reported in two more booths.Voting underway for by-election to Odisha's Pipili seatThe by-poll to Odisha’s Pipili assembly seat is being held with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress hoping to wrest it from the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) that has held it since 2000. It was necessitated after BJD lawmaker Pradeep Maharathy, who won the seat a record seven times, died of Covid in October last year. The by-poll was first scheduled on April 17, but it was postponed after Congress candidate Ajit Mangaraj’s death three days before the polling. It was rescheduled to May 16. The by-poll was deferred again as a lockdown was imposed in view of rising Covid-19 cases. Read MoreBhabanipur bypolls: 90-year-old casts her vote in election to decide Mamata's fate as CM#WestBengalBypolls | 90-year-old Manobashini Chakrabarty casts her vote at Mitra Institution polling booth in Bhabanipur pic.twitter.com/mMiAbWOoPxElection Commission distributes sanitiser and gloves among electors in BhabanipurDistribution of sanitizer & gloves among the Electors at the Polling Station No 59A St Pauls Boarding & Day School under 159 Bhabanipur Assembly Constituency of Kolkata South District. @SpokespersonECI @ECISVEEP @rajivkumarec pic.twitter.com/hm6wKK0CH9BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal alleges Section 144 not enforced during bypollsPriyanka Tibrewal, the BJP candidate for the Bhabanipur bypolls, alleged on Thursday morning that Section 144 has not been enforced during the election process despite the Election Commission and the Kolkata Police claiming to have imposed so. According to a notification issued by the EC, the prohibitory order against the assembly of five or more people ought to remain in force from 6:30pm on Tuesday till the end of the poll on September 30.Bhabanipur bypoll underway amid tight securityThe by-election to Bhabanipur assembly seat in south Kolkata, being contested by Mamata Banerjee to retain West Bengal’s chief ministership, started at 7 am on Thursday amid tight security, officials said. Elections to Samserganj and Jangipur assembly seats in Bengal’s Murshidabad are also being held today after they were deferred in April following the death of two candidates. The counting of votes will be done on October 3. Read MoreBhabanipur bypoll: EC rejects BJP claim of booth rigging, cites mock poll delayThe Election Commission on Thursday said there was some delay in starting the polling process in one of the booths in Bhabanipur from where West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is seeking a seat in the legislature through a bypoll. The polling body said the delay was due to the mock poll drive exercise and not rigging of the booth as alleged by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The BJP has fielded Priyanka Tibrewal against Banerjee and has been raising allegations of a missing level-playing field in the keenly watched constituency. “No rigging took place,” the EC said. Read MoreBombs hurled in Bengal's Samserganj hours before bypollsBombs were hurled in West Bengal's Samserganj a few hours before the voting for the bypolls commenced in the assembly segment at 7am on Thursday. Presently, the voting is underway at Samserganj and two other assembly constituencies in West Bengal, and one other in Odisha – Pipili.Priyanka Tibrewal accuses TMC MLA Madan Mitra of ‘purposely’ shutting voting machines in BhabanipurMadan Mitra (TMC MLA) has purposely shut the voting machine here as he wants to capture the booth: Priyanka Tibrewal, BJP candidate for Bhabanipur by-poll at polling booth of ward number 72 pic.twitter.com/lFB5hQytTYWest Bengal government is ‘in fear’ right now: BJP's Priyanka Tibrewal, candidate for Bhabanipur bypollsPriyanka Tibrewal, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate for the Bhabanipur bypolls, said that the Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government is “in fear” right now, referring to the fact that Banerjee's fate as chief minister hangs in balance, conditional upon the result of the by-election. “We're hoping for fair elections,” Tibrewal told the ANI news agency. “I will visit polling booths in the area today. The state government is in fear right now.”Bypolls: Polling begins in Bhabanipur, 2 other Bengal segments, and Odisha's Pipili#WestBengalBypolls | Polling begins in Bhabanipur, polling is scheduled to end at 6:30 pm, according to State CEO (Visuals from Mitra Institution polling booth) pic.twitter.com/fgW9fvMsbbVoting has begun for the bypolls in the keenly-watched assembly segment of Bhabanipur and two other constituencies in West Bengal; as well as in Odisha's Pipili. The voting is slated to continue till 6:30pm, according to the Election Commission. Photos posted by the ANI news agency showed visuals from the Mitra Institution in Bhabanipur on Thursday.Bhabanipur bypolls: Voting to commence at 7am, preparations begin WB | Bhabanipur set for bypoll today, polling to begin at 7 am and end at 6 pmBhabanipur constituency will today seal the fate of TMC leader Mamata Banerjee, who is looking to enter the state Assembly before end of her 6 month period of Chief Ministership-without-being-an-MLA. pic.twitter.com/uFbYEGRmsxIn photos posted by the ANI news agency, election officials were seen preparing ahead of the Bhabanipur bypoll, the voting for which is set to commence at 7am and end at 6pm. Why is the Bhabanipur by-election being held?Although Trinamool Congress won the assembly elections with a thumping majority earlier this year and formed the government in West Bengal for the third consecutive time, chief minister Mamata Banerjee herself lost against Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Suvendu Adhikari – a former aide of the TMC supremo – in a high-profile contest from the Nandigram assembly constituency. However, Banerjee still became the chief minister, conditional upon the fact that she will have to win her way back to the state assembly within a six-month grace period.Later, West Bengal agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay vacated his Bhabanipur seat, necessitating the bypolls to let the party supremo contest from her home turf. Indeed, Mamata Banerjee is reportedly at ease in Bhabanipur, a constituency she had won both in the 2016 and the 2011 elections. Bypolls to begin in 3 assembly segments in Bengal, 1 in OdishaBypolls are to begin on Thursday in three assembly segments of West Bengal – Bhabanipur, Samserganj, and Jangipur; as well as one other constituency in Odisha – Pipili. All eyes are on the Bhabanipur bypolls, which will decide Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee's fate as the chief minister of West Bengal at the end of her six-month grace period where she functioned in office despite losing the assembly polls herself earlier this year. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-updates-bypolls-in-bhabanipur-samserganj-jangipur-and-pipli-101632960694619.html
30-09-2021||India||Rajasthan: PM Modi to inaugurate petrochem institute, lay foundation of 4 medical colleges||Prime Minister Narendra Modi would virtually inaugurate the Central Institute of Petrochemicals Engineering and Technology (CIPET) in Rajasthan's Jaipur district at 11am on Thursday. The Prime Minister would also lay the foundation stone of four medical colleges in Banswara, Sirohi, Hanumangarh, and Dausa districts of Rajasthan today at 11 am via video-conferencing.As per a press release by the Prime Minister's Office, these medical colleges have been sanctioned under the centrally sponsored scheme for the “establishment of new medical colleges attached with district/referral hospitals.”“Preference to set up medical colleges is given to underserved, backward, and aspirational districts. Under three phases of the scheme, 157 new medical colleges have been approved across the nation,” the release informed.Taking to Twitter, the Prime Minister wrote, “Top quality education is a priority for our Government. At 11am, CIPET: Institute of Petrochemicals Technology, Jaipur will be inaugurated. This institution will cater to the aspirations of youngsters who want to study aspects relating to petrochem and energy sectors.”Union minister Mansukh Mandaviya and Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot will also be present on the occasion. The PMO informed that together with the Rajasthan government, the government of India has established CIPET: Institute of Petrochemicals Technology, Jaipur.“It is self-sustainable and dedicatedly serves the needs of the petrochemical and allied industries. It will provide education to the youth to become skilled technical professionals,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-pm-modi-to-inaugurate-petrochem-institute-lay-foundation-of-4-medical-colleges-101632958754733.html
30-09-2021||India||Activist writes to ED, I-T dept for probe into RSS funding||A Nagpur-based activist has filed a complaint against the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) with the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and Income Tax (I-T) department, seeking a probe into the source of funds of the organisation.Referring to Sangh’s claims in June last year that it provided ration to 10 million people, distributed food packets to 70 million people and provided financial and other forms of assistance to 2.7 million migrant labourers between March and May, 2020, the complainant, Mohnish Jabalpure, sought to understand how it managed to generate huge amounts of funds. Japalpure had initially registered a complaint with the local charity commissioner and chief minister’s secretariat. The local charity commissioner said right wing organisation was not a registered body and hence, was unable to initiate any action. “Since the RSS has no bank account as it is not a registered organisation, how did it manage to generate such a huge amount ...during the pandemic?” he said in his complaint registered with the agencies here on Tuesday.Senior RSS functionary Arvind Kukde said the organisation would respond whenever it receives any summons. “Our organisation believes in the law of the land,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/activist-writes-to-ed-i-t-dept-for-probe-into-rss-funding-101632950331783.html
30-09-2021||India||Taliban reach out to India over resumption of flights, scholarships||The Taliban setup in Kabul has been reaching out to the Indian side to explore the continuation of contacts in different fields, ranging from resumption of commercial flights to scholarships for Afghan students, people familiar with matter said on Wednesday.These contacts have come at a time when the Indian government has indicated it is in no hurry to recognise the interim cabinet created by the Taliban, which is dominated by hardliners and members of the UN-designated Haqqani Network. The people cited above said on condition of anonymity that there had been no formal response to any of the Taliban proposals.The Afghanistan Civil Aviation Authority, which is now controlled by the so-called “Islamic Emirate” of the Taliban, sent a formal communication to India’s Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on September 7 regarding the resumption of commercial flights between the two countries from Kabul airport.The letter, addressed to DGCA chief Arun Kumar and signed by “acting minister” Hameedullah Akhunzada, contends that the Kabul airport was “damaged and [made] dysfunctional” by American troops before their withdrawal last month. The airport had been made operational again with aid from Qatar and a NOTAM or “notice to airmen” in this regard had been issued on September 6, the letter adds.In recent days, Taliban officials such as acting foreign minister Amir Khan Muttaqi have reached out to the Indian side through intermediaries to take up issues such as travel by Afghan students who have secured scholarships offered by the Indian government, the people cited above said.Muttaqi was reportedly keen that Afghan students holding Indian scholarships, including those awarded for the 2021 academic session, should be allowed to travel to the country.The people said the Indian side is in no hurry to take a call on recognising the Taliban setup or to respond to the messages from the Taliban, especially at a time when no other country has established official relations with the dispensation in Kabul.State-run Air India stopped flights to Kabul on August 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taliban-reach-out-to-india-over-resumption-of-flights-scholarships-101632949551802.html
30-09-2021||India||Traumatised by two-finger test after rape, says IAF officer||A 28-year-old woman Indian Air Force (IAF) officer who accused her colleague of rape has levelled serious allegations against IAF of subjecting her to an illegal two-finger test to confirm rape, of adopting a hostile attitude towards her during the inquiry, and of tampering with the evidence.According to the first information report (FIR) filed by the Tamil Nadu Police on September 20, seen by HT on Wednesday, the woman officer said she was raped on campus at the Air Force Administrative College in Tamil Nadu’s Coimbatore district. She also said that the college authorities told her that if she could endure the pain of an ankle injury (which she had suffered hours before the alleged crime), she could also deal with the pain of seeing her rapist on campus.IAF declined to comment on the allegations. “We don’t want to offer a comment at this stage since the matter is sub-judice,” said a spokesperson not wishing to be named.After the local police arrested the accused, a 29-year-old Flight Lieutenant, his lawyer and IAF independently argued at the additional Mahila court in Coimbatore on Monday that the civil police have no jurisdiction in the case.They asked for the accused’s custody to be transferred to IAF for it to investigate and hold court-martial proceedings. The court, however, extended his judicial custody to September 30, and said it would decide on the jurisdiction of the case that day.Experts said that the details in the complaint were shocking.“The defence services should understand that they are not immune to sexual assaults being committed within the services, and they have to be prepared to handle them efficaciously,” said Vidya Reddy, who works on prevention of sexual assault and child sexual abuse.According to the FIR, the survivor had injured her right leg while playing basketball during training on September 9. She took a painkiller, and that evening joined her colleagues at the officers’ mess bar, where the accused offered to pay for her second drink. The officer said she vomited and went to bed, and two friends (one male and the other female) took care of her and latched the room from outside before leaving.As she was sleeping, the accused allegedly came in, tried to wake her up, and tried to kiss her. She kept pushing him away but was unsuccessful due to her ankle injury.The next thing she remembered, the FIR said, was a female friend asking her if the man was in the room with her consent.The next day, according to the FIR, she confronted the accused, who expressed regret at having invaded her privacy. But her female friend showed her semen stains on the bed.On September 11, she was told to meet two faculty members, who gave her two options — either file a complaint, or give a written statement that everything was consensual. She was directed to go to the Air Force Hospital.Her friends had accompanied her, and the doctors wanted to watch the confession video, they asked the victim about her sexual history and physically examined her private parts.“Only later did I find out that the two-finger test is not supposed to be done for a rape exam. This action made me nauseous enough to relive the trauma of being raped,” the FIR read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/traumatised-by-two-finger-test-after-rape-says-iaf-officer-101632949156495.html
30-09-2021||India||Pak terrorist caught in Kashmir reveals anti-India propaganda||A Pakistani terrorist, affiliated to the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), captured during an encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’s Uri sector, said the neighbouring country’s intelligence agency, ISI, and his handlers in the terrorist outfit have been presenting a wrong picture about Kashmir and Indian army.The 18-year-old terrorist from Okara district in Pakistan’s Punjab province, Ali Babar Patra, asked his handlers in the neighbouring country to take him back to his mother. “I request Pakistan Army, ISI and Lashkar to make arrangements to take me back the way they sent me to Kashmir,” Patra said at a press conference, addressed by Major General Virendra Vats, General Officer Commanding (GOC), 19 infantry division, on Wednesday.Patra was captured by the Indian Army during an encounter in the Uri sector on September 27. Another Pakistani terrorist, identified as Atiq ur Rehman alias Qari Anas, a resident of Attock in Pakistan’s Punjab province, was killed in the encounter, the army said on Tuesday.On Wednesday, Patra also said that the Pakistan Army, the ISI and the LeT were spreading lies about the situation in Kashmir.“We were told that the Indian Army is carrying out a bloodbath, but everything is peaceful here. I want to tell my mother that the Indian Army has taken good care of me,” he said.Patra said he was lured into joining the LeT due to poverty after losing his father at an early age in 2014.“I had undergone three weeks of preliminary training at Garhi Habibullah Camp (KPK) in 2019 and then fresh training this year. I was working in cloth factory in Sailkot, where I met Anas who was working with Lashkar and ISI. He (Anas) gave me ₹20,000 for my mother’s treatment and had promised an additional amount of ₹30,000 on my safe return from Pattan near Baramulla.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-terrorist-caught-in-kashmir-reveals-anti-india-propaganda-101632948950018.html
30-09-2021||India||Ghulam Nabi Azad seeks CWC meet amid ‘mass exodus’||Congressmen who in 2019 wrote to interim party president Sonia Gandhi seeking a change in how the party functions have again spoken out following the crisis in the party in Punjab and the exit of a senior leader from its Goa unit.One of the leaders of the so-called G-23 (group of 23), Ghulam Nabi Azad wrote to interim president Sonia Gandhi seeking a Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting to discuss the Punjab and Goa situation as well as the “mass exodus” in the organization.Another senior member of G-23, Kapil Sibal, demanded “open dialogue” and introspection, questioning the lack of clarity in the decision-making process. He emphasised that the grouping was made not made up yes men: “We are G23 but not ‘ji huzoor (yes, lordship) 23’.” “We don’t have a president. So, who’s taking the decisions? We all know and yet we don’t know. We want a CWC meeting for a dialogue to take place,” he said.And still another, Manish Tewari, said the Punjab situation was “mishandled” and the state required “stability”. On Tuesday, Navjot Singh Siddhu, who was backed by both Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra as the Punjab Congress Committee chief, resigned barely two months into the job, miffed at not having his way with senior administrative appointments made by the new chief minister, and also the composition of the cabinet. Sidhu and the Gandhis were behind the resignation of the state’s former chief minister and senior Congress leader Captain Amarinder Singh.According to party functionaries familiar with the matter, Azad wrote to Sonia Gandhi on behalf of G 23 asking for a CWC meeting in the light of “developments in Punjab and Goa” that are “disappointing” . He suggested that the CWC be called to also look into the issue of mass exodus from the party.A senior Congress leader said on condition of anonymity that a CWC meeting will be called soon and all issues would be discussed threadbare.Sibal announced that the G-23 leaders do not plan to exit the party. “People close to them have left them. But those who are not considered close, are with them,” he said pointedly, referring to the exits of Jyotiraditya Scindia, Sushmita Dev and Jitin Prasada. Scindia and Dev were considered close to Rahul Gandhi, but were pushed to leave the party. They are now Rajya Sabha MPs of the BJP and TMC respectively; Scindia is also the union minister for civil aviation.Tewari joined the critical chorus on Twitter. “I would be dishonest if I say that the situation was not completely mishandled. Suffice to say, whatever Capt Amarinder had said has come true. What Punjab needed at this time needed stability &unfortunately those who were in charge of state did not have a clue.”Sibal pledged loyalty to the party and said he “condemns” those who left Congress. “But we also need to ask ourselves -- we might have faults,” he added.Congress workers protested Sibal’s comments outside his house later evening and his party colleague Ajay Maken criticised him in comments to news agency ANI, saying it was Sonia Gandhi who had made him (Sibal) a minister (when the UPA was in power). “Want to tell Mr Sibal and others that they should not degrade the organisation that gave them their identity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghulam-nabi-azad-seeks-cwc-meet-amid-mass-exodus-101632943444246.html
30-09-2021||India||Huge investments on ops against Maoists continue in Karnataka||The Karnataka government continues to spend over ₹7 crore a year and deploy 500 policemen to the Anti-Naxal Force (ANF), despite just five known Maoists in the state, who, according to the intelligence department, moved to Kerala.Questions are now being raised by officers within the department as the state continues to make large investments in the force, even though there hasn’t been a single major encounter between the Maoists and forces. Karnataka is also not in the home ministry’s list of Maoist-affected states.The two latest deaths associated with the ANF are of a constable dying in friendly fire and a civilian killed by the ANF in a case of mistaken identity.Even though there is an opinion within the department to reduce the allocation to the force, it continues to remain a white elephant in the state police, say officials of the intelligence department. Since 2010, the government inducted 1,127 officers of the rank of ASI and above while it hired 1,540 head constables and constables. However, of these, the ANF has now relieved 2,263 staff, leaving the unit with 578 members. “There are only five suspected Maoists currently operating in the state -- Vikas Gowda, BG Krishnamurthy, Mundagaru Latha, Vanajakshi, and Angadi Pradeep. We have been tracking their movement for years now, and we are certain that all of them have moved to Kerala, specifically to the Wayanad district. One of the reasons is that the terrain of Karnataka jungles is not conducive for staying,” said a senior intelligence department official. Despite this, there are no plans on the cards to dismantle or reduce the strength of the department, Karnataka police DG and IGP Praveen Sood said.Sood said that even though the number of Maoists is low, the force remains an important part. “I don’t agree with the argument that ANF is a white elephant. Yes, we have a handful of the Maoists in the state. But it is important to understand that the job of these units is not to hunt the Maoists but to deny them territory,” said Sood. Explaining his rationale, the police chief said that even though there are not many Maoists in operating the forests of Karnataka, it is important to police presence through patrolling it maintained. “We are aware that our neighbours have Maoist problem and parts of Kerala make a red corridor that connects these states. So we have to conduct area denial operations to ensure, Maoists are not allowed to operate in these areas. We need large manpower to cover these large areas,” said Sood. ST Ramesh, former Karnataka DG and IGP, said that while the state government could look to reallocate some resources, dismantling a unit like ANF is not practical. “If you ask me, I would say more focus should be on core policing. That is maintaining law and order and crime prevention. Now duties such as anti-Maoist operations are not a priority in a state like Karnataka. But neglecting these duties wouldn’t be wise,” he said. The officer added that the state was a hotbed for Maoist activities in the past. “One of the reasons why there is a lull now is the police action over the years. But I also believe that more than just having units like ANF, an effort should be made to strengthen policing and police stations in these regions to give more confidence to people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/huge-investments-on-ops-against-maoists-continue-in-karnataka-101632943283481.html
30-09-2021||India||Punjab caught in dirty fight for power: Arvind Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said that the way things were unfolding on Punjab’s political landscape was really unfortunate and it was nothing but “fight for power”.“A dirty fight for power is going on...People of Punjab are feeling helpless. They do not know where to go. I request them to wait for just three months as we will give them a stable government,” Kejriwal said as he arrived in the poll-bound state.The AAP chief congratulated Charanjit Singh Channi on his elevation as chief minister and asked him to “remove” the tainted ministers, MLAs and officers inducted in his cabinet.“I urge him to fulfil all the promises made by his predecessor Captain Amarinder Singh before the 2017 polls. People of Punjab are looking at five things. First, they want removal of tainted ministers and officers with an immediate effect. Second, they are unhappy over inaction in the 2015 sacrilege cases... Then, there is the issue of unemployment allowance which the state government has not given in the past four-and-a-half years. Also, the waiver of farm loans must be expedited,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-caught-in-dirty-fight-for-power-arvind-kejriwal-101632942867185.html
30-09-2021||India||No law can take away court’s power to punish for contempt: Supreme Court||Even Parliament can’t take away the power of the Supreme Court to punish for contempt, the top court ruled on Wednesday, stressing that the authority is bestowed by the Constitution itself, and therefore no law can be enacted to mitigate or nullify it.“The power to punish for contempt is a constitutional power vested in this court which cannot be abridged or taken away even by legislative enactment,” said the bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and MM Sundresh as it drew a distinction between Articles 142 and 129.Article 142 (2) states that “subject to the provisions of any law made in this behalf by Parliament” the Supreme Court shall have all and every power to make any order on punishment of any contempt of itself. However, Article 129 lays down that the Supreme Court shall be a court of record, and shall have all the powers of such a court, including the power to punish for contempt.“The comparison of the two provisions show that whereas the founding fathers felt that the powers under clause (2) of Article 142 could be subject to any law made by the Parliament, there is no such restriction as far as Article 129 is concerned... this is a constitutional power which cannot be taken away or in any manner abridged by statute,” the bench underscored.Parliament framed the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, laying down procedure and punishment.The Act divides contempt into civil and criminal contempt. Civil contempt refers to the wilful disobedience of an order of any court whereas criminal contempt includes any act or publication which: scandalises the court, prejudices any judicial proceeding or interferes with the administration of justice in any other manner.The SC judgment on Wednesday, however, maintained that its power to punish for contempt of itself is not dependent on statutory enactment but that it draws this power from the Constitution itself.The judgment came as the court held Rajiv Dahiya, managing director of Rajasthan-based NGO Suraz India Trust, guilty of contempt of court. Proceedings were initiated against Dahiya after he failed to deposit the penalty of ₹25 lakh imposed on him in May 2017 for filing about a dozen frivolous petitions, and writing letters and filing leadings levelling accusations against the sitting and retired judges of the court. Dahiya even wrote to the President seeking sanction to prosecute the judges.The court gave Dahiya several opportunities to deposit the fine and tender an unconditional apology, but he didn’t budge.Holding his conduct to be contemptuous, the bench said: “There is no absolute licence, when appearing in person, to indulge in making aspersions as a tendency to scandalise the court in relation to judicial matters. Motivated and calculated attempts to bring down the image of the judiciary in the estimation of the public and impair the administration of justice must bester themselves to uphold their dignity and the majesty of law.”It emphasised that the rationale behind the contempt jurisdiction is to maintain the dignity of the institution of judicial forums.“It is not a vindictive exercise nor are inappropriate statements by themselves capable of lowering the dignity of a judge. These are often ignored but where despite all latitude a perennial litigant seeks to justify his existence by throwing mud at all and sundry, the court has to step in,” said the court.Commenting on Dahiya’s demenaour, the bench said his attempt is to have his way or he will throw mud at all and sundry so that judges may finally back off to ward off more mud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-law-can-take-away-court-s-power-to-punish-for-contempt-supreme-court-101632942747473.html
30-09-2021||India||Captain Amarinder Singh meets Amit Shah, says discussed farmers’ stir||Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh called on Union home minister Amit Shah at his residence in Delhi on Wednesday, stoking speculation that the 79-year-old could be joining the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) or seeking its support ahead of next year’s assembly polls in the state.The two met for a little less than an hour but BJP functionaries remained tight-lipped about the meeting even as the Congress condemned the event.Singh tweeted that the meeting discussed the ongoing farmers’ stir against three central laws.“Met Union home minister Amit Shah ji in Delhi. Discussed the prolonged farmers agitation against farm laws & urged him to resolve the crisis urgently with repeal of the laws & guarantee MSP, besides supporting Punjab in crop diversification. #NoFarmersNoFood.”The meeting came a day after the former chief minister’s aides had denied reports about the meeting and said Singh was in Delhi on a personal visit and to vacate Kapurthala House for the new chief minister.On Tuesday, Singh’s rival Navjot Singh Sidhu dramatically resigned as the Congress state unit chief, plunging the party into a crisis months before state elections.Singh stepped down as CM last week after a months-long tussle with Sidhu for control of the party.He later blamed the party’s central leadership for “humiliating” him.A BJP functionary said that a section of the party was keen on the former CM joining the party fold.“As a Jat Sikh face, a long-standing CM, they feel he has clout with the electorate and can be useful in helping work out a truce between the government and the farmers who are unrelenting from their position of seeking a role back of the farm laws,” added the functionary, requesting anonymity.On whether a role was envisaged for the former CM to negotiate with farmers on behalf of the government, the functionary said, “Nothing has been finalised.”However, other leaders who spoke to HT on condition of anonymity said the “age factor” of the 79-year-old leader will be a key consideration.After the meeting, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged that Amit Shah’s residence had become the centre of anti-Dalit politics, referring to the recent appointment of Punjab’s first Dalit chief minister, Charanjit Singh Channi.In a series of tweets in Hindi, he said, “The arrogance of the those sitting in power has been hurt. Because if a Dalit is made the chief minister, then they ask who is making the decisions in the Congress... The centre of anti-Dalit politics is nowhere else but Amit Shah’s residence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/capt-amarinder-meets-amit-shah-says-discussed-farmers-stir-101632942388942.html
30-09-2021||India||Constitutional court can quash criminal proceedings even in non-compoundable offences: Supreme Court||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Wednesday ruled that a constitutional court has the power to quash criminal proceedings after parties arrive at a compromise even in cases that cannot be settled ordinarily under the law. A bench, headed by chief justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, underscored the power of the Supreme Court under Article 142 (authority to issue orders to do complete justice) and the power of a high court under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) (inherent powers of a high court to pass orders to secure the ends of justice). The bench, which also included Justice Surya Kant, held that the power of the constitutional courts in quashing criminal cases cannot be constricted by Section 320 of the CrPC that defines which offences can be settled through compromise and which cannot. Section 320 CrPC enlists less serious offences such as simple assault, theft, trespass, mischief, cheating and defamation that can be compounded (settled) after the complainant enters into a compromise with the accused, to the satisfaction of the court. The top court’s judgment on Wednesday clarifies that the power of the Supreme Court or a high court cannot be limited to the offences enumerated under Section 320 CrPC and that the constitutional courts, owing to their “extraordinary power”, can drop charges even in non-compoundable offences to secure complete justice. “In doing so, due regard must be given to the overarching objective of sentencing in the criminal justice system, which is grounded on the sub­lime philosophy of maintenance of peace of the collective and that the rationale of placing an individual behind bars is aimed at his reformation,” the bench held as it laid down the common legal propositions in two separate criminal cases. The court added that criminal proceedings involving non-heinous offences or where the offences are predominantly private in nature can be annulled irrespective of the fact that trial has already been concluded or appeal stands dismissed against conviction. “Handing out punishment is not the sole form of delivering justice. Societal method of applying laws evenly is always subject to lawful exceptions,” the bench noted, striking a word of caution that whenever a compromise is arrived at after conviction of an accused, courts remain circumspect and should take into account conduct of the accused, before and after the incident. The judgment, authored by justice Kant on behalf of the bench, also said that such powers of wide amplitude ought to be exercised carefully also bearing in mind nature and effect of the offence on the society; seriousness of the injury; voluntary nature of compromise between the accused and the victim and such other relevant considerations. At the same time, the court added, it would send a wrong signal to the society if courts quash cases involving grave offences of moral turpitude; or that may have a harmful effect on the social and moral fabric of the society; or those concerning public policy. In light of the ruling, the court set aside conviction of accused in both the criminal cases before it and dropped charges like grievous hurt and attempted murder after taking note of the compromise between the accused and the complainants. It noted that the accused and the complainants in the two cases are residents of the same village or work in close vicinity, and hence, the quashing of criminal proceedings will only advance peace, harmony and fellowship. Further, it noted that offences involved in the appeals can be categorised as purely personal or having overtones of criminal proceedings of private nature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/constitutional-court-can-quash-criminal-proceedings-even-in-non-compoundable-offences-supreme-court-101632942144437.html
30-09-2021||India||Inoculation of adults a priority, Covid booster dose talks on: Officials||India’s discussions around a booster shot of Covid-19 vaccines have revolved more around the question of when, rather than if, people familiar with the matter said, but the priority right now is to start vaccinating young people between the ages of 12 and 18 years, and completing the vaccination of all adults.“Eventually we might need a booster dose, and there have been some discussions on it, but the current focus is on vaccinating all adults and the process of including children in the programme since the Zydus Cadila vaccine has been approved. A lot of thought at the moment is on how to introduce it (the Zydus vaccine) in the system,” said a senior government official who asked not to be named.ZyCoV-D, the Zydus vaccine, is likely to be introduced as part of the vaccine programme soon, although an announcement on vaccinating children is awaited. Till Wednesday night, India has vaccinated 236 million people fully, with another 409 million receiving one dose of the vaccine. With 68.7% of the eligible population having received at least one dose, it is likely the demand for first doses will start tapering off. In many western countries, the ceiling is around 80% of the eligible population.“However, whenever it happens that the booster dose is recommended by experts of National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation and National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NTAGI/NEGVAC), there is a possibility that it will happen in a phased manner... and those at high risk will be put on the priority list,” the official added.A Covid-19 booster shot is an additional dose of vaccine given so that the protection provided by the original dosage does not fade. The US has approved a booster dose for health workers and others at high risk. Booster shots are controversial because of vaccine inequity — people in many parts of Africa are yet to receive even one dose of the vaccine — and because there’s no clear evidence in their favour.“It does seem too soon to be giving booster shots. We have data from other countries that have different vaccines and infection rates,” said Dr Gagandeep Kang, one of country’s top vaccinologist from Christian Medical College, Vellore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-of-adults-a-priority-covid-booster-dose-talks-on-officials-101632941725385.html
30-09-2021||India||Six cops booked for murder of UP realtor||A case of murder (section 302 of Indian Penal Code) was registered against six policemen on Wednesday in connection with the death of a Kanpur-based realtor during a raid at a city hotel earlier this week, police officials familiar with the development said.The case against the six suspended personnel, who went missing after the incident, was filed at Ramgarh Tal police station following directions from Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, they added.Briefing reporters on the same, Gorakhpur superintendent of police (SSP) Vipin Tada said: “Prima facie in this case, we had suspended six policemen. Now, on the basis of a complaint by the deceased’s family, we have filed a case against six policemen.”Thirty-six-year-old Manish Gupta, a resident of Kanpur, on Monday died under mysterious circumstances during a police raid at a city hotel where he was staying with two friends from Gurugram.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said “a jungle rule” was prevailing in the state. “The state of jungle law is such under this government that police are soft on criminals and behave barbarously with common people,” Priyanka tweeted.Meanwhile, family members in Kanpur have refused to hold any cremation till the accused were arrested. Kanpur police commissioner Asim Arun is trying to convince them, people familiar with the matter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kanpur-realtor-s-death-in-gorakhpur-murder-case-lodged-against-six-policemen-after-cm-s-intervention-101632941723627.html
30-09-2021||India||SC frowns at Raj court order that barred cops from arresting during Covid wave||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Wednesday faulted the Rajasthan high court’s single judge’s order in May this year that directed the police not to arrest persons charged with offences punishable with less than three years imprisonment, ruling that such directions amounted to “putting fetters on the investigating agency” and faced the risk of violating constitutional rights of citizens.The top court had earlier on May 25 stayed the controversial order by a single bench of the high court. On Wednesday, the Supreme Court went on to decide the question of whether the high court was right in passing such an order. It did not set aside the high court order but made it clear where it stood.Interestingly, the Rajasthan high court had approached the top court challenging the order passed by the single judge bench of justice Pankaj Bhandari on May 17. The high court even challenged the March 31, 2020 order by the same judge, in which, he directed the high court registry not to list bails, appeals, applications for suspension of sentence in appeals and revisions in the category of “extreme urgent matters”.Dealing with the two appeals, a bench of justices L Nageswar Rao and Aniruddha Bose said, “The directions of the high court cannot be sustained as it amounts to putting fetters on the powers of investigating agency” and this has the potential of “violating constitutional rights of individuals”.In the May 17 order, justice Pankaj Bhandari directed the Rajasthan Director General of Police (DGP) to issue instructions to all officers not to make arrests for offences punishable up to three years. The judge was of the view that its order was in the larger public interest as the police were already involved in enforcing strict lockdown across the state.The order also directed the high court registry not to list anticipatory bail applications where maximum punishment was up to three years and the offence could be tried by First Class Magistrate. This part of the order was made operational till the reopening of the high court after summer vacation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-frowns-at-raj-court-order-that-barred-cops-from-arresting-during-covid-wave-101632941663289.html
30-09-2021||India||Antibodies against Nipah found in bat samples from north Kerala, says Veena George||Results of samples collected from bats after the death of a 12-year-old boy in north Kerala on September 6 have confirmed the presence of antibodies against the Nipah virus, state health minister Veena George said in Thiruvananthapuram on Wednesday. The minister said after the death of the boy a team from the National Institute of Virology (NIV) had taken samples of many species of bats from the area and the samples indicated the presence of antibodies against the virus in two varieties. She said the latest results have given credence to the theory that bats are the main carriers of the Nipah virus. The health department was on high alert after the third outbreak of Nipah, the first being in 2018 in Kozhikode and the second in Ernakulam in 2019. It cordoned off the entire area and samples were collected from all houses. Around 800 samples were checked in two days and all turned positive. Like earlier outbreaks, it was localised and contained effectively. “The NIV has conveyed to us about the presence of IgG antibody in some. We are expecting more results in the coming days,” the minister said. She said different studies conducted by NIV, the Indian Council of Medical Research and National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases will continue. She said though the 21-day incubation period was over the department will observe a double incubation period of 42 days to declare the area Nipah free. After the death of the boy, his parents said he had eaten rambutan fruit before taking ill and authorities have asked people not to eat fruits picked from the ground. But samples of half-eaten fruits did not show any signs of contamination during initial tests. Later authorities warned people not to disturb bat habitat in panic. Reeling under the high number of Covid-19 cases, the state contributed more than 60 per cent of the country’s total cases for about four months. Amid Covid-19, the Nipah outbreak had really jolted the state. Experts said the strict protocol in place due to Covid-19, like masking, physical distancing and no overcrowding, helped the state to blunt the impact of the zoonotic disease. Kozhikode reported the Nipah infection for the second time in three years-- in 2018 it claimed 17 lives in the district. Two persons also survived the infection. And in 2019 a youth tested positive for the zoonotic disease in Ernakulam but he was also nursed back to life after long hospitalization. After the first outbreak in 2018, many promises like setting up of a high-end animal testing lab, virology institute, a scientific study on bats (chiropterology) and a treatment protocol for separate zoonotic diseases were made. Experts say most of these remained only promises. “Since zoonotic diseases recur frequently in the state it needed an integrated approach and team of experts from all fields to study it,” said Dr N M Arun, an internal medicine expert. Experts like him want a proactive strategy to face the increasing threat of recurring zoonotic diseases and not wait for the outbreak to act. The state needs to strengthen its surveillance system backed by enough scientific studies, they say. It is a fact that zoonotic diseases have recurred at regular intervals in the state in the last three years. Many cases of Kyasnur forest disease (monkey fever), avian influenza, swine flu and anthrax were reported. Thousands of ducks were culled in Alappuzha two years ago to check the spread of avian influenza. “We need a permanent mechanism for early detection of such diseases and early warning to the people. More research is also needed in the area,” said Dr Prejit Nambiar, a teacher at the Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, who specialises in zoonosis and food safety. He said a close interaction is necessary between medical experts, veterinary professionals, environmental scientists and wildlife professionals to tackle zoonotic diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antibodies-against-nipah-found-in-bat-samples-from-north-kerala-says-veena-george-101632940706445.html
30-09-2021||India||Initial proof a must for probe against public servants: Govt||Over three years after Section 17A was inserted to the Prevention of Corruption Act through a legislative amendment, making it mandatory for agencies to seek prior permission before initiating corruption probes against public servants, the Centre has come up with a new standard operating procedure (SOP) on how the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and state anti-corruption bodies should handle such investigations.The SOP, sent to the agency and states on September 3, says that anti-graft probe officers must first verify whether a prima facie (at first sight) offence is made out against a public servant and only then make a request for a formal probe – a condition that some former and serving CBI officers suggested was prohibitive.To be sure, verifying a prima facie offence is a prerequisite where the alleged offence is related to any recommendation or decision by a public servant in discharge of their official functions or duties; and not when the person is caught red-handed accepting a bribe.According to the new SOP, which was reviewed by HT, when police officers receive information against a public servant alleging offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act, they must verify whether it “prima facie reveals actual commission of an offence under the Act”. It also specifies which rank of officers are authorised to seek prior approval for a probe. For example, when public servants in question are ministers, chief ministers, members of Parliament, judges of the Supreme Court and high courts, chairpersons of public sector units (PSUs), and public sector banks (PSBs), only an officer of the rank of Director General of Police (DGP) or equivalent (director in the case of CBI), can seek the approval.Section 17A was brought in by the government through an amendment in July 2018 to bring additional layer of due diligence after several bureaucrats complained that they were not able to take bona fide decisions due to the fear of probe agencies. It makes it mandatory for a police officer to seek previous approval for conducting any “enquiry” or “inquiry” or “investigation” into any corruption-related offence.The SOP now further explains what needs to be done before such any prosecution permission is sought. The SOP provide the stage-wise processing of information by a police officer, laying down of single-window procedure to specify receipt of the proposal and check-list for submitting proposals under the section.The police or CBI officer dealing with a complaint/information against a public servant will have to provide the name, current place of posting and rank of the public servant, specific act(s) of commission or omission attributable to him/her, specific recommendation(s) or decision taken by him/her which needs to be probed and deriving of an undue advantage for self or any other person to fulfil the ingredients of offences.The SOP adds that “deriving of an undue advantage by the public servant for self or for others is a key ingredient for establishing an offence against him and in absence of fulfilment of this condition any act of omission or commission amounts to an administrative misdemeanour only”.When contacted, some CBI officers said on condition of anonymity that the SOP was an unrealistic layer to already stringent procedures. “The problem is, how can we establish prima facie crime in advance? It can only be done once the investigation begins,” said a senior CBI officer.A second officer said: “CBI has already been handicapped as it has to approach the administrative authorities/ministries twice – first while seeking a probe and then at the time of mandatory prior sanction to file a charge sheet (under section 197 of Criminal Procedure Code). Section 17A has also taken away the surprise element and caused delays in anti-corruption probes with ministries/departments approached for every enquiry or investigation.”The agency has pointed out some of these concerns to the government in the last three years, said a senior IPS officer in CBI.Some officers, however, said that since Section 17A is new, it will evolve in time through judgments by the Supreme Court and the high courts.“A law is always subject to various interpretations and that’s what seems to have happened here as well. Somebody in Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), while issuing this SOP, has interpreted section 17A his/her way. While one might see it as the right approach to a probe against a public servant, another might see as a hindrance. It will be seen in next few months how the SOP will actually affect work,” said a third officer.The department of personnel and training did not respond to HT’s queries seeking comments.Former CBI joint director NS Wasan said there the clarity in how to proceed on such cases was required. “The law itself says that the probe cannot be conducted without prior approval in the alleged offence. A lot of cases in the past have been registered without any commission of crime, causing embarrassment for CBI so having clear guidelines will streamline the process,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/initial-proof-a-must-for-probe-against-public-servants-govt-101632940703816.html
30-09-2021||India||Midday meal expands to PM-Poshan scheme||The flagship midday meal programme at government and aided schools will be expanded into the PM-POSHAN (POshan SHAkti Nirman) scheme, additionally covering students of pre-primary classes, the government announced on Wednesday and said that over 1.1 million schools will benefit from the initiative.The centrally funded scheme, with an outlay of ₹1.31 lakh crore, was approved by the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA), which was chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. It will provide one cooked nutritional meal to students.“We are committed to doing everything possible to fight the menace of malnutrition. Today’s Cabinet decision on PM-POSHAN is a crucial one, benefitting the youth of India,” the Prime Minister said in a tweet.About 118 million students enrolled in classes 1-8 across 1.1 million schools will benefit under the scheme, the government said.In addition, around 2.4 million students in pre-primary sections or Balvatikas – started in several government schools last year with an aim to include children younger than six years in formal education – will also be covered under the scheme.While announcing the development, Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan said: “To improve nutritional status, encourage education and learning, increase enrolments in schools and promote overall growth of children, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved the PM-POshan SHAkti Nirman scheme for the next five years with a collective outlay of ₹1,30,794 crore.”
30-09-2021||India||Piyush Goyal proposes $1 trillion target for India-US trade||Union minister Piyush Goyal on Wednesday proposed an ambitious target of $1 trillion for India-US bilateral trade over the next 10 years even as he expressed frustration over the failure of the two sides to conclude an agreement despite multiple rounds of talks with the former Donald Trump-led US administration.“India and the US can be two countries which should be looking at a balanced future trade of upwards of $1 trillion dollars in the next 10 years,” Goyal said at the virtual annual leadership summit of the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum, an advocacy group, that began on Wednesday. “I’m happy to engage with the US, and look for expanding our economic partnership.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/piyush-goyal-proposes-1-trillion-target-for-india-us-trade-101632940523209.html
30-09-2021||India||Schools may reopen for classes 6-8 after festivals||New Delhi The reopening schools for classes 6 to 8 in the national capital was discussed on Wednesday, and a decision will be taken after the festival season, Lieutenant Governor (LG) Anil Baijal said after a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), which set rules that markets and public places must follow during Dussehra and Diwali celebrations in the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic.Educational institutes in the Capital, including schools, colleges, and coaching centres for students of Class 9 onwards reopened following a DDMA order on August 30.“As suggested by the experts, it was decided to consider opening middle school classes 6-8 after the festive season. All the stakeholders were called upon to work in a coordinated manner towards ensuring adequate preparedness for tackling any future challenges,” Baijal, who chaired the meeting, said in a tweet.He did not mention a month, but a person who attended the meeting said the decision was likely to be taken after Diwali. While Dussehra will be celebrated on October 15, Diwali is on November 4, and Chhat Puja on November 10.“After detailed discussion with experts, the need to strictly follow and enforce Covid-appropriate behaviour (CAB) was emphasised upon especially in wake of the upcoming festive season to prevent any resurgence of infection. It was suggested that community engagement and support to this effect should be ensured by way of an integrated campaign particularly in the vernacular languages,” the Lieutenant Governor added.Baijal is the chairperson of DDMA, and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is its vice chairperson. Wednesday’s meeting was attended by Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, revenue minister Kailash Gahlot, chief secretary Vijay Dev, and a group of experts that included Dr VK Paul of the NITI Aayog, Dr Balram Bhargava of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Dr Randeep Guleria of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), and Dr SK Singh of National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC).Schools in Delhi were shut last March when Covid-19 cases first started rising in the country. Classes resumed for a brief period in January and February this year, but were suspended in April as a brutal second wave (fourth for Capital) of Covid-19 stretched the health care infrastructure to its limits.Since July, the number of new cases in the Capital has remained consistently below 100. The test positivity rate hovers between 0.04-0.07% on most days, and much of the city has opened. At least 11 states have opened, or announced they will soon, in-person classes for students of all grades.At present, India’s vaccination drive only covers adults, with just one vaccine – Zydus Cadila’s ZyCoV-D -- getting an approval for administration in children above 12 years of age. Once the vaccination drive opens for children, likely in October, those with comorbidities will be given priority, the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) said last month.DDMA also decided to allow gatherings, including Ramleela celebrations, during the upcoming festival season with strict compliance to Covid-19 norms, a person aware of the matter said. The Delhi Police and district authorities will ensure proper seating arrangement at events by adhering to social distancing norms, separate entry and exit points at venues and no overcrowding at gatherings.Several schools say they have been receiving queries from parents on the reopening of junior classes as the closure of schools due to the pandemic led to learning and emotional deficits.The National Progressive Schools Conference, which comprises top schools in Delhi, said it was preparing to resume in-person learning for classes 6 to 8. “We will implement the same blended learning model for these classes and students will not be called to the school on all days. Learning will continue with a combination of online and in-person classes. Schools can start with classes 6 to 8 first and then call the junior students based on the prevailing Covid-19 situation…,” Malini Narayanan, the chairperson of the group, said.“We understand that the possible spread of Covid-19 during the festive season is a genuine concern, but the decision should be reconsidered after Dussehra. It is time when we all stakeholders need to realise academic gaps and take proactive decisions accordingly,” Bharat Arora, general secretary of Action Committee for Unaided Private Schools, a group of over 450 private schools in the city, said.Old Delhi resident Nazia Habib, whose children study in Class 7 and the kindergarten, said: “Since tuitions have begun, students have been able to catch up a little on studies even with online learning. But the Covid-19 fear is still there. Every day, we read reports from across the world of reinfection. Most parents I know would not be keen on sending their children to school without vaccination.”Class 7 student Rishima Dube, 12, a resident of Ayurvigyan Nagar, said she looked forward to attending in-person classes if Covid-19 cases reduced by November.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, said: “The government should focus on vaccinating all teaching and non-teaching staff and start schools at the earliest. Cities and states across the world are doing that now. Schools are necessary for the well-being of children. As far as festivals are concerned, people should not let their guard down just because it is allowed. They should wear masks and avoid crowded places. The viral disease is still spreading in several states. Governments and people should not take risk.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-may-reopen-for-classes-6-8-after-festivals-101632940462521.html
30-09-2021||India||Congress Punjab crisis: Ripples felt in Delhi as Amarinder meets Amit Shah||A party in disarray in a poll-bound state. A defiant state unit chief rebuffing the party’s overtures. A snubbed former chief minister meeting a top political rival. And, senior leaders publicly voicing differences with the leadership, prompting protests by others in the same party.The Congress’s troubles in Punjab spilled over to Delhi on Wednesday as former chief minister Amarinder Singh met Union home minister Amit Shah and leaders upped their pitch for organisational changes, a day after state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu’s abrupt resignation plunged the party into crisis.Singh, who had denied talk of him visiting Shah a day ago, drove to the home minister’s residence around 6pm for a meeting that lasted less than an hour.
30-09-2021||India||HC verdict on ‘skin-to-skin contact’ lacked sensitivity, AG tells Supreme Court||A controversial verdict by the Bombay high court that required skin-to-skin contact between an accused and a child to establish sexual assault under the Pocso Act showed lack of sensitivity to the fact that children are the most vulnerable to sexual crimes because they are unable to defend themselves, attorney general (AG) KK Venugopal told the Supreme Court on Wednesday.Venugopal, while making submissions on his petition challenging the January 19 Bombay high court decision, said: “The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012 is a special law to protect children against sexual offences as they are more vulnerable. The judge lacked the sensitivity to appreciate that Pocso Act is meant to prevent sexual offences against children who are unable to defend themselves.”Stating that the judgment under challenge created an extraordinary situation leading to a wrong precedent, the top law officer said: “The judge has misinterpreted Section 7 of Pocso (dealing with sexual assault) by implying skin-to-skin contact as an essential ingredient to make out an offence. It will have a devastating effect on pending cases before subordinate courts.” Section 7 defines as sexual assault any physical contact “with sexual intent” on the “vagina, penis, anus or breast of the child” or making the child touch these body parts “without penetration”. The offence carries a minimum punishment of three years extending up to five years.The high court had acquitted a man for groping a 12-year-old through while she was clothed, ruling that he be let off under the stringent Pocso Act because there was no “skin-to-skin” contact.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-verdict-on-skin-to-skin-contact-lacked-sensitivity-ag-tells-supreme-court-101632940343191.html
30-09-2021||India||Supreme Court to review Centre’s plea on use of green firecrackers this Diwali||The Supreme Court will on October 6 go into an affidavit filed by the environment ministry last October on the use of so-called green and improved fireworks -- hearing a case that could well decide whether this Diwali will see fireworks.Additional solicitor general (ASG) Aishwarya Bhati, representing the ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MoEFCC) informed the court that a lot of research and development has gone into this field following the court’s October 2018 judgment. She urged the court to consider the various proposals and formulations on green/improved crackers that the ministry has come up with in its affidavit filed before the court in October 2020.The court’s October 23, 2018 judgment banned the sale and production of firecrackers in Delhi-NCR and regulated the use of firecrackers across the country. Barium-based firecrackers were specifically banned.The bench questioned the anxiety of the ministry in this matter. “We fail to understand the anxiety of the MoEFCC when the (fireworks) manufacturers and TANFAMA are already before us.”TANFAMA is an association representing 180 fireworks manufacturers, represented under the common banner Tamil Nadu Fireworks and Amorces Manufacturers Association. Tamil Nadu is the hub of the fireworks trade in India.Senior advocate ANS Nadkarni, appearing for TANFAMA, said that the Centre is not being anxious but responding compliance of October 2018 order.The court told ASG Bhati, “We directed you to come up with green crackers. Even if we permit its use, we are certain that the crackers sold under the name will contain barium. You do not understand the problem. Only those persons will understand who suffer from asthma, respiratory problems and ... children.” Bhati replied, “The Centre is not being anxious. If the court wants a total ban on firecrackers, we do not want to join issues on that.” The bench said: “We are not sitting with a closed mind. If a via media can be found, we also want to see celebrations. We want to take a balanced view.”It agreed to go into all those aspects raised by Centre.On Wednesday, the court put six leading firecracker manufacturers in the country on notice for brazenly manufacturing and selling firecrackers containing barium and barium salts, expressly banned by the top court in October 2018. The ban of barium salts was proposed by the government because, on ignition, these release poisonous gas leading to respiratory problems.The violations by manufacturers were highlighted by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in a report submitted in a sealed cover to the court in April this year.“The report by CBI is very serious in nature. Considering the report of CBI pursuant to our order, prima facie it appears that they (manufacturers) have violated this court’s earlier orders on use of barium or barium salts as well as our orders with regard to labelling of firecrackers,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-review-centre-s-plea-on-use-of-green-firecrackers-this-diwali-101632939744729.html
30-09-2021||India||59 of 121 rainy days saw deficit, September wettest month: Data||According to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) gridded rainfall dataset, India received 870 mm of rainfall up to 8:30 am on September 29 in this year’s June-September monsoon season. This is about 2.32% more than the average of 850.2 mm rainfall for this interval in the 1961-2010 period, which is called the Long Period Average (LPA). These figures differ slightly from those published in IMD’s bulletin because the gridded dataset is based on interpolation of rainfall from multiple stations that have operated consistently over the years while IMD’s bulletin also takes into account newer stations. However, the broad trends do not differ much.According to the gridded dataset, the cumulative figures hide the intermittent dry and wet spells seen this monsoon season. Fifty nine of 121 days of monsoon so far have seen a deficit compared to the LPA and 62 a surplus. There have also been more extreme intensity rainfall events than usual this year, to the extent that this monsoon season has seen the 30th highest extreme rainfall since 1901.
30-09-2021||India||‘Normal’ monsoon officially ends today with rains at 99% of LPA||The monsoon season will officially come to an end on September 30, even as widespread and heavy rain continue over different parts of the country. In aggregate, it has been a good year, with monsoon rain amounting to 99% of the long period average (LPA) as on Wednesday (with a day to go), making it a “normal” monsoon year, according to India Meteorological Department.Rainfall between 94% to 106% of LPA is considered normal by IMD. The LPA is considered for the period of 1961 to 2010 and is 88 cm. But it has not been a normal monsoon in terms of the pattern and distribution of rainfall. The most active monsoon month this year, in terms of rainfall, was September -- a month when the monsoon usually starts withdrawing. The numbers speak for themselves: there was 9.6% excess rain in June; 6.8% deficiency in July; 24% deficiency in August; and 31.7% excess rain in September.The monsoon usually starts its withdrawal from northwest India on September 17. This year, several parts of the country are recording intense rain spells even towards the end of the month due to formations of cyclonic circulations, a deep depression and cyclones.The first deep depression of the season was formed on September 13. Another depression formed over east-central Bay of Bengal on September 25 which later intensified into Cyclone Gulab and crossed the north Andhra Pradesh - south Odisha coasts on Sunday evening. A remnant of Gulab is likely to reach the Arabian Sea on Thursday and further intensify into cyclone Shaheen by Friday, according to IMD’s forecast.No depressions were formed between June and August, a period that usually sees five to six; the depressions bring extensive rainfall to central and west India.As on Wednesday, there was a 1% deficiency in monsoon rain since June 1 with 11% excess over South Peninsula; 3% excess over central India; 4% deficiency over northwest India; and 12% deficiency over east and northeast India. There was an 8% deficiency at the end of August which was recovered almost entirely in September.The reason for rainy September was active weather conditions in the West Pacific and a favourable Madden Julian Oscillation (MJO), supporting convective activity and cloud formation over the Bay of Bengal. MJO is an eastward moving disturbance of clouds, rainfall, winds, and pressure that traverses the planet in the tropics and returns to its initial starting point in 30 to 60 days, on average, according to National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.“The West Pacific was very active and remnants from there were moving towards Bay of Bengal leading to formation of depressions, a number of cyclonic circulations and one cyclone, Gulab which brought widespread and heavy rain to east, central and west India. A trough was also passing from Bay of Bengal to the Pacific where cyclonic circulations and tropical storms are forming one after the other which has started disintegrating now. MJO will also move into an unfavourable location leading to gradual reduction in convective activity,” explained Sunitha Devi, in charge of cyclones at IMD. But intense spells of rain will likely to continue over India’s west and east coast for another two, three days.IMD’s extended range forecast shows reduction of rainfall activity from October 7. The monsoon is likely to begin its withdrawal from October 2-3, said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, climate change and meteorology, Skymet Weather.DS Pai, scientist and head of climate research and services at IMD Pune said that though the monsoon hasn’t withdrawn, the rain recorded after September 30 will be counted as part of the post-monsoon season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-ends-with-normal-rain-at-99-of-lpa-101632938968659.html
30-09-2021||India||Rising fuel prices and the prospects of economic recovery||India is a week away from the effective start of its festive season, which will likely see a much-needed consumer spending boom. But the country’s economy faces a serious threat -- inflation, especially via the fuel route. A rising trend in international crude prices is only one part of the fuel inflation story as taxes are a big reason behind the current levels of fuel prices. While the situation is already very difficult, any further increase in international crude prices will only make it more precarious. Here are five charts which explain this.Petrol-diesel prices are disproportionately high compared to crude pricesWhile Brent crude prices reached the $80 per barrel after three years, they have been higher in the past. But petrol-diesel prices were not as high back then. For example, Brent crude price was above $100 between February 2011 and September 2014. But petrol-diesel prices were significantly lower than what they are today. The reason why prices are higher at the moment is the increase in tax component of fuel prices after the Covid-19 pandemic. A comparison of price build-up of petrol-diesel brings this out clearly. The tax component of fuel prices was ₹37.83 and ₹28.06 per litre on 14 March 2020, before the Covid-19 pandemic hit. This is now ₹56.26 and ₹44.77 for petrol and diesel.This has led to a sharp rise in fuel inflation and inflation expectationsThe fuel component of both retail and wholesale inflation has been rising rapidly in the past few months. A rise in fuel prices also feeds into the prices of other commodities via a cascading effect. Businesses that are unable to pass on these costs will have to take a hit to their profits. Smaller businesses are more vulnerable to this pressure than larger ones, as was pointed out a research note dated August 2, by Pranjul Bhandari from HSBC Securities. This means a squeeze on their earnings.The bulk of the tax component of petrol-diesel prices is on account of Union government taxes. The Union government has maintained that it does not plan to bring down taxes on petrol-diesel immediately. This has fed into expectations that prices may not come down anytime soon.This, when read with the fact that retail inflation has stayed closer to RBI’s upper tolerance limit of 6% since June (although it hit a three-month low of 5.3% in August), and inflation expectations of households have been rising consistently in RBI’s latest survey (July 2021), underlines the threat of hardening inflation expectations feeding into an already volatile inflation scenario.Oil is not the only imminent inflation threat on the horizonCrude oil is not the only tailwind to inflation in the world at the moment. “Consumers are most likely to feel the pinch in the supermarket, where inclement weather in one of the biggest crop growers (Brazil) is also contributing to higher prices”, a September 29 Bloomberg column by Mark Gilbert said. “Annual inflation is running at 5.3% in the US and 3.2% in the UK . and is forecast to have reached 3.3% in the euro zone. In all three regions, prices are rising at a pace way faster than the 2% central banks are supposed to target”, he added. Bloomberg’s News Trends function, which can tally the occurrence of keywords from more than 1,500 sources, shows monthly usage of the term Stagflation (low growth high inflation) is at a record high, Gilbert said in the column.And commodity prices are surging.The Bloomberg Commodity Index, which tracks prices of energy, grains, industrial metals, precious metals, livestock and sugar, coffee and cotton, crossed 100 on September 27 for the first time since March 2015.The problem for India this time is that while global inflation is arising from high demand in advanced economies, high inflation will generate headwinds for demand and future growth in countries such as India.Festive demand could sidetrack policy focus from the problem at handThanks to its entrenched inequalities, the Indian economy is facing two kinds of inflationary problems at the moment. There is a small section of the economy (still large in absolute numbers) which is seeing the same supply crisis present in the advanced countries for commodities such as cars, high-end electronic gadgets etc. due to factors such as microchip shortages. With demand booming during the festive season, the supply crunch is likely to give the impression that the inflation problem is transient. The situation is likely to be very different for the non-rich, whose incomes and purchasing power has perhaps still not recovered from the pandemic’s shock. Indicators such as the RBI’s Consumer Confidence Survey capture this grim reality. If inflation does not come down, inflation expectations of this group will harden at higher levels.If economic policy makers are swayed by the economic story of the top 10% in the country, and ignore the economic reality of the majority, the situation might be even more dire by the time it is acknowledged. While the larger project of boosting poor people’s incomes will take a concerted policy effort, putting an end to the negative fiscal stimulus via high levels of taxes on petrol and diesel can be the first concrete step in this direction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rising-fuel-prices-and-the-prospects-of-economic-recovery-101632934041876.html
30-09-2021||India||‘RSS-linked outfits not against MNCs’: Swadeshi Jagran Manch||Weeks after it targeted Infosys for helping “naxalites, leftists and tuke-tukde gang”, Panchajanya, a magazine influenced by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), in its latest edition described Amazon as “East India Company 2.0”. Ashwani Mahajan, national co-convener of Swadeshi Jagran Manch (SJM), an offshoot of RSS that seeks indigenuous production, says in an interview to HT that the right wing organisation is not against multinational companies, but there are several concerns over its operations in the country. Edited excerpts:There seems to be a trend of RSS-affiliated outfits targeting multinational companies...It is a misconception that we are against multinational companies or India’s wealth creators. All we want is that they operate within the ambit of the law. Criticising any company that has circumvented the laws is not a witch-hunt or targeting. We have had discussions with Amazon as well. They are welcome to do business in India but they have to do so within the ambit of the law.What are your concerns on how Amazon functions?They have to behave like a platform, and they cannot give discounts… also, they do not have the right to keep inventory. The process of deep discounts which Amazon has been giving needs to end because eventually, by giving heavy discounts, they are eating into the market of small traders and what are essentially mom-and-pop stores.SJM has raised concerns over the e-commerce policy on multiple occasions. What do you expect from the government?The government came out with e-commerce rules for consumer protection. We told the government there is no substitute for a comprehensive and all-encompassing e-commerce policy that not only caters to consumers but also small-time workers, vendors and service providers.You have also raised concerns over flipping of some Indian start-ups and called it a potential security threat...Some of our start-ups are no longer Indian as they have flipped away. This flipping can have implications on the national economic interests. It leads to immense economic and national loss as an Indian company becomes a wholly owned subsidiary of a foreign corporation despite a 90% plus value creation from India, resulting in loss of all future tax on capital gains, public listing and operational profits, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-are-not-against-india-s-wealth-creators-or-mncs-ashwani-mahajan-101632901460074.html
30-09-2021||India||‘Alternative Nobel’ for Indian organisation||Delhi-based environmental organisation Legal Initiative for Forest and Environment (LIFE) has received the 2021 Right Livelihood Award for its “grassroots approach of empowering vulnerable communities to protect their livelihoods and claim their right to a clean environment.” The award is known as Sweden’s alternative Nobel Prize.Other awardees include Cameroonian women rights activist Marthe Wandou, Russian environmental activist Vladimir Slivyak, and Canadian Indigenous rights defender Freda Huson.The Right Livelihood Award honours and supports people solving global problems. It comes with a cash prize of 1 million Swedish crowns ($115,000) and long-term support to highlight and expand Laureates’ work.The jury of Stockholm-based Right Livelihood, which chose the awardees, said LIFE was receiving the Award “for innovative legal work empowering communities to protect their resources in the pursuit of environmental democracy in India.”In a statement on Wednesday, Right Livelihood said despite a robust environmental protection law framework, access to justice for those intending to protect India’s remaining forests and biodiversity is often limited. “To fill this gap, LIFE was founded by lawyers Ritwick Dutta and Rahul Choudhary in 2005. Since then, LIFE has fought against some of India’s most significant environmental threats, including helping local communities stop the construction of a large-scale bauxite mine in the eastern state of Odisha and halt a hydro-power project in the state of Arunachal Pradesh.”Dutta said they are thrilled to receive the Award. “This is our first international prize, and it means a lot to us and to all the local groups across India that we are supporting. The award will help us increase the impact of our work, empowering more people to protect nature and livelihoods.”He added their aim now is to ensure that decisions concerning the environment take into account the impact of the climate crisis. “Despite clear evidence that India’s ecosystem is undergoing rapid changes due to changing climate, we are yet to take any concrete action to deal with the same. Climate change does not figure anywhere in the environmental decision-making process.”Ole von Uexkull, the executive director of Right Livelihood who established the award, said LIFE’s lawyers have fought both governmental and corporate interests that threaten peoples’ survival and rights. “They empower citizens’ groups to claim their right to a clean environment, on which their livelihoods depend.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-environmental-law-org-wins-right-livelihood-award-101632899120394.html
