10-07-2020||Sangrur||Punjabi Singer Moosewala yet to join police investigation||Sangur Police claimed on Friday that the controversial Punjabi singer Shubhdeep Singh Sidhu ‘Moosewala’ has yet to join investigations more than 10 days after a local court granted him bail on the condition that he should cooperate with the probe against him.A local court had granted him bail on June 30 only on the condition that he should join investigations within seven days. He is being investigated for charges under the Arms Act after a video showed him using his pistol at a private range Laddai Kothi on May 5---a day after another video at another shooting range in Barnala’s Badbar showed him using a policeman’s service weapon while some other cops stood by to watch.  Gurmeet Singh, a superintendent of police with the Punjab Bureau of Investigation in Sangrur, said he told police in the first week of July that he would join investigations, but hasn’t done so yet.The court will now hear the case on July 15.“He has not joined investigations yet. He had informed us during the first week of July that he wanted to come to join investigations, but I was on leave at that time,” said Gurmeet Singh, SP Punjab Bureau of Investigation (PBI) of Sangrur.Sangrur Senior Superintendent of Police Sandeep Garg, who is overseeing both special investigations teams probing the cases, said that he Moosewala had told them he was unwell. “Later when we asked him to join investigations, he said that he was unwell. Due to the spread of Covid-19, we could not compel him. If he fails, we will inform court on July 15” the officer said.The two videos---the one from Barnala on May 4 and Sangrur on May 5 on May 5---led to two separate First Information Reports against the controversial singer.  Since the two videos came in the middle of a statewide curfew called to stop the spread of coronavirus, Moosewala also faces charges for disobeying an order by a public servant (Section 188) of the Indian Penal Code as well as the sections under the Disaster Management Act.Five constables were among eight other people who have also booked in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabi-singer%C2%A0moosewala%C2%A0yet-to-join-police-investigation-111116
10-07-2020||---||Ropar DC, five of her family test positive for Covid-19||Ropar, July 10A day after Ropar deputy commissioner Sonali Giri tested positive for Covid-19, all five members of her family were found to have contracted the virus, on Friday.The test reports of her parents, husband Vipul Ujjval, one-year-old son and eight-year-old daughter were received by health authorities at Ropar in the evening.While the deputy commissioner had already home quarantined herself on Wednesday when local SDM G S Johal tested positive, the district health authorities yesterday collected samples of 110 employees of mini secretariat, reports of which are awaited.Meanwhile, four other people have been tested positive from different parts taking the total number of active cases to 21 in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ropar-dc-five-of-her-family-test-positive-for-covid-19-111108
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 217 new coronavirus cases, four deaths||Punjab’s coronavirus continue to rise alarmingly, reporting 217 new coronavirus cases and four deaths reported in the past 24 hours---a development that takes the state’s COVID-19 cases to 7357 with 187 deathsJalandhar continues to report account for a substantial number of reported cases---the state’s COVID bulletin said district reported 61 new cases, the highest of any district in the state.Jalandhar also reported one new death, along with SAS Nagar, Amritsar and Fatehgarh Sahib.Twenty of Punjab’s 22 districts reported new cases.Ludhiana (41), Patiala (22), SAS Nagar (22), Amritsar (16), Sangrur (13), Gurdaspur (8), Bathinda (5), SBS Nagar (5). Tarn Taran (3), Ferozepur (4), Pathankot (4), Ropar (3), Hoshiarpur (3) Fategarh Sahib (2), Moga (1),  Muktsar (1), Barnala (1), Fazilka (1), and Faridkot (1) all reported new cases, the state’s COVID-bulletin showed.Forty-three of Jalandhar’s 61 new cases were contacts of older cases.  Eighteen were classified as new cases.   In Ludhiana, 14 were contacts of positive cases, eight were classified as ILI (influenza-like illness), four were new ANC cases,  two were OPD cases, one was a pre-operative patient, three were healthcare workers, one was a policeman and three were classified as new cases.There were also five patients with travel history, one of whom had travelled back to India from abroad.Of SAS Nagar’s 22 new COVID-19 cases, 11 were contacts of positive cases, seven were classified as new cases, three was ILI and one was a domestic traveller.Fifteen of Patiala’s 22 were new cases and seven were contacts of diagnosed cases.The district wise break  up of districts stands thus: Ludhiana (1287), Jalandhar (1110), Amritsar (1021,  Sangrur (622), Patiala (508), SAS Nagar (356), Gurdaspur (286), Pathankot (244), Tarn Taran (216), Hoshiarpur (193), SBS Nagar (184), Faridkot (149), Muktsar  (144), Fatehgarh Sahib (142), Moga (138), Bathinda (128), Kapurthala (126), Ropar (124), Fazilka (103), Ferozepur (147), Barnala (72), and Mansa (57).Punjab has 2,153 active cases, the bulletin says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-217-new-coronavirus-cases-four-deaths-111086
10-07-2020||Bathinda||Exams cancelled at Bathinda university after hackers access question bank||The examinations of Central University of Punjab (CUP), Bathinda, have been cancelled for 13 subjects after its online question bank was compromised.Notably, in wake of COVID-19, for the convenience of its students, the central varsity has gone for online mode of examination for the current academic session.But hackers sensing an opportunity, attacked the cyber security system used by the varsity to conduct online examination and accessed the question bank.   Talking to The Tribune, Vice-Chancellor, CUP, Bathinda, Professor RK Kohli said, “As many as 13 exams had to be cancelled after online examination system was found compromised. We have asked the faculty members to work out modalities to reschedule dates of the exams for these subjects.”Prior to this, the varsity used to conduct exams by using intranet in the campus itself but owing to COVID-19 this year, students and teachers were at their homes and for their convenience, the varsity had opted for conducting online exams for the current academic session.And to that effect, it had also conducted two successful mock exams to check the efficiency of the new online platform.Professor Kohli added, “I received an email from unknown person wherein it was mentioned that the question bank used by the varsity to conduct online exams was hacked. The email was sent from ProtonMail which is an end-to-end encrypted (identity of the sender is not revealed) and paid email service. In the mail a link was also given, clicking on which gave access to all the questions.”“Upon checking we found that some students have scored exceptionally well, and secured 90 and even 95 marks in the exams who had earlier scored quite less marks. And majority of these students are from Kerala. We have registered a complaint with police and an internal enquiry would also be conducted at varsity level. Since it is related to hacking, we would also take help from experts. Our cyber security walls are very strong and no one can easily break through them but its either someone working in the varsity or from outside but in either case, the culprits would not be spared. I am grateful to the unknown person who has blown the whistle in the matter by sending email at the right time that prevented other students from academic injustice,” added Kohli.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/exams-cancelled-at-bathinda-university-after-hackers-access-question-bank-111080
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Students coming to Punjab for any exam not required to go into quarantine||The Punjab Government on Friday clarified that students wanting to come to the state for SSB or any other exam are not required to go into quarantine.They can simply e-register and if asymptomatic can leave immediately after the exam.To clarify any doubts over such issues, they can visit cova.punjab.gov.in/FAQs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/students-coming-to-punjab-for-any-exam-not-required-to-go-into-quarantine-111065
10-07-2020||---||22 fresh Covid cases reported in Mohali district||Mohali, July 10The district witnessed another big single day jump of 22 coronavirus cases on Friday taking the total number to 361 besides one death and three being discharged from the hospital.Civil Surgeon Dr Manjit Singh said the persons affected with the virus include three females of the age of 42, 12 and 20 years from Sunny Enclave, Kharar, two men aged 32 and 35 from Sector 116 and Phase 4, respectively, 45-year-old woman and 22-year-old man from Gillco Valley, three males aged 18, 38, 25 from Majat village, 18-year-old man, 19-year-man, 50-year-old man and 23-year-old woman from Jawaharpur village, 19-year-old man and 50-year-old woman from Nayagaon village, 30-year-old man, 57-year-old man from Dera Bassi, two males aged 19 and 73 from Baltana and 52-year-old man from Banur.Dr Manjit Singh said three patients who were discharged from the hospital include two females aged 19 and 35 year from Behda village and 39-year-old woman from Zirakpur. He said 52-year-old man from Dhakoli died of the virus today.He said as of now there are 361 cases with 256 persons discharged from the hospital while there were 98 active cases with 7 deaths reported in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/22-fresh-covid-cases-reported-in-mohali-district-111058
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab govt cancels all pending exams of PSEB||The Punjab Government has decided to cancel the pending examinations of various classes which were earlier announced to be conducted after July 15 by Punjab School Education Board (PSEB).Alsro read: While divulging details, School Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said that the state government has decided to cancel all the pending examinations of Class XII, open school and several other categories including reappear and golden chance students.He added that the decision has been taken in view of the hard times due to COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-govt-cancels-all-pending-exams-of-pseb-111054
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||This billionaire Punjabi charters repatriation mission||No flight of fancy this! A billionaire Punjabi in Dubai has taken charity to new heights by virtually launching chartered flights to bring distressed compatriots back.Philanthropist Surinder Pal Singh Oberoi is now a messiah for workers and tourists who have been stuck in the UAE due to COVID-19 travel restrictions.This week a first batch of 177 people returned to Chandigarh and reunited with their families. Three more flights have been lined up this month; four in August.“We are arranging free charter flights mainly to repatriate low-income workers who have lost their jobs and they ran out of money,” Oberoi, 64, a Dubai-based industrialist from a small town in Punjab, told IANS here on Friday.He said the stranded Indians include tourists who came out on a shoestring budget and the money is running out.“We are giving priority to pregnant women, old, sick and families,” he said.The next scheduled chartered flight of SpiceJet, each carrying 177 passengers, is on July 13, 19 and 25.A flight costs Rs 40-42 lakh and is being paid by Oberoi-managed Sarbat Da Bhala Charitable Trust.Oberoi, who came to Dubai in 1977 as a mechanic, is well known for charity work.His trust saved more than 80 people convicted of various cases for crimes in the United Arab Emirates. It rescued a woman from Punjab who was sold as domestic help in Oman.In 2013, the trust had paid millions of dirhams as “blood money” to secure the release of 17 Indians who were on death row for killing a Pakistani man in the UAE.“With the grace of God my business is growing. I am giving back 98 per cent of my income to society by getting into social work and the rest two per cent is enough for me and my family to sustain a decent life,” an elated Oberoi, who owns seven companies in Dubai, told IANS.Emotionally bonded with his roots, he said 75-80 per cent of the people who are coming in these specially arranged flights are those who are struggling to survive after being rendered homeless and penniless.“For them, we have made arrangements to put stay in our shelter homes till they are repatriated,” he said.“Five to seven per cent people who travelling in our flights are the stranded tourists who can’t afford to buy the ticket at full price. Then we have passengers who have capacity to bear 10-40 per cent of the ticket cost. Also the airfare of a few travellers is borne by their employers,” he said.Oberoi, the Chairman of the Apex Group of Companies who came to Dubai at the age of 20 in 1977 on a job visa and launched his own business in Dubai in 1993, urged wealthy Indians in the UAE to help stranded people.He said it is the spirit of the UAE that has encouraged him to be a philanthropist.The Sarbat Da Bhala Trust, which does not raise any charity, is ensuring free food distribution to 60,000 families per month in Punjab and neighbouring states who have been affected amid the lockdown that came into effect on March 23.The supply of ration kits to sustain at least five members in a family will continue till September, trust spokesperson Manpreet Sandhu said.He said the trust provided funds to tune of Rs 20 crore to the local authorities, the Border Security Force (BSF) and various government departments to his home state to fight Covid-19.He said the trust got permission to operate four more chartered flights in August.“They will fly to the Chandigarh and Amritsar airports. We hope to fly back around 750 passengers this month and an equal number next month,” trust volunteer Sandhu told IANS.“For the next month’s flights, we have sought a list of stranded people from Indian Missions in the UAE. All flights will take off from the Ras Al Khaimah Airport,” he said.Oberoi, the privileged expatriates who have been granted the 10-year Gold Card by Dubai’s General Directorate of Residency and Foreigners’ Affairs, said this journey of social work would continue beyond the chartering flights.—IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/this-billionaire-punjabi-charters-repatriation-mission-111035
10-07-2020||---||All public dealing at Punjab Civil Secretariat 1 and 2 stopped with immediate effect following Covid cases||Chandigarh, July 10All public dealing at the Punjab Civil Secretariat 1 and 2 has been stopped with immediate effect.The orders have been issued by the General Administration.The orders have been issued in wake of a number of Punjab government officers who have visited the secretariats in the recent past reporting Covid positive.Earlier, Vipul Ujjwal, Director, Rural Development Department, tested positive for Covid on Friday.He was present at a meeting of the department on Thursday, which was attended by Rural Development and Panchayat Minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa.Bajwa is also being tested.All officers who attended the meeting have gone into quarantine and their tests are being conducted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/all-public-dealing-at-punjab-civil-secretariat-1-and-2-stopped-with-immediate-effect-following-covid-cases-111033
10-07-2020||---||Punjab’s Rural Development Director Vipul Ujjwal tests positive for Covid-19||Chandigarh, July 10Vipul Ujjwal, Director, Rural Development Department, has tested positive for COVID-19.He was present in a meeting of the department on Thursday, which was also attended by Rural Development and Panchayat Minister Tript Rajinder Bajwa.Bajwa is also being tested now.Also read: 2 more PCS officers test +veAll officers who attended the meeting have gone into quarantine and their tests are being conducted.Eleven PCS officers and an SSP have tested in the last two days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-rural-development-director-vipul-ujjwal-tests-positive-for-covid-19-111029
10-07-2020||GS Paul||Stranded Indian, Pak nationals return via Attari-Wagah border||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, July 9As many as 94 Indians and 81 Pakistani nationals, who were stranded in the two countries owing to the lockdown post Covid outbreak, were repatriated through Attari-Wagah border on Thursday. It is learnt that a body of Pakistani national was also transported to the other side of the borderThe Indian nationals were a part of a group of 748 persons in Pakistan. They were allowed to return in three batches last month. However, only 634 of them could return in the three batches on June 25, June 26 and June 27, following necessary health security protocols.Of the remaining (114) Indians, 20 could not be facilitated back for want of requisite permission. ASI Arun Pal Singh, Attari-Wagah border protocol officer, said among the returnees, a lady hailing from Gujarat was feared to be a suspected case of Covid-19. She was taken away in an ambulance to Government Hospital in Amritsar.“As she arrived, her temperature was found to be abnormal and she was instantly shifted to Amritsar Hospital for further check-up. Her further tests will reveal the exact details about her condition,” he said.Those who returned include 34 persons from Jammu and Kashmir, 16 from Rajasthan, 13 from New Delhi, 11 from UP, 10 each from Punjab and Gujarat. They will be shifted to their native states, where they will undergo the quarantine process.The Ministry of External Affairs had facilitated the movement of 82 Pakistani nationals through Wagah border on July 9 on the request of Pakistan high commission in New Delhi.Raghini Sharma, a Pakistani resident, said she was of Indian origin, but got married in Pakistan. “I came to India as my mother died on March 7. Between this period, the lockdown was imposed. Now, I am happy to reunite with my family,” she said. Mursalin from Karachi said he came to Kanpur six months ago to attend a wedding, but got stuck amid the Covid lockdown. “I was constantly in touch with the Pakistan embassy here and the permission was granted only now,” he said.Imran said he came to see his daughter in India. “Due to the lockdown, I, too, got stranded. I am thankful to both India and Pakistani governments for facilitating us to go back home,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/stranded-indian-pak-nationals-return-via-attari-wagah-border-110962
10-07-2020||---||Hindu leader Sudhir Suri booked for ‘hurting’ sentiments of Sikhs||Amritsar, July 9Controversial Hindu leader Sudhir Suri has been booked by the rural police for allegedly hurting the sentiments of a community.Complainant Balbir Singh Muchhal, a resident of Muchhal village, stated to the police that Suri along with Hardeep Sharma had used derogatory remarks against people belonging to the Sikh community. A preliminary probe was conducted by SP Investigations in this connection following which a case under Section 153-A of the IPC was registered against the duo.Meanwhile, Yuvraj Singh Sandhu, district president of Rashtriya Sikh Sangat, condemned the irresponsible remarks given by Sudhir Suri. He said he should immediately remove the video from his social media platform in which he made objectionable marks against Sikh NRIs and their family members.He said such statements were detrimental for Hindu-Sikh brotherhood and peace in the state. He said such statements not only hurt a particular community but entire population of Punjab. He demanded immediate action against Suri. “They should be arrested and put behind bars,” he urged the district administration and the state government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hindu-leader-sudhir-suri-booked-for-hurting-sentiments-of-sikhs-110963
10-07-2020||Aparna Banerji||SSP tests +ve, had attended high-profile wedding||Tribune News ServiceJalandhar, July 9Top-rung members of the bureaucracy are among the most hit during this pandemic, it seems.In Jalandhar, SDM Shahkot and SSP Rural were among the 32 persons, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. The district tally has now risen to 1,042.The SSP tested positive a day after he attended the wedding of senior Congress leader Avtar Henry's daughter. The event was attended by MLAs, bureaucrats and many eminent officials of the district.Notably, the wedding saw almost all senior functionaries of the town. Bawa Henry, Avtar Henry's son, is Jalandhar North MLA and brother of the bride. In attendance were also Jalandhar MP Santokh Chaudhary, Mayor Jagdish Raja, Commissioner of Police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, MLAs Sushil Rinku, Pargat Singh, Rajinder Beri, Hardev Singh Laddi Sherowalia, Jagbir Brar, among others.Divisional Commissioner Rajkamal Chaudhary and MC Commssioner Karnesh Sharma were also present at the wedding. In the photographs of the event, key guests are seen posing with masks slid down.In a photograph of the event, MLAs Pargat Singh and Sushil Rinku as well as Commissioner of Police are seen posing with masks slid down, while industrialist Sheetal Vij and MLA Sherowalia are seen without masks. A picture of the SSP shaking hands with the MLA also went viral. Sources, however, said the photographs were from an earlier event and not from the same wedding. The SSP also denied shaking hands.Speaking to The Tribune, SSP Rural said: "I didn't shake hands with Avtar Henry. I was at the event for a very short time and left soon afterwards. Everyone was taking necessary precautions."Slightly symptomatic, the SSP has fever. While the SSP stays with his wife, daughter and mother, his family members are yet to be tested for Covid.MLA Bawa Henry could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.Sample wasn’t taken at the time of weddingHealth officials said the SSP was tested for Covid on Thursday, a day after the wedding, by the Health Department. His sample wasn't taken for testing at the time of the wedding. He was tested by the True Nat machine on Thursday.While the Health Department confirmed positive results of the SSP on late Thursday evening, all key bureaucracy of the district might have to be placed under mandatory quarantine depending on the contact tracing of SSP Jalandhar.Nodal Officer Jalandhar Dr TP Singh said: "Currently, only the positive tests of some persons have been confirmed though we can't identify them yet. We are in the process of tracing their contact history. After contact tracing, all key people attending any congregation attended by a person who tests positive will be placed under quarantine. We will, however, be testing them after five to six days because there is a tendency of false Covid reports initially."MLA Sushil Rinku, when contacted, said: "I did attend the wedding, but didn't see any particular official, as I went a bit late. At present, we have no quarantine instructions from the Health Department."One succumbs to virus, 32 test positiveJalandhar: A 54-year-old man from Kapurthala died in the district on Thursday. The district also reported 32 new Covid cases. A Senior Superintendent of Police and Shahkot SDM were among those who tested positive. Of the new cases, eight were from Basti Bawa Khel and two from Makhdoompura. Other areas that reported new cases included Bhagat Singh Nagar, Qazi Mohalla, Dahsmesh Nagar, New Baradari (Shahkot), Hargobind Nagar, Bashirpura and Naagra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ssp-tests-ve-had-attended-high-profile-wedding-110897
10-07-2020||Jammu||Sikh bodies in Jammu support Dhindsa’s Akali Dal||Two days after forming a ‘parallel’ Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa on Thursday received support from some Sikh organisations of Jammu.In a press conference, president of the J&K unit of the Shiromani Akali Dal Darbinder Singh extended full support to Dhindsa’s Akali Dal and appealed to the Sikh sangat all over the world, including Sikh Students Federation, Sikh Naujwan Sabha and Istri Akali Dal, to support Dhindsa in his fight against people who ‘tarnished’ the image of Sikhs all over the world.He said SAD was a very old party of Punjab, formed in 1920, which had played an important role in the independence of India. “Unfortunately with due course of time the party, which had such a glorious history of sacrifices, was captured by a family, who used the party for personal gains and made huge fortunes from it for many decades,” he alleged.Sikh organisations urged Murmu to hold elections of the DGPC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sikh-bodies-in-jammu-support-dhindsas-akali-dal-110883
10-07-2020||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||Channi lays foundation stone of Rs 14-cr projects in Fatehgarh Sahib||Charanjit Singh Channi, Minister for Tourism, Punjab, laid the foundation stone of various development works worth Rs14 crore here today.The amount has been sanctioned by the Chief Minister on the demand of MLA Kuljit Singh for the beautification of the region.Channi said the CM wanted to beautify Chamkaur Sahib and Fatehgarh Sahib. He said the Tourism Department would spend Rs10 crore for renovation and beautification of Aam Khas Bagh and some amount will be spent on Sanghol Museum.He told the media that: “The Congress had no role to play in the emergence of the new Akali Dal led by Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and joined by the Taksali leaders. Rather, Sukhbir Singh Badal and Bikram Singh Majithia are responsible for it. The SAD(B) is a party of the Badal family.”He said the Floating Restaurant, Sirhind, which was inaugurated by the then CM Giani Zail Singh will be renovated and restarted.Kuljit Singh thanked the CM for sanctioning the development projects for Fatehgarh Sahib. He said projects worth Rs400 crore were in progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/channi-lays-foundation-stone-of-rs-14-cr-projects-in-fatehgarh-sahib-110780
10-07-2020||Our CorrespondentFatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib district reports second Covid fatality, seven new cases||The district witnessed the second Covid death today after a 56-year-old woman from Bhambhri village in the Khamano sub-division died due to the disease at the Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh.Earlier, a 53-year-old man from Mandi Gobindgarh had died due to Covid at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. His wife and two close contacts had also tested positive for the virus.19 active casesTill Thursday, the department has collected 11,659 samples. Of these, 10,985 tested negative and 139 positive. As 118 patients have been cured, there are now 19 active cases in the district.Meanwhile, seven new cases surfaced in the district today. A data entry operator and a technician at the Civil Surgeon’s Office were found infected. The Civil Surgeon, Dr NK Aggarwal, and three doctors of the Civil Hospital, who were in touch with these employees, gave their samples for testing and quarantined themselves in their houses.Sources said the Deputy Commissioner had also quarantined herself as she had not been attending the office for the past two days. The District Administrative Complex was sanitised today as some of the infected employees attended video-conferences held at the complex.According to the Health Department, seven positives were cured and discharged from Gian Sagar hospital, Banur. Till today, the department has collected 11,659 samples, of these 10985 tested negative and 139 positive. As 118 patients have been cured, there are now 19 active cases in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fatehgarh-sahib-district-reports-second-covid-fatality-seven-new-cases-110785
10-07-2020||---||Will urge PM to scrap university exams: Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, July 9Terming the Covid situation in the state non-conducive to the conduct of examinations, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday said he would write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah seeking the cancellation of exams in universities and colleges in the interest and safety of the students.Capt Amarinder Singh, Chief Minister.‘Peak in september’Covid cases are increasing every day and are projected to peak in September. How can we take the risk of exposing students by bringing them together for exams at this juncture?The Chief Minister said he would seek revocation of the July 6 MHA orders on compulsory conduct of final term exams in universities/colleges by September, and withdrawal of the University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines in this regard.“Covid cases in Punjab are increasing every day and are projected to peak in September,” he pointed out and said he was not ready to risk the lives of students under these circumstances.He said exams could not be held online, which the UGC had suggested as an option, since a large section of the students in Punjab, especially in rural areas and among the backward communities, did not have access to affordable and uninterrupted Internet connectivity.“It is just not feasible to hold exams in the current situation,” he stressed at a meeting of the Education Department to discuss the issue. Pointing out that seven other states had already raised their concerns over the matter, Capt Amarinder said all Congress-ruled states had, in fact, decided to approach the Union Government in this regard.The Chief Minister also asked Higher Education Minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa to write to his counterpart at the Centre on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-urge-pm-to-scrap-university-exams-capt-amarinder-singh-110798
10-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||Declare results, HC tells Bathinda varsity||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 9The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University, Bathinda, to declare the results of all students. For the purpose, Justice Amol Rattan Singh has set a seven-day deadline.The direction came in a case where the Bench was told that the result was not declared as dues were not paid to the university. The matter was brought to the High Court’s notice by Mahwish Rashid and other students.Appearing before the Bench, the petitioners’ counsel cited the HC direction that recovery of money not paid by the college to the university could not be a ground for delaying the results of students. He submitted that general category students, in any case, had made all their payments. As such, there was no excuse with the college and the university to withhold their result. Referring to the case of Scheduled Caste category students, he submitted that the Punjab Government was to pay the fee for them, or at least a major part of it. “Just because the state government has not paid the fee, students should not be made to suffer,” he added.The university’s counsel, on the other hand, submitted that the students themselves had not paid money to the college. Taking a note of the statements, Justice Amol Rattan Singh directed the petitioners to file an affidavit showing fee payments by them during the previous academic year. They were also asked to specify whether they were Scheduled Caste or general category students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/declare-results-hc-tells-bathinda-varsity-110799
10-07-2020||---||Didn’t betray Brahmpura, will seek his guidance: Dhindsa||Amritsar, July 9Despite having political differences with SAD (Taksali) president Ranjit Singh Brahmpura, rebel Akali leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa said he would still want him to be on his side.In contrast, Sewa Singh Sekhwan, who has deserted the SAD (Taksali), said Brahmpura’s leadership had been rejected by the people. Dhindsa, accompanied by his son Parminder Dhindsa and his supporters, today paid obeisance at the Golden Temple.When asked about Brahmpura’s allegations of betrayal, Dhindsa said: “Brahmpura saheb is a close associate of mine. I still request him to join us and guide us. He was adamant to carry on with his party, no matter who leaves him.”He said their objective was the same. They (senior leaders) were compelled to quit the SAD when the core issues were “ignored for vested interests”.“The party deviated from its objectives and misused the SGPC. Prior to the 2017 state Assembly elections, a series of sacrilege incidents took place. Now, the mysterious disappearance of 267 ‘saroops’ of Guru Granth Sahib is being reported. It was all scripted for political gains. The SGPC remained a mute spectator,” he alleged.“Scores of ‘pathis’ and ‘dhadis’ were thrown out of jobs due to the lockdown, but the SGPC failed to come to their aid. I promise the people of Punjab that if we are entrusted with ‘sewa’, we will punish each and every one responsible for such misdeeds,” he said. Sekhwan, meanwhile, said Brahmpura’s leadership was not acceptable to the masses.“We tried our best to convince him for the merger of the SAD (Taksali) with our group, but he remained adamant. So, we switched over to Dhindsa’s side in the larger interest of the community,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/didnt-betray-brahmpura-will-seek-his-guidance-dhindsa-110800
10-07-2020||---||Soon, mobile app to check authenticity of liquor||Chandigarh, July 9In an attempt to stop illegal smuggling and sale of liquor from distilleries, the Punjab Government is seeking technical assistance to check the origin of each bottle, pint or quarter sold in the market.A unique mobile app has been developed by the Excise Department to check the authenticity and legality of liquor, which will empower the consumer to know the origin of the liquor (where it has been distilled) and whether the hologram on the bottle is real. The move follows an extensive checking of all distilleries, bottling plants and breweries across the state last month. Rajat Aggarwal, Commissioner (Taxation), Punjab, told The Tribune: “We are all set to launch the mobile app, which is a sure shot way to discourage sale of liquor without holograms or with fake ones.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/soon-mobile-app-to-check-authenticity-of-liquor-110801
10-07-2020||---||Sacrilege cases: CBI trying to help Badals, says Bhagwant Mann||Chandigarh, July 9Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state president Bhagwant Mann today alleged that efforts were being made to protect the Badals in sacrilege cases and subsequent police firing incidents at Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura.In a statement, Mann objected to the CBI moving an application in a Mohali court to stay the probe into the Behbal Kalan firing incident, alleging it was a well thought-out design of the Modi government to protect the Badals. Mann alleged that the Modi government, in connivance with the Badals and Congress government, was trying to derail the probe by the SIT of the Punjab Police, which was investigating the incident with all seriousness.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sacrilege-cases-cbi-trying-to-help-badals-says-bhagwant-mann-110802
10-07-2020||Balwant Garg||SIT probe illegal, accused tell court||Tribune News ServiceFaridkot, July 9Five days after they were arrested by a special investigation team (SIT) of the police in sacrilege cases, five followers of Dera Sacha Sauda on Thursday asked the Duty Magistrate, Faridkot, to release them, alleging their arrest was illegal.The dera followers claimed they were already declared innocent by the CBI in the sacrilege incidents.In its closure report, presented in a CBI court on July 4, 2019, the agency had declared all three arrested dera followers, namely Mohinder Pal Bittu, Shakti Singh and Sukhjinder Singh, innocent.While the CBI court is yet to take a decision on the closure report, the Punjab Police, running a parallel inquiry, presented a chargesheet against the accused in the court of the Duty Magistrate here on July 6 after arresting seven dera followers, including Shakti Singh and Sukhjinder Singh.Pending the decision on the closure report of the CBI, the presentation of a challan by the Punjab Police was illegal and liable to be discarded, the dera followers said. The court of the Duty Magistrate has issued a notice to the police for July 20.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sit-probe-illegal-accused-tell-court-110803
10-07-2020||Faridkot||42 MD/MS aspirants declared ineligible||The Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) on Thursday declared 42 candidates ineligible for the second round of state counselling for MD/MS and postgraduate diploma courses. The second round of counselling is for admission to 390 MD/MS and diploma seats, lying vacant in seven medical colleges of the state. Declaring 42 candidates ineligible, the registrar of the BFUHS said these candidates had already joined medical colleges after the second round of all-India quota counselling. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/42-md-ms-aspirants-declared-ineligible-110804
10-07-2020||---||Five killed as car collides with tanker in Bathinda||Bathinda, July 9Five persons were killed and another sustained serious injuries after the car they were travelling in collided with an oil tanker on the Maur-Rampura road in the district on Thursday.As per the information, the overspeeding Maruti Swift car, bearing registration number PB3N 4414, collided with the tanker near Ram Nagar village area on the National Highway-254, nearly 5 km from Maur Mandi.One in critical condition.At least six youths were travelling in the car. According to passersby, the collision was so impactful that five of the car occupants died on the spot and one sustained critical injuries. The injured was rushed to the Civil Hospital in Bathinda.The deceased have been identified as Harmandeep Singh, Harpreet Singh and Armaan Singh, all residents of Jajjal village in Talwandi Sabo, Manpreet Singh from Malkana and Dileshwar from Jogewala village. All victims were in their twenties. They were returning to their native places after shopping in Bathinda city. The police are investigating the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/five-killed-as-car-collides-with-tanker-in-bathinda-110806
10-07-2020||Amritsar||‘Fake’ Covid reports: Punjab Govt shifts Vigilance  probe to police||The state government shifted the case of “false” Covid reports to the local police from the Vigilance Bureau (VB). Questions are being raised over the sudden development even as the accused have applied for a bail in the local court.The VB got the orders in this regard yesterday. The victims have expressed disappointment, saying the decision had come at a time when VB sleuths were tightening the noose around “rich and influential” suspects.“This is really bizarre. We have heard about cases of corruption being shifted to the VB, but for the first time, a probe is being shifted from the VB to the local police,” said Raj Kumar Khullar, one of the victims and the complainant in the case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fake-covid-reports-punjab-govt-shifts-vigilance-probe-to-police-110807
10-07-2020||---||2 more PCS officers test +ve||Chandigarh, July 9After nine PCS officers tested positive yesterday, three more officers, two PCS and an SSP, tested positive today.With so many frontline government officers testing positive, Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan today announced their replacement. In the list are 32 officers (six IAS and 26 PCS) who were issued transfer orders.8 BSF jawans infectedIn Jalandhar day after a Civil Judge tested positive, Shahkot SDM and SSP, Jalandhar (Rural), also tested positive for Covid-19. His test came out a day after a high-profile wedding of MLA Bawa Henry’s sister that was attended by the SSP and various other dignitaries, including city MP, Mayor, MLAs and Police Commissioner.In Sangrur, Dirba SDM tested positive. A spokesperson of the Health Department said the officer had attended the PCS executive meeting on Friday. His family and close contacts had been quarantined and their samples had been sent for testing.With 234 fresh cases, including five deaths, reported in the last 24 hours, the state count of confirmed Covid-19 cases has reached 7,140.One death each was reported from Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Sangrur, Ludhiana and Kapurthala. With these deaths, the number of casualties due to Covid-19 has reached 184. Besides, 51 patients are on oxygen support and 11 are on ventilator support.The death toll reached 50 in Amritsar on Thursday with a 55-year-old succumbing to the virus. The district reported 14 new cases today.A 59-year-old man from Fatehgarh Panjgrayan in Sangrur died at a Ludhiana hospital last night. The death toll in Sangrur district has reached 17. As per the state media bulletin, districts which were badly affected in the last 24 hours include Ludhiana (57), Patiala (42), Jalandhar (34), Sangrur (16), Amritsar (14) and SAS Nagar (10). Six inmates of sub-jail in Patti tested positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/2-more-pcs-officers-test-ve-110808
10-07-2020||Patiala||Mobiles seized from Nabha jail||In a joint operation with the Superintendent of Nabha jail, the police on Thursday conducted a surprise check of some barracks where terror accused undergoing sentence are lodged.During the search operations of barrack No. 6, the team recovered eight smartphones, four keypad mobile phones, three mobile dongles, two batteries, 14 chargers and eight headphones. Many of the inmates from whose barracks the mobiles were recovered are already on fast demanding that fellow inmates, who were transferred from the jail following intelligence inputs, be shifted back.“We also recovered seven earphones from Ward No. 6 and 6A where the inmates presently on hunger strike are lodged,” said Ramanjit Bhango, Superintendent, Nabha jail. SSP Mandeep Singh Sidhu confirmed the raid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mobiles-seized-from-nabha-jail-110809
10-07-2020||---||Will urge parties to avoid large gatherings: Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, July 9Chairing a review meeting of the Covid situation in the state through video-conferencing, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh said he would write to presidents of all political parties to seek their cooperation in keeping a check on large gatherings.He said he would also appeal to them to avoid any actions that had the potential to spread Covid. Meanwhile, DGP Dinkar Gupta said the police had registered cases against some political parties for violation of Covid safety norms and his department was planning to write to all parties not to indulge in such acts.Pointing out that 258 cases had been reported on Wednesday, with 11 PCS and other senior officers infected so far, the CM stressed the need to raise the guard. Office staff, in particular, needed to be careful, he said. The CM asked Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan to issue SOPs for government officials’ meetings, making it clear that the spread of infection among critical manpower due to casual attitude was unacceptable.Underlining the need for stricter enforcement of safety rules, the CM directed the DGP not to go soft on issuing challans against violators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/will-urge-parties-to-avoid-large-gatherings-capt-amarinder-singh-110810
10-07-2020||Kulwinder Sandhu||Illegal mining in Moga village goes unchecked||Tribune News ServiceKilli Chahal (Moga), July 9Illegal mining has been going on unabated at Killi Chahal village in Moga district. The sarpanch, along with some panchayat members, has allegedly sold soil worth Rs 50 lakh to brick-kilns and other persons from seven-acre panchayat land (village pond). A local rice miller had also reportedly purchased soil to raise the level of his plot.Villagers said the soil was extracted and sold during the lockdown imposed in the wake of the Covid-19. A resident said he had paid Rs 500 per tractor-trailer.Sarpanch Jinder Kaur and her husband Kuldeep Singh, denied the allegations and said they had increased the depth of the pond as villagers feared it could overflow during the monsoon and damage crops. The sarpanch said the soil extracted from the pond was used to level common land in the village.Villagers alleged that more than four acres (common land) had been encroached upon by some people in connivance with the panchayat and politicians.Meanwhile, the Rural Development and Panchayat Department has directed its technical assistant to visit the spot and prepare a detail report.Aam Aadmi Party spokesman Navdeep Singh Sangha has asked Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh to get a case registered in this matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/illegal-mining-in-moga-village-goes-unchecked-110811
10-07-2020||Saurabh Malik---||HC: Age no bar for protection to runaway couples||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, July 9 The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that age is no bar for providing protection to runaway couples and even a minor was required to be safeguarded regardless of the marriage being invalid or void. Even in the absence of marriage, the minor was required to be protected. The ruling came on a petition filed by a runaway couple against the state of Punjab and other respondents. Justice Arun Monga asserted the conflict raised before the court was regarding enforcement of the petitioners’ fundamental rights to seek protection of “life and liberty” enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution viz-a-viz conceded violation of Section 5 (iii) of the Hindu Marriage Act on minimum age of bride and the groom.  Justice Monga observed that the girl was almost 27, while the boy was 20 years and eight months. They purportedly tied the knot as they were in love with each other. The issue in hand, however, was not of the petitioners’ marriage, but the deprivation of fundamental right to seek protection of life and liberty.  He asserted he had no hesitation to hold that Constitutional fundamental right under Article 21 stood on a much higher pedestal. Being sacrosanct under the Constitutional scheme, it was required to be protected, regardless of the solemnisation of an invalid or void marriage or even in the absence of any marriage between the parties. “Right to human life is to be treated on much higher pedestal, regardless of a citizen being minor or a major. The mere fact that the groom is not of marriageable age in the present case will not deprive him of his fundamental right as envisaged in the Constitution, being citizen of India,” Justice Monga said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hc-age-no-bar-for-protection-to-runaway-couples-110812
10-07-2020||Abohar||Open plots turn into dumping sites||At a time when experts are placing emphasis on keeping the surroundings clean, the MC officials have been neglectful in issuing instructions to lift garbage from vacant plots in Street 5 of Nai Abadi. The MC said the onus of ensuring sanitation in the area was on the Improvement Trust.  The trust has been persuading the successful bidders to construct houses on the plots in the colony located close to Maharana Pratap Market for years. Some plots were even re-auctioned about five years ago, but even then no construction was started.  The vacant plots have been misused as dumping sites for long. A plot which shares its boundary wall with Government Elementary Basic School too has been turned into a dumping yard.  The plots have become a breeding ground for stray dogs.  A complaint has now been sent to the CM and the Minister of Local Bodies, requesting intervention in the matter. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/open-plots-turn-into-dumping-sites-110813
10-07-2020||Sangrur||Cow carcass found in Malerkotla||Tension gripped Malerkotla after the recovery of cow body parts last night. The incident has increased the problems of local authorities, who are already on their toes as the town has reported a high number of Covid patients and deaths.Various Hindu organisations blocked the Sangrur-Ludhiana road on Wednesday night while protests were being held at the Truck Union Chowk on Sangrur-Ludhiana road since Thursday morning.“We had lifted our protest in the morning but the cops are not serious about arresting the accused. Some miscreants want to create communal tension here and they must be arrested immediately. We have given the police 48 hours to take action. If they fail, we will restart our protest,” said Devinder Singla, BJP Mandal-2 president of Malerkotla.The leaders of the Vishav Hindu Parishad, Bajrang Dal and other local Hindu organisations also joined the protest.Manjit Singh Brar, Malerkotla SP, said they had been conducting thorough investigations and would arrest the accused at the earliest. “We have registered a case against unidentified persons and taking all steps to identify them,” he added.Meanwhile, a resident whose shop was near the protest site, said: “We know that the residents are hurt but they should avoid protests to maintain social distancing”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cow-carcass-found-in-malerkotla-110814
10-07-2020||---||Minister’s remark motivated: SGPC||Amritsar, July 9The SGPC took a strong exception to Cabinet minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa’s statement that the SGPC should review the decision of hiring a Pune-based firm, Sonai Dairy, while ignoring Punjab Milkfed’s Verka for supply to gurdwara kitchens. Committee’s senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta said the government’s own departments needed to be flexible and efficient.“Randhawa’s statement was politically influenced, far from facts. He has said the order was given to the Pune firm as its rate was lowest and there was a difference of Rs 5.2 crore for three months’ supply in comparison to Milkfed’s offer,” Mehta said.He said Verka milk was being supplied at the rate of Rs 38 per litre and the contract expired on March 31. “We asked them to continue the supply at the same rate, but Milkfed charged us Rs 42 per litre, despite the fact that during lockdown milk rates had nosedived.He contradicted the minister’s statement that ignoring Milkfed would hit 3.5 lakh milk producers in the state.A sub-committee finalises the tendering process and the order is given to the lowest bidder as per norms, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ministers-remark-motivated-sgpc-110815
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Promotion norms ‘flouted’, lecturer issued  notice||Twenty years after being promoted, Narinder Pal Singh Lamba, a senior lecturer in the Technical Education Department, is in trouble for allegedly being promoted against a reserved category post. On the intervention of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes and Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes, the department has issued a show-cause notice to the lecturer, seeking his comment as to why he should not be posted back as a lecturer. Acting on a complaint moved by Manish Kumar, the national commission observed that the department seemed to have violated the rules meant to safeguard SC/ST persons since 2001.  The state commission, in a separate complaint moved by Manish Kumar, said the department had violated the reservation policy in the service Acts of 2006 and 2018 and the reserved post could be carried forward after getting an approval from the Social Welfare Department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/promotion-norms-flouted-lecturer-issued-notice-110816
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||Show-cause notice to IAS officer||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has issued notice to IAS officer Ajoy Sharma, asking him to show cause why action be not taken against him and other respondents for non-compliance of an earlier order in a service matter.The notice by Justice BS Walia came on a petition filed against Ajoy Sharma by Satnam Singh through counsel Dhiraj Chawla. The plea has its genesis in an order passed by the HC, holding that disciplinary proceedings could be initiated afresh only after recalling earlier warning issued to an employee. Without taking recourse to such a procedure, action against the employee for the same misconduct would not be justified.As the earlier punishment was never withdrawn or cancelled by the Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board, “imposition of the later punishment has no legs to stand upon,” Justice Sanjay Kumar had ruled. Appearing before Justice Walia’s Bench, Chawla contended that the petitioner was issued warning regarding certain charges, followed by imposition of stoppage of three increments. The subsequent punishment was set aside by the HC vide order dated February 26 and the petitioner was held entitled to restoration of all benefits.But the respondents vide order dated March 20, tried to overreach the HC’s judgment by withdrawing the warning, thereby trying to sustain the subsequent punishment, which had been set aside by the HC. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/show-cause-notice-to-ias-officer-110817
10-07-2020||Chandigarh||BKU threatens protest over ordinances||The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) has threatened to protest against the controversial farm ordinances proposed by the Centre on July 20. Rajewal said  the ordinances had been issued to dismantle the mandi system in Punjab, and hand over agriculture to the corporate sector. In the absence of government purchase, the farmers would be exploited and forced to sell their produce at much lesser prices. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bku-threatens-protest-over-ordinances-110818
