26-07-2020||---||Zirakpur hospital sealed after nine employees test positive for Covid||Chandigarh, July 26A private hospital, AMCARE, on VIP Road in Zirakpur has been sealed for public after nine of its employees, including the head of the ICU and nursing staff, returned Covid-19 positive on Sunday.As a precautionary measure, the health department has sealed the premises. The patients who were admitted to the hospital have been discharged.The head of the ICU, a resident of Silver City, is still admitted to the hospital while the other employees are under home isolation.The health department is also investigating the death of a hospital employee — suspected to be a Covid-19 positive case.Dhakoli Community Health Centre CMO Pommy Chatrath said, “The OPD has been closed for the patients. The process of contact tracing will start shortly.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/zirakpur-hospital-sealed-after-nine-employees-test-positive-for-covid-118268
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 15 deaths; highest single-day spike of 534 Covid cases takes tally to 13,218||The death toll due to COVID-19 in Punjab rose to 306 on Sunday with a record 15 fatalities, while the highest single-day spike of 534 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 13,218, according to a health bulletin.Five fatalities were reported from Ludhiana, two each from Rupnagar, Gurdaspur, Amritsar and one each from Jalandhar, Bathinda, Mohali and SBS Nagar, it said.Among 534 new COVID-19 cases, 95 were reported from Ludhiana, 83 from Patiala, 70 from Jalandhar, 45 from Amritsar, 42 from Hoshiarpur, 28 from Mohali, 27 from Bathinda, 24 from Fazilka, 17 from Sangrur, 16 from Gurdaspur, 15 from Tarn Taran, 12 each from Ferozepur and Pathankot, 10 from Fatehgarh Sahib, nine from Barnala, seven from Rupnagar, six each from Kapurthala and Mansa, four from SBS Nagar, two each from Muktsar and Moga and one from Faridkot.Nineteen BSF personnel in Hoshiarpur, while eight policemen in Gurdaspur, six in Mohali, five in Ludhiana, three each in Tarn Taran, Fazilka and Patiala, two in Barnala and one each in Amritsar and Fatehgarh Sahib were among the new cases.A total of 513 patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the total number of cured persons to 8,810 in the state.At present, there are 4,102 active cases in the state, the bulletin said.Ludhiana continued to top the COVID-19 tally with 2,415 cases, followed by 2,009 in Jalandhar, 1,539 in Amritsar, 1,377 in Patiala, 941 in Sangrur, 707 in Mohali, 493 in Hoshiarpur, 378 in Gurdaspur, 323 in Pathankot, 295 in SBS Nagar, 296 in Ferozepur, 287 in Bathinda, 286 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 277 in Tarn Taran, 267 in Moga, 259 in Faridkot, 232 in Fazilka, 204 in Muktsar, 203 in Rupnagar, 201 in Kapurthala, 126 in Barnala and 103 in Mansa, the bulletin said.Twenty patients are critical and are on ventilator support, while 105 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 5,31,336 samples have been tested for COVID-19 so far, it added. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-reports-15-deaths-highest-single-day-spike-of-534-covid-cases-takes-tally-to-13-218-118256
26-07-2020||Jalandhar||Jalandhar man held for cricket betting; Rs 1.23 cr seized||A 39-year-old man allegedly involved in a cricket betting racket has been arrested from the BSF colony here and Rs 1.23 crore cash seized from him, police said on Sunday.A laptop computer and two mobile phones were also seized from the accused, identified as Sourav Verma, they said, adding that he is a civil engineering diploma holder and an architect by profession.The gadgets will be handed over to the cyber cell to get to the bottom of the racket, the police said.Commissioner of Police Gupreet Singh Bhullar said a tip was received that the accused was allegedly running a betting racket from his home and a huge amount of cash was also in his possession there.Bhullar said a police team raided the house and arrested the accused when he was betting on an ongoing England vs West Indies Test match.He said the accused was operating the racket through a ‘Z-Account’ online application.Verma has been allegedly involved in betting for the last few years, the police said.Strict action will be taken against all those involved in this racket, they said.The Income Tax department has also been informed about the seizure of the cash, the police said, adding that the accused was booked under relevant sections of the Gambling Act. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/jalandhar-man-held-for-cricket-betting-rs-1-23-cr-seized-118253
26-07-2020||Patiala||Amid corona, Punjab school teachers decry their duties at interstate borders; feel burdened||Amidst odd-hour duties in poor working conditions, and heavy workload, Punjab Government school teachers—who have been put on duties at interstate borders to register the travellers to manage coronavirus—are a harried lot.The teachers have been put at three points of inter-state borders: Shambu barrier near Ambala, Dhabi Gujran near Patran, and Ramnagar on Patiala Cheeka road.The teachers are working round the clock in three shifts of eight hours each—in addition to their regular duties of taking online classes. Some teachers have to come from far off places for their duties.The teachers alleged that working conditions at the checking points were ‘very poor’.They said basic amenities such as washrooms, drinking water, and safety items were not present there.When The Tribune visited the place, Sukhdev Singh, a government teacher, who was posted at Shambhu barrier, said, “The working conditions at the checking point are not adequate. We are being harassed as we are given more late-night duties than guys of other departments. Moreover, we are not being provided with any safety items but sanitisers to save ourselves from coronavirus.”Another school teacher Vikramjeet Singh, said, “Only school buildings are closed but online classes are being conducted continuously, therefore, this is an extra burden on teachers. After eight hours of duties, we have to take online classes despite being tired.”In the end, school teachers demanded that other departments should be roped in to provide some relief to the teachers.Vikram Dev, member, Democratic Teachers Front (DTF), said that there is a huge discrepancy in the duty roster at the inter-state borders.“We have already requested the administration to have a transparent system of posting teachers at the borders.”The work is being duplicatedThe teachers said that to write the entire process of registration into the register was a futile exercise because the same data was already being digitally uploaded on the COVA Punjab application.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-corona-punjab-school-teachers-decry-their-duties-at-interstate-borders-feel-burdened-118249
26-07-2020||Parvesh Sharma||21 years on, Sangrur village awaits Kargil martyr’s memorial||Tribune News ServiceSangrur, July 26On Kargil Vijay Diwas when nation paid tributes to soldiers who sacrificed their lives, residents of Banbhaura, native village of Kargil martyr Naik Bahadur Singh, expressed their resentment against the authorities for failing to construct a memorial in his name.Since the end of Kargil War in 1999, residents have written numerous letters to authorities for the memorial to make the coming generations aware about supreme sacrifice of Singh, but to no avail.On Sunday also, many children and youngsters were unaware about the sacrifice of Singh in his own village as due to lack of memorial village Panchayat could not organise any function to mark the day.“We have written letters and met officers and requested repeatedly for the construction of memorial. Authorities can install a statue of my brother or they could construct any gate in village. We want memorial so that all village could remember him,” said Balbir Singh, elder brother of martyr.After completing his 10th in 1987, Martyr Bahadur Singh had joined Indian Army in 1988 and attained martyrdom in 1999.“Though villagers have great respect for my brother, but there are many youngsters , who are unaware about the sacrifice of my brother. Its really sad that we are unable every year to pay tributes while all nation does” said Bhajan Singh, another elder brother of Bahadur Singh.Village Sarpanch Kamaljit Kaur and her husband Sukhdeep Singh Goldy, who is village youth club president, said village has demarcated a piece of land for the statue, but authorities have not woken up to their demand.“We have hundreds of youngsters in village. If we have memorial of martyr, it would definitely motivate them to join Indian Army. We have also started a sport tournament in the name of martyr, but government authorities have not taken any step to construct memorial,” said Goldy.When contacted, Block Development and Panchayat Officer, Malerkotla-1, Amandeep Kaur admitted that the villagers had submitted an application for the memorial in local SDM office. “I will look into the matter,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/21-years-on-sangrur-village-awaits-kargil-martyrs-memorial-118248
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Sultry weather in Haryana, Punjab||Sultry weather conditions prevailed in Haryana and Punjab on Sunday, with maximum temperatures hovering slightly above normal in the neighbouring states, the Indian Meteorological Department here said.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a high of 35.4 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal.In Haryana, Hisar recorded a maximum temperature of 36 degrees Celsius. Narnaul’s maximum settled at 36.3 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal.Karnal recorded a high of 34 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal, while Ambala’s maximum temperature settled at 35.2 degrees Celsius, two notches above normal.In Punjab, Patiala recorded a maximum temperature of 36.3 degrees Celsius, three notches above normal.The mercury settled at 35.4 degrees Celsius and 35 degrees Celsius in Amritsar and Ludhiana, respectively, a notch above normal.Monsoon has remained subdued in the region for the past two-three days. However, rainfall activity is likely to pick up from July 27, the weather department said. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sultry-weather-in-haryana-punjab-118240
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Mohali reports 25 new coronavirus cases||Mohali reported twenty-five new coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the district’s numbers past 700, officials said.Sixteen people were released from hospitals in the district on Monday. District officials put the COVID-19 numbers in Mohali at 715, with 250 of those still active.  The district has seen 13 fatalities from the infection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mohali-reports-25-new-coronavirus-cases-118230
26-07-2020||---||19 BSF troopers among Hoshiarpur’s 42 new COVID-19 cases||Tribune News ServiceHoshiarpur, July 26Hoshiarpur reported 42 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, officials said.Nineteen troopers of the Border Security Force were among the district’s new cases.The development takes Hoshiarpur’s COVID-19 numbers to 493. The district has 13 deaths so far.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/19-bsf-troopers-among-hoshiarpurs-42-new-covid-19-cases-118224
26-07-2020||New Delhi||MEA facilitates travel of 11 Sikhs, Hindus from Afghanistan to India||Around 11 members of minority communities of Afghanistan, including a Sikh community leader who was kidnapped and later released, arrived here on Sunday after India granted them visas and facilitated their travel.The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said Nidan Singh Sachdeva, who was released from captivity on July 18, is among those who reached Delhi on Sunday.Sachdeva, a Sikh community leader of Afghanistan, was kidnapped in Paktia province last month.“Around 11 members, belonging to the Sikh and Hindu minority community of Afghanistan, arrived in India today,” the MEA said in a statement.India has granted appropriate visa and facilitated their travel to India, it said.“We appreciate the efforts of the Government of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan in extending necessary support for the safe return of these families,” the MEA said.Asked how India is facilitating Sikhs and Hindus from Afghanistan wanting to come and were there any plans to give them citizenship, MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava had last week said, “There has been a recent spurt of attacks on the Hindu and Sikh communities in Afghanistan and these attacks have been done by terrorists at the behest of their external supporters.”     “We have been receiving requests from the members of these communities. They want to move to India, they want to settle down here, and despite the ongoing COVID situation, we are facilitating these requests,” he had said at a weekly briefing.The Indian Embassy in Kabul is providing them necessary visas to come here and once they reach here, their requests will be examined and acted upon based on existing rules and policies, Srivastava had said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mea-facilitates-travel-of-11-sikhs-hindus-from-afghanistan-to-india-118207
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Businessman's death: Punjab petrol pumps shut for 30 minutes||Fuel pump owners in Punjab on Sunday said they will keep their petrol pumps shut on July 29 in protest against the high-rate of taxes on petrol and diesel that is adversely affecting their business.Paramjit Singh, president of the Petrol Pump Dealers Association, said the fuel in Punjab is costlier than in Chandigarh and Haryana because of disparity in tax rates.“We will shut our fuel pumps on July 29 from 8 am till 5 pm against high rate of taxes,” he said.A Mohali-based fuel pump owner ended his life on July 22. The association said GS Chawla had allegedly “succumbed to the pressure of loss of volume due to disparity in fuel prices in Punjab and neighbouring states, and revenue loss amid the COVID-19 pandemic”.Singh said Chawala had fought against the high rate of taxes on petrol and diesel.The retail price of petrol in Punjab is Rs 82.35 a litre as compared to Rs 77.41 in Chandigarh and Rs 78.46 in Panchkula, according to a fuel pump owner.Similarly, the rate of diesel in Punjab is Rs 75.54 in comparison to Rs 72.91 in Chandigarh and Rs 73.54 in Panchkula.Punjab imposes 33.40 per cent taxes on petrol and 19.77 per cent on diesel.However, VAT rate in Chandigarh is 22.45 per cent on petrol and 14.02 per cent on diesel, fuel pump owners said.“The border area dealers of Mohali, Fathehgarh Sahib and Rupnagar are the worst hit as they have lost up to 80 per cent of their sales to Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh and Haryana,” fuel pump owner Ashwinder Mongia said.There are 3,450 fuel pumps in Punjab and of them, 800 are located in the border districts which are losing sales because of the high rate of value added tax on fuel.Fuel pump owners have urged the state government to bring the tax rates on par with neighbouring states. They said it would revive petroleum trade in the state and would also generate revenue to the state exchequer.“The protest will be to press the state government to bring parity in the tax rates. It will also be a tribute to our member G S Chawla,” association president  Singh said.On Sunday, petrol pump dealers in the state kept their fuel stations shut for half an hour, he added. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/businessmans-death-punjab-petrol-pumps-shut-for-30-minutes-118186
26-07-2020||Bhim Raj Garg||Punjab’s Rafi, Rafi’s Punjab — a bond of love||A young Pheeku was casually singing Waris Shah’s Heer when Pandit Jiwan Lal Mattoo of All India Radio, Lahore, discovered him. He took him under his wings, gave him training in classical music and honed the talent of the lad who the world would come to know as Mohammed Rafi. His singing talent was to be recognised on a grand scale during a performance at the All-India Exhibition, Lahore, in 1937. Present at the occasion was KL Saigal, who had predicted then and there that the young man would become a singing sensation. And he did, and he remains a singing superstar 40 years after he became one with the stars.Rafi was born in a small village, Kotla Sultan Singh, of Amritsar. With his rich tonal voice, versatility and crystal clear intonations, he rendered thousands of unique heart-wrenching songs, varying from fast, peppy numbers to classical songs, heartrending melodies to romantic songs, qawwalis to ghazals and bhajans to patriotic songs. Rafi’s mellifluous voice boomed not only across India but around the world. However, it is the inseparable connection between him and Punjab that we talk about today.Rafi was introduced to filmdom by music director Shyam Sunder in 1942. His first song was a duet, “Pardesi…Sohneya Oye, Heeriye Oye” with Zeenat Begum in a Punjabi movie Gul Baloch (1945). Rafi sang another duet, “Aa Chann Ve”, with Munawar Sultana under Lachhi Ram and a chorus, “Sun Sun Nikki Jehi Gall”, under the music direction of Pt Amar Nath. His songs became very popular even before the release of Gul Baloch on August 23, 1946. The rest, as they say, is history.Bombay beckoned soon and actor-producer Nazeer paid him Rs100 and a rail ticket from Lahore to Bombay. The story of Rafi’s first recording as narrated by Naushad goes like this: “In order to give a marching effect to the patriotic song, “Hindustan Ke Hum Hain” (Pehle Aap, 1944), he asked the chorus singers to wear heavy military shoes and sing the song making a rhythmic sound by hitting the booted legs in unison. After the recording, Rafi’s feet were bleeding but his face was glowing with the joy of singing his first song in a Hindi movie.” However, some say Rafi’s first Hindi film song was “Jab Dil Ho Kaabu Mein” (Gaon Ki Gori, 1945).and son Khalid.A successful Bollywood outing had kicked off, but Rafi was extremely nostalgic about his Punjabi roots. Love for his land led him to record many Punjabi folk and film songs and shabads from Gurbani. Following Partition of India, he devoted equally to playback singing in Hindi and Punjabi movies. He rendered 262 songs in 105 Punjabi movies. He recorded five songs in Punjabi film Lachhi (1949) under the music direction of Hansraj Behl. His solo, “Jag Wala Mela Yaaro”, went on to become immensely popular on both sides of the border. His duets with Lata Mangeshkar, “Kaali Kangi Naal” and “Tumba Vajdae Na”, also made it to the top of the musical charts. He became the most sought-after playback singer in Punjabi cinema.In 1951, he sang three songs under Sardul Kwatra and his duet with Asha Bhosle, “Tun Peengh Te Main Parchhavan”, hit the bull’s eye. Punjab was still reeling under the pain of Partition when his philosophical rendering, “Darh Vatt Zamana Katt Bhale Din Aawange” (Jugni, 1953), was released, offering a healing touch.By now, Rafi had become a force to reckon with in Hindi cinema and found little time for Punjabi movies. However, he made a comeback with “Jatt Kudiyaan Ton Darda Mara” (Bhangra, 1959). Next year, he gave voice to dance director Sohan Lal Khanna’s popular bhangra number “Teri Kanak Di Raakhi Mundiya” (Do Lachhian).Apart from Punjabi film music, Rafi cut many records of non-film songs, Punjabi folk, shabads, naats, etc. A 78 rpm record of two shabads from the 1950s, “Har Ko Naam Sada Sukhdai” and “Jis Sar Upar Tu Swami”, became an all-time hit and was regularly played from the community loudspeakers in village gurdwaras in the mornings.His heart in the right place, Rafi’s conversations at home and in private circles were always in Punjabi. If any, there was one wish that remained unfulfilled: a chance to go to Lahore. A performance was cancelled due to the Indo-China War and he was always remorseful about it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjabs-rafi-rafis-punjab-%E2%80%94-a-bond-of-love-118094
26-07-2020||---||Perform Covid duties or face music, rural docs told||Chandigarh, July 25Acting tough on rural doctors refusing to perform Covid duties, the Punjab Government has threatened to initiate disciplinary action against those not complying with its orders.Phishing attack alertThe Punjab Police on Saturday cautioned against a phishing attack wherein fake messages assuring Rs2,000 as Covid-19 relief package from the government are being sent to people to steal their data. The warning was issued by the Digital Investigation Training and Analysis Centre of the Punjab Police State Cyber Crime Cell.The services of rural medical officers, working under the Department of Rural Development and Panchayats, have been placed under the Health Department. However, alleging discrimination, some of them have refused to perform Covid-19 duties. The government has now warned that failure to follow the orders of civil surgeons will invite disciplinary proceedings.In a letter to deputy commissioners, Anurag Agarwal, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, said that under the Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, (Covid-19, regulations 2020), the Government of Punjab had issued directions to rural medical officers to work under civil surgeons till further orders. But some civil surgeons had told the authorities that not all rural medical officers were reporting to them. The letter said the DCs must ensure that all rural doctors performed the duties assigned to them for “containment and management of Covid-19” and that explanations may be sought from those not following the orders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/perform-covid-duties-or-face-music-rural-docs-told-118010
26-07-2020||Puneetinder Kaur Sidhu||Art nourished by food||Look around, and you will find that food has a propensity to make its presence felt in everyday happenings in the most subliminal fashion — in imagery, as a motif, symbolically, even metaphorically. It does not limit itself to being a mere reflection of the history and culture of different geographies, but has proven to be a deep-rooted cornerstone of our existence.And because all of us physically, emotionally, and interpersonally thrive on food, it has come to play a significant role in our social and cultural lives. An aspect that the ongoing pandemic has highlighted equally, and all too glaringly! Our focus these past months, you will realise, has been on comestibles — how to procure, how to clean, how to cook, who to feed, where to deliver, etc.It comes as no surprise, therefore, that food made an early appearance in art, craft, folklore, music and literature. The diversity in its depictions, often serving as revelations about class, gender, politics and religion, has spanned countless civilisations, cultures, and chronologies. It has, in a manner, left an indelible imprint in society’s collective memory.Literary meals“Food to literature is what background music score is to cinema. It is an intertwined part of the narrative. It engages the senses, establishes relationships, reflects socio-economic stratification and gives glimpses of a culture. It is both literal and metaphoric. From piety to gluttony, starvation to celebration, scarcity to abundance — paying attention to the food, being served or not being served, leads to a keener understanding of the world being depicted,” says Dr Harpreet Gill, Associate Professor, MCM DAV College, Chandigarh.She elaborates further, “Oliver Twist’s famous entreaty — ‘Please, Sir, I want some more’— exposes the gluttony and cruelty of the board members and the plight of orphans in Victorian England. The Cratchits in Dickens’ Christmas Carol embedded family warmth into Christmas dinner. And probably also contributed to good old plum pudding being christened as Christmas pudding. Goscinny and Uderzo’s Asterix and Obelix comic series customarily end with a feast, where the entire community comes together and celebrates their victory. And in this happy image, we look for the gagged and tied Cacofonix. It is a tradition.”Mango manifestationThis recurrence of food imagery across arts and folklore serves as a trail of information-rich clues about the times of its inception. Were it not for its presence in the wall relief of Queen Hatshepsut’s funerary monument in Thebes, for instance, we would not have known that the pungent peppercorn had made its way to Egypt in the 15th century BC. The tiny spice’s preservative properties had found a place of much importance in the burial chambers of mummified Pharoahs.In this manner, the arts invite us to feel a specific place at a particular time, with food-related elements completing the sensory experience.In the Indian context, nothing strikes the chord in the way the mango, our national fruit, does. A symbol of prosperity and fertility, it has long held writers, singers, artists, weavers and designers in its spell. The 13th century poet Amir Khusro called it the fairest fruit of the country — Naghza tarin mewa Hindustan. In a later (circa 18th century) miniature painting from the Deccan School, he is shown seated under a fruit-laden mango tree with his spiritual master, the Sufi mystic Nizamuddin Auliya. Moroccan traveller Ibn Battuta, who visited India during the reign of Muhammad bin Tughlaq, reveals his fascination for the mango in the profusely detailed notes he made about its texture, variety, flavour and usage in his travel journals.Traditional adornments also depict the fruit in abundance; the manga malai, a gem-encrusted necklace strung with mango-shaped pendants in gold is one of the most famous pieces of jewellery from the Malabar region.Regardless of what you call it — ambi, kairi, paisley — the mango finds an equally wide representation in Indian textiles. Whether it is the fine needlework on Kashmiri pashminas, or the kalamkari block prints of Andhra Pradesh, craftsmen have skillfully employed, in plenty, the use of the stylised mango in their creations. It also came to be embroidered on to the cool chikankari muslins that Nur Jahan introduced to her tropical wardrobe. Similarly, the mango motif can be spotted in the borders of Paithani silk saris of Maharashtra. Beyond their usage as motifs, extracts from seasonal fruits and vegetables have long been employed to dye cotton and silk yarn.“Vegetable dyes have been used by the traditional rangrez to create patterns and richly coloured textiles for both functional and sartorial requirements of communities. Through this association we’ve come to identify colours as baingani, jamuni, piaji, santari, and angoori, among others,” shares Delhi-based entrepreneur Shilpa Sharma.Folksy PunjabCloser home, the once-vibrant tradition of weaving drawstrings — azarbands or nadas — of Punjab employed the ambi as a decorative element. Paeans have been sung about the ‘reshmi naaley’ of Patiala, a city that also boasts of delicate footwear with tilla-work as a longstanding handicraft. It is hard to find a pair without the paisley.The state’s well-known embroidered textile, phulkari, is an intricate study of interplay between the creator and her surroundings. Traditionally made on hand-woven khaddar or malmal, a bagh is a type entirely covered in motifs that are generally floral in nature. The belan bagh is a colourful and fairly common variation, with stylised representations of the rolling pin emblazoned across it. Vegetables like mirchi, gobhi, dhania, and karela lend their name and motif-shape to eponymous baghs. Similarly millet cobs and wheat ears have been spotted embroidered along many a phulkari selvedge. The latter also borrows its name — kanki butti — from kanak (wheat). Coconuts and walnuts have also been known to make a geometric appearance every now and then. The sainchi, on the other hand, is a scenic narrative of daily village life and often includes human elements, including women cooking or churning milk.In all this, it’s somewhat surprising that the ambi makes only an occasional appearance here. I suppose that’s why we sing about the fruit instead, to make up for that other anomaly! “Ni ambiyan nu tarsengi, chhad ke shehar Doaba”, laments a lover on discovering his beloved is moving on and away.“Rut bhangra paan di aayi, ke ambiyan nu boor pai giya”, goes one of several duets that celebrate the advent of spring. A time of much significance for an agrarian land as it also coincides with the harvest season. The reference to crops, seasons, festivals and fields is but expected. Indeed, Punjab’s lilting folksongs are a lyrical manifestation of its hardy, happy and spirited people. Songs like “bajre da sitta ve assaan talli te maroreya” also celebrate the voice of the woman, giving her agency to articulate her existence. Confident in herself, she compares her sulking lover’s pliant return — “Ruthra jaanda mahiya ve asaan galli wich moreya” — to the millet cob she bends easily in her palm. “Mele nu chal mere naal kude” (see box) in Asa Singh Mastana’s earthy voice is, perhaps, the finest example of the joie de vivre Punjabis are synonymous with. Thrilled at the bountiful harvest that waits, the farmer invites his wife to accompany him to the Baisakhi fair, promising her an outing replete with fun, food, and shopping. Ultimately, a joyous celebration of labour!Mele Nu Chal Mere Naal KudeAjj saare chhad janjaal kude,ajj saare chhad janjaal kudemele nuu, ahaa, mele nu chalmere naal kude, ho ho, ho hoKar buha samb shtaabi ni,le pakad sandook di chaabi nikoi soot tu kad gulabi ni,pa tille di gurgaabi ni le booteyan waala rumaal kude, mele nu…Ni vaisakhi ajj manawange,vaisakhi aj manawange,mele te bhangre paawange,ral se peeng chadawangeTe baeke authe khawaange,Ladduaan da, ahaa ladduaanda leke thaal kude,mele nuu, ahaa, mele nu….Kankaan diya faslan pakiyaan ne, kankaan diya faslan pakiyaan ne, ghar saade barkhta vasiyaan ne, mera pyaar tere naal boodha naiSone da kadaa deya choorha nai,rab keeta, ahaa rab keeta haimalamaal kude, mele nu…Tere nain jo peeti bhang ude,tere nain jo peeti bhang ude,te waang tamaater rang ude,koi nazar na tenu laa deve,Jaadu na akh da paa deve,rataa rakhi, ahaa,rataa rakhi roop sambhaal kude, mele nu…— Asa Singh Mastana||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/art-nourished-by-food-117990
26-07-2020||---||IG down with Covid, tally up by 468 in Punjab||Faridkot/Chandigarh, July 25Kaustubh Sharma, Inspector General of Police (IGP), Faridkot, was hospitalised on Saturday after he was tested positive for Covid-19.It is feared that Sharma contracted the virus following a closed-door meeting, which was attended by many persons. The Health Department is taking the samples of all staff members of the IG office. All those persons, particularly police officers who had come into close contact with Sharma in the past few days, will be tested for the virus.On Saturday, an employee of the Central Jail, Faridkot, was also tested positive, which created a panic among other jail staff members and over 2,000 inmates.The Faridkot Deputy Commissioner has already been placed under quarantine after his mother was tested positive last week.Meanwhile, the state recorded highest single-day toll as 12 people succumbed to Covid-19 in the past 24 hours. With 468 fresh cases, the total number of cases has reached 12,684.Of the 12 deaths, seven were reported from Ludhiana, one each from Jalandhar, Ferozepur, Barnala, Amritsar and Ropar. The death toll has reached 294.With seven more deaths, the toll in Ludhiana district has climbed to 57. The tally of Covid-19 cases in the district now stands at 2,439. Among the dead were a 66-year-old woman from New Subhash Nagar, an 80-year-old from Jamalpur, a 58-year-old from Basant Avenue, a 26-year-old from Jawaddi, a 47-year-old from Model Town, a 59-year-old woman from Kidwai Nagar and a 69-year-old from Model Town. All patients had co-morbities. The worst-affected districts are Ludhiana (155 fresh cases), Amritsar (55), Patiala (40), Sangrur (38), SAS Nagar (32), Jalandhar (29), Bathinda and Barnala (18 each).In Amritsar, a 49-year-old woman died on Saturday. The toll due to Covid-19 in the district has increased to 66. The deceased identified as Paramjit Kaur, a resident of A-block Ranjit Avenue, was admitted to a private hospital. The Health Department also reported 55 new positive cases, including seven from the Central Jail.Staff being testedThe Health Department is taking samples of all staff members at the office of IG Kaustubh Sharma.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ig-down-with-covid-tally-up-by-468-in-punjab-117871
26-07-2020||Harshraj Singh||Surge in casualties, Ludhiana crematorium ‘booked’ till July 29||Tribune News ServiceLudhiana, July 25With Covid-19 cases increasing daily, families of those who died due to the infection are being asked to wait for at least three days to perform the last rites due to a ‘waiting list’ at the cremation ground here.The staff at the Ramgarhia Shamshan Ghat, Dholewal, claimed that the bookings at the LPG crematorium had already been made till July 29. On the other hand, the district administration claimed there was no ‘waiting list’ for the cremation of bodies. A local resident, Keemti Rawal, said, “My relative died due to Covid-19 on Friday. Now, his cremation will be done on Monday as there is a ‘waiting list’ for the funerals. The body of my relative has been kept at a mortuary. The administration should take steps for timely cremation of the persons dying due to the infection.”A total of 2,275 confirmed Covid cases have been reported in the district while 51 persons have lost their lives so far.The Ramgarhia Education Council manages the cremation ground earmarked for the cremation of Covid victims. Its president Ranjodh Singh said Covid victims and even suspected patients were cremated at the place. “An average of three infected or suspected patients are cremated in the LPG crematorium daily. There is a waiting list for the cremation of bodies till July 29. Our staff is working hard to handle the situation. I also appeal to the government to provide full insurance cover to the staff at the crematorium,” he said. Amid Covid fears, the mortal remains of 40 deceased have not yet been collected by their families, staff members said.The cremation ground staff, including Granthi Gurdev Singh and Pandit Pankaj Sharma, remain busy in performing the last rites as per the religion of the deceased. Sanitation worker Parveen Kumar ensures spray of disinfectant after every funeral.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Sharma said there was no “waiting list” for the cremation of bodies in Ludhiana. “One of the LPG-based machines was not functioning at the crematorium at Dholewal and a mechanic has been called to get it repaired. It is not even necessary to conduct the cremation at the LPG crematorium. Moreover, not all Covid-19 victims are cremated at this place as bodies are being cremated at other cremation grounds in the district too. There is no problem at all,” he said. Civil Surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the death rate stood at 2.35 per cent and it was not increasing in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/surge-in-casualties-ludhiana-crematorium-booked-till-july-29-117873
26-07-2020||---||Fee waiver for Punjab govt school kids||Chandigarh, July 25Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced that the government schools in the state will not charge any admission, re-admission and tuition fee from students for 2020-21 session. As far as fee charged by private schools was concerned, the state government had already moved the court, but for government schools no fee would be charged at all for the full year, said the Chief Minister.He also announced provisional admission in Class XI for 31,000 Class X students in the open school system, who could not be promoted amid the Covid crisis based on internal assessment, as no such assessment exists for them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/fee-waiver-for-punjab-govt-school-kids-117874
26-07-2020||---||AAP demands white paper on aid spend||Chandigarh, July 25The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has demanded that the state government should come out with a white paper on the total expenditure incurred on the pandemic so far, alleging misappropriation of funds.Leader of Opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema alleged that on the one hand, the funds raised in the name of combating Covid-19 were being withdrawn from the cooperative banks only to be kept in a “reserve” in private banks, on the other, government hospitals, including Covid care centers, were crying for basic amenities.He alleged that the claims of Rs 300 crore expenditure in combating the pandemic smacked of rampant corruption. Sunam MLA Aman Arora demanded that Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and state Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu should bring out a white paper to allay public suspicion over their claims.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/aap-demands-white-paper-on-aid-spend-117875
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Ready to tackle Covid spike: Chief Secretary||In light of rising number of Covid cases in some districts, Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said the government was fully geared up to effectively deal with the further spread with 6,190 beds available in both government and private hospitals in Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Patiala.She said the government was well prepared with requisite bed capacity, ventilators, besides PPE kits, masks and testing kits to deal with the rising cases. Deputy commissioners had also been tasked to liaison with private hospitals to increase the availability of dedicated beds, she added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ready-to-tackle-covid-spike-chief-secretary-117876
26-07-2020||---||SAD charge on Covid relief fund baseless, says Capt Amarinder Singh||Chandigarh, July 25Reacting strongly to the SAD attack on his government on the CM Covid Relief Fund, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Saturday expressed shock at the “petty politics being played by the Akalis”.Terming the SAD remarks as “shameful”, he said, “Never in my political life have I seen such petty politics.” “It is a question of life and death, and the future of Punjab,” said Captain Amarinder, stressing there should be no politics on such a grave issue.In his weekly #AskCaptain live interaction on Facebook, Captain Amarinder said the Rs 64 crore lying in the CM Relief Fund were meant for Covid assistance and would be spent on it. Pointing out that the disease had still not peaked, the Chief Minister said his government had already spent over Rs 300 crore on Covid care, treatment and other related expenses. The government expects to spend another Rs 200 crore on relief work.‘Ineligible removed from pension plan’The Chief Minister claimed the 70,000 beneficiaries removed from the ambit of social security were fraudulent persons, who were drawing benefits at the cost of genuine ones. He said Rs162.35 crore had been recovered from them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sad-charge-on-covid-relief-fund-baseless-says-capt-amarinder-singh-117877
26-07-2020||New Delhi||MHA forwards BJP leader’s letter to SIT||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has forwarded a letter written by BJP leader RP Singh to the special investigation team (SIT) and the DCP, Anti Riots Cell, regarding the action taken on the Justice Dhingra Committeen report. Calling it a “big step forward”, Singh said an “investigation needs to be done on the invisible hand, the one who directed local Congress leaders to carry out the massacre in Delhi”.In February 2015, the Narendra Modi government had ordered formation of an SIT to look into cases related to anti-Sikh riots that broke out after the assassination of the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on October 31, 1984.In 2018, the Supreme Court constituted the Justice Dhingra Committee to probe the 186 cases during the riots. The committee submitted its report to the Supreme Court in January 2020. Six months down the line, Singh wrote to the MHA regarding action taken by the government against culprits in the case “as promised”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/mha-forwards-bjp-leaders-letter-to-sit-117878
26-07-2020||---||United Akali Dal merges with Dhindsa group||Jalandhar, July 25Terming farm ordinances perilous for Punjab’s agriculture sector, Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa today said he had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him to withdraw these.Dhindsa said he had shot off a missive to Modi yesterday telling him how the ordinances would damage the prospects of farmers in the state. Dhindsa was here to rope in United Akali Dal leader Bhai Mohkam Singh into the party fold. He said Bhai Mohkam Singh and his team had joined his group unconditionally.Over the issue of Youth Akali Dal leaders claiming technical error in the complaint for withdrawing the 2007 blasphemy case against Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim, Bhai Mohkam Singh said, “Even though the lawyers concerned or the court would know if there was any technical error or not, the timing of withdrawal of the case raises suspicion over the claims.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/united-akali-dal-merges-with-dhindsa-group-117879
26-07-2020||Karam Prakash||Register workers in three months, Centre tells Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, July 25The Central Government, keeping in view the plight of construction workers amid Covid-19, has asked the Punjab Labour Department to register the left-out labourers. Time and again, it has been reported that there is a big chunk of labour that has been left out of the registration process.The department has to finish the exercise within three months, so that labourers can utilise the benefits of social welfare schemes in the future. In an advisory to all states, the Ministry of Labour and Employment directed that the workforce (construction workers) needs social protection the most. Therefore, they should be registered with the Building and Other Construction Works (BOCW) to better implement the said schemes.Currently, there are only 3.02 lakh registered workers in the state. The Centre has asked the state to increase the registration up to 8.32 lakh in the next three months. The number of construction workers in the state is over 20 lakh.To ramp up registration, the state has been directed to rope in NGOs. Besides, a special awareness drive in the workers’’ colonies, labour chowks etc. will be held.The state has been also advised to adopt the practice of self- registration and self-certification to ease the registration process.Vijay Walia, an activist, said the state had been lagging behind in the registration of workers. Moreover, anomalies in the process of registration had been reported umpteen times.VK Janjua, principal secretary, Labour Department, said: “We are planning a campaign to register the left-out construction worker in the state. It will be challenge for us to carry out registration drive, considering the Covid restrictions.”Wary of fake entriesTo remove fake registrations, the state has been advised to share information of registered beneficiaries with the trade unions, federations, and NGOs||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/register-workers-in-three-months-centre-tells-punjab-117880
26-07-2020||Archit Watts||Hit by rain, Punjab farmers plough cotton crop||Tribune News ServiceMuktsar, July 25Battered by the recent downpour, farmers in a number of villages in Muktsar district are staring at a major loss. Some of them have even ploughed their cotton fields, preparing them to sow paddy.Some farmers of Malout subdivision said drains were unable to carry the rainwater and their fields were waterlogged. “We are left with no option except to pluck the recently sown cotton crop and incur heavy losses. The authorities concerned have failed to drain out the rainwater from the fields,” said a farmer at Midda village.Some other farmers of Udekaran village said they had been bearing the brunt of official apathy every year during the rainy season. “Nothing has changed in the past few years irrespective of the party in power. Every year, our fields remain waterlogged for almost a month during the monsoon. No drainage system has been put in place yet. We are fed up with the attitude of the state government towards us. What is our fault? The water from neighbouring villages inundates our fields, but the administration has no plan to deal with the problem. Shall we migrate to somewhere else?” asked Jagmeet Singh, a farmer. Some farmers at Haraj village complained of a similar situation.Avtar Singh, District Revenue Officer, Muktsar, said, “The drainage wing officials have sought funds to drain out rainwater from Bhagsar, Tamkot and Lakhmireana villages. About other villages, we have not got any report from the officials concerned.” Notably, 150 mm rainfall on July 25 had affected the farmers badly.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/hit-by-rain-punjab-farmers-plough-cotton-crop-117881
26-07-2020||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court raps panel for colourable exercise of power||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, July 25The Punjab and Haryana High Court has virtually rapped the Patiala Child Welfare Committee for “colourable exercise of powers” in a nine-year-old child’s custody matter. The admonition came after the Bench observed that the committee’s order dated June 5 relating to the child’s foster care placement with a family was passed with an incomplete quorum on a gazetted holiday.The matter was brought to Justice Raj Mohan Singh’s notice after the child’s father, an army officer, filed a habeas corpus petition. Among other things, the father through counsel Munish Gupta alleged that his aunt and uncle, to whom the child’s custody was handed over, were influential persons. His uncle’s was, in fact, related to an MLA of the ruling party.Taking up the matter, Justice Raj Mohan Singh asserted: “The order has been passed on a gazetted holiday, without there being any disclosure and justification for incomplete composition of the members of the committee to work on a gazetted holiday”.Referring to a counselling report by a Sangrur authority, Justice Raj Mohan Singh observed its perusal showed a counsellor interacted with the minor and found her to be living happily with her father. She, rather, wanted to reside with him. “In the presence of such report, what prompted the respondent to adopt a different approach is beyond comprehension of this court,” Justice Raj Mohan Singh asserted.Justice Raj Mohan Singh asserted that foster care was applicable only in case of children requiring care and protection. It meant a child, whose parent or guardian were found to be unfit or incapacitated to care for and protect the safety and well-being of the child. But the impugned order was totally silent about this aspect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-raps-panel-for-colourable-exercise-of-power-117882
26-07-2020||Moga||Man killed, two hurt as motorcycle rams into car||A man was killed while two others injured when the motorcycle they were riding rammed into a speeding car near Dhurkot village in Nihalsinghwala. The deceased has been identified as Krishan Singh of Dhurkot village. The injured, identified as Bittu and Guggu, were rushed to the district hospital. The police registered a case against car owner Jaspreet Singh. TNSBathindaHealth workers demand regular jobs, protestMembers of the Multipurpose Health Workers’ Union sat on a dharna in front of the Civil Surgeon’s office at the District Hospital here for the second consecutive day, demanding regular jobs. The protesters said contractual workers, who had been rendering their services in the department for the past many years, must be regularised and the probation period of newly appointed employees should be scrapped. TNSPatialaEx-student leader booked for ‘harassing’ wifeFormer student leader Musa Khan, who is also head of a political outfit affiliated with the SAD, was on Saturday booked following a complaint by his wife. The police have registered a case against Musa Khan and his sister Chand Bibi following a complaint by Amanpreet, alias Ayesha Khan, who alleged that the accused would regularly assault her and harass her son. OCSangrurDalit activists booked for violations during meetThe police have registered a case against members of the Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee (ZPSC) for organising a meeting at the local grain market without following the guidelines for social distancing and masks. Gurmukh Singh, a leader of the ZPSC, alleged the government wanted to suppress the voice of residents. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/man-killed-two-hurt-as-motorcycle-rams-into-car-117883
26-07-2020||---||Case filed after AAP leaders break college gate lock||Faridkot, July 25A day after Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA from Kotkapura Kultar Singh Sandhwan, former MP Sadhu Singh and other party members broke the locks on an entry gate to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital here, the police today registered a criminal case under Section 188 of the CrPC against unknown persons.After receiving a complaint from the Deputy Medical Superintendent of the medical college, the police booked unknown persons for the offence of violation of orders on the assembly of more than five persons and social distancing guidelines.The closure of the rear gate of the college for the past over four months is a simmering issue as many social organisations and AAP leaders are opposing the move as it was posing inconvenience to patients.Since the gate was closed, the patients had to take a longer route to reach the college. Apart from that, the only available road to the medical college and hospital is dug up for the past over one year for laying of drainage pipes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/case-filed-after-aap-leaders-break-college-gate-lock-117884
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Anti-ordinance protests in Punjab||Ahead of the mega tractor march to be held on Monday, farmers in the state organised protests at various places. Led by the Bharti Kisan Union (Ugrahan), the farmers are protesting against the Centre’s new ordinances on agriculture.During the protests held at around 90 places in 10 districts, the farmers burnt the effigies of the Union Government. Leaders said the ordinances were against the farmers, who are already reeling under crisis. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/anti-ordinance-protests-in-punjab-117885
26-07-2020||A live rocket launcher shell was found from the Sirhind Canal in Bathinda city. A team of the local police reached the spot.||Rocket launcher shell found||ASI Balkaran Singh said some fishermen found the rocket launcher shell and informed the police. Further probe was on, he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/rocket-launcher-shell-found-117888
26-07-2020||Chandigarh||Chief Minister: Hope other nations too reject SFJ agenda||Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh has welcomed Canada’s decision not to recognise the results of the Referendum 2020 being organised by pro-Khalistan group Sikhs for Justice (SFJ).The CM hoped other countries would also follow Canada’s example and reject the secessionist agenda of the SFJ, which was promoting it to divide India on communal lines.He was reacting to a media report quoting a spokesperson of the foreign ministry of Canada, who said “Canada respects the sovereignty, unity and territorial integrity of India, and the Government of Canada will not recognise the referendum.”The CM said the stand taken by the Justin Trudeau government on the issue was exemplary and other nations and governments should also come out openly against the SFJ. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chief-minister-hope-other-nations-too-reject-sfj-agenda-117894
26-07-2020||New Delhi||Bishop moves Supreme Court for quashing of rape charge||Nun rape case accused Bishop Franco Mulakkal has moved the Supreme Court seeking discharge in the case, claiming he has been implicated after he questioned financial dealings of the victim.Mulakkal (56) — the deposed Bishop of Jalandhar diocese — has challenged the July 7 order of the Kerala High Court dismissing his plea. The trial court had also rejected his plea.He was arrested in September 2018 after a nun in the Missionaries of Jesus congregation filed a complaint accusing him of raping her 13 times between 2014 and 2016 in Kottayam in Kerala. The Kerala Police have already filed a chargesheet against him in the case. The chargesheet has listed 83 witnesses, including Cardinal of the Syro-Malabar Catholic Church, three bishops, 11 priests, and many nuns against him. The Kerala High Court had on July 7 dismissed his plea seeking to discharge him in the case and directed him to face the trial. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bishop-moves-supreme-court-for-quashing-of-rape-charge-117896
