01-03-2021||Pune||Farmer arrested for shooting neighbour dead over common water stream||A 40-year-old farmer from Mulshi area of Pune was shot dead on Monday afternoon by his neighbour over an issue of a water stream that runs through both their farmlands. The shooter was arrested by Pune rural police on Monday evening while trying to flee the village. The deceased was identified as Ajay Ragu Sathe, while the arrested man was identified as Bapu Jore (30) both residents of Malin village in Mulshi. “It was a gun that was used to kill animals or in a village fare to burst balloons. It uses pellets so it is difficult to say how many were fired before the doctor’s report arrives,” said Abhinav Deshmukh, superintendent of police, Pune rural police. Jore was found by the officials of Paud police station who are investigating the case. The issue was not long-standing and had come up only recently. The police do not have a record of previous fights between the families. The deceased had around 40 cows that used the stream as a source of drinking water. “There is a stream of water that runs through their fields. The deceased used to walk his cattle through there and they drank from it. In summers, it generally dries up and Jore was filling up the flowing stream to create a walking pathway and close the flow. They had a fight about it and Jore brought a gun from his possession and fired at Sathe,” said senior police inspector Amol Dhumal of Paud police station. A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code along with the relevant sections of Arms Act was registered at Paud police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/farmer-arrested-for-shooting-neighbour-dead-over-common-water-stream-101614623303353.html
01-03-2021||Pune||Dagdusheth temple to remain closed today||The Dagdusheth Halwai Ganpati temple and other ganesh temples in the city will remain closed on the occasion of Angarki Sankashti Chaturthi on Tuesday. The decision was taken after looking at the Covid surge in the last 15 days. “All the rituals will be conducted under the presence of priests, but no general public will be allowed to enter the temple. The link of e-darshan will be available for all,” said Ashok Godse, president of Shrimant Dagdusheth Halwai Public Ganpati Trust. “Footfall of around four lakh devotees is generally expected throughout the day so it is better to keep the temple closed looking at the rising number of Covid patients in the city,” added Godse. One of the oldest temples in the city, the Kasba Ganpati temple will remain open for darshan, however all the precautionary measures will be strictly adhered to. “We have made arrangements in such a way that only 10 persons that too with maintaining six-foot distance can enter the temple and no one will be allowed entry into the sanctum as people will have to take darshan from outside. We have also installed a screen at the main entrance,” said Shrikant Shete, president of Kasba Ganpati Mandal. In Chinchwad, at the Morya Gosavi Temple, the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has imposed 24-hour curfew in temple premises. The curfew will start from midnight (March 2) and it will continue until midnight (March 3). The administration has appealed people to follow all implemented norms strictly. Along with the temple all the shops around the premises will remain closed for 24 hours. Sukharata Apartment chowk, Fakirbhai Pansare Urdu school chowk, Mangalmurti square, Chintamani Ganesh temple will be under curfew. “Only priests will be allowed in the temple and that too they have to carry identity card with themselves as police bandobast will be there around the temple,” added Mandar Dev, priest from Morya Gosavi Temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dagdusheth-temple-to-remain-closed-today-101614623302782.html
01-03-2021||Pune||Poll-bound PMC prioritises healthcare sector in a budget driven by schemes||The Covid-19 pandemic has forced the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to change its focus in the budget from other sectors to primarily focusing on improving health facilities in the city. PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne presented the ₹8,370 crore budget on Monday for the year 2021-22. Considering it is an election year, the ruling Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) launched various schemes in the budget. In line with Mumbai’s Tata cancer and research hospital, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to erect its own dedicated cancer hospital in the city. The hospital is set to provide service to the whole western Maharashtra and Marathwada region. Rasne said, “I propose to erect the Nanaji Deshmukh cancer hospital. Neither Pune city nor western Maharashtra has a dedicated cancer hospital. This hospital would be built on more than 10,000 square feet plot at either Warje or Baner. A recent study shows that in the upcoming days, there would be more cancer patients and each family would need to go through it. The cancer treatment is very costly and to make it affordable, the PMC has decided to erect a dedicated cancer hospital.” Rasne said, “Along with the cancer hospital, the PMC has proposed to erect the urology hospital at Kothnis health clinic located at Shukravar peth. Many patients are suffering from urology related problems and kidney-related illness and the civic body will cater to them.” During the Covid-19 pandemic, the PMC faced a major problem of ICU beds. The PMC had an ICU facility only at Kamala Nehru hospital. Even Naidu hospital did not have an ICU facility. Rasne said, taking a lesson from Covid-19, we have decided to erect an ICU facility in all PMC-owned hospitals and made a budgetary provision of ₹5 crore for it. During Covid-19, many citizens faced psychological problems and mental issues. It proved that society needs psychological treatment many times due to stress and other pressures. In consideration of this requirement, the PMC has decided to erect psychological counselling centres at hospitals. Deepali Dhumal, leader of opposition, PMC said, “On one side, the municipal commissioner and the ruling party is claiming that there is less revenue and is putting a cap on expenditure. Every year there is less income than the target but now they have inflated the budget considering it is election year.”Aba Bagul, Congress leader said, “By keeping elections in mind, the ruling party has announced various schemes but they would just remain promises. The ruling party failed to keep their promises in the last four years. It is good that they are planning to push the HCMTR project. The PMC had huge potential and right now PMC needs to cross budget more than Rs10,000 crore but they haven’t identified any new income resources.” The PMC fiscal picture Income ( ₹in crore) Local body tax- 170 GST - 1985.88 Property Tax- 2656.67 Water Tax - 290 Meter water tax- 372 Government subsidy - 297.28 JNNURM- 1.37 PMAY - 185 Development charges- 205 Building permission- 980 Other income- 926 Loan - 300 Total - 8370 Expenditure Salary - 1698.41 Primary education - 344 Contract employees - 222.34 Loan and repay - 92.18 Electricity -276 Water expenditure - 99.95 Medicine - 124.35 Other expenditure - 1255 Maintenance- 17 Repairing- 38.07 Petrol - 30.40 Regional ward level works- 54.80 Ward office budget- 80.84 Development works- 4035,60 Total – 8,370 Focus on the healthcare sector - Total proposed expenditure: ₹145 crore 1) Formation of a dedicated cancer hospital located at either Warje or Baner ( ₹1 crore) 2) Formation of a special urology surgery hospital located at Shukrawar peth in Kotnis clinic ( ₹1 crore) 3) Construction of ICU centres in all PMC-run hospitals ( ₹5 crore)4) Completion of the Atal Bihari Vajpayee medical college ( ₹146 crore)5) Strengthening the Mukundrao Lele clinic located near Shaniwarwada ( ₹1 crore)6) Introduction of health awareness scheme to spread awareness in slums ( ₹5 crore)7) Introduction of heart attack-related tests at all PMC hospitals ( ₹2 crore)8) Formation of the blood bank at Kamla Nehru hospital ( ₹70 lakh)9) Formation of heart clinic for kids in the name of Rambhau Mhalgi ( ₹2 crore)10) Introduction of a breast cancer inspection programme ( ₹3 crore)11) Introduction of the Pandit Deendayal accident scheme for all property taxpayers ( ₹50 lakh)12) Fight against Covid-19 ( ₹10 crore) 13) Special Cardiac ambulances ( ₹1 crore) ======================BOX 2 Transportation (Total expenditure ₹223.7 crore) Commercial operation of Metro on five routes: ₹3.5 crore Swargate-Katraj-Nagar road BRT: ₹70 crore Signal for pedestrians: ₹1.5 crore Development of key roads Shivane-Kharadi road: ₹28 crore Katraj-Kondhwa road: ₹35 crore Balbharati-Paud road: ₹70 lakh Public transport development: ₹85 crore The DPR for Sinhagad road to Pune Cantonment, Swargate to Katraj, Shivajinagar to Hadapsar, Ramwadi to Wagoli, Vanaz to Chandni Chowk, Warje to Swargate are in the pipeline. HCMTR on the cards The Pune city’s long-pending HCMTR (High-Capacity Mass Transit Route) would be executed very soon. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis is in favour of the HCMTR, and we want to do it as soon as possible, according to Rasne. BOX 3 Public-private partnership model highlighted (Total expenditure: ₹141 crore) The PMC standing committee chairman focused on doing various projects under a public-private partnership model in his budget. Rasne suggested developing the lake located at Ambegaon with the help of a private partnership. Sarasbaug and Nehru Stadium premises would be developed on the same model. Many roads have been proposed to develop on the PPP model. Box 4 Focus on ease of doing business Total expenditure ( ₹5 lakh) Pune is one of the biggest growth engines in the country. Many investors and industries are planning to invest in Pune but are facing various problems. The PMC has decided to erect an investor facility centre in Pune which will help investors smoothly coordinate in a single place. ==========================Schemes at a glance ( Total expenditure ₹383 crore) The election for the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) election is scheduled in December 2021 or January 2022 which means this is the last budget before elections for the ruling party. Considering this, a range of schemes and announcements were made in the budget for 2021-2022. Flyover on Nagar road with the partnership of National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) ( ₹0) Plan to develop bridges, flyovers and roads on PPP model ( ₹141 crore ) Pedestrian signals at various chowks ( ₹1.5 crore) Air-conditioned bus service ( ₹10 per ticket) PMPML’s five kilometres for ₹5 Sewage lines in merged villages ( ₹120 crore) River beautification like Ahmedabad ( ₹105 crore) Garbage processing plants Electric vehicle charging stations ( ₹50 lakh)) CNG Pumps ( ₹50 lakh) Solar power projects ( ₹50 lakh) Tulshibaug, Sarasbaug, Nehru stadium redevelopment ( ₹3 crore) KK market redevelopment ( NA) Sports ground development ( ₹6 crore) Talim development ( ₹1 crore) Ganesh museum ( ₹2 crore) CCTV cameras at various locations ( ₹2 crore) International tourist attractions ( ₹5 lakh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pollbound-pmc-prioritises-healthcare-sector-in-a-budget-driven-by-schemes-101614623243868.html
01-03-2021||Pune||Cops: Pandit brutally murdered by boyfriend he met over dating app||In a major breakthrough within 36 hours after the brutal murder of National Chemical Laboratory (NCL) PhD Scholar Sudharshan alias Balya Baburao Pandit, the Chatushringi Police have arrested his boyfriend identified as Raviraj Rajkumar Kshirsagar (30), who is a resident of Warje but originally a resident of Hingoli district. Kshirsagar is an interior designer and holds a bachelor’s degree in Science. DCP (Zone IV) Pankaj Deshmukh said that the duo had met over a dating app and were in a love relationship for eight months. The investigation into the case led the police to Kshirsagar’s residence where his wife informed them that he had attempted suicide at his residence on February 26, 2021, at 10.30 pm and was admitted at Mai Mangeshkar hospital in Warje. “The accused was in love with Pandit and the relationship was on for eight months. On further investigations, it was revealed that Sudarshan’s marriage had been fixed and for the past fifteen days, there was a dispute between them. Enraged over the development that Pandit would be away from him, Kshirsagar murdered him at Pashan hill at 8.30 pm on the night of February 26. The murder has been detected within 36 hours and the entire team worked tirelessly to achieve the breakthrough in the case,” Deshmukh added. The investigating team comprised of ACP Ramesh Galande, Chaturshringi police station in-charge Anil Shewale, police inspector (crime) Dada Gaikwad, investigating officer PSI Mohandas Jadhav, Mahesh Bhosale and constabulary. Pandit was found murdered on Pashan hill on Saturday morning. He was found lying in a trench located on Pashan hill. Kshirsagar had disrobed him and there was nothing on his body at the time the police team reached the spot. Kshirsagar first slit opened his throat and then smashed his head with a big stone. Pandit was a resident of Sutarwadi in Pashan and was a native of Jafrabad in Jalna district. He was pursuing his PhD studies in chemistry from the National Chemical Laboratory (NCL). He stayed with two others in a rented accommodation in Sutarwadi and did not go to the room on Friday night when he was murdered. Pandit’s cousin Sandeep Pandit (34) lodged an FIR with the Chatushrungi police station. He wanted to complete his PhD soon and wanted to support his family members in a good way. He belongs to a middle-class family based in Jalna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cops-pandit-brutally-murdered-by-boyfriend-he-met-over-dating-app-101614623242729.html
01-03-2021||Pune||Two arrested, one on the run for killing man released from jail during decongestion||A man released from jail during the decongestion process was killed in Alandi and his body was found in the vicinity of the famous Dnyaneshwar Temple in Alandi on February 23. The deceased man was identified as Mahadev Sham Khandare (30) who was released from jail as a part of the decongestion process initiated in the jails all over the country in light of the Covid-19 pandemic, according to Krishna Prakash, commissioner of Pimpri-Chinchwad police. He was killed during a robbery gone wrong in the late hour of February 23. The deceased man was allegedly trying to rob one of the accused. “The deceased man was not following any of the conditions set by the court based on which he was granted bail and was trying to hide his identity,” read a statement from the Pimpri-Chinchwad police. Khandare was in jail since 2016 in a case of murder and culpable homicide not amounting to murder registered at Talegaon Dabhade police station when it was in the jurisdiction of Pune rural police. The two arrested men were identified as Santosh alias Kanchya Kerba Kamble (19) a resident of Kalewadi-Dehu phata in Haveli area of Pune and Ketan Prakash Shinde (18) a resident of Alandi. The two were arrested on February 26 and remanded to police custody until March 3. A third person identified as Devidas alias Devya Baban Chaure, a resident of Hadapsar area of Pune, is on the run from the Pimpri-Chinchwad police in the case. The third person was identified based on the confession of the two arrested persons, according to the police. A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Alandi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-arrested-one-on-the-run-for-killing-man-released-from-jail-during-decongestion-101614623243265.html
01-03-2021||Noida||Schools reopen in Ghaziabad after a year for classes 1 to 5||Ghaziabad: Government and private schools in the district reopened for students of classes 1 to 5 on Monday after remaining shut for nearly a year in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The government primary schools witnessed about 70% attendance, but the students’ presence at private schools was thin, officers of the basic education department said. The officials said that the attendance in private schools fared badly as most of the schools have finished their academic session. They said that the attendance in about 126 private schools across the district reached about a maximum of 20%. In February, the UP government had issued standard operating procedure (SOP) for schools for resumption of classes 6 to 8 from February 10 and for classes 1 to 5 from March 1 with mandatory “parents’ consent” clause for sending children to schools. “Even for classes 6 to 8, the attendance in private schools was about 20%. It could also be due to the reason that parents are worried about emergence of Covid cases in several states,” said BB Chaudhary, basic education officer, Ghaziabad. “On the other hand, the overall attendance in government schools for classes 1 to 5 was very encouraging and estimated at about 70%. Several government schools reported a 100% attendance. We also have high attendance of about 60-70% in government schools for classes 6 to 8,” Chaudhary said. Some private schools said that studies for various classes have finished and it is only in the next session that the students will come for offline classes. “At our school, the syllabus is over. So, the current time is only for assessments. So, we started examination offline for classes 6 to 12. And we have an attendance of about 95-98%. We are following all the guidelines. From classes nursery to 6, we are going to start the online assessment now,” said a spokesperson of the Delhi Public School, Indirapuram. The Gautam Budh Nagar district basic education officer, Sanjay Upadhyaya, meanwhile said that on the first day of re-opening for class 1 to 5, schools recorded 45% attendance. “It is an encouraging turnout from the viewpoint of inaugural day for 512 schools for students of these classes. We are sure that the turnout will increase slowly in the coming days. We have made alternate arrangements for students. While on Mondays and Fridays, in-person lessons will be held for students of class 1 and 5, students of classes 2 and 4 have been asked to come on Tuesdays and Saturdays. For students of class 3, in-person classes will be held on Wednesdays and Thursdays,” he said. Subhash Jain, president of Ghaziabad chapter of the Independent Schools Federation of India, an association of about 100 private schools, said that attendance was dismal on Monday for classes 1 to 5. “The attendance was hardly 5%, while it was about 20% for classes 6 to 8. It is so because online classes are going on. In many schools, online examinations have started. So, offline attendance is very low. The new session for schools will start in April and we are preparing for offline classes. We expect that the government removes the ‘parents’ consent’ clause,” he said. Avrati Agarwal, head of government primary school at Nabipur in Muradnagar, said that unlike the private schools, attendance in her school was 100% on Monday. “We have 32 children enrolled for classes 1 to 5. Of these, 12 children were to attend their classes on Monday. So, all 12 children arrived. Of 32, we have parents’ consent received for 28 students so far. We provided children with masks and sanitizers, and balloons. For one week which we call as ‘shoonya week,’ we have been asked to take up activities for children so that they again become attuned to regular schedule,” Agarwal added. The members of parents’ association said that they conducted a survey of about 250 parents and about 97% of them were not willing to send children to schools. “The attendance is short as majority of parents are not willing to send children to school due to the emergence of Covid cases in many states and low vaccination coverage. Small children find it very difficult to adhere to Covid protocols. In our district, the vaccination coverage is still not there for teachers and staff of schools. So, it is better that offline classes starts from next session,” said Vivek Tyagi, spokesperson of Ghaziabad Parents’ Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/schools-reopen-in-ghaziabad-after-a-year-for-classes-1-to-5-101614623124497.html
01-03-2021||Noida||Residents demand dense forest in Noida||NOIDA: Residents of sectors 76, 77, 78 and other nearby sectors in Noida have demanded that the local authority should develop a dense forest along an internal road in the area.“We have submitted a letter to the Noida authority demanding a dense forest in our neighbourhood so it can benefit the people. We have also put our demands before top officials of the Noida authority and Noida MLA Pankaj Singh verbally,” said Amit Gupta, member of Progressive Community Foundation — a social group formed by the residents of Noida sectors 74, 75, 76, 77, 78 and others.There are dozens of group housing societies in these sectors, and the residents are demanding a forest in their vicinity. Each sector is home to dozens of high-rise societies. But they are yet to have adequate recreational green areas to mitigate the pollution which spikes during winters. And the land along the internal roads is yet to be developed.“If the land along the internal roads is not developed then many people will set up shops illegally and start operating, causing civic issues. But if the authority develops a forest on the vacant land, then it will not only help in protecting the government but also benefit them,” said Amita Singh, a resident of Noida Sector 76.According to the residents, around 69 acres of land is vacant along the internal road in sectors 76-77. “We have received a proposal, from the residents, about the development of a dense forest. We have assured them that the authority will develop a dense forest on the 69 acres of land located along the internal road in sectors 76-77 among other areas,” said Indu Prakash Singh, an officer who is on a special duty of the Noida authority heading the horticulture department.The authority officials said the 69 acres of land is earmarked for a green belt. “Since this land is meant for a green belt, we can easily develop a dense forest on this land. There is some land dispute on around 2-3 acres and the authority is about to resolve the issues. Once the issues are resolved, we will plant saplings on 69 acres and in next 2-3 years dense forest will be fully developed,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/residents-demand-dense-forest-in-noida-101614623122859.html
01-03-2021||Noida||Noida breathes easy, air quality ‘moderate’ after three weeks||Noida: The air quality of Noida improved to ‘moderate’ levels on Monday as high wind speed ventilated pollutants, letting the city breathe its cleanest air in over three weeks.Neighbouring Ghaziabad and Greater Noida also showed improvement but remained within the ‘poor’ category of air quality, with pollution monitoring agencies predicting no serious deterioration immediately.The last time the air quality of Noida was ‘moderate’ was on February 6.According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the air quality is likely to oscillate between the ‘poor’ to ‘moderate’ category.“Surface winds are moderate, and forecasted to increase and stay high for the next 48 hrs. A gradual increase in maximum temperature is also expected. Day-time high surface wind speed, warmer temperatures and elevated boundary-layer height have improved the ventilation and dispersion substantially and are influencing the AQI positively. The intermittent lifting of local dust under the prevailing meteorological conditions continues to remain the dominating factor to influence the AQI adversely,” said the SAFAR statement on Monday.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Monday, on a scale of 0 to 500, improved to 169 against 218 a day earlier.The AQI of Greater Noida on Monday improved to 215, from 220 a day earlier. The air quality index of Ghaziabad was 208, against 248 a day earlier.An AQI level up to 100 is considered ‘good’, between 101 and 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is considered ‘very-poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. Weather analysts said the wind speed increased due to the comparative low-pressure gradient or difference in atmospheric pressure of the region to that of the northern Himalayan states.“The wind speed on Monday was high. It went upto 18 knots, which is about 35 kmph, due to which particle pollutants were swept away, leading to better air quality. Besides, the high wind speed sweeping the entire Indo-Gangetic plain led to a slight drop in maximum temperatures. If the wind speed remains good for the next few days, ventilation will be good and the air quality may further improve,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, Meteorology and climate change, Skymet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-breathes-easy-air-quality-moderate-after-three-weeks-101614623063373.html
01-03-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Armed men rob pvt firm employees at Raj Nagar District Centre||Ghaziabad: Two employees of an edible oil manufacturing company were robbed at gunpoint by two suspects outside a bank at the Raj Nagar District Centre (RDC) in Ghaziabad Monday morning, the police said. This is the second robbery to have taken place in roughly 24 hours under the jurisdiction of the Kavi Nagar police station and police post; a family of four was robbed in the wee hours of Sunday at gunpoint inside their home wherein valuables worth ₹12 lakh were taken.The incident took place around 11.30am when Nitin Sharma, 27, who looks after the accounts of the firm, came in a Santro car with another employee, 25-years-old Jodhpal Singh. The police said they parked their car outside the bank and that Sharma was heading to the premises when two masked men on a two-wheeler came by. “I sensed something was amiss and headed towards the car, but the two men came close, pointed a pistol at me and fled with the bag,” Sharma told reporters, estimating that the amount looted could be about ₹8-10 lakh but that he does not have the correct figure. The suspects are stated to be aged around 20-25 years.He added that one more employee of the firm was scheduled to join them to make the deposit. RDC is the biggest commercial market in Ghaziabad and houses a number of bank branches, ATM kiosks, restaurants, malls, pubs and showrooms, where the police take up round the clock patrolling. The police said they have registered an FIR under IPC Section 392 (robbery) at the Kavi Nagar police station and have also asked personnel to remain alert in the RDC as well as other market areas.“We registered an FIR for robbery in relation to the incident. The two victims are from an edible oil manufacturing company near Loha Mandi and came to the RDC to deposit money in an account of another firm engaged in the same business. We have spoken to their company officials, but they are yet to give us the correct valuation of the cash taken away,” said Awneesh Kumar, circle officer (city 2).This raises doubts as to whether the employees were aware or not how much money they had come to unload, as cash deposits require filling up of bank slips with the exact amount, down to the currency note denominations.“Though there is talk of ₹10 lakh being looted, the company’s officials did not give us in writing the exact amount lost during the incident,” the circle officer said. He said that several teams have been formed to trace the suspects and CCTV footage from cameras in the RDC is in the process of being scanned to obtain clues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-armed-men-rob-pvt-firm-employees-at-raj-nagar-district-centre-101614623062824.html
01-03-2021||Noida||Constables injured as tractor crashes into PCR van on Yamuna e-way||Greater Noida: Two police constables sustained serious injuries when the PCR van they were patrolling in was allegedly hit by a speeding tractor trolley coming from the wrong side on the Yamuna Expressway in Rabupura.The incident took place around 8.30pm on Saturday near the Falaida cut on Agra to Noida side of the expressway.“The constables were out for patrolling in one of the two PCR vans meant for the expressway. Their vehicle was hit hard by a tractor coming at high speed in the wrong direction,” said Dinesh Kumar Yadav, station house officer, Rabupura police station.Yadav said that the PCR van was completely destroyed in the accident while the driver of the tractor abandoned his vehicle and fled the spot.“The accident was discovered by a PCR van patrolling on the other side of the expressway. The injured constables were immediately rushed to a private hospital. They have sustained multiple fractures and will require surgery. But they are now out of danger and stable,” said the SHO.The abandoned tractor trolley was taken in police custody. “The trolley attached to the vehicle was carrying bricks suggesting that it was going to a construction site. We are working on identifying the driver,” said Yadav.The unidentified tractor driver has been booked at the Rabupura police station under section 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) of the Indian Penal Code, while a search is on for him, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/constables-injured-as-tractor-crashes-into-pcr-van-on-yamuna-eway-101614622642793.html
01-03-2021||Noida||Noida: Two nabbed for stealing licensed revolver||Noida: Two men were arrested Monday for allegedly stealing a licensed pistol from their friend’s house in Bhangel, the police said. The weapon has been recovered.The alleged incident took place on February 27. According to the complainant, Bhual Singh, who worked with a private security agency and reported the matter to Phase 2 police on Sunday, two of his friends had come to his house the previous day and allegedly took the licensed revolver that was kept under his pillow.The suspects, Hemant Kumar Jha and Manoj Kumar Jha, both from Bihar, live in Noida and Ghaziabad, respectively. They both worked as security guards, the police said.“Prima facie it seems that the duo and the victim had some monetary issues for which they had come to his house. Instead, they fled with the licensed weapon when the complainant went to the washroom,” said deputy commissioner of police, Zone 2, Harish Chander.A senior police officer, asking not to be named, said the duo allegedly met the complainant in 2017.Following the incident, a case of burglary (Section 380 of the Indian Penal Code) was registered at the Phase 2 police station.According to the police, the suspects were nabbed during a checking drive near the Tigri crossing while they were allegedly travelling on the same motorcycle that has been used in the theft. Police said that during questioning, the two allegedly revealed that they had planned to sell the weapon in Hyderabad where they had sold some earlier.Police recovered the stolen revolver along with a countrymade pistol and charges of the Arms Act were also levied on them. The motorcycle was seized under relevant sections of the Motor Vehicle Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-two-nabbed-for-stealing-licensed-revolver-101614622522683.html
01-03-2021||Gurugram||Rental prices in luxury housing segment show slow momentum||The average rentals in the luxury segment in seven residential markets across the country rose between 17 percent and 26 percent during the period of 2014 to 2020, found a report by a private real estate consultancy, called Anarock. The seven residential markets considered in the report include Delhi-NCR, Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune. As per real estate experts, this is a less-than-impressive figure and points towards a slowing down of the momentum in premium residential housing. Golf Course Road in Gurugram saw an increase of 17 percent in rentals while the neighbouring Golf Course Extension Road saw a rise of 18 percent in rentals in the last seven years, the report stated. Surprisingly, the capital prices on Golf Course Road witnessed no appreciation during this period, while Golf Course Extension Road saw rise of seven percent, the report found.City-based experts said that the rental and capital asset figures depict the slow momentum in premium and residential housing in the last five years in the city. The return on investment on luxury housing has remained very low and this has been manifested by the low rise in housing rentals, said Vinod Behl, a city-based real estate expert. “The luxury and premium housing categories on Golf Course and Golf Course Extension Road have not appreciated as expected and this is the reason why the rental figures are also not impressive . Things will improve in the next one-and-a-half years as non-residential Indians, high net-worth individuals and senior company executives are looking for bigger homes and second homes due to work from home culture,” said Behl.As per the details shared in the report, housing rentals in key luxury markets saw better year-on-year growth between 2014-2020 than average capital prices in the same localities. It further said that reforms introduced by the government in the real estate sector such as the introduction of Real Estate Regulatory Authority(Rera), GST rules, and other supporting measures helped in improving the capital prices of assets from one to three percent while rentals market saw a sustained growth. Experts based in Gurugram said that while growth was seen in rentals between 2017 to 2019, in 2020, the city witnessed either no growth and even a little decline as people refrained from investing or upgrading their homes due to uncertainty caused by Covid-19 pandemic. “There is some relief now as the market is witnessing some traction, and the demand for premium category housing in both rental segment as well as from end users has revived. We are getting more enquiries now,” said Sanjay Sharma, a city-based real estate consultant. The report said that average rental for a 2,000 square feet apartment at Golf Course Road, which was around ₹60,000 in 2014 rose to ₹70,000 in 2020. Likewise, the rental for an apartment of same size on Golf Course extension road in 2014 was ₹42,500 and it rose to ₹50,000 in 2020. As far as capital appreciation is concerned, the property prices rose by seven percent on Golf Course Extension Road in this period while there was no rise in the property prices on Golf Course Road, the report said.Golf Course Extension Road is poised to emerge as one of the most important micro markets in the city as it has great access to major roads, good infrastructure and a good mix of properties suited to the demand, said Pankaj Bansal, director, M3M. “The proposed Metro connectivity and upgrade of Golf Course Extension Road will add great value. The area has a good mix of high-end residential and commercial properties, which will definitely help in boosting demand, “ he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rental-prices-in-luxury-housing-segment-show-slow-momentum-101614622224427.html
01-03-2021||Gurugram||25-year-old executive killed, friend injured by a speeding dumper truck||A 25-year-old executive of a private company died and his friend was injured when a speeding dumper allegedly hit them while they were standing on the roadside near Bhondsi Jail crossing on late Friday night. The police said both friends were travelling on a motorbike and were going for dinner at a roadside eatery. They had stopped to relieve themselves when the dumper drove into them. One died at the spot and another was severely injured and was referred to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi. The police registered a case on Saturday night against the dumper driver, who allegedly fled from the spot leaving the vehicle behind. The injured, Harsh Tyagi, a resident of Bhondsi and who works in Manesar, was returning home around 10pm when his friend Shaurya Kishore called him and asked to meet for drinks and dinner, the police said. “We decided to meet in Badshahpur and after spending some time together. We decided to have dinner at our favourite place. I parked my motorbike and we took his bike and drove towards Bhondsi Crossing,” he said. The police said they took an U-turn after Bhondsi Jail crossing and parked the bike on the roadside. Both of them went to relieve themselves and were talking standing near the motorbike when a speeding dumper from Sohna side rammed into them. “Both of them fell on the road and the motorbike flung a few metres away due to the impact. The driver stopped the dumper a few metres ahead and ran from the spot,” said Vipin Kumar, station house officer of Badshahpur police station. Kumar said passersby took both of them to Sector 10 Civil hospital, where doctors declared Shaurya brought dead and referred Tyagi to Safdarjung Hospital. A case under sections 279 (rash driving), 304A (death by negligence), 338 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the unidentified driver on Saturday night, said the police. The police said Tyagi was unfit to record statement, due to which the case was registered a day after the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/25yearold-executive-killed-friend-injured-by-a-speeding-dumper-truck-101614622223884.html
01-03-2021||Gurugram||DTCP to take action against builders for not sharing project details||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) has decided to take action against 22 builders who have not shared the details of properties and projects that have been developed by them or are under development. DTCP officials said information is being sought from the developers regarding the number of units developed, those under construction, project area and similar other points as the department is building a statewide database of realty projects. DTCP officials on Monday said that show-cause notices are being sent to around 12 developers, who have not shared any detail with the department, along with 10 others, who have furnished only partial details of their projects. Officials said, till date, property details of around 3.5 lakh units have been obtained and these will be uploaded on the database so that information about projects is available on a real-time basis. Apart from creating a centralised database, property owners whose details are fed into the system would not be required to obtain a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the department for registration of property deed, required under Section 7A of the Haryana Urban Development Act, said officials.Sanjeev Mann, senior town planner, said that work on building database is going on and action would be taken against developers, who don’t share details. “The planning wing is preparing this database and it will also take action,” he said. In another development, the enforcement wing of DTCP carried out a demolition drive on a large plot of land in Sector 14 opposite the Airforce School, said officials. RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, said that a large road network and 40 plinths were demolished in the drive. “We had earlier taken action at this site but the owners did not refrain from violations so a comprehensive exercise was carried out today to clear out the area,” said Bhath. Officials also said that they will keep strict vigilance on plots in area around IAF depot as they have received complaints in this regard. “We will be keeping a watch in this area as well along with outskirts of the city,” said Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner, enforcement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-to-take-action-against-builders-for-not-sharing-project-details-101614622223373.html
01-03-2021||Gurugram||Attendance remains thin on first day of school reopening for classes 1 and 2||Government schools across the city saw a thin turnout as they reopened for students of classes 1 and 2 for in-person classroom sessions on Monday nearly a year after schools across the country were closed amid Covid-19 outbreak in March 2020. School principals said that the turnout was tepid since children in these grades were younger and not all parents were ready to send their children to school as yet. Ashok Kumar, head teacher of Government Model Sanskriti Primary School in Sector 4/7, said that 15 students out of 66 in class 1 turned up, whereas 43 students out of 162 were present in class 2. “We expect the attendance to increase in the coming week. The first few days after reopening usually see thin attendance. Our focus will be on bridging the learning gap now. While some students would need extra attention, most other students are in touch with us through online classes,” said Kumar. Schools across the country were closed in March last year amid the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Voluntary visits to schools in Haryana for doubt-clearing sessions were allowed from September onwards, followed by regular classes from November 2 for students in classes 9 to 12. Schools were reopened for students in classes 6 to 8 on February 1 and classes 3 to 5 on February 24. Neelam, primary in-charge of the government primary school in Bhondsi, said that only one student each in classes 1 and 2 had visited the school on Monday. “The students are very young. Only two students came today, and they were not even masked. We couldn’t allow them to attend the classes and called their parents to take them back,” said Neelam, who goes by her first name. At government primary school, Darbaripur, only three students out of 20 had visited the school in class 1 whereas ten students out of 28 enrolled attended classes in class 2. Deputy district education officer Kalpna Singh said that since today was the first day, attendance was tepid. She said that she had directed teachers and children in senior grades to motivate students in younger classes to visit the school for classes. “The attendance will pick up with time gradually. We need to understand these children are young and they do not want constant reminders to attend school,” said Singh. Most private schools are continuing with online classes for students in classes 1 and 2 and are likely to take a call on the resumption of in-person classroom sessions in the new academic year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/attendance-remains-thin-on-first-day-of-school-reopening-for-classes-1-and-2-101614622222803.html
01-03-2021||City||Odisha acid-attack survivor marries long-time friend, recalls journey to 'best day of her life'||An acid attack scarred her face completely and left her blind in both eyes, yet the ghastly incident could not stop Odisha's 29-year-old Pramodini Roul, alias Rani, from getting back on her feet.Roul, who hails from the state's Jagatsinghpur district, decided to brush aside the traumatic memories of the acid attack and entered into wedlock with her long-time boyfriend Saroj Sahoo, 30. The couple tied the knot on Monday and Roul described it as the "best day" of her life.As she recalled the most horrid incident of her life and the painful years that followed, she shared her story from being a bedridden girl to the woman who chased the culprit and put him behind the bars even when the police had shut the case citing 'no clue'."In a society where the face of a girl is given more importance for marriage, I could never dream of it. I wanted to marry with the consent of my family and my boyfriend's family and it happened," said Roul, soon after the marriage concluded. The wedding took place at her village Kanakpur in Jagatsinghpur district on Monday evening.Also read: Covid-19 in Maharashtra - How various districts fared since Feb 24Roul, one of the three daughters of a widow, was pursuing her intermediate studies in 2009 in a local college when an army jawan named Santosh Vedant Kumar allegedly threw acid on her face after she said no to her marriage proposal. An army camp was running near her college when Santosh saw Roul and proposed to marry her. However, her family said they did not agree to the proposal as Roul was too young and wanted to continue her studies.The man allegedly continued to stalk her and on May 4, 2009, threw acid on her. Roul was just a teenager then. Around 80 per cent of her body got scarred in the incident and the lower half of her body was paralysed. "I was 17. I’d dreamt of being independent and supporting my family but my life felt like a joke. All because I refused a boy’s offer? He was a well-educated boy from the army. A man whom we trusted to protect us had ruined my life," Roul wrote on her Facebook page a few days ago recounting the horrible days of her life.Though an FIR was lodged, the case was closed in 2012 citing ‘no clue’ by the cops. The accused was living with his wife and child in Kupwara. Roul, meanwhile, spent five years in a hospital bed near her house. In 2014, Saroj Sahu, a medical representative from Balakati area of Bhubaneswar, saw her for the first time. The nurse was a friend of Sahoo and had invited him to see the problems the acid attack victim. Though Sahoo tried to speak to her, Roul did interact as she was too scarred by her experiences."So he’d speak to Maa instead. I had no vision, but whenever I’d hear Maa chuckle, I knew it was Saroj. Honestly, I really appreciated him for that. Fufaji (father's brother) refused to help. In fact, the few times he visited, he’d say things like, ‘Injection deke maar do usse’ (give her some injection and let her die). He’d say it to my face. To him, I was already dead. Every night, I’d pray for death. I no longer had dreams or goals. I’d forgotten how to laugh. But I felt the worst about Maa – instead of relieving her stress, I had added to it. My nurse friend & Saroj tried to help us, but we couldn’t just take money from them," Roul wrote in her Facebook post.She was hesitant. "All my friend’s had abandoned me. Why then was this man, who I’d never spoken to, visiting me? He’d gotten my address from his nurse friend. He brought along my favourite chocolates and motichoor ladoos – Maa’s favourites. But I was still wary of men," Roul wrote, reminiscing how Sahoo warmed up to her."Once, Maa was away and I peed in the bed. Without hesitation, he cleaned it up. I hugged him and cried. It’s the most vulnerable I’d ever felt. I asked him, ‘Why are you doing all this?’ and he simply replied, ‘Har kaam ke peeche reason nahi hota’ (there isn't a reason behind every action). I felt so close to him that day, I wish I could see him. Gingerly, I touched his face, hoping to map it out for myself."Sahoo briefly left his job as a medicine representative to provide support and attention to Roul. After recovering, Roul joined Sheroes’ help desk, a cafe run by acid attack survivors in Lucknow in 2015. Sahoo also joined Sheroes.Though Sahoo proposed to her in 2016, she could not see him as she had lost her eyesight. In July 2017, after she underwent eye surgery, she could partially see. On Valentine's Day, 2018, the two decided to get engaged at Sheroes where she started her first job and a new life. Sahoo is back to being a medicine representative now.Roul's alleged assailant, Santosh, would have got away had she not started collecting evidence as she spoke to his friends and recorded the conversations. As the case gained traction on social media, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik met her and facilitated the re-opening of her case. Santosh was caught in September 2017 and is behind bars since then."It’s strange that it took 2 men to change the course of my life. One, a man in a uniform who took an oath of ‘service before self’, who couldn’t comprehend a simple ‘NO’ from a girl. And another, a simpleton who saw a girl in her most vulnerable state, became her biggest support and pushed her to be the best version of herself. But most importantly, who waited for her to be ready," Roul wrote on her Facebook page.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/odisha-acid-attack-survivor-marries-long-time-friend-recalls-journey-to-best-day-of-her-life-101614621676423.html
01-03-2021||Gurugram||Footfall of people aged 45-59 with co-morbidities expected to rise on Tuesday||The footfall of people between the ages of 45 and 59 years with existing co-morbidities for receiving Covid-19 vaccination is likely to pick up on Tuesday, according to the district health department officials, after only 87 people turned up on the first day of the drive on Monday. “Only limited people in the age bracket of 45-59 years could manage to get inoculated as they carried along with them their medical papers, filled the medical certificate form at the site and got it signed by the doctor available at the site,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer. “It (inoculation of people aged over 45 with co-morbidities) happened only at a few hospitals as many people only collected the hard copy of the medical certificate. But, people who have registered themselves today (on Monday) will come in the next few days with completed certificate forms,” said Singh. The union ministry of health and family welfare has already issued the format for the medical certificate, mentioning 20 co-morbidities. The form can be accessed through Co-Win portal and it can be uploaded directly after being signed by a medical practitioner. At many private hospitals, people collected a hard copy of the form. Ajay Bhatia, 46, a diabetic patient, who collected the form from Medanta Hospital, said, “I will get the form signed by the doctor today and will upload it on the Co-Win portal to easily get the vaccine shot by walk-in.” At a few private hospitals, people paid extra to get the medical certificate at the site itself. “While I was carrying prescriptions from my doctor, the doctors here said that they’d need a proper certification indicating the co-morbidity. They gave me a choice. I could either get the certificate from my regular doctor or get it made it here. The doctors went through my prescriptions and prepared the certificate here itself,” said Sharaj Kamboj, 57, a diabetic patient who got her first dose of the vaccine at Sunrise Hospital in Sector 10A. As per the district health department data, compared to government hospitals, where at least 13 people in this age group managed to get the shot after submitting the medical certificate, the count stood at 74 at private hospitals. A senior doctor in Artemis Hospital, who requested anonymity, said, “Not many approached with medical certificates on the first day. Those who enquired about it were told to get it signed by their doctors as our hospital doctors cannot sign it if they are not aware of the medical history of the patient.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/footfall-of-people-aged-45-59-with-co-morbidities-expected-to-rise-on-tuesday-101614622165142.html
01-03-2021||Gurugram||Beneficiaries unaware of vaccine details, officials say sufficient stock of both available||Vaccine beneficiaries in the city continue to remain uninformed about the Covid-19 vaccine being administered to them, with many saying they have received “Covid shots”, instead of specifying either Covaxin or Covishield, the two vaccines available for use in the country.While health department officials did not disclose the number of vials of each vaccine, they said that the department had sufficient quantities of both the vaccines. “We cannot disclose the name of the vaccine being administered at different sites. We simply refer to the two vaccines as Covid-19 vaccines. A majority of the places got Covishield while Covaxin was administered at limited sites,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer. The Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca Plc. and Bharat Biotech International’s Covaxin, developed in association with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), are the two available vaccines for protection against Covid-19 in the country. Both the vaccines comprise two doses that are to be administered within four to six weeks of one another. Aazad Singh, 72, who got the vaccine dose at Civil Hospital in Sector 10, said that he was unaware of the name of the vaccine that he had been injected with. “Neither did I ask the doctor about the name of the vaccine nor did they tell me. All I know is that I have received the Covid vaccine and I’m grateful for that,” said Singh. Dharmpal Yadav, 77, another beneficiary, said that while he wasn’t aware of the type of vaccine he had received, he was relieved to have taken the shot. “We were not told about the vaccine that we got but I am feeling perfect and don’t think there’s anything to worry about. I had been waiting for the vaccine for a long time and feel satisfied now,” said Yadav. “I have read reports that say that beneficiaries will not be told about the vaccine that they receive. As a citizen, we deserve the right to know the vaccine that we are being administered. Ideally, we should be told this before we decide to visit a hospital. I will definitely enquire and seek details from the doctor when my turn comes,” said Smriti Juneja, who had approached Kalyani Hospital in Sector 14 to get her in-laws’ vaccinated. Dr Sunaina Khetaripal, chief dietician at Kalyani Hospital, who was overseeing the vaccination process on Monday, said that the hospital had received Covishield vials and beneficiaries were made aware of the same. “We are administering Covishield and have been responding to queries from beneficiaries so that there are no doubts regarding the whole process,” said Khetaripal. Visitors at many private facilities also received certificates, specifying the name of the vaccine they had just received.Besides those who received the vaccine shot on Monday, many people were seen visiting health facilities and making inquiries about the vaccines. “I plan to get vaccinated by April and wanted to learn about the process before booking an appointment. I sought details about the vaccines and other aspects so that I can prepare myself. The vaccine will be a great source of relief and will certainly liberate us of the fear of Covid-19,” said Bhaskar, a college professor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/beneficiaries-unaware-of-vaccine-details-officials-say-sufficient-stock-of-both-available-101614622164567.html
01-03-2021||Gurugram||15-year-old Delhi girl gang-raped in Gurugram hotel||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped in a city hotel by two boys who befriended her through a common friend, the police said on Monday. The incident is alleged to have taken place on February 25, but was reported on Sunday night, following which a case was registered. The two boys and a girl, the common friend, all juveniles, were apprehended and sent to an observation home in Faridabad on Monday. According to the police, the girl is a student of Class 9 in a Delhi government school and had met the boys through a common friend, while they were planning to visit Connaught Place in Delhi. The police said that the common friend had brought along four friends, all boys of senior classes.“All of them went to a hotel in Maulahera in the city and took a room. When two boys left the room to buy food and drinks, the other two boys held her hostage and raped her, and her friend instigated them,” Deepak Saharan, deputy commissioner of police (west), said. Based on her complaint, a case was registered in which three of them were booked for raping the girl and the common friend was additionally charged with conspiracy. “So far in the initial probe, it has been found that the girl and her friends made a plan for an outing, and her friends called their acquaintances to join them. Trusting them, she agreed, after which they all went to the hotel where she was raped,” said Saharan. The girl, in her complaint, alleged that the two boys along with her friend locked the room, held her hostage and took turns to rape her. Saharan said that the girl became unconscious and sustained injuries due to sexual assault. At present, she is under treatment at a Delhi hospital. She filed the complaint two days after the incident, when she regained consciousness, the police said.A case was registered under sections 6 (aggravated penetrative sexual assault) and 17 (act of abetment) of the POCSO Act and sections 363 (kidnapping) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of the Indian Penal Code at women’s (west) police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/15yearold-delhi-girl-gang-raped-in-gurugram-hotel-101614622163345.html
01-03-2021||Gurugram||Seniors rush to Gurugram hospitals to get their vaccine shot||On the first day of the nationwide launch of Covid-19 inoculations for the general population on Monday, 765 people aged above 60 years and 87 people aged between 45 and 59 years, having co-morbidities, took the vaccine shots in the district, said officials. The beneficiaries included walk-ins as well as those who had registered on the Co-Win portal and Aarogya Setu application.Despite technical troubles in booking slots for appointments, a large turn-out of people at private hospitals resulted in a 105.3% coverage, as the district health department allocated almost 800 doses for the general population on Day 1 of the second phase of vaccination. “Large numbers turned up at the vaccination centres on the first day. Initially, it was decided that at every vaccination centre, out of 100 doses, at least 40 will be reserved for the general public and about 60 doses as second shot for front-line and healthcare workers. As the footfall remained high afternoon, hospitals were allowed to utilise doses reserved for healthcare workers as many did not turn up,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. Under the second phase of vaccination, aimed at covering the prioritised groups, more than 6 million people in Haryana have to be administered Covid-19 vaccines. At private hospitals in the city, people queued at up the Covid-19 vaccination centres from noon, the designated time for starting the inoculation process. A few large private hospitals, including Medanta, Artemis, Kalyani and Paras, among others, inoculated at least 40 people above the age of 60 years within three hours upon the start of the vaccination process.According to the district health department data, 447 people above 60 years took the jab at private hospitals, while 318 people turned up at the government sites, including urban primary health centres (UPHCs) and the Civil Hospital in Sector 10A. At Chandelok UPHC, people directly walked-in and got themselves registered at the site by giving their ID proofs and signing a form confirming their registration. Vinod Jain, a resident of Manesar, who visited the Civil Hospital in Sector 10, said, “Our house is located 10 kilometres from the hospital. We came for the second time with the Aadhaar card but didn’t know that the PAN card was also needed,” said Jain. He said that doctors asked him to sign a consent form, as he could not produce the PAN card. Most beneficiaries said that after failing to book time slots for vaccination through the portal, despite completing the registration process, they decided to walk into the vaccination centres.Surinder Malik, 75, reached Artemis Hospital after failed attempts to book a slot. “Since I was already registered on the Co-Win, the walk-in process got easy. The ID details were verified, consent form for registration has to be signed, along with the payment of ₹250 for the vaccine dose, and the process was complete.” At Medanta, however, many had to return after giving their names and contact details. “Since Co-Win was not working properly, I decided to visit the hospital for walk-in. But the staff took the details and said they will call later,” said 66-year-old Ila Gupta. The officials at the hospital’s registration desk said that only those registered on the Co-Win platform will be administered vaccines. Dr Sushila Kataria, internal medicine specialist, Medanta Hospital, said, “The process will be streamlined in the next few days. Currently, the allocated doses for people have been limited. With time, dose allocation will increase to 250 per day and 500 per day. Based on the capacity of the hospital, it will increase to 2,500 in later months.” The health department has already extended the public vaccination sites to 23 from Tuesday, while it will continue at 10 private hospitals. Yadav said that from Tuesday, the vaccination will start at 9am. “There were some hiccups on the first day at the portal level, which will resolve with time,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/seniors-rush-to-gurugram-hospitals-to-get-their-vaccine-shot-101614622163952.html
01-03-2021||Gurugram||Technical faults, site overload hamper vaccination registry||Teething troubles marred the self-registration process on Monday with beneficiaries complaining of delays, technical glitches and difficulties in reserving appointments on the first day of the second phase of vaccinations in the district. Vikram Sharma, 65, a resident of DLF Phase-4, arrived at Chanderlok Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) for inoculation after he failed to book an appointment for vaccination through the Co-Win portal. “When we click on any of the dates throughout the month, the application shows a ‘no slots available’ message. There is no activity on the page when one clicks the button for next step. But once you click on the OK button, it goes back to the first page for registration,” said Sharma, demonstrating the process on his phone. He was registered as a walk-in beneficiary by the hospital staff and received the first dose of the vaccine. A government employee, who requested not to be named, reached a private hospital around 12.30pm citing a similar issue. “There are no slots available for the entire month. Since the hospital was closer to my house, I thought they would resolve this issue and administer the shot. However, I couldn’t receive the dose today. The hospital staff noted down my name and contact details and said that they’d call me in the next few days,” the government employee said. Smriti Juneja, a resident, said she decided to get senior relatives vaccinated at Kalyani Hospital in Sector 14 after failing to book an appointment through the Co-Win portal. “We were able to register on the portal but couldn’t book an appointment. There was no available slot at least for the next two weeks,” said Juneja. Vineet Goyal, a 70-year-old resident of DLF Phase-4, said that the application was not user friendly. “I couldn’t open the section that mentions the date and time for vaccination. It wasn’t working for any of the vaccination sites. The site was quite glitchy,” said Goyal. Technical glitches and website overload also hampered the process of user registration. At the Civil Hospital in Sector 10, vaccination could not be initiated until 2pm due to delays, following which officials started maintaining a physical record of the process. Dharmpal Yadav, 77, a beneficiary, said he had reached the Civil Hospital in the morning but was asked to return later as the Co-Win app was not working. “I was told that the website is not working. The staff took down my details and around 2pm, I was asked to visit again for the shot,” said Yadav. Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer, said that while there had been a few initial hiccups, the process would get easier in the coming days. “The portal has been recently launched so there will be some teething troubles. In the next two to three days, the process is likely to get streamlined and users will not face hassle while booking appointments for the vaccination process,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/technical-faults-site-overload-hamper-vaccination-registry-101614622162719.html
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||Surge in Covid cases in Haryana continues even as positivity rate dips||For a third successive week, coronavirus infections in Haryana continued to surge, recording an increase of 370 more cases last week as compared to the week before.As per the health department’s data, the state registered 1,054 new cases last week (Feb 22-28) as against 684 cases reported the week before (Feb 15-21). The steady increase in cases after a prolonged spell of decline which continued for 11 weeks prompted Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to convene a review meeting of the administrative secretaries to take stock of the preparedness.Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said that despite surge in infection, the current positivity rate is below 1% and the cumulative positivity rate has gone down to 4.8%.“The health department tested over 1.15 lakh individuals last week. So, our sampling rate continues to be good. In fact, we are testing over one lakh persons even when the infection is going down,” the ACS said.Arora said more than 1.5 lakh healthcare workers (HCW) have been given the first dose and over 71,000 have been given the second dose so far. Against 1.30 lakh registered frontline workers, 71,000 had been given the first dose.While an all-time low of 534 cases were reported between February 1-7, the state had reported an all-time high of 17,616 cases during September 14-20 last year.Officials said that the recovery rate is 98.4% and the mortality rate is 1.1%. As per statistics, 15 districts in state have a positivity rate in the range of 2.5% to 5.5%, meaning it is lower than the critical positivity rate of more than 6% but higher than the desirable positivity rate of less than 2 %.While three districts - Nuh (0.9%), Charkhi Dadri (1.2%) and Jhajjar (1.9%) have a desirable positivity rate of less than 2%, four districts - Faridabad (8.6%), Gurugram (7.1%), Rewari (7%) and Panchkula (6%) continued to have critical positivity rate of more than 6%.Free masks to people, police start 2 week drive to enforce Covid guidelinesThe Haryana Police have launched a two-week campaign on Monday to educate people and enforce wearing masks following Khattar’s directions to give five free masks to those found with uncovered face.“Publicity campaigns, including radio jingles regarding Covid guidelines should be launched and guidelines should be followed meticulously. Physical checking of industries and enforcement of Covid precautions at public places should be done regularly,” the CM directed while reviewing a meeting regarding Covid.He directed officers to ramp up Covid-19 management preparations coupled with aggressive surveillance, stringent containment, swift contact-tracing, focused clinical management and proactive information, education and communication activities. Additional director general of police (law and order) Navdeep Singh Virk said in view of the spurt in Covid cases and casual attitude among people, police have started two-week campaign to make people aware of risk of infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/surge-in-covid-cases-in-haryana-continues-even-as-positivity-rate-dips-101614619043179.html
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||Tenure row: No plans to replace DGP, can continue till he retires, says Khattar||Putting an end to the row over the tenure of the state police chief, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Monday said that there is no plan to replace director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava.“We are not removing him as the DGP. After completion of two years, which is a minimum stipulation prescribed by the Supreme Court, the DGP has already been given an extension to continue till further orders. This means Yadava can continue as head of the police force till his retirement or when we decide to replace him. There is no decision to replace him. On the other hand, Yadava may like to go for a central assignment as he has been empaneled for holding a DG rank post at the Centre. That’s for him to decide,” Khattar said during a media interaction.As per the Rules of Business, the authority to appoint or transfer IPS officials is vested with the CM.State home minister Anil Vij had last week triggered controversy by writing to additional chief secretary (home) to send a panel of officers to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) to be considered for the next DGP despite the fact that incumbent Manoj Yadava has over four years of service left.While Yadava completed two years on February 20, the state government on January 7 had extended his tenure till further orders.On whether he approved of the statements made by Vij on the tenure of the DGP, the chief minister said that Vij probably thought that the DGP’s tenure was merely for two years. “The SC’s directions are clear. Once the requirement of a minimum two-year tenure for the DGP is fulfilled, the state government can let the DGP continue beyond two years till he retires from service. It’s our discretion,’’ Khattar said.The CM added that Vij is pure-hearted and no one can question his intentions. “Vij is straightforward and speaks his mind. That’s his style of functioning. I have known him since the 90s and I know about his temperament since then. We will clear the air over this when we sit down together,” Khattar said.‘No law can be enacted for MSP’On the ongoing farmers’ agitation over the three farm laws enacted by the Centre, Khattar said it is not possible to enact a law prescribing minimum support price (MSP) for crops as was being demanded by farmer unions. “Politics, unfortunately, has taken over the issue and it is no longer being discussed on merits,” the CM said.‘Will write to Centre to convene meet for SYL’Khattar said he took up the issue of completion of the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal with Prime Minister Modi during the recent Niti Aayog meeting.“I will write to Union water resources minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat again to convene a meeting with the Haryana and Punjab CMs to work out a solution for implementation of the SC’s January 15, 2002, and June 4, 2004, orders to complete the remaining portion of the canal by Punjab,” he said.The last such meeting was held in August last year on SC directions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tenure-row-no-plans-to-replace-dgp-can-continue-till-he-retires-says-khattar-101614618923150.html
01-03-2021||City||UP govt signs 'support agreement' to begin construction at Jewar airport site||The Uttar Pradesh government, the Yamuna International Airport private limited (YIAPL) and the Noida International airport Limited on Monday signed a tripartite ‘state support agreement’ in Lucknow, paving way for the construction to begin at the site in Jewar along the 165-kilometre Yamuna Expressway.Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath signed the agreement in the presence of Noida international airport Limited chief executive officer Arun Vir Singh and Christoph Schnellmann, chief executive officer of the YIAPL, among other top officials so that the project can witness further progress.“It is a historic day that the 'state support agreement' has been signed. It is the last major hurdle that has been cleared. Now the YIAPL will get the map approved before it begins work at the site. As per the agreement, the government is bound to provide infrastructure services such as connectivity via roads, rail, Metro and expressway among other facilities to the airport,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of the NIAL and the Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (YEIDA).Also read: Kisan panchayat part of AAP's plan to make its presence felt in Uttar PradeshSwitzerland-based Zurich International AG, will invest ₹30,000 crore in the project and gets 40 years to fully develop the airport project. Under the PPP model, the company will design, build, finance, operate and transfer the project to the government after 40 years. It will start with two runways by 2023-24 under phase-I and will have five runways on completion to full capacity, said NIAL officials.As per the process now, the YIAPL will get approvals of the map from all agencies to start the work at the site.“The Airport Authority of India (AAI) and the Director-General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has already approved the map. Now, the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) needs to give its approval. Once the BCAS gives its approval, the YEIDA will approve the same in the board meeting and then the NIAL will have to approve it in a board meeting. Once the map will be approved, the YIAPL agency, formed to develop and run the project, can begin the work,” said Singh.The concessionaire, Zurich International, has got 1,334 hectares of land for the development of the first phase of the airport.“Noida International Airport is pleased to sign the 'support agreement' with the Government of Uttar Pradesh. This is a significant milestone for the project and a testament to the strong and growing partnership between the NIA and the state government of Uttar Pradesh. Surface access to the airport will be critical and we are delighted to see the government’s strong commitment to this aspect with the early development of the Metro extension from Greater Noida to NIA airport terminal, the integration of an airport terminal station for the upcoming Delhi-Varanasi high-speed rail link, as well as the link highway to the Delhi-Mumbai expressway. We are committed to build this world-class airport in Uttar Pradesh and look forward to actively invest and participate in India’s aviation growth story,” said Christoph Schnellmann, chief executive officer, Noida International Airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/up-govt-signs-support-agreement-to-begin-construction-at-jewar-airport-site-101614618541179.html
01-03-2021||Pune||Warm summer ahead for Pune in 2021, forecasts IMD report||The day temperature during the month of March, April and May, shall remain below normal for Central Maharashtra, according to a recent report published by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). However, above normal day temperatures are forecasted in Konkan and Goa during the summer season. In simple words, it means that day temperatures are going to be normal. The forecast shows that night temperature for most parts of Maharashtra is likely to be warmer than normal. As per the seasonal outlook for temperatures during March to May 2021 published on Monday by the weather department, except for Konkan and Goa, below normal day temperature are forecasted in the state of Maharashtra. DS Pai, scientist and head, climate research and services, IMD, Pune said that day and night temperature will be around normal. “There will be a heat wave-like situation during the summer season and it will be forecasted in the extended range forecast. The IMD issues an extended range forecast which also highlights the rise in temperature,” said Pai. “The probability forecast for maximum temperatures indicate above normal maximum temperature in Konkan and Goa. Moreover, the chances of below normal day temperatures are around 60 per cent for Central Maharashtra whereas, for Marathwada and Vidarbha, the forecast also indicates below normal day temperatures are likely,” said the report. On the other hand, most of the subdivisions of south peninsular India and adjoining central India are likely to experience below normal maximum temperatures. For minimum temperatures, in Central India which includes Maharashtra, an above normal minimum temperature is likely over western part of Central India and southern parts of peninsular India. That is, nights are likely to be warmer than normal. “Most of the subdivisions of east and adjoining Central India which include Central Maharashtra, Marathwada and are likely to experience below normal minimum temperatures. The probability for the same is as high as 50 per cent,” said the report. Speaking about the forecast issued, OP Sreejith, scientist, climate monitoring and prediction group said that the summer season that is from March to May the day temperature is going to be normal. “There is no intense temperature rise as of now. The day and night temperatures are likely to be in the normal category,” said Sreejith. Warmer days in Pune ahead On Monday, Pune City reported a day temperature at 36.1 degrees Celsius and the night temperature was 19.6 degrees Celsius. The day temperature was 2.3 degrees warmer than normal and the night temperature was 6.3 degrees warmer than normal. As per the weather forecasting department, IMD Pune, temperature in the city would continue to remain the same in the next couple of days. Due to cloudy weather around the afternoon, the day temperature may be warmer than normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/warm-summer-ahead-for-pune-in-2021-forecasts-imd-report-101614618202394.html
01-03-2021||City||'Metro man' E Sreedharan's entry triggers steady flow of bigwigs to party: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Kerala unit on Monday said 'Metro man' E Sreedharan’s entry into the party has triggered a steady flow of influential people to the party. It said their numbers will increase as state president K Surendran’s state-wide yatra concludes in the state capital on March 7.Two former High Court judges, PN Raveendran and V Chidambaresh, joined the party on Sunday. Similarly, former director-general of Kerala police Venugopalan Nair, former navy admiral BR Menon, and All India Radio former director K A Muraleedharan had also joined the party, said the party, adding that more people will join in the coming days.Union home minister Amit Shah will participate in the concluding session of the rally in Thiruvananthapuram on March 7. The party is likely to announce its first list of candidates and a couple of film stars and former bureaucrats are expected to join the party on the occasion.“Kerala is really yearning for a change and time is ripe for a third alternative. Both fronts, the UDF and the LDF, are playing into the hands of communal forces. Even the Moppila rebellion of 1921 in Malabar had turned part of the freedom movement as part of the appeasement policy,” K Surendran said, adding the government had taken over thousands of acres of temple land in the state.Also read: ‘Against core ideology’ - Anand Sharma on Cong pact with Abbas Siddiqui’s partyHe reiterated the party's position that if voted to power, the BJP will abolish four temple boards (Travancore, Kochi, Guruvayur and Malabar Devasoms) and entrust responsibility to the respective shrines.“Temples are turning into a milking cow for respective governments. In all temple boards, politicians, at times non-believers, are getting filled. Let temples be managed by its priests and other office-bearers, not the government,” he said.On Monday, he called on Cardinal George Alancherry, head of the powerful Syro-Malabar church, at diocese headquarters in Ernakulam.This time, the party’s national leaders will be campaigning extensively in the state despite being a distant third in bipolar politics. The party’s recent performance in the local body elections, however, has given it some hope.The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) could muster around 16 per cent votes in the local polls. The party thinks it could win a few seats if it improves its vote share. The one seat it won (Nemom in Thiruvananthapuram) in the last assembly elections in 2016 was the party’s only notable poll outing in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/metro-man-e-sreedharan-s-entry-triggers-steady-flow-of-bigwigs-to-party-bjp-101614617195061.html
01-03-2021||Other||Vaccinations at nine more hospitals, including 2 private hospitals||PUNE Day one of phase two of the Covid-19 vaccination drive saw civic hospitals overflowing with beneficiaries, as scores of eligible Punekars landed up at the government hospitals. Calling it a “soft launch”, the civic body had not opened up vaccination for the general population on Monday, which led to chaos. To counter this, the civic body has announced that it will start vaccination at nine more hospitals, two of which are private hospitals. At the government hospitals, eligible beneficiaries will get the vaccine for free, while the price of the vaccine at private hospitals has been capped at ₹250 per dose.So for two doses, a beneficiary will have to spend ₹500 per dose. The second dose can be taken after 28 days.The PMC said that it has received 1.92 lakh doses, of which, 98,570 doses have already been distributed. As of Monday, totally, 54, 485 frontline workers and healthcare workers have been vaccinated with the first dose, which is about 48% of the registered FLWs and HCWs. On Monday, 48% of the 3,195 target beneficiaries were vaccinated. This included the 489 eligible beneficiaries from the phase two vaccination. Also, 2,328 beneficiaries got their second dose. No adverse effects following immunization was reported on the day.Vaccination centres Govt centres for free vaccineIn addition, four hospitals: B J Medical collegeSutar hospitalRajiv Gandhi hospitalKamala Nehru hospitalVaccination will also start at:Gangaram Karne hospital, Ahmednagar roadKalas hospital, YerwadaMalti Kachi maternity home, Bhavani pethBabasaheb Ambedkar hospitalBindu Madav Thackeray, WarjeBartakke hospital, WarjeBhangite hospital, MohammadwadiPrivate hospitals where vaccines are available for ₹250Aundh Institute of Medical Science, AundhInlaks and Budhrani hospital, Koregaon park||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccinations-at-nine-more-hospitals-including-2-private-hospitals-101614617122330.html
01-03-2021||Mumbai||Non-cognisable case registered against Fadnavis for 'defaming' deceased woman||A non-cognisable case was registered on Monday against former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and five other leaders of the BJP in Washim district after a complaint was lodged against them for allegedly defaming the woman from Pune district whose death set off a political row leading to resignation of a minister.The offence was registered under sections 500 (Punishment for defamation) and 501 (Printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory) of the Indian Penal Code at Manora police station.Besides Fadnavis, who is the Leader of Opposition in the state Legislative Assembly, the complaint also named Leader of Opposition in Legislative Council Pravin Darekar, former ministers Sudhir Mungantiwar and Ashish Shelar, Mumbai MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar, and BJP leader Chitra Wagh.The complaint also named Prasad Lad, Shantabai Chavan, and woman activist Trupti Desai.The 23-year-old woman died in Hadapsar area of Pune in February. Her death triggered a huge political controversy with the BJP alleging link of Shiv Sena MLA Sanjay Rathod to the case.Rathod, a Banjara community leader, resigned as state Forest minister on Sunday but had denied all allegations raised against him.The complaint against Fadnavis and others was lodged by Shyam Sardar Rathod, who heads youth wing of the Rashtriya Banjara Parishad in Washim district, as per the copy of the complaint.Shyam Sardar Rathod also accused some news channels of defaming the deceased woman and the Banjara community.He also threatened to launch a protest if a strict action is not taken against the accused persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/noncognisable-case-registered-against-fadnavis-for-defaming-deceased-woman-101614616250923.html
01-03-2021||Patna||Acute shortage of IAS officers in Bihar, many to retire this year||Bihar is working at just 56 per cent of the sanctioned strength of Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers. It has just 202 IAS officers against the sanctioned strength of 359.Bihar home minister in-charge Bijendra Prasad Yadav said this while answering a starred question from All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) MLA Akhtarul Imam in the Legislative Assembly on Monday.“Will the government tell the House the rationale of having such vacancies in the IAS which results in one officer holding additional charge of up to three departments and hampers developmental work?” Imam asked.Admitting the shortage of officers, the minister said that the Bihar government has urged the Centre for allotment of 54 officers based on the Civil Services exam, 2020. “The allotment of IAS officers is done by the Central government among states and Union territories on the basis of the Civil Services exams. Besides, appointments on 22 posts of the 2018 selection year, 15 posts of 2019 batch and 16 of 2020 batch under the promotion quota are also under process,” he added.Also read: ‘Against core ideology’- Anand Sharma on Congress-Indian Secular Front allianceThe minister said that there are 14 IAS officers holding charge of more than one department. “There are 11 IAS officers in the apex pay-scale of chief secretary while 15 IAS officers in the principal secretary rank are in the senior scale. We have requested the Centre for 54 officers from the 2020 Civil Services,” he added.The legislator, however, said that though there was a shortage of officers across the country, in Bihar, it was much higher compared to states like Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and even neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. “With more officers retiring this year, the situation will get even worse,” he added.Yadav responded to another query posed by Lok Janshakti Party’s Raj Kumar Singh regarding the delay in promotion of state government employees due to stay on all departmental promotion committee meetings till further order. Singh said that the delay has affected over 20,000 promotions. The home minister in-charge said it was due to the court order.The minister cited the apex court order of status quo in matters of reservation in promotion for SC/ST and its own April 11, 2019 notification whereby the state government had stayed all promotions. “The government had started the process but following the Patna High Court order in on a contempt plea in 2019, the process was stopped,” he added.However, the legislator said that there was no such order from the court to stop the promotion of all employees. He sought a copy of the government order stopping promotion. Rashtriya Janata Dal's (RJD) Alok Mehta also intervened and said that the court order was not being interpreted in the right perspective. “Sooner or later, the government will give promotion and arrear from a backdate. It is better the government grants promotion to its employees by the 2016 order,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/acute-shortage-of-ias-officers-in-bihar-many-to-retire-this-year-101614614860448.html
01-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records less than 8,000 new Covid-19 cases after 5 days||Maharashtra on Monday recorded less than 8,000 new Covid-19 cases after five days. The state has till date recorded a total 21, 61,467 cases with 6,397 fresh ones in the last 24 hours. The number of fatalities now stands at 52,184, with 30 new additions.5,754 people were discharged in the state in the last 24 hours, taking the total tally of recovered people to 20,30,458. State capital Mumbai recorded 855 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths. Maharashtra has been witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases in the last few days.The Mumbai division comprising the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) reported 1,627 new infections, taking the tally to 7,27,553 while the fatality count stood at 19,832.Nashik division's cumulative case tally stood at 2,92,976 and the death toll at 5,264, the official said.Pune division has reported 5,27,673 cases and 11,753 deaths until now.Kolhapur division has so far reported 1,19,865 cases and 4,068 deaths.The overall case count in Aurangabad division is 80,807 and the death toll is 2,047, the department said, adding that Latur division has reported 86,448 cases and 2,525 deaths until now.In Akola division, the overall caseload is 97,509 and the death toll is 1,775 while Nagpur division has so far reported 2,28,490 cases and 4,832 fatalities, the department said.With 61,746 new tests, the total number of samples tested so far for coronavirus in Maharashtra rose to 1,63,46,358, it said.Currently, 3,43,947 people are in home quarantine in the state while 3,482 people are in institutional quarantine.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said, "I do not want to impose it but 'majboori' (helplessness) is also something." Thackeray also urged people of the state to wear masks to avoid lockdown.However, he assured that he is continuously monitoring the situation.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-less-than-8-000-new-covid-19-cases-after-5-days-101614612484379.html
01-03-2021||Other||MPSC prelims will be conducted as per schedule: Pune divisional commissioner||PUNE The state civil service prelim examinations, conducted by Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC), are scheduled to be conducted on Sunday, March 14. Pune Divisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao clarified that the exam will be conducted as per the schedule. “The restrictions will not affect pre-scheduled examinations and especially the competitive examinations. We have already received the list for the MPSC prelim exam centres and all the necessary arrangements will be made by the administration. The necessary precautions will be taken,” said Saurabh Rao.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mpsc-prelims-will-be-conducted-as-per-schedule-pune-divisional-commissioner-101614612621858.html
01-03-2021||Mumbai||'Cyber sabotage' attempt, says Anil Deshmukh on Mumbai power outage||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday said that the massive power outage in Mumbai last October was an attempt at "cyber sabotage" according to a preliminary report.Addressing reporters here, Deshmukh said Maharashtra Cyber Cell has submitted a preliminary report whose findings state that evidence suggests that the grid failure in Mumbai on October 12 last year, that resulted in the city plunging into darkness and disrupting train services, shutting down the stock market and generally hitting economic activities, was likely to be a cyber sabotage. The report has been handed over to Maharashtra energy minister Nitin Raut.A report by a US-based cybersecurity firm claimed that Chinese-state sponsored groups, had targeted power sector in India with malware. This came months after the clash between troops of the two nations in Galwan valley in June 2020.The New York Times had on Sunday published a report based on the findings of the report." The report of New York Times has come now. But when Mumbai had gone under dark, we had set up a departmental inquiry committee. MERC (Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission) and Central Electricy Authority had also made their own committees. We have complained to Cyber Cell also," Nitin Raut said while speaking with mediapersons here."State Cyber Police Department investigated this and report was handed over to me today by Home Minister Anil Deshmukh ji. I will speak on this in legislature," Raut said.According to NYT report, the new study lent weight to the idea that the Mumbai blackout could be a "part of a broad Chinese cyber campaign against India's power grid, timed to send a message that if India pressed its claims too hard, the lights could go out across the country."Addressing a press conference here Deshmukh said: "On October 12 electricity failure, Maharashtra Cyber Cell report says, 8GB unaccounted data must have been transferred to Maharashtra State Electricity Board (MSEB) data. Protocol Data which means the server of MSEB was logged in on October 12."According to the Maharashtra Cyber Cell report, Deshmukh said: "there was the possibility of login attempts and 14 Trojan horses were landed on MSEB servers. There are chances of some foreign attempts."The Massachusetts-based cybersecurity company Recorded Future's study reported that a Chinese state-sponsored has been seen systematically utilising advanced cyberintrusion techniques to gain access to nearly a dozen critical nodes across the Indian power generation and transmission infrastructure."Since early 2020, Recorded Future's Insikt Group observed a large increase in suspected targeted intrusion activity against Indian organizations from Chinese statesponsored groups, the study said." From mid-2020 onwards, Recorded Future's midpoint collection revealed a steep rise in the use of infrastructure tracked as AXIOMATICASYMPTOTE, which encompasses ShadowPad command and control (C2) servers, to target a large swathe of India's power sector," the report said.According to the report 10 distinct Indian power sector organizations, including four of the five Regional Load Despatch Centres (RLDC) responsible for operation of the power grid through balancing electricity supply and demand, have been identified as targets in a concerted campaign against India's critical infrastructure. Other targets identified included two Indian seaports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyber-sabotage-attempt-says-anil-deshmukh-on-mumbai-power-outage-101614611635379.html
01-03-2021||Other||878 fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Monday in Pune district||PUNE A total of 878 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported on Monday in Pune district, as per the state health department. In the Pune district, there are a total of 4,10,699 lakh Covid cases of which, 3,87,388 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 8,112 deaths in the district. At present, there are 15,199 active cases in Pune district. One Covid-related death was reported in Pune rural in the last 24 hours with no deaths reported in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) areas on Monday.Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 2,09,696 Covid cases and 4,575 deaths as of March 1.Whereas, PCMC has reported ,02,488 cases and a total of 1,333 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural reported 98,515 total cases and 2,155 deaths. As per the state health department, 5,754 patients were discharged on Monday in Maharashtra, taking the total in the state to 20,30,458. The recovery rate in the state is 93.94%.Across Maharashtra, 6,397 new cases of Covid were reported on Monday and 30 deaths. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.41%.Currently, 3,43,947 people are in home quarantine and 3,482 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/878-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-on-monday-in-pune-district-101614611661856.html
01-03-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan Assembly passes Appropriation Bill||The Rajasthan Assembly passed the Rajasthan Appropriation Bill, 2021 by voice vote on Monday.Parliamentary Affairs Minister Shanti Kumar Dhariwal introduced the bill in the House, saying it has been brought to authorise the payment and appropriation of certain amounts from the state consolidated fund for services for 2020-21.With the passing of the bill, he said, an amount of ₹36,253.95 crore can be paid and utilised.Discussion on Budget 2021-22 is underway in the assembly.Legislators of the opposition BJP did not take part in the discussion to protest the Speaker's decision to bar former minister Vasudev Devnani from taking part in the proceedings of the House for the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-assembly-passes-appropriation-bill-101614610996177.html
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab governor says farm laws don't address farmers' stagnating income problem||The Budget session of the Punjab Assembly began on a stormy note with opposition Akali Dal and AAP raising slogans during the address by the Governor, who said the new central farm laws do not address the problem of farmers' "stagnating incomes".The Governor’s address customarily reflects the stand of the state government. In Punjab, the Congress government has backed the farmers’ agitation against the three new laws.But the Shiromani Akali Dal, criticised Governor V P Singh Badnore for not sending for the President’s consideration the Bills passed by the state Assembly last year to "counter" the laws.SAD members led by Bikram Singh Majithia came to the well of the House, shouted slogans and hurled papers in the air as the Governor began his address. They continued raising slogans during the almost 20-minute-long speech of the Governor.Aam Aadmi Party members also shouted slogans against the state government for its alleged failure in keeping its poll promises.Addressing the House, the Punjab Governor said, "My government is fully alive to the concerns of the farmers in the State as they are the pivot of the state's economy. We will not let the farmers and the farm workers suffer in any manner."Badnore said the Asssembly members are aware of the devastation caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.“Thereafter, the agitation against three new farm laws enacted by the Government of India led to quite an unprecedented situation in the state,” said Badnore.The Governor said though the pandemic is presently under control, the farmers' agitation and its resultant effect on the farming communities is causing a "lot of anxiety" among the common man.Badnore said farmers feel that the new legislations enacted by the Centre do not address their concerns of "stagnating incomes" as a result of saturating productivity."They apprehend that these laws would disrupt the time-tested agriculture marketing systems established under the Punjab Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1961. There are also apprehensions about the dismantling of the government procurement of foodgrain at the minimum support price (MSP)," said Badnore.The Governor said his government had taken these concerns of farmers seriously. The House passed three amendment legislations to mitigate the anticipated adverse impact of the Central laws, he said."These legislations are pending for the Presidential assent under Article 254 of the Constitution," he said."My government strongly feels that the enactment of these three central laws is against the principles of cooperative federalism as agriculture is a state subject under entry 14 of List II of Schedule 7 of the Constitution," he said."The state chief minister has time and again urged the prime minister to reconsider these laws, concede to the demand of farmers and withdraw these new central legislations," said Badnore.On Covid-19, the governor stated that the pandemic has been contained but this should not be a reason to be complacent."My government shall continue to exercise due care and caution to prevent the resurgence of this virus in near future," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-governor-says-farm-laws-don-t-address-farmers-stagnating-income-problem-101614610003369.html
01-03-2021||Other||Chaos, confusion and technical glitches mark phase 2 of Covid vaccination drive||PUNE On Monday morning, Prime Minister Narendra Modi made an appeal to senior citizens and eligible beneficiaries under phase two of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive, to get themselves vaccinated. Punekars took this seriously and stormed the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) Kamala Nehru hospital, one of three sites where vaccination had opened up.However, the civic body was unprepared to tackle the situation. Seniors citizens were left frustrated as the vaccination did not start until noon due to technical glitches and poor crowd management. At least 12 lakh people are expected to get the vaccine under phase two in Pune city alone. Not just senior citizens, or those within the age bracket of 45 to 59 years with comorbidities, had reached the hospital, but also frontline workers (FLW) and health care workers (HCW) whose names were missing from the earlier registration under phase one, also reached the hospital. Citizens complained that the FLWs and HCWs were being prioritised. Some citizens complained that given the rising number of cases in the city, no Covid-19 appropriate behaviour was being followed at the hospital. PMC’s Kothrud-located Sutar hospital, along with the Rajiv Gandhi hospital, also saw beneficiaries returning due to the glitches with the CoWin app, which halted vaccination for hours. A similar situation was seen at Sassoon General Hospital, the vaccination was delayed there too. Sunil Shaligram, who had come for his vaccination at the hospital, said, “There is complete confusion at Sassoon hospital. Senior citizens were in a queue for hours. Vaccination had to be halted for a while because of the technical problems.” Authorities at the hospital said that due to unregistered beneficiaries being vaccinated, the app was not able to verify ages and it added extra work for the hospital staff. Users also complained on social media platforms that the CoWin app was not functioning. Citizens were unable to register their names, or they were unable to download the app on their phones. Residents living in the city also said that they were being offered vaccination centres far from the city. Arun Iyer, an author, tweeted on Monday afternoon, “The PMC must provide a list of hospitals within PMC limits that are actually offering vaccinations. The CoWin portal has a long list of clinics/hospitals, but no slots for the month. I am not sure if they are booked out or a portal glitch.” Jabbed, and relievedHowever, beneficiaries were elated when they finally got the vaccine. Jatin Shejpal, aged 46, who came from Rasta peth to Kamala Nehru hospital, said, “I am suffering from thalassemia. I had got the comorbidity certificate and Aadhar card. However, when I reached the hospital, despite repeated attempts, the hospital was unable to register my name. After multiple attempts my name was registered and I could finally get the vaccine.”Husband and wife duo, Jatin and Varsha Shah, aged 62 and 57, both could get the vaccine after their son got their names registered on the CoWin app a day prior. Dr Murlidhar Tambe, dean at Sassoon said, “The app was not working in the morning and so vaccination was delayed. In the afternoon we began the process. By evening all the registered health care workers had been vaccinated and now we will vaccinate the senior citizens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chaos-confusion-and-technical-glitches-mark-phase-2-of-covid-vaccination-drive-101614610341835.html
01-03-2021||Other||Pune biz sectors hard hit by Covid restrictions brace for another loss-making run||PUNE The Pune district and city administrations announced the extension of Covid restrictions till March 14. Schools, colleges and coaching classes have been ordered to stay shut till March 14. There will be limited movement from 11 pm-6 am, and restaurants and bars will continue to shut at 11 pm. The district administration had initially imposed these restrictions on February 21, now extended till March 14. The businesses related to sectors on which the restrictions have been imposed, are once again facing an economic downturn. State and national-level public service competitive exams are scheduled for the upcoming months.The Preliminary examination conducted by the Maharashtra Public Service Commission is scheduled for March 14.After receiving permission to reopen coaching centres for competitive examinations, outstation students began returning to the city. “Private coaching classes were allowed to reopen from January 12. The Maharashtra Public Service Commission announced its revised dates for state civil service prelim examination around this time and we scheduled the batches from February 1. Now coaching centres have been closed again. How are we supposed to sustain the losses? Even when coaching centres were not open, we had to pay rent,” said Ranjan Kolambe, director, Bhagirath Academy.“Our scheduled batches and the planning has been disrupted because of this order. Our students are grown-ups and they can follow all the Covid protocols. We should get permission to operate. While coming back into the city after lockdown, the MPSC aspirants had to invest in hostels/rooms, mess and coaching classes. This decision is putting them in loss academically and financially,” siad Dnyaneshwar Patil, director, Gurukul Prabodhini.According to coaching class administrators, online coaching is not feasible for competitive examinations. “Our students are from rural areas. Online coaching for all the students is not feasible. There are several topics which have to be explained personally,” said Nagesh Gavhane, administrative officer, The Unique Academy.Following the Covid outbreak in Amravati and Akola districts and the closing of colleges in Pune district, daily passenger numbers on the Vidarbha route have decreased. Bus commuters on the wane“The passenger traffic to Vidarbha has drastically reduced. Passenger traffic to Amravati and Akola has reduced by 30-40 per cent in the last eight days since curfew began in Amravati. Now the curfew has been extended. There are no signs of revival in the near future,” said Prasanna Patwardhan, chairman and managing director, Prasanna Purple, and president, Bus & Car Operators Confederation of India (Boci).“People are not sure about travelling on long routes. Though an official lockdown has not been declared, It will take a long time to revive this industry,” said Kiran Desai, secretary, Pune Bus Owner Association.Last order, pleaseHoteliers are also claiming that the restriction of 11 pm closing time has been a major setback to their business. “Because of the 11pm closing time, we cannot take customers after 10 pm. Currently, the situation is that we are not getting customers after 9.30 pm. The main business of bars, permit rooms and family restaurants is at night. As restaurants were allowed to be functional, we had called back our workers. Now how we are supposed to pay salaries. Business is only 30-40 per cent of the usual intake,” said Ganesh Shetty, president, Pune restaurant and hoteliers association.Theatre lockoutThe night curfew has had an impact on the theatre industry as well. Producers have had to cancel shows scheduled after 9 pm. Many cultural programme organisers have postponed events.Pune Divisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao emphasised on the necessity of the restrictions and mentioned that these are not harsh norms as compared to last year. Restrictions based on “sound scientific knowledge”“Mandais and markets are open. These are not harsh restrictions if we compare it to last year,” Saurabh Rao said.Rao said that the restrictions are not irrational and there is in fact a scientific study done by Tata Consultancy Services and Indian Institute of Science Education and Research on the correlation between the restrictions and the number of positive cases. “The aim of this report is to reduce the positive cases with minimum hardships (that are restrictions). The predictions of these institutions of positive case numbers were almost accurate for the months of December, January and February. Now the administration has a year of experience. I don’t want to impose any restrictions unscientifically. Whatever recommendations we make regarding restrictions to the guardian minister have to be based on sound scientific knowledge,” Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-biz-sectors-hard-hit-by-covid-restrictions-brace-for-another-loss-making-run-101614608901725.html
01-03-2021||Lucknow||Speed of execuyion of Jewar airport project reflects new work culture of UP: CM||The speed of execution of the Noida International Airport project near Jewar in the Gautam Buddh Nagar despite the prolonged Covid lockdown reflects the new work culture of Uttar Pradesh, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Monday. The chief minister made this remark on the occasion of the inking of the state support agreement between the Yamuna International Airport Private Limited and the Noida International Airport Limited, a subsidiary of the Zurich Airport International AG, the developer chosen for the development of the airport. On the occasion, the chief minister also reviewed the progress of the project and expressed his government’s resolve to complete it on a priority basis. Underlining the importance that the state government accords to the Jewar airport, the chief minister said the project was lying pending with previous governments for almost 30 years, but his government decided in March 2017 itself to prioritise it in the interest of the state and the country. Recalling that there were only two operational airports – Lucknow and Varanasi -- in the state in 2017, the chief minister said barely three years later, however, it now has seven airports – Agra, Hindon, Gorakhpur, Prayagraj and Bareilly – besides those of Lucknow and Varanasi. “Not only this, The country’s largest state had only two international airports earlier – Lucknow and Varanasi. But it will soon have five international airports, including the upcoming ones in Jewar, Ayodhya and Kushinagar near Gorakhpur,” he added. The chief minister said he is of the view that good connectivity expedites the development process. "The process of operationalization of altogether 21 airports is underway in UP. This effort will be to make UP soar in the field of civil aviation," he said. While reviewing the progress in the execution of Jewar airport, Adityanath also appreciated the work of Zurich Airport International AG and assured its representatives of all possible help from the government in expediting the project. On the occasion, the chief minister also reviewed the progress in the rehabilitation of the people displaced due to the development of the Jewar airport. Owing to some areas of the village Rehi coming in the way of the development of the Jewar airport runways, the chief minister opined that the villagers from those areas should be vacated first. He also asked officials to enforce a better rehabilitation mechanism for the displaced people without inconveniencing them. He also advised setting up a committee headed by the Meerut divisional commissioner for rehabilitating displaced people and said this committee should also be having a retired judge or an IAS officer as the observer of the rehabilitation process. With the chief minister batting for a better mechanism for the rehabilitation process, the Gautam Buddh Nagar district magistrate informed him that the administration has acquired over 48 hectares of land in the Jewar Bangar area for the rehabilitation of the displaced people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/speed-of-execuyion-of-jewar-airport-project-reflects-new-work-culture-of-up-cm-101614605685579.html
01-03-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan begins second phase of Covid-19 vaccination||The second phase of Covid-19 vaccination kicked off in Rajasthan on Monday. Those ageing above 60 years and people above 45 years of age with specific co-morbidities participated in the vaccination drive with enthusiasm and zeal.Several places reported technical errors in the CoWin software which led beneficiaries waiting. The drive, however, later began with offline registration.The first person to get vaccinated in the second phase was Governor Kalraj Mishra who received his vaccine shot at Raj Bhavan in the state capital.“I thank the scientists for successfully developing the vaccine, following the complete standards and prescribed procedure in a short time,” he said.Also read: Tejashwi Yadav meets Mamata Banerjee, offers full support in Bengal polls﻿The Governor has appealed that those eligible for vaccination should get both doses on time without any hesitation. “ Do not be careless even after getting the first dose of the vaccine. Follow the norms of two yards distance, wear a mask and sanitise regularly,” he said.The first vaccine shot at Sawai Man Singh Hospital (SMS), the biggest government hospital in the state, was administered to Mangala Dixit, 72. She arrived with her younger sister Veerabala Joshi (66), brothers Dinesh Dwivedi (64) and Suresh Joshi (70) to get vaccinated. Mangla Joshi has been the deputy director in the education department.After getting vaccinated, Dixit said, “This vaccine is very safe. We got the motivation to get vaccinated after watching PM Modi getting the vaccine. The fear of safety issue faded away after watching the PM today.” She added that everyone should come forward to get vaccinated.“The feeling is good. There was no problem of any kind,” said Veerbala Joshi after getting the dose of the vaccine.In Jaipuria Hospital, there was a slight delay in the process of vaccination. Due to the problem of online registration, there were some minutes of delay. The online system at the satellite hospital in Banipark collapsed. After this, offline registration was done.Health secretary Siddharth Majahan said, “The vaccination is going on smoothly across the state. People are enthusiastic about the vaccination drive. There was some technical error in software but we have asked the centre to continue with the vaccination process and update the data when the error is resolved.”The second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination commenced smoothly in Kota. Dr Saurabh Sharma, nodal officer, Covid-19 vaccination, said, “Initially, there were more on spot registrations for the Covid-19 vaccination in the morning today as people are still unaware of online registrations.”Barmer’s ADM OP Bishnoi said at around 33 places, the vaccination program was conducted and people are enthused to get vaccinated.Barmer CMHO, Babulal Bishnoi, said, “There was no apprehension visible among the people with regards to the vaccine and looking at peoples’ response, we are planning to increase the number of centres from 33 to 40 tomorrow.”Till 2 pm, very few people turned up for vaccination in Jodhpur. “The number may increase gradually in coming time,” a health official from Jodhpur said.In Bikaner and Alwar also, people had to wait for hours due to a technical error in online registration. In Ajmer, people were seen in a long queue to get vaccinated. At a hospital in Ajmer, offline registration was done when a problem was reported in online registration.In Udaipur, ex-Union minister Dr Girijiya Vyas received his first vaccine dose at the RNT medical college. Vyas said that every citizen should be careful towards their health and should show their responsibility towards society by getting vaccinated as per the government's schedule.She further said, "Many misconceptions are there in the society regarding the vaccine but it is safe.”The state health department had prepared to achieve the target of the inoculation of 16.3 million people in phase II of the vaccination drive. The vaccination will be free at government hospitals while people getting vaccinated at private hospitals will be charged ₹250 per dose.Rajasthan had achieved more than 85 per cent of the target in the vaccination drive for health and frontline workers.More than 4,000 sites have been prepared across the state, including 400 in Jaipur, to achieve the vaccination target.The Central government has approved doses for 6.8 million people above 60 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-begins-second-phase-of-covid-19-vaccination-101614606031414.html
01-03-2021||Other||Gadkari wants MCCIA to replicate Nagpur’s pvt metro model in Pune||PUNE Nitin Gadkari, the Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways, and MSMEs, has asked the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), to create a vision document for Pune.He also wants the MCCIA to visit Nagpur and undertake research to replicate the private-metro (broad-gauge) model in Pune city. Gadkari stated that this private metro model will attract an investment of ₹30,000 crore and create employment for more than 50,000 people.Responding to the minister’s request, MCCIA president Sudhir Mehta assured him that their team will visit Nagpur “next week and we will make the project happen”. Gadkari was speaking at the evening session of the second Pune International Business Summit organised by the Foreign Trade Committee of the MCCIA. The summit was inaugurated in the morning session by Maharashtra’s industries minister Subhash Desai, through a video message. Gadkari said, “We need make a vision document for Pune region encompassing all activities in different fields like auto, pharma, etc. I am personally looking into the infrastructural issues in Pune city like the airport, metro and other projects. We need to create satellite cities to resolve problems like pollution in cities like Pune and Mumbai.”“We also need to develop new technologies and commercialise them. Just like private buses, we can also make private metros on the broad gauge line. The MCCIA team should undertake research and prepare a proposal for the private metro model. They should give this proposal to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and other ministers of the state. The broad-gauge metro will be a revolutionary change. MCCIA should take the initiative and bring in private investment. Metro lines from Pune to Baramati, Solapur, Ahmednagar can be developed with this model,” he added. On point – the Gadkari Speech* Petroleum minister will soon give ok for opening up of ethanol fuel pumps * Ethanol as a bio-fuel can be developed in Maharashtra. It has huge employment and growth potential * Maximum automobile vendors are based in Pune and Aurangabad. They should take the benefit of the auto scrappage policy, recycle material and reduce the cost of auto components* MSME ministry will soon give a rating to MSMEs with a good track record* De-centralisation of industry is very important||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gadkari-wants-mccia-to-replicate-nagpur-s-pvt-metro-model-in-pune-101614606261565.html
01-03-2021||Today's||Who is stirring the caste cauldron in Karnataka?||The last few months have seen a series of caste agitations in Karnataka demanding either greater reservation or to be included in some preferred category of Scheduled Tribe or Scheduled Caste status.What is interesting is that it is not just traditional backward communities like Idigas, Valmikis and Ganga Mathastas but dominant communities like Lingayats, Vokkaligas and Kurubas who are undertaking these massive protests.Karnataka – formerly the princely state of Mysuru - was one of the earliest in India to implement some form of the reservation to ensure better representation to all sections of the society.It was the Mysuru King Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wodeyar who more than a century ago in 1918 set up a committee and subsequently implemented reservations for non-Brahmins.While it is generally accepted that the Lingayats, Vokkaligas and Kurubas are the three most numerically strong communities – in that order - there has not been a valid caste census undertaken in the last few decades.A feeble attempt at such a census called ‘socio-economic’ survey was undertaken by the previous Congress government headed by Siddaramiah. However, the report is yet to see the light of the day.The leaked findings of the survey indicated that the numbers of the three major communities might have been overstated and those of others like Muslims might have been understated.After the threat of backlash from some of the castes, the Siddaramiah government refused to release it and though subsequently both JDS, in coalition with Congress, and now the BJP has held the reins of power in the state, they have also not released it nor ordered any fresh survey.So in reality the numbers arrived at for each caste is based on an approximation of the more than three-decade-old Chinappa Reddy commission report of 1990. While all that is fine, why are the caste fires being stoked now and who is stirring the pot?Two primary reasons are being adduced for the current round of agitations. One is the shrinking economic opportunity – may be temporary and related to the Covid-induced economic slowdown – and second is the internal politics of BJP.Let us examine both.According to the union ministry of statistics and programme implementation, in 2019-2020 Karnataka was the second fastest-growing large state by GSDP (Gross State Domestic Product) in the country next only to Gujarat.However, the pandemic-induced economic contraction has meant all-around pain. Analysts believe that the shrinking economic pie and consequent job losses have been one of the key reasons for the current social unrest, with various groups clamouring for a bigger share of a smaller set of opportunities.First, it was Idigas (the traditional toddy tapping community) also called Billava and Deevaru in parts of the state who form about 2.5 to 3 per cent of the state’s population demanding that they be moved from Other Backward Classes to the SC list.Next were the Ganga Mathasta (traditional fishermen community) who also go by various names like Bestha, Mogaveera, Koli, Kabbaliga, Madder and others, who protested, demanding that they be moved from the OBC list and be given the ST tag. This community is as numerically large as the Idigas.The Valmikis who already have the ST tag have sought 7.5% reservation in all jobs and educational institutions. However, what might have taken Yediyurappa by surprise is the demand of the dominant castes like Lingayats, Vokkaligas and Kurubas for greater reservations.Though the government has blamed the opposition for fishing in troubled waters by trying to take political advantage of the agitations, Yediyurappa may have to look within.Lingayats who include about 99 sub-sects are believed to be about 16-17 per cent of the population. Vokkaligas are estimated at between 11-13 per cent and Kurubas at 9-11 per cent.All of them have taken to the streets with religious leaders from their respective communities leading protest marches. Political leaders cutting across party lines belonging to respective castes have also participated in these marches.Such is the dominance of these communities that of the 22 chief ministers that have governed Karnataka till now, nine are Lingayats, six Vokkaligas, five belonged to the OBC community and there have been two Brahmins. However, Karnataka has never had a CM belonging to an SC, ST or a minority community.Now the largest sub-sect of the most numerically dominant caste in the state is demanding additional reservation privileges. Panchamshali Lingayats who form around 65-70 per cent of the Lingayat population are protesting on the streets. Yediyurappa, who for long has leveraged his position as the tallest leader of the Lingayat community, is caught in a Catch-22 situation, with a chunk of the community being egged on to protest against him.Of the nine Lingayat CMs of the state, eight were from the Banajiga sub-sect and one from the Sadr. Yediyurappa himself is Banajiga. Panchamshali Lingayats are being led by the CM’s fiercest critic in the party, Basangouda Patil Yatnal with the support of community seers demanding reservation under the 2A section.Yatnal is no political lightweight having been a former union minister in the AB Vajpayee government. Interestingly, for a usually disciplined party, Yatnal has not been pulled up the BJP high command – till now at least -- but only by some local leaders.This has led to speculation whether the intra-Lingayat caste protests are being encouraged to undermine Yediyurappa’s leadership of the community. It is no secret that the BJP high command has been looking to replace the 78-year-old leader and it may use the ongoing protests as an excuse to find a replacement.Whatever may be the reason – economic pain or an internal power struggle – the onset of summer has meant not only soaring mercury but also political temperatures on the boil, with protests by various communities only increasing.(Venkatesha Babu is a senior journalist and analyst with a keen interest in politics, economy and culture of Southern India)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/who-is-stirring-the-caste-cauldron-in-karnataka-101614604265600.html
01-03-2021||Other||Panel initiates probe into Jalyukt Shivar Abhiyan scheme||PUNE A four-member panel set up by the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) to probe alleged irregularities in the Jalyukt Shivar Abhiyan (JSA), a flagship water conservation scheme by the Devendra Fadnavis government, will hear complaints on Tuesday.According to Dnyaneshwar Bote, committee member of Jalyukt Shivar Abhiyan and district agriculture superintendent, those with complaints related to the scheme can remain present between 2pm and 5pm on Tuesday at the district collectorate.“Those with complaints can be present with relevant documents,” said Bote.In December 2020, the MVA government set up a four-member committee chaired by former additional chief secretary Vijay Kumar, to conduct an open inquiry into the alleged irregularities following the clearance from the Maharashtra cabinet.At least ₹9,634 crore was spent on the project in the past five years.The cabinet decision came after observations made by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) in its report pointing at some irregularities.Other committee members of the panel include the additional director general of the anti-corruption bureau, water resources department secretary Sanjay Belsare and the executive director of soil conservation and watershed area management.The committee has been asked to submit the report within six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panel-initiates-probe-into-jalyukt-shivar-abhiyan-scheme-101614605481557.html
01-03-2021||Bangalore||Raashii Khanna: The fan base in south, you will find nowhere else, you feel you are answerable to them||Vijay Deverakonda, Vijay Sethupati, and now Prithviraj in the Malaylam remake of Andhadhun- Raashii Khanna has worked with the biggest of actors in south. Yet when you ask her if her priority in a film is the stature of her co-star, she denies. “I have never gone with bigger stars, or said ‘oh there’s a big star, let me sign it’. There were places in my career in the beginning when I was getting some characters with big people. I didn’t feel like I wanted to. People would tell me to do just do it for the pairing, I would say no. If I don’t feel like, I won’t do it,” she makes it clear.Having done all kinds of commercial films, she continues, she now has got the “right balance” between content and commerce. “You should have a good part too, there has to be something concrete. I now have a name for myself in south, people have expectations. The moment I sign something crappy, people will feel hurt. Honestly, here fans take everything very personally, it’s very different from the north. The fan base in south, you will find nowhere else. You feel like you are answerable to them, you can’t pick up anything random,” says Khanna, who had started her film career with the Hindi film Madras Café.What’s more surprising is that she’s a Delhi girl, who had no exposure to Tamil, Telugu or Malayalam films, in which she actually works prominently now. Ask her how did she manage it, and the actor reveals, “When I entered Telugu film, I was serious about one thing that I want to learn the language. Unless I learn it, I would not be able to convince the audience. I am very hard on myself, and self motivated. Only when you know the language and culture, can you connect with them. So today, when you ask, people in Hyderabad will tell you ‘I am a Tleugu girl’, they have taken me home with them. That only happens when you put in that extra effort. Today, apart from singing, talking in Telugu, I feel like a Telugu girl. Malayalam is extremely difficult.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/raashii-khanna-the-fan-base-in-south-you-will-find-nowhere-else-you-feel-you-are-answerable-to-them-101614605242416.html
01-03-2021||City||Rahul Gandhi’s frequent forays into Kerala worry Left||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's frequent trips to poll-bound Kerala and his barbs against the ruling front has got the lead party, the Communist Party of India (Marxists) worried.The ruling LDF has been basking in the glory of local body poll victory and three subsequent pre-poll surveys that predicted an advantage to it. Pre-poll surveys conducted by Asianet News, IANS-CVoter and Flowers Channel have predicted an edge to the LDF in their surveys, also hinting at the possibility of the ruling front breaking the three-decade-old poll jinx of not giving a second term to the incumbent government. The Left, in the local body polls two months back, had notched up an emphatic win.Upset, CPI(M) leaders have sharpened their attack on Gandhi. “He is a good tourist. He may be an ace swimmer and swam in many seas across the world but the waters here are different,” Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan took a dig at the Congress leader on Sunday, citing his sea bath off Kollam coast last week.He also chided the leader saying his sea voyage and subsequent bath have given a big boost to the tourism sector.Also read: Tejashwi Yadav meets Mamata Banerjee, offers full support in Bengal pollsDuring his last tour of the state (his second trip in two months), Gandhi had ventured into the Arabian Sea off Kollam on Wednesday along with fishermen to study their problems and jumped into the water after the net was cast and spent more than 15 minutes before returning to the shore. Visuals of his sea expedition had turned viral later.LDF leaders admit in private that his frequent trips to the state can turn the tables in the April 6 assembly elections like the last parliamentary poll wherein it lost all but one of the 20 Lok Sabha seats.The former Congress chief's entry in Wayanad as a candidate and the government’s handling of the emotional Sabarimala temple issue were cited for the Congress-led UDF's sweep in 2019.“He has changed his narrative of a national leader. The BJP is not a force to reckon with in Kerala. Instead of supporting secular forces that are fighting communal elements, he is weakening secular-democratic forces,” said Politburo member MA Baby, adding that his criticism of the BJP was only confined to his words, not deeds.”During the crucial Bihar elections last year, he was on a pleasure trip abroad. From his behaviour, we can gauge that he’s not at all serious. Instead of attacking the BJP, which is toppling Congress governments in many states, he’s training his guns on the Left,” he said, adding he was behaving as if Left parties were his main enemies.The strong Kerala lobby of the party has prevailed over its leader not to attend Sunday’s mega opposition rally in Kolkata where the Congress and the CPI(M) are allies.“After attacking the CPI(M) in Kerala, how can he change the script in Bengal all of a sudden? We told him about this and he agreed to our suggestion,” said a senior party leader, who did not want to be named.Party insiders said the state unit has asked the leader to campaign at least a week in the state.“We can understand the desperate mood setting in the CPI(M) camp. Rahul and Priyanka will campaign extensively in the state. We are planning their programmes in almost every district,” he said. During his last trip, Rahul Gandhi had sharpened his attack on the left saying there was a discreet understanding between the CPI(M) and the BJP that was the reason for slow progress in many cases probed by central agencies, including the sensational gold smuggling through the UAE consulate.Political observers also agree his vigorous campaign will change the scene. “In Kerala, more than 46 per cent of the population belongs to minority communities. As an alternative to Narendra Modi, he holds much sway among them,” said senior journalist and political analyst John Mary.Gandhi’s skipping the Kolkata rally has also upset the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which was planning a mega campaign against the Congress and the CPI(M) pointing out their contradictory positions in Kerala and West Bengal. But it said this ‘unholy alliance’ was nothing new.“You don’t have to go to faraway Bengal to witness this double standard. In neighbouring, Tamil Nadu both are in the DMK coalition,” said party state president K Surendran, adding that both were practising politics of convenience, not ideology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rahul-gandhi-s-frequent-forays-into-kerala-worry-left-101614603559366.html
01-03-2021||Mumbai||‘When power went out…’: Maharashtra minister Raut on outage in Mumbai||Maharashtra energy minister Nitin Raut on Monday reminded that he had expressed the possibility that a ‘sabotage’ was behind last October’s power outage in Mumbai, after reports emerged that a Chinese government-linked hackers’ group had targeted India’s critical power grid system. The minister further said that according to him, media reports about possible involvement of China-backed Red Echo group ‘are true.’Also Read | Mumbai power outage: City comes to a standstill as grid failure hits supply“When power went out in Mumbai, I had said that there was something wrong and had constituted three committees to probe. I feel media reports that have surfaced are true. Cyber cell will submit a report on this by 6pm today to home minister Anil Deshmukh,” Raut told news agency ANI.When power went out in Mumbai, I had said that there was something wrong & had constituted 3 committees to probe. I feel media reports that have surfaced are true. Cyber cell will submit report on this by 6pm today to Home Minister Deshmukh: Maharashtra Energy Minister Nitin Raut https://t.co/zX3WkfbQeB pic.twitter.com/DK6iZ0nDTgOn October 13 last year, day after the outage which brought the country’s financial capital to a halt, the Congress leader had tweeted in Marathi: “The possibility of foul play/sabotage can’t be denied in the power outage incident of Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai on October 12.” Power in these areas could be restored only after two hours, prompting Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to order an inquiry into the incident.Also Read | Possibility of sabotage can’t be ruled out’: Maharashtra minister on power outageRaut was speaking about reports published on a study by a US company, which said that Red Echo was targeting the Indian power sector. Massachusetts-based Recorded Future, which conducted the study, detailed in it the campaign conducted by the hackers’ group against India.Reacting to the report, the Union power ministry released a statement stating that an e-mail, dated February 12, 2021, was received about the threat posed by Red Echo through a malware called Shadow Pad. Among the actions taken, the ministry said, was blocking of all IPs and domains listed in the mail and cleaning by anti-virus of all systems in control centres.Also Read | No data breach in Chinese hacking attempt at power grid system, says govtIt further said that no loss of data due to these incidents was detected, adding that prompt actions were being taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/when-power-went-out-maharashtra-minister-raut-on-outage-in-mumbai-101614601853378.html
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||SBI’s oldest branch in Punjab shut for not paying rent to Abohar Municipal Corporation||The oldest branch of the State Bank of India (SBI) in Punjab was sealed by the Abohar municipal corporation on Monday for unauthorised occupation of a public asset since 1982. According to the local body authorities, India’s largest public sector bank had defaulted on payment of monthly rent of nearly ₹1 crore. The authorities said that officials of the Abohar municipal corporation had failed to act against the illegal possession of its property by the bank on prime land in Bazaar Number 4 for four decades. With the help of the local police authorities, the Abohar MC took possession of the building but left the bank customers and staff in a quandary. Official sources said the SBI branch has estimated cash of ₹50 crore in the vaults besides a large number of lockers and important official data. When contacted, SBI branch chief manager Gaurav Aggarwal declined comment. Abohar municipal commissioner Abhijeet Kaplish said that in 1930, the then local body had given land on lease to the then Imperial Bank of India that was renamed State Bank of India after being nationalised following Independence. Monthly rent should have been ₹5 lakh: MC chief “The property on which the bank was functional was given on lease and its term ended in 1982. After that, the bank started paying a monthly rent of ₹20,000 arbitrarily fixed without any merit but continued its operations without renewing the lease. For the past two years, it stopped paying the rent to MC altogether. The anomaly came to my notice after I assumed office last year and the bank was apprised of the illegality. Our team calculated that the monthly rent of the building should be ₹5 lakh,” Kaplish said. After serving repeated notices, the local body filed a case under the Punjab Public Premises and Land (Eviction and Rent Recovery) Act, 1973 (Punjab Act 31 of 1973). On December 15, 2020, the collector court of the sub divisional magistrate directed the bank to vacate the premises. “The SBI management was even offered the land for ₹10 crore. But the bank did not show any interest and the pending dues were also not cleared after which the MC took control over its legitimate property today,” Kaplish said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sbis-oldest-branch-in-punjab-shut-for-not-paying-rent-to-abohar-mc-101614596121874.html
01-03-2021||Other||Rising air pollution led to 41,090 deaths in Punjab in 2019: Report||Punjab reported as many as 41,090 deaths attributable to air pollution, which is 18.8% of the total fatalities, in 2019, revealed the Down to Earth and Centre for Science and Environment’s annual report titled “State of India’s Environment 2021”.The report, which was released on Saturday, stated that 1.67 million Indians died due to air pollution in 2019 as per the Global Burden of Disease Study 2019 on health and economic impact of air pollution in the states of India. Half of these deaths were in just five states including Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Bihar, West Bengal and Rajasthan. In Punjab, 1,148 million US dollars (1.49% state GDP) economic loss was ascribed to air pollution. “As many as 34,119 deaths (19% of total deaths) were attributable to air pollution range in Haryana in the year while the state pegged 1,566 million US dollars economic loss due to air pollution,” the report said.The report mentioned that two Punjab industrial clusters, including Jalandhar and Batala, were among 33 of the 88 clusters of the country where air quality evaluated in 2009 had worsened by 2018. In 2009, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) developed the Comprehensive Environmental Pollution Index (CEPI) to identify problematic industrial areas in the country. In the 2009 CEPI study, a total of 88 industrial clusters were identified as polluted industrial areas (PIAS) by CPCB and state PPCB.”Water pollution up in LudhianaThe report said that the industrial cluster of Ludhiana was among 45 of total 88 clusters where water pollution had increased. The city scored over 70 (CEPI score out of 100) in 2018, under the critically polluted cluster category, since 2009 in absence of adequate action to reduce the pollution.“Jalandhar and Batala were among 35 of the 88 industrial clusters between 2009 and 2018 where overall environmental degradation was witnessed in the period. In this category, CEPI score of Jalandhar was around 70 in the year 2009, but it has increased nearer to 80 (out of 100), while Batala scored over 60 in 2009 while it was closer to 70 in 2018,” the report said.The report underlined that despite environmental concerns, an industrial park was approved in July near the Mattewara forest range and the Sutlej in Ludhiana.Govt making all efforts: Environment secyPunjab environment secretary Rahul Tiwari said the Punjab government has been making efforts to curb air pollution. The government has cleared 23 plans to check pollution in the state. The plans are regularly monitored by his office and quarterly by the Punjab chief secretary and NGT panel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rising-air-pollution-led-to-41-090-deaths-in-punjab-in-2019-report-101614594082244.html
01-03-2021||Bangalore||Bangalore Talkies: The art of negotiation—Commercial Street edition||The thought occurred as I eyed a stunning silver dinner set in a jewellery store on Commercial Street in central Bengaluru—plates, tumblers, katoris, the works.The slight smile on the wizened shopkeeper’s face suggested that he was willing to bargain. But where to begin? Middle age brings many challenges: home, job, mortgage and the realisation that you can actually learn something from your parents. So I walked out of the store and called my mother.“Ma, teach me how to bargain,” I said plaintively.“My dearest child,” cooed my mother. “I knew you would see sense.”When she heard I was contemplating buying silver, she promptly passed the baton to a specialist. “Call Lily aunty,” she commanded. I come from a long line of bargaining women, who can, with one eye, take apart an object and drive the shopkeeper to tears with the other. In spite of this, or perhaps because I have watched them haggle down the price of everything from a teak dining table to a tamatar (tomato), I have been an awkward and sniffy bargainer—scolding my mother and aunts for being cheapskates.Also Read | India’s first hearing impaired female biker: I may not hear it, but I feel the windAll of last year, thanks to Covid-19, I took refuge online, buying Jai Hind pens, Agra dal moth, Amritsari achar, Hyderabadi lac bangles, beta-blockers, stinky cheese, equally stinky Ayurvedic oils and neti pots without speaking to a single human being. Bargaining was so last century, I thought.Then I saw the silver dinner set. Bengaluru, these days, behaves like Covid-19 was a dream, or at least a mirage. People still wear the requisite mask like it is a beard. But walk down Commercial Street, Brigade Road, Avenue Road or any of the thoroughfares that dot this city, and you will feel like you are in a mela.Commercial Street is no different. As the saying goes in Bengaluru, “You can buy everything except your parents here.”At this large jewellery store that shall remain nameless, people were crowding around the counters, buying gold and silver for the 2,000-people weddings that were beginning to take place in Palace Grounds. Lily aunty, with her penchant for precious metals, would fit right in.Lily aunty is from the Konkan coast. She has light green eyes, brown hair and light skin. For decades, the family gossip was that Lily aunty was half-French. But Lily aunty had one trait that endeared herself to all her jealous sisters-in-law: she was a killer bargainer. It wasn’t any one thing she did. It was who she was.Bargaining, like flirtation, is more attitude than technique, more style than skill. There are no set steps that you can follow. Instead, it is about being playful, irreverent, even sexy—channelling your inner Helen or Rekha—in Khoobsurat, not Umrao Jaan. You have to flatter and charm, tease and cajole—all the qualities that had been drummed out of me by a year of sheltering in place thanks to Covid-19.So we went, Lily aunty and I, to hobnob with the wedding shoppers. Fortified by a Maddur vada from Woody’s and some hot jalebis from Santhanam Sweets down the road, we arrived at one of the most famous names in jewellery in Bengaluru.“Remember, just because he says the silver plate costs ₹10,000 doesn’t make it so,” said Lily aunty with perverse but compelling logic. “To you, the silver plate may be worth ₹100. To you, a single scoop of badam halwa from Asha Sweets in Malleshwaram may be worth more than all the silver in his shop.”“Or a benne dosai from CTR (Central Tiffin Room) in Malleshwaram,” I added, feeling more hungry by the minute.“In other words, it is all a question of perceived value,” chimed in her husband, Rao uncle, the economics professor who was the designated driver, or in this case, given how crowded the area was, the designated “parker” of the car.Lily aunty looked at him like he had sprouted two heads. “What do men know of these matters?” she said, dismissively. Most men are famously bad bargainers. They don’t have the sense of entitlement of a Gujarati grandmother or the swagger of a Punjabi matron, both of whom can—without wincing—ask for something at a price that will put the merchant out of business.South Indians like Lily aunty and my mom fake ferocity and have a flair for insults—all delivered with a saccharine sweet smile—what I call the sexy rowdy approach—like Rajinikanth. But really, there is no rule book. I know Mathur women who flirt their way to a good deal. Their Lucknowi counterparts submerge a salesman under an ocean of polite flattery. Uninformed, unformed novices like me on the other hand, gloat when we get a car salesman to knock ₹1,000 off the ₹3,49,999 sticker price—instead of offering ₹1,000 for the car, as any self-respecting Indian grandmother would.“Lily aunty, go easy,” I said as we entered the store. “I live in this area. I don’t want to be thrown out of the store, or worse, blacklisted by all the shopkeepers of Commercial Street.”“First rule of bargaining: keep an open mind,” said aunty sagely. “The world, my dear, is full of possibilities.”With that cryptic statement, she sailed into the store in a cloud of imitation Dior perfume, jangling bangles, French chiffon, clutching a homemade pink potli bag.I bent my head from side to side like wrestlers do before a fight. And then I walked in to the arena. You won’t believe what happened. Read on in my next column.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bangalore-talkies-the-art-of-negotiation-commercial-street-edition-101614593422056.html
01-03-2021||Pune||Pune’s Covid tally again on the rise, curbs extended||Covid-19 cases continue to rise in Pune with the district reporting 1,585 cases on Sunday. In a week’s time, Pune district reported 9,395 new cases, a daily case load average of 1,342, more than double of what the district reported two weeks ago, on February 14, when 617 cases were reported. This upsurge has forced the administration to extend restrictions on movement of people during night time and on schools and colleges till March 14. Experts believe that the surge could be because of the lackadaisical attitude of the people and could also be the attributed to the new variant which has possibly entered the district even as samples are being tested at Pune’s National Institute of Virology. Also Read | Tragic case of a woman, a minister and the Pune PoliceAs per the data from the district information office until February 21, since the imposition of fine, a total of ₹26.99 crore has been collected from 543,000 people in the district for not wearing masks and spitting in public.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, technical adviser to the Maharashtra government on Covid-19 outbreak said, “Initially, the rise was noticed in Maharashtra’s Amravati and Yavatmal districts where interplay of multiple factors, such as a large number of people violating the Covid norms, erratic climate, and the mutation in the virus were noticed. The surge was witnessed in Pune and Mumbai as well.” During September last year when Covid was at its peak, Pune reported close to 5,000 cases every day. The district has had 409,000 cases since March 9, 2020, when first case was reported. Once the number of cases started rising again in February, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar chaired a meeting on February 21 to take a call on the various measures to contain the spread. The positivity rate, which is the number of positive cases per 100 samples tested, was about 6% during January 25-29 period. It rose to 10% in the first week on February and has gone up to 12.46% as of Sunday, February 28. Pune now has most active cases in the state, with over 15,000 people undergoing treatment in various hospitals or in home isolation. The district administration has found that the emerging hot spots in the city are the same places that were reporting cases almost four months into the pandemic. The new hot spots are being monitored with more testing among super spreaders and also aggressive contact tracing. The administration has also decide to reactivate departments such as revenue department, police department, food and drugs administration and gram panchayats to ensure Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and also to impose penalty. According to Indian Medical Association (IMA) president, Maharashtra chapter, Dr Avinash Bhondwe, the sudden surge in the cases could be attributed to the entry of the mutated variant of the virus. “The government wants to hide this fact that the mutated variant either from UK or South Africa has already entered the city. If they admit it then it’ll mean that the government has failed to isolated the infected patients who came from these affected countries. Also, this will hamper the ongoing vaccination drive because the efficacy of the current dose has to be tested against this mutated virus too,” Bhondwe said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-covid-tally-again-on-the-rise-curbs-extended-101614592462172.html
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||HC grants anticipatory bail to former Punjab DGP Saini, ex-IG Umranangal||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday granted anticipatory bail to former director general of police Sumedh Singh Saini and suspended inspector general of police (IGP) Paramraj Singh Umranangal in the Behbal Kalan firing case of 2015. Saini and Umranangal were chargesheeted by the special investigation team (SIT) of Punjab Police on January 15 in this case. Following which, a trial court had summoned the two. Their bail pleas against summoning were dismissed by the sessions court and they moved the high court last month. Their counsel, senior advocate APS Deol, confirmed the development. The detailed order is awaited. Both are accused in the case registered at the Baja Khana police station in Faridkot. The case was registered on October 21, 2015, a week after two protesters were killed allegedly in the police firing at Behbal Kalan in the aftermath of incidents of sacrilege reported at Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-former-punjab-dgp-saini-ex-ig-umranangal-101614591802170.html
01-03-2021||Mumbai||Bailable warrant issued against Kangana on Javed Akhtar’s complaint||A metropolitan magistrate court on Monday issued a bailable warrant against actress Kangana Ranaut on a complaint lodged by lyricist Javed Akhtar alleging that she made defamatory comments about him during an interview.The magistrate court had, on February 1, issued summons to the actress to appear before the court today. She did not appear before the magistrate. Instead, her lawyer Rizwan Siddiquee was present on her behalf.“Ranaut’s lawyer told the court that they wish to challenge the proceedings. However, the lawyer did not file an application seeking exemption for the actress to appear before the court. In the absence of the plea, we moved an application for issuance of a non-bailable warrant against her,” said Akhtar’s advocate Jai Bharadwaj.Also Read | Hrithik Roshan gives statement in fake emails caseThe court issued bailable warrant against the actress and posted the matter for further hearing on March 26.The writer-poet approached the magistrate court in November 2020. On December 3, his statement was recorded by the magistrate for verification of the complaint. Later, the court directed Juhu Police to hold an inquiry and submit their report on the allegations.On Juhu Police’s report, the court ordered Ranaut to appear before it on March 1.Akhtar, through his lawyer Niranjan Mundargi, had filed a private complaint against the actress under sections 499 (defamation) and 500 (punishment for defamation) of the Indian Penal Code.He claimed Ranaut defamed him during one television interview, claiming he threatened her to withdraw case against Bollywood actor Hrithik Roshan. He alleged that Ranaut has called him a part of the “suicide gang” and that he allegedly threatened her, saying if she didn’t back out, she would have no option but to die by suicide. Akhtar claimed that such comments have caused immense damage to his reputation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bailable-warrant-issued-against-kangana-on-javed-akhtar-s-complaint-101614589341659.html
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Janchetna Party spokesman held in drug case||A Delhi Police team arrested Rajkumar Gupta, a spokesperson of former Union minister Venod Sharma’s Haryana Janchetna Party (HJP), in a case registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on Sunday evening. Police said in Ambala on Monday that Gupta, a seed seller, was arrested by the Delhi Police’s crime branch after an accused in their custody, Sujaram from Rajasthan, revealed Gupta’s involvement in an opium smuggling case. “The Delhi Police team came around 5pm on Sunday and Gupta was arrested in our presence. Whether he consumed the drug or was involved in its supply, is part of investigation,” Sultan Singh, the in-charge of the police post number 5, Ambala City, told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-janchetna-party-spokesman-held-in-drug-case-101614589041757.html
01-03-2021||Mumbai||Bailable warrant issued against Kangana Ranaut on Javed Akhtar's complaint||A Mumbai court on Monday issued a bailable warrant against actor Kangana Ranaut after she failed to appear before it in connection with a defamation complaint filed against her by lyricist Javed Akhtar.The Andheri metropolitan magistrate's court issued a summons to Ranaut on February 1, directing her to appear before it on March 1.However, Ranaut failed to appear on Monday following which Magistrate R R Khan issued a bailable warrant against her and posted the matter for further hearing on March 26. A lawyer in the case had earlier informed March 22 as the next date of hearing.Ranaut's advocate Rizwan Siddiquee argued in the court that the summons and process were issued against Ranaut without following the procedure laid down in law and hence, were "bad in law".Siddiquee said a petition would be filed in the Bombay High Court challenging the process issued by the magistrate.Akhtar's advocate Vrinda Grover, however, argued that even if the process is being challenged, Ranaut has to appear before the court as directed, in the absence of any stay on the summons by a higher court."It is the accused's right to appeal against the order, or even challenge the proceedings, that no one can deny and no one can stop, not even this court. However, she (Ranaut) has failed to comply with the order of this court and there is also no stay obtained from a higher court,"the lawyer argued.Grover then filed an application seeking a non- bailable warrant to be issued against the actor.This was opposed by Siddiquee.Magistrate Khan observed that Ranaut was at the liberty to approach a higher court to challenge the process issued against her, but that would not absolve her from appearing before this court.The court issued a bailable warrant against Ranaut and posted the matter for hearing on March 26.Last month, the Mumbai police submitted a report to the court, saying an offence of defamation was made out against the actor.Akhtar filed the complaint against Ranaut in November last year for allegedly making baseless and false statements against him which, according to him, damaged his reputation.In his complaint, the lyricist claimed Ranaut had made defamatory comments against him in an interview by dragging his name while referring to a "coterie" existing in Bollywood, following the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June last year.Akhtar in his plea claimed the baseless comments made by Ranaut had caused damage to his reputation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bailable-warrant-issued-against-kangana-on-javed-akhtar-s-complaint-101614588652494.html
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana minister Vij says don’t need vaccine now. Explains his reason||Haryana’s health minister Anil Vij said on Monday he will not take the second dose of the vaccine against the coronavirus disease as he has a high antibody count after he recently recovered from Covid-19.“Today corona vaccination drive is beginning for the general public. Everyone should get it without any hesitation. I cannot receive the vaccine because after being infected by my antibody count is currently 300, which is quite high. Maybe the trial vaccine I had taken also had a role to play. I do not need the vaccine at this moment,” Vij’s tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, said.आज आम जनता के लिए कोरोना वैक्सीन शुरू होने जा रही है । सब को निस्संकोच लगवानी चाहिए । मैं तो नही लगवा पाऊंगा क्योंकि कोविड होने के बाद मेरी एंटीबाडी 300 बनी है जोकि बहुत ज्यादा है । शायद मैंने जो ट्रायल वैक्सीन लगवाई थी इसमे उसका भी योगदान हो । मुझे अभी वैक्सीन की जरूरत नही है ।The minister tested positive for Covid-19 in December last year, days after volunteering to be a part of the third phase trial of Covaxin. The trial for the third phase had begun on November 20.Vij’s comments came as Prime Minister Narendra Modi got the first shot of Covaxin. The Haryana minister said that PM after taking the vaccine has proven himself to be a ‘true hero’ and thanked him for addressing the issues around vaccine scepticism. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi is a true hero of the nation and every time he has come forward to lead the country. He was the first person to get vaccinated today and by doing so he addressed concerns surrounding the Covid-19 vaccine so that people fearlessly get vaccinated,” he said in another tweet. “Please go ahead and get vaccinated and do not subject yourself to false propaganda peddled by the opposition,” he added.प्रधानमन्त्री नरेंद्रमोदी जी देश के सच्चे नायक हैं हर घड़ी पर हमेशा उन्होंने आगे बढ़ कर देश को रास्ता दिखाया है ।आज भी उन्होंने सबसे पहले कोरोना वैक्सीन लगवाई है ताकि लोगों में किसी प्रकार की कोई भ्रांति न रहे और लोग विपक्ष के दुष्प्रचार में न आएं और आगे बढ़कर वैक्सीनेशन करवाएं ।Haryana, along with the rest of the country, began the second phase of vaccination on Monday. The state-run hospitals will administer the vaccines free of charge while government-empanelled private hospitals will charge ₹250 for the vaccination. Vij on Sunday had said that the state government is taking every step to ensure the success of the vaccination drive while trying to curb the spread of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-minister-vij-says-don-t-need-vaccine-now-explains-his-reason-101614587900282.html
01-03-2021||Bangalore||Puneeth Rajkumar: Soon, we will have Kannada web shows as well||Cinema and OTT will continue to coexist and both mediums have great potential and more entertainment for audiences,” shares Puneeth Rajkumar, about his views on the debate on the two mediums. Last year, everyone wanted to be on the OTT boom bandwagon and Rajkumar, too, is excited about the prospects of the digital platforms. “Last year during the lockdown, it made a lot of sense to be on OTT. It is a technology that has worked well. There have been some really interesting web shows in Hindi, Telugu and Tamil last year and soon we will have Kannada web shows as well Now, we have projects made for OTT, including original films. We have to go with the flow and see how the market responds,” says the actor, who is looking forward to the release of Yuvarathnaa soon.Looking back on 2020, he says we all simply took care of ourselves and survived. “The film industry was badly affected like so many other industries. Our production company released two movies on digital platforms- production Law and French Biryani. We got back to work in September. Now that theatres are open, it will help the industry get back on its feet. I completed my film Yuvarathnaa and then started shooting for James,” shares Rajkumar. Apparently, there were reports that he would be reprising the role played by Vijay Setupathi in O My Kadvule but he negates the reports. “That’s not true. It would be a guest appearance. I will probably be in the film for 10-15 minutes,” he says.Celebrities kept in touch with the world and their fans through social media mostly last year and Rajkumar, too, enjoys interacting with fans. “I try to put up posts that bring positivity in life, rather than concentrating on news or other issues. I love travel blogs and I also like motivating people. I work out a lot so I put up some posts on that. Especially after 2020, all of us want to look at things that help us to grow in life, be positive, stay happy and fit in life which is more important than focusing on world news. Humans adapat to how life goes on. No one thought that we could stay at home for months. For a highly populated country like ours, we survived Corona and went on to do well, in terms of numbers. It is important to believe in ourselves and stay focused and happy,” he concludes. Interact with author on Twitter/@iamkav||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/puneeth-rajkumar-soon-we-will-have-kannada-web-shows-as-well-101614587601743.html
01-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man dead, brother injured for objecting to rash driving in Bindapur||A 30-year-old man died and his brother sustained injuries when they were stabbed for allegedly objecting to a biker’s rash driving in southwest Delhi’s Bindapur late on Sunday night.Police have arrested three suspects:19-year-old biker Piyush Sharma alias Kaku, Sandeep Sharma alias Monu,31, and Shiv Narayan, alias Chhotu Mukhbir,32.Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said that on Monday, around 1 am, Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) hospital informed them about two men admitted with stab injuries. The police team that reached the hospital learnt that the injured men were brothers Suraj Prakash,30, and Chander Prakash, 28, both residents of Pratap Garden in Bindapur.“Suraj couldn’t make a statement. According to Chander, one Kaku was riding his motorcycle rashly and took a cut in front of them. When the brothers objected to it, an altercation broke out between them before Kaku called his associates,” said DCP Meena.Also Read | Feel unsafe in our own neighbourhood, say locals after Adarsh Nagar murderPolice said Kaku became more aggressive when his associates, Monu, Chhotu Mukhbir, and some others arrived, and fished out a knife. The group allegedly assaulted the two brothers and stabbed them before fleeing the crime scene. “A case of attempted murder was registered on Chander’s complaint,” said the DCP.At around 4.30am on Monday, Suraj succumbed to his injuries at the hospital even as police were looking for the alleged attackers. His body was shifted to the hospital’s mortuary for autopsy and Indian Penal Code’s section 302 (punishment for murder) was added in the case.The police teams conducted raids at the possible hideouts of the suspects and arrested three of them. The knife used in the crime has also been recovered from Kaku, the police said.Delhi Police’s statistics show the city witnessed 472 murders in 2020, 49 cases less than the previous year’s number of 521. Of the 472 murders, 44% murders were committed over personal enmity or dispute while 21% cases were over sudden provocation or trivial issues, the police data shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-dead-brother-injured-for-objecting-to-rash-driving-in-delhi-s-bindapur-101614586581570.html
01-03-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Community vaccination against Covid-19 begins today||West Bengal initiated the process of vaccination against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at 12pm on Monday when the Co-Win 2.0 app went live in the state. People aged 60 or above and those aged between 45 and 59 with comorbidities will be vaccinated in the first phase once they log on and register themselves using their Aadhaar number and other details. People with comorbidities must get clearance from doctors before being administered the vaccine. The vaccine will be given free at government hospitals while private hospitals will charge ₹250 towards price of the vaccine and services, state government officials said. In Kolkata, 15 government and 10 private hospitals have been selected for the programme. More than a hundred hospitals have been selected in the remaining districts in the first phase. The number will be gradually increased. Also Read| Covid-19 vaccination phase 2 begins. Here’s how to register for jab on Co-WinThe app will give citizens the option to select vaccination centres close to their location. AMRI Hospitals, one of the hospital chains selected for the service, said in a statement that private hospitals in Kolkata are not likely to start vaccination on Monday since most of them did not opt for spot registration. Those wanting to get vaccinated at private hospitals in Kolkata will have to register online on Monday and get vaccinated March 2 onwards. People who register before 3pm will get vaccinated the next day. The government hospitals in Kolkata where the vaccination will take place are: IGPMER and SSKM Hospital, NRS Hospital, Kolkata Medical College and Hospital, RG Kar Medical College and Hospital, Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital, MR Bangur Hospital, Vidyasagar Hospital, Garden Reach Hospital, ESI Hospital, ID Hospital, Lady Dufferin Victoria Hospital, Dr BC Roy Hospital, Sambhunath Pandit Hospital, Chittaranjan Seva Sadan and Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine. The 10 private hospitals selected in Kolkata are: AMRI Hospitals (Dhakuria and Mukundapur), Apollo Gleangles, Belle Vue, Medica Hospital, Peerles Hospital, Ruby Hospital, EEDF, GD Hospital and Diabetes Institute, Sree Aurobindo Seva Kendra and Woodlands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-community-vaccination-against-covid-19-begins-today-101614584421503.html
01-03-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 vaccination: Over 80% of Delhi Police personnel inoculated||More than 80 per cent of Delhi Police personnel have received the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, officials said on Monday.According to a senior police officer, a total of 66,246 police personnel have got the first dose of coronavirus vaccine till 7 pm on Friday.They are from different units of the Delhi Police, including 15 districts, Traffic, Crime Branch, Special Cell, Security, Metro, Railways, the officer said.The Delhi Police has a strength of over 80,000 personnel. As per the strength of the units, the numbers of personnel, who have received the vaccines, are different, he said, adding that the maximum personnel were from the PCR unit.On February 9, Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava got vaccinated against Covid-19 at the Primus Super Speciality Hospital in Chanakyapuri.Earlier, Shrivastava asked the personnel of the force to get Covid-19 vaccine jabs at the earliest, saying there has been no instance of any side effects so far.In a circular, he had noted that Covid-19 vaccination is essential for everyone's health and priority is being given to Delhi Police personnel till March 1.According to police, 34 personnel of the force have died due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-vaccination-over-80-of-delhi-police-personnel-inoculated-101614583171543.html
01-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai auto, taxi users to pay more for commute from today||Passengers travelling by autorickshaw or taxi in Mumbai will be paying more for their commute from today, following the Maharashtra government’s February 22 decision to increase the fares of these modes of transport. The minimum autorickshaw fare (for 1.5 kilometres) is now ₹21 as opposed to ₹18 while the same for black and yellow taxis is ₹25 as opposed to earlier ₹22. The per kilometre rate of autorickshaws has been increased to ₹14.20 from ₹12.19 while that of black and yellow taxis has increased to ₹16.93 from ₹14.84.Likewise, the minimum auto rickshaw fare during night (midnight to morning) for auto rickshaw is ₹27 and the minimum taxi fare is now ₹32. The new tariff card can be downloaded here. The last auto and taxi fare hike took place in June 2015. Mumbai has nearly 200,000 autorickshaws and 40,000 taxis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-auto-taxi-users-to-pay-more-for-commute-from-today-101614583341475.html
01-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: New fares for auto-rickshaws, taxis come into force||The new fares for CNG-run auto- rickshaws and taxis, envisaging an increase of ₹3 each in minium rates, came into force in Mumbai on Monday, officials said.The Mumbai Metropolitan Region has around 60,000 taxis and 4.6 lakh auto-rickshaws, including some petrol-run vehicles.The minimum fare for a distance of 1.5 km for taxis has increased from ₹22 to ₹25, while for the auto- rickshaws it has gone up from ₹18 to ₹21, RTO officials said.Beyond this flag down minimum distance, passengers will have to pay ₹16.93 per km for taxis and ₹14.20 per km for auto-rickshaws, they said.The decision for the minimum fare hike by ₹3 was taken last week in a meeting of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Transport Authority (MMRTA) which was chaired by Maharashtra transport secretary.The fare increase has been calculated as per a formula devised by the four-member Khatua panel, and it entails a hike of ₹2.09 per km for taxis and ₹2.01 for auto-rickshaws, the officials said.The last fare hike was implemented on June 1, 2015, they said.State Transport Minister Anil Parab last week said the fares of auto-rickshaws and taxis in the metropolis were being hiked after a gap of six years and "it was long overdue".Drivers and owners of these vehicles will have to recaliberate their electronic fare meters by May 31.They can use revised tariff cards until the meters are recaliberated, an RTO official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-new-fares-for-auto-rickshaws-taxis-come-into-force-101614582242526.html
01-03-2021||Other||Monday musings: Tragic case of a woman, a minister and the Pune Police||Maharashtra’s politics surrounding the death by suicide of 23-year-old woman and her association with minister Sanjay Rathod, finally culminated with his resignation on Sunday, a day before Maharashtra’s budget session is to begin. Rathod’s resignation may allow police to probe the matter fairly, but will it offer answers to multiple questions? From the day young woman, who hailed from Beed district, died at her rented flat in Wanowrie in Pune, audio clips played a crucial role in letting the media and opposition keep the pressure on the government and, more particularly, on the Shiv Sena, given Rathod belongs to the party. The audio clips have multiple conversations between two individuals who the BJP alleges are Sanjay Rathod and Arun Rathod; also Sanjay Rathod and the deceased woman… and so on. In one of the conversations, a man with a voice resembling that of the former minister is instructing another person to get hold of the woman’s mobile phone immediately after her death, something which points to an attempt to destroy the evidence, as alleged by the BJP. Who leaked those clips to the BJP leaders? The clips were originally in the possession of the Wanowrie police who are investigating the case. The home department in Maharashtra is currently led by the Nationalist Congress Party’s Anil Deshmukh, who was conspicuous by his silence, barring a brief statement, when he said a probe will be carried out in the matter. Deshmkuh’s party president Sharad Pawar, too, has maintained a studied silence on the issue, even after 20 days. When HT checked with police on Sunday, the investigating officer claimed that the clips are yet to be sent to the forensic lab to ascertain the identity of the voices. On the day the woman died by suicide on February 8, there were over 40 calls between Sanjay Rathod and her, claimed BJP leader Chitra Wagh, whose rise in the party is seen as astonishing as her switching loyalties four years back from the Nationalist Congress Party to BJP. The police have maintained all along that they are probing all the aspects of the case. BJP leaders accessing call details between the woman and the former minister is as surprising as the silence by the NCP and Congress, who share power in the state with Shiv Sena. Another allegation, is that after the death of woman, calls were made to 100 (control number), when the police personnel in control room advised the caller to dial another mobile number. After dialling the mobile number shared by the control room, the individual on the receiving end included one more person through a conference call. All this, as the BJP leader alleged, is as intriguing as the circumstances in which the young woman died by suicide. So far, police have not filed a First Information Report (FIR), without which no action can be taken against. The BJP, therefore, has stepped up the pressure to register an FIR. While police had initially maintained there is no complaint by the family, police can, suo moto take cognisance of the matter and file a complaint. On Sunday, when a woman claiming to be relative of deceased reached the Wanowrie police station with complaint application, the officials claimed the deceased’s father has distanced the family from the woman. So far, police have recorded the statement of Arun Rathod, who was present during the incident and shared a flat with her. But, his whereabouts are unknown. Sanjay Rathod, the Sena MLA from Yavatmal district, has neither denied his association with Arun, nor has he commented on it. The Sena politician has only vehemently denied his role in the death of woman. His resignation as a minister is the first major trouble the Maha Vikas Aghadi has faced just after it completed one year in power in Maharashtra. The move has emboldened the BJP, as it vows to be more aggressive in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/monday-musings-tragic-case-of-a-woman-a-minister-and-the-pune-police-101614582440559.html
01-03-2021||Patna||Bihar: Offline primary classes resume from March 1, parents still reluctant||Schools in Bihar reopened on Monday for resumption of offline study for primary classes 1 to 5 amid Covid-19 safety protocols and the fear of resurgence in Covid-19 cases. The state education department has asked all schools to operate at 50% students’ strength and to implement Covid-19 preventative measures. Several city schools were seen on Sunday readying the campuses in line with the guidelines to welcome students after a year.Baldwin Academy’s principal Rajiv Ranjan Sinha said the school premises have been fully sanitised and seating arrangements to maintain social distancing has been made.“We will be extra careful with primary students. Teachers will monitor them throughout the duration of the school. They will not be left alone anywhere. We have kept hand sanitisers and face masks in each classroom,” he added.Gyan Niketan said additional staff is being deployed to ensure proper implementation of Covid-19 safety protocols as junior students are returning to campus after a long time.However, a large group of parents said they were reluctant to send their wards to schools in view of a fresh rise in Covid-19 cases, seen in several states.“As there is a sudden rise in Covid-19 cases in the past couple of days, I am not feeling safe about sending my daughter to school. She will continue regular schooling from the next session,” said Priya Sharma, whose daughter studies in class 2.Prakash Gupta, whose son studies in Class 5, said, “As session is about to end, academic activities will gain momentum this month. I will help my son to revise the syllabus at home. I don’t wish to risk his health by sending him to school just now.”Meanwhile, several schools have decided not to reopen from March 1. They are planning to conduct online examinations and commence regular classes for primary students from the next academic session.Mary Alphonso, principal of Don Bosco Academy, said, “We will resume primary classes from April 4. Online exams will be conducted for them.”Similarly, St. Karen’s High School and DAV Public High School said they will conduct online examinations for students in March.Also Read: Bihar social welfare dept seeks differently abled friendly highways, underpasses“We conducted a survey for parents’ consent on sending their wards to school for offline classes. We received less than 30% positive response. So, we have deferred conducting regular classes,” said principal Seema Singh.The state education department allowed reopening of schools for primary classes on February 19 after meeting with the crisis management group. The department said it will hold a review meeting to decide over continuance or discontinuance of regular primary classes after 15 days, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-offline-primary-classes-resume-from-march-1-parents-still-reluctant-101614582118063.html
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab budget session begins on note of protest||The eight-day budget session of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha began on a note of protest on Monday morning with copies of governor VP Singh Badnore’s address being torn by opposition Shiromani Akali Dal members. During the first assembly session of an election year, the SAD upped its ante against the ruling Congress and took on the Capt Amarinder Singh government for its alleged “failure to fulfil promises made in the run-up to the 2017 polls”. While the SAD planned to gherao the assembly, members of the main opposition party, the Aam Aadmi Party, arrived for the session on bicycles to protest the rising prices of fuel. The budget estimates for the 2021-22 financial year will be presented on March 5. The opposition parties have demanded an extension of the session that will conclude on March 10 as “the problems faced by the state and its people can’t be discussed in detail in eight sittings”. The AAP plans to corner the government on the issues of minimum support price (MSP) for crops, alleged post-matric scholarship scam, farm loan waiver and rising power prices. “It has been 4 years and none of the promises made during the last polls have been fulfilled. The government has failed on all counts and the CM must explain it,” said leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema. On its part, the Congress is also planning to gherao Raj Bhawan against the fuel price rise, holding the BJP-led government at the Centre responsible for it. Keeping the 2022 assembly polls in mind, both the key opposition parties do not want to miss the opportunity to highlight the Congress government’s “failures on various fronts” during the four-year rule as it is its last budget. On the other hand, the cash-strapped government is expected to make a last-ditch effort to woo the electorate through populist measures. Also, the session, which is being held under the shadows of the ongoing farmers’ protest at the Delhi borders, coincides with completion of four years of the Congress in power. Since the protests have a tacit support of the Amarinder Singh-led government, the AAP and SAD plan to regain their lost ground.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-budget-session-begins-on-note-of-protest-101614581121280.html
01-03-2021||Patna||Bihar social welfare dept seeks differently-abled friendly highways, underpasses||Office of the persons with disabilities in Bihar’s social welfare department has written to the state government and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to create facilities for the specially-abled on all the state and national highways passing through, said a senior official.“It’s an effort to draw the attention of the government towards the problems and difficulties faced by people with disabilities while moving from one place to another,” said disabilities commissioner Shivajee Kumar on Sunday.The department has asked for equipping zebra crossings with audio signals and sound system for the visually impaired, signage in Braille script, special light system for the deaf and mute people while requesting that the underpasses at all the highways are made ‘Divyaang’ friendly.“Though we want the physically challenged to be independent, we fail to realise the basic problems they face while travelling. Most of the state and national highways have zebra crossings but they are unsafe for visually impaired,” he said, adding that the department has written to the NHAI, municipal corporations and road construction department along with the state government in this regard.Also Read: 10-yr-old boy beaten to death on suspicion of mobile theft in Bihar“Even deaf and mute people need special facilities for safe movement since they cannot hear the horns, there should be special light arrangements for them,” he added.“For persons with special ability, especially wheelchair bound ‘Divyaangs’, using the underpass is difficult as well as dangerous. Even normal people do not find most of the underpasses smooth and convenient,” he said.Things have to improve to make ‘divyaangs’ self-reliant, he said and added that the NHAI had responded with the assurance to develop facilities for the physically challenged, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-social-welfare-dept-seeks-differently-abled-friendly-highways-underpasses-101614580347959.html
01-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Rape-accused arrested 2 months after he fled from Mumbai hospital||The Nagpada police arrested a 40-year-old man accused of rape last week, two months after he escaped from the prison ward of Mumbai’s JJ Hospital.The accused, Mohanmed Akhtar Riyazuddin Qureshi, a Nagpada resident, was nabbed from a brothel.He is accused of raping a 18-year-old, who had run away from her Punjab home and had come to Mumbai. Qureshi befriended her and took her to a room in Nagpada where he forced himself upon her. The woman managed to escape and approached the police. Also Read | Hapur gang-rape: All three suspects arrested, auto-rickshaw used in crime seizedActing on her complaint, Nagpada police arrested Qureshi in March 2020. On December 9, 2020, he was moved from Taloja Jail to prison ward (Ward 18) of JJ Hospital, after he was found to be suffering from tuberculosis and a kidney ailment.According to the Sir JJ Marg police, on the evening of December 23, 2020, a jail guard unlocked Qureshi’s handcuffs to allow him to eat. “The prisoner ate and went to fetch water from nearby basin, but didn’t return. Five minutes later, when the guard went to check on him, he didn’t find Qureshi. He then alerted other guards who started looking for the prisoner but, by then, he had managed to escape the hospital premises,” said a police officer. A fresh offence was registered against Qureshi at Sir JJ Marg police station and other police stations were alerted about the incident.On February 26, the externment officer of Nagpada police station, assistant inspector Ghanshyam Borse, received specific information that Qureshi would be coming to Lane Number 12 in Kamathipura, a known red-light area in Central Mumbai. “He was nabbed by Borse and his team when he arrived at a brothel,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-rape-accused-arrested-2-months-after-he-fled-from-mumbai-hospital-101614574401172.html
01-03-2021||Lucknow||Kashi BJP gets hi-tech office, Nadda calls it 'medium' for best quality values||A hi-tech office of Kashi BJP, equipped with state of the art facilities, was inaugurated by BJP national president JP Nadda in Rohania of Varanasi on Sunday. Nadda said the office was equipped with all digital facilities. He also inaugurated a party office in Allahabad through video conferencing."I congratulate the organisers who have built this office. But friends, this is hardware. The software which we have to install in this is our workers. This office will become a medium to inculcate best quality values," Nadda said.Nadda, who is on a two-day visit to Varanasi, said to run an organisation, workers, executive body, programme and office are needed. The BJP chief also claimed that grabbing power was not BJP’s target but a medium to reach out to the last man in the line.“Those who got an opportunity to join the BJP, I consider them as fortunate. The party has become a medium to bring transformation in the country and take it to glorious heights," he said.Taking a dig at the Opposition, the BJP said all parties in the country have become parties of families.Also Read: Akhilesh slams UP CM over shifting of Etawah safari lions to Gorakhpur zooThe four-storey office is built on 9000 square feet area and boasts of an auditorium with seating capacity of 360 people, a video conferencing hall, 22 rooms for the party workers to stay during Kashi visit, Wifi and online conferencing facilities, said a senior office bearer of party’s Kashi region unit.The leader said that the party office was built in about two year’s time at an estimated cost of around ₹6 crore. He said an e-library has also been made in the office for party workers interested in reading books. From now onwards, party meetings will take place in the new office, which is about 10 km from the old party office. Many party workers were seen taking selfie with the party office in the background.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kashi-bjp-gets-hi-tech-office-nadda-calls-it-medium-for-best-quality-values-101614573896057.html
01-03-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh slams UP CM over shifting of Etawah safari lions to Gorakhpur zoo||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday attacked the Uttar Pradesh government over shifting of two lions from Etawah Lion Safari to the soon to be inaugurated Gorakhpur zoo.Etawah is the home district of Akhilesh Yadav, and the Lion Safari was the pet project of the previous government headed by Yadav in the state, while the Gorakhpur zoo is close to chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s heart.In a tweet, Akhilesh said that shifting of the lions was an attempt to kill the tourism industry in Etawah. He claimed that the SP is with the people of Etawah, who were protesting the shifting of the lions, fearing it will impact employment and tourism business in the district. The BJP government should have opted for another alternative to get lions to the Gorakhpur zoo, he said.Also Read: NSUI chief urges UP youth to join unemployment protest at Parliament on March 12Two lions—Pataudi and Maryam—have been shifted from Etawah Lion Safari. The shifting took place even as the Samajwadi Party hired a brass band to play somber tunes in protest against the moving of big cats, alleging that the BJP was out to ruin the safari. The two big cats reached Gorakhpur zoo on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-slams-up-cm-over-shifting-of-etawah-safari-lions-to-gorakhpur-zoo-101614569441194.html
01-03-2021||Lucknow||NSUI chief urges UP youth to join unemployment protest at Parliament on March 12||The National Students Union of India (NSUI), the students' wing of the Congress, held a 'Naukri do ya degree wapas lo’ (give jobs or take degrees back) conference at the Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) headquarters in Lucknow on Sunday. NSUI national president Neeraj Kundan called upon youth in UP to turn up in large numbers at the planned protest against unemployment at the Parliament in New Delhi on March 12."Students want to tell ‘apne mann ki baat’ (what's in their mind), and don't want to hear what's in someone else's mind. Students are not interested in leaders who want to share ‘apne mann ki baat’. NSUI struggles for students' rights and interests," Kundan said addressing the youth.He also congratulated the NSUI for winning two important posts in the recently held student union’s election at Kashi Vidyapeeth, Varanasi. NSUI won vice-president and general secretary posts. "The victories indicate that students are inclined towards the NSUI and the Congress," said Kundan.Attacking the BJP government over the issue of unemployment in UP, Kundan claimed that the entire recruitment process in the state was mired in corruption.Also Read: Keep tractors ready as you may have to reach Delhi anytime: Rakesh Tikait"In UP, the BJP government is engaged in crushing the interest of youth and students across the state are united against all that's going on," he said.He said unemployment in the country now was at its highest in the past 45 years. He also said that NSUI will make every effort to make the Congress win the 2022 UP assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nsui-chief-urges-up-youth-to-join-unemployment-protest-at-parliament-on-march-12-101614567891609.html
01-03-2021||Patna||10-yr-old boy beaten to death on suspicion of mobile theft in Bihar||A 10-year-old boy was allegedly beaten to death by villagers on suspicion of stealing a mobile phone in Bihar’s Supual town past Saturday, said the police. Three accused have been arrested, they said.The boy’s body was recovered on Sunday morning from a pond in the district. The boy’s grandfather told the police that the incident took place when he was visiting a relative while his daughter-in-law (mother of the deceased) went to collect her ration card around 11am on Saturday. “He was alone at home. When his mother returned, he was not at home. After a few hours, she informed me that he was still not back,” he added.The family failed to trace the boy. “We also called a relative who helped them look for the boy, but to no avail,” he added.Also Read | Boys playing cricket find body at abandoned factory in LudhianaLater, police said, another boy of the same village was returning home after answering nature’s call on Sunday morning. “He saw the victim’s body submerged in water and one of the accused was allegedly there. The accused allegedly threatened the boy from telling anyone. The boy noticed that the clothes of the accused were drenched. The villagers suspect that he was involved in the killing of the boy,” said the police.The family filed a complaint and the police took the accused into custody. The accused have reportedly confessed to their crime.Supual Town police station SHO Dinanath Mandal said that the police arrested a mother-son duo and another man. “During investigation, it came to light that they killed the boy and buried his body in their house. Later, they threw it in the pond late in the night. The motive behind the murder appears to be suspicion of mobile phone theft. We are conducting raids to trace others involved in the crime,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/10yrold-boy-beaten-to-death-on-suspicion-of-mobile-theft-in-bihar-101614567920680.html
01-03-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Traffic remains diverted at several Delhi borders||Several borders of the national capital with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh (UP) continued to remain closed for vehicular movement on Monday due to the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three new farm laws.Commuters to Delhi from Uttar Pradesh cannot cross the Ghazipur border. The traffic police advised them to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. Commuters can also use the Chilla border. The entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Saboli and Mangesh, continue to remain closed. Also Read | Farmers in a do-or-die battle: Kejriwal at mahapanchayatThe traffic police has advised commuters to take alternative routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has also been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. Commuters can choose other border routes such as the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches to travel between the two states. Farmers have been protesting at three Delhi borders--- Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu --- for over three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-traffic-remains-diverted-at-several-delhi-borders-101614566540514.html
01-03-2021||Lucknow||₹2,100 crores raised for Ram Temple so far: Trust||Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust has received ₹2,100 crore in its bank accounts so far for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya, Trust treasurer Swami Govind Dev Giri said.The funds were raised during the 44-day Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Ram Mandir Nidhi Samarpan Abhiyan, which began on January 15.“In the nationwide fund collection campaign, the Trust has received ₹2,100 crore in its bank accounts till Friday (February 26),” said Giri in a statement issued on Saturday in Ayodhya.“There is a demand from the devotees of Lord Ram residing abroad to launch a fund contribution campaign for overseas Indians also,” Giri said, adding that a decision on the same will be taken at the next meeting.Meanwhile, Giri also said that the digging work for laying the foundation of the Ram temple was almost over. In the next 15 days, filling work of the foundation will start, he added.“In the two-day meeting of the Ram temple construction committee, we discussed development work on the 70-acre campus of Ram Janmabhoomi and the rest of Ayodhya,” Giri said, adding, “We are committed to developing Ayodhya into the cultural capital of India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rs-2-100-crores-raised-for-ram-temple-so-far-trust-101614561980757.html
01-03-2021||Mumbai||Sena minister resigns, wants impartial probe||Shiv Sena minister Sanjay Rathod, facing allegations in death by suicide case of a 23-year-old woman, tendered his resignation “on moral grounds” to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday. The resignation comes amid mounting pressure from the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which had warned to stall the budget session of the state legislature, beginning on Monday, over the issue.“I have submitted my resignation to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray,” Rathod told reporters outside Varsha, the CM’s official residence.Thackeray said he has accepted the resignation and would hold additional charge of the forest department. The CM also took on the BJP over playing “dirty politics” on the issue. He said the government has ordered an impartial probe in the case and guilty will not be spared.“...The opposition defamed me and my community through media and social media. It was done to destroy my political career. I want an impartial probe to be conducted in this matter and the truth should come out from it. So, I have tendered my resignation to CM,” Rathod said.During a press conference on the eve of the budget session, the CM said, “There should be a probe, but it should be impartial. If someone is found guilty, then the government’s firm stance is to act as per the law, no matter who the person is...”Calling it a small “beginning” in the suicide case, BJP state president Chandrakant Patil said, “Ideally, Thackeray should have taken the resignation much earlier but we are happy that he has done so now, due to pressure from the people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sena-minister-resigns-wants-impartial-probe-101614561763681.html
01-03-2021||Mumbai||Cops continue hunt for suspects as CCTV footage provides little clues||The Mumbai police investigating the recovery of 20 gelatin sticks from a Scorpio car near Antilia, the residence of Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani, said on Sunday that it was proving difficult to identify the driver of the Innova car that was following the Scorpio near the industry leader’s house because the driver wore a faceshield.In CCTV footage recovered from various places in the city, including the Mulund toll barrier where the Innova was seen heading towards Thane at 3.05am on February 25, the face of the driver is unrecognizable because of reflection caused by headlights of oncoming cars and streetlights on the faceshield, a police officer said.But there is other technical evidence being investigated by police and the National Investigating Agency (NIA). The first priority is to trace the drivers of both the Innova and Scorpio cars, said the officer.On the afternoon of February 25, the Scorpio was found abandoned on Carmichael Road, around 600 metres away from the Ambani residence. Twenty loose gelatin sticks were found in the car, although there was no timer or detonation device. Police subsequently released details of a letter found in the car, addressed to the Reliance chairman and his wife, claiming this was just “a trailer”. The SUV sported fake plates with the registration number of the lead car in the security convoy deployed for the industrialist’s wife Nita Ambani.The investigation revealed the Innova joined the Scorpio around 1.40am at Priyadarshani Park and then they together moved towards Antilia. The Scorpio was abandoned near Ambani’s residence at 2.18am while the Innova stopped for hardly a few seconds and moved towards Altamount road. It is assumed that the Scorpio’s driver later sat in the Innova somewhere nearby and escaped, police said.The Scorpio was stolen on the night of February 17 from Vikhroli. The owner of the SUV is a Thane resident and said his vehicle was parked at a deserted location in Vikroli area as its steering wheel had jammed. The next day he was informed that his car had been stolen. He then registered an FIR at the Vikhroli police station on February 18.The Innova’s number plate was also fake and police are trying to trace its owner and driver. Several police teams are working on the case. The Innova entered the city on February 25, through the Mulund toll plaza and was captured in the CCTV camera at 1.20am. After almost an hour and 45 minutes, it was seen heading back towards Thane from Mumbai and was captured in the CCTV camera at Mulund toll plaza at 3.05am.A purported organisation called Jaish-al-Hind, which is unheard of, allegedly claimed responsibility for planting the explosive-laden Scorpio but a senior police officer part of the investigating team said, “There is no such outfit by the name which has been mentioned in the letter. It seems like a prank and an attempt to extort money from the Ambanis”.The letter has not been received either by Mumbai police or by the Ambanis. Someone created a group by the name Jaish-al-Hind on a social messaging platform and was trying to take advantage, added another police official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cops-continue-hunt-for-suspects-as-cctv-footage-provides-little-clues-101614561497104.html
01-03-2021||Pune||Pune extends curbs till March 14 to contain Covid-19||The Pune district administration on Sunday extended the night curfew and closure of education institutes as the region continued to register an increase in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases.Pune district has recorded an average of 1,600 cases in the last five days, prompting authorities to shut all schools, colleges and private coaching classes and restrict the movement of people between 11pm to 6 am till March 14. “Covid-19 restrictions imposed in the Pune city till February 28 have been extended to 14 March. As per the new order issued today, schools, colleges and private coaching classes in the city have to remain closed till March 14. No public movement except essential services will be allowed between 11 pm and 6 am,” said Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol.Stressing that these restrictions were needed to ensure that the spread is checked, Pune collector Rajesh Deshmukh said in an order: “To control the spread of the Coronavirus disease, these restrictions are necessary. That’s why this decision has been taken. Medical and essential services are exempt from the restrictions.”Maharashtra’s per day count of new Covid cases continued to remain above the 8,000-mark on Sunday, while the death toll increased by 62 to reach 52,154, the health department said. The state recorded 8,293 new cases on the day.Maharashtra has been battling a surge in cases, leading to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray urging the public to adhere to Covid norms.“I am asking you whether you want the curbs to be imposed again. The simple mantra is wear mask, follow discipline and avoid lockdown. We will review the situation again in next eight days and decide on the lockdown,” he said in an address on last Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-extends-curbs-till-march-14-to-contain-covid19-101614559631879.html
01-03-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A semal in ITO||They fall down with a thudding sound one after another, the red semal flowers. Their blooming marks the arrival of Delhi’s most pleasant, though most brief season—when it’s neither cold nor hot, and that dengue fever is still some months away.The semal trees, unidentifiable the rest of the year, are suddenly as noticeable these days as those famous Buckingham Palace foot guards in red tunics. As if in flames, they tend to capture our attention in the most unexpected places—through a metro train window, or behind a shanty, or in one case, towering above a flyover.Semal is one of the 252 species of trees found in Delhi. Its branches grow in tiers. They radiate from the trunk like the ribs of an umbrella—as described in the website of Delhi government’s forest department. The best place to see them in great numbers is in the diplomatic avenue of central Delhi’s Neeti Marg, which is almost totally wooded with semal. Two huge trees on the front lawns of Teen Murti Bhawan are also worth a view. Another grand semal stands tall in Jor Bagh market. In a lane in Panchsheel Park, one such tree stands far above the surrounding trees and bungalows, and these days is looking as if someone had thrown holi’s red gulal powder up in the air.A particularly poignant semal you might wish to pay a visit to lurks over the ITO flyover in central Delhi. There, the first thing that amazes the viewer is the setting. The semal flowers are placed high on the tree’s branches. The tree itself is unusually tall, its trunk looming far above the elevated flyover. From a certain perspective, the flowers look as if they had freed themselves from the pulls of gravity and were bent upon escalating to the skies. In the evening, the absence of sun gives them a darker version of red, like clotted blood.But one branch dips and its semal flowers seem to long for the earth—indeed they are drooping down towards the busy rush hour, along with its dust and smog and noise.Suddenly, a bird lands on the topmost tip of the semal. It puckers around its neck, looking at the flowers. Some moments later, it flies away.And now a semal flower from the higher branches falls down on the road, surrendering to gravity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-semal-in-ito-101614549416300.html
01-03-2021||City||RWAs to be roped in Switch Delhi drive||In the fourth week of the ongoing “Switch Delhi” campaign – aimed at endorsing the use of electric vehicles (EV) in the city – the government will reach out to resident welfare associations (RWA) urging them to sensitise people about the benefits of EV.“RWAs can play a major role in making the citizens aware of the environmental benefits of EVs and to nudge them to make the switch. We appeal to RWAs to organise a meeting next weekend and invite their MLAs and councillors to sensitise people about the benefits of switching to EV and the incentives under Delhi EV policy,” said transport minister Kailash Gahlot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rwas-to-be-roped-in-switch-delhi-drive-101614547507267.html
01-03-2021||Other||Eatery owner’s son succumbs to injuries days after attack||An eatery owner’s son, who was wounded in a suspected militant attack on February 17, succumbed to his injuries in the wee hours of Sunday. Aakash Mehra, 25, whose father owns the popular eatery Krishan Dhaba, had been attacked outside the shop near UNMOGIP office at Dalgate. He was being treated at Shri Maharaja Hari Singh hospital in Srinagar.Srinagar superintendent of police Haseeb Mughal told HT, “Akash died on early Sunday morning.” Nazir Choudhary, the medical superintendent of SMHS Hospital, said, “He had suffered bullet injuries on his chest and was on ventilator support. He breathed his last around 3am.”Police have already arrested three persons suspected to be involved in the attack.Kashmir inspector general (IG) Vijay Kumar said that on February 19, police had recovered the bike and pistol used in the attack. He said the three who have been rounded up were “newly recruited” militants.Srinagar mayor Junaid Mattoo expressed his condolences. “Woke up to extremely distressing news. Young Akash Mehra, who was shot at by terrorists at Krishna Dhaba, has succumbed to his injuries at SMHS Hospital. I share the pain and grief of his family and stand by them as they mourn this inconsolable loss. May his soul rest in peace,” he wrote on Twitter.Former chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party chief Mehbooba Mufti also expressed her shock. “Shocked & saddened to know that Akash Mehra who ran Krishna Dhaba in Srinagar succumbed to his injuries after being shot at by militants. May his soul rest in peace & deepest condolences to the bereaved family,” she said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/eatery-owner-s-son-succumbs-to-injuries-days-after-attack-101614546199037.html
01-03-2021||Other||‘67% health, 59% frontline workers vaccinated in JK’||Jammu and Kashmir has vaccinated 2/3rd of its healthcare workers while 59% of the other frontline workers from security, revenue and municipalities have been given the jabs, state officials told cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba in a high-level review meeting on Saturday.A government spokesman said J&K chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam along with chief secretaries of other states participated in the meeting and it was informed that in J&K, 67% of healthcare workers and 59% of frontline workers have been vaccinated in the initial stages of the vaccine roll-out. Further, arrangements are in place to incorporate the third prioritised group in the upcoming days.Gauba is said to have told officials of all states and union territories to expedite vaccination of priority groups and closely monitor the trajectory of Covid infections to prevent a surge in cases.Official says 40% surge in weekly cases, data indicates otherwiseSubrahmanyan informed the meeting that Jammu and Kashmir is conducting mandatory tests on all incoming travellers via roadways, railways, and airways.He informed that J&K saw a 40% surge in weekly cases with travellers making for 2/3rd of all the positive cases.“In Srinagar district alone, 50% of the recorded positive cases were travellers,” he said.The government spokesman did not state which week the chief secretary was referring to and to which it was comparing. However when HT compiled the daily Covid-19 data provided by the government for the month of February, it found that the surge was not 40% but only around 21%. The data reveals that the UT recorded 403 cases in the first week of February, 432 cases in the second week, 526 cases in third week and 574 cases in the last week. In terms of percentage, the surge was 7% from the first week to second, 21% from the second week to third and nine percent from third to fourth week. Dr Qazi Haroon, state immunisation officer and officer on special duty who is assisting the government in Covid mitigation efforts, did not respond to calls from HT. Calls to director health, Kashmir, Samir Mattoo did not get through.The government spokesman said chief secretary Subrahmanyan had informed the cabinet secretary that through concerted efforts, the government is consistently monitoring the Covid trajectory among its local population with a special focus on districts with an increased tourist footfall.Currently, the bed occupancy in the designated Covid hospitals is less than 4% with approximately 100 patients admitted to health care institutes that have been prepped to accommodate 3, 000 patients. “In the given scenario, the situation in Jammu and Kashmir is by and large comfortable and under control,” said Subrahmanyam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/67-health-59-frontline-workers-vaccinated-in-jk-101614545958891.html
01-03-2021||Other||Congress must unite to defeat ‘divisive’ forces: Farooq Abdullah||National Conference president and Lok Sabha member Farooq Abdullah on Sunday said that Congress must unite and set its house in order to fight “divisive” forces in the country. Senior Congress leaders Kapil Sibal and Anand Sharma on Saturday had stated that Congress party was “getting weaker”. Farooq was responding to media queries here. “The point is what Rahul Gandhi is saying and what these G 23 leaders are saying…Why should I react to them. I mean what have I got to do with them. I am not saying any of these things which they are saying. It is for them to decide and set their house in order,” said Farooq. He, however, quickly added that he wanted Congress to be strong. “I want the Congress to be strong. I want Congress to unite and fight the divisive forces of the country. Congress must unite and become strong. People look up to the Congress to sort things out in the country. They are part of this nation and a party of 150 years,” added Farooq. On Saturday Rahul Gandhi alleged that democracy in India was “dead”. He was speaking at VOC College in Thoothukudi of Tamil Nadu ahead of the assembly elections, On killing of Krishna Dhaba owner’s son in Srinagar in a terror attack, Farooq said, “He was cremated today. We have already reacted to it and it was very tragic. Those who shout from the top of the mountain that everything is honky dory here (J&K) and they bring the ambassadors to show them how good it is here (J&K), they should answer for that. It should be LG. If militancy is dead, he should answer. DG and police should answer who says every day that it is over.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/congress-must-unite-to-defeat-divisive-forces-farooq-abdullah-101614545718941.html
01-03-2021||Other||Azad heaps praise on PM for remaining connected to his roots||Former Rajya Sabha member and senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad on Sunday heaped praise on Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not forgetting his roots despite becoming the PM of the country. He asked the audience to learn from the PM on how to remain grounded to his roots. Azad’s comments come day after G23 leaders held a well-attended public rally from the podium of Gandhi Global Family here on Saturday. On February 9, the PM had given an emotional farewell speech to Azad when the latter had retired from the Rajya Sabha. “I (will) not let you retire, I will continue taking your advice. My doors are always open for you,” Modi had said. Addressing a function of the Gujjar community at Gurjar Desh Charitable Trust here, Azad said, “I have seen that when some among the Gujjar community become MLAs, they feel that they shouldn’t be called Gujjars and some feel shy that they come from villages.”“I like many things of many big leaders… like I am from village and I feel proud of it. Our PM also says that he is from village and was nothing (non-entity) and that he washed utensils and sold tea. Politically, we may have serious differences and are opposed to him but he didn’t hide his true self. And, those who hide their true self, they live in a bubble… in an imaginary world. People should be proud of their roots,” he added. Azad further said, “I have travelled across the world, stayed in five star and seven star hotels but when I sit with my people in village, I get a real sense of satisfaction...their clothes may not be clean but the soil of village has a different fragrance. You don’t need cosmetic scents because we are born and have grown up there”. Azad regretted that in today’s world people are respected because of their position and status in the society. “So my advice to the new generation of Gujjar community is to remain grounded and take pride in their roots,” he added. Later, responding to media queries, Azad said that he had come to Jammu after one and a half years and Saturday’s Global Gandhi Family function was no show of strength. ‘No show of strength, it was just 10%, 90% still remains’ “There was no show of strength yesterday. I came here after one and a half year to attend long pending engagements here. Firstly, Covid consumed entire year and before it was budget session and winter session. Yesterday’s function was just 10 percent and 90 percent still remains,” he said. ‘We have got invite from 5 states, will campaign for Congress’ Reacting to Congress spokesman Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Azad said, “How does he know that we aren’t going in the election bound states. For his information, we have got invite from all the five states and we will certainly go there for campaigning for the Congress.” Singhvi on Saturday had said that leaders in the “Group of 23” are respectable partymen in whom it took pride, but advised them to make their “best contribution” and display their “loyalty” to the party by campaigning to strengthen it in the states that are going to polls. West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Assam and Puducherry are going to elections in a phased manner from March 27. On revocation of Article 370 and making J&K a UT, Azad said it was like demoting DGP to the rank of constable. ‘Development visible on papers, nothing on the ground’ He also recalled that how under his chief ministership in the Congress-PDP government; he introduced the culture of working in double and triple shifts to expedite development in the three regions of the erstwhile state. “Unfortunately, the work is not done in even half shift now. I appeal the government here and will appeal Centre also that work on ground should be done. Roads are dilapidated, development is not visible on the ground, education and industries are in shambles, unemployment is peaking and taxes after taxes are being levied here. The taxes should be in consonance with income. While income of J&K is zero, taxes are 110%,” he said. “First of all economy has to be put back on rails and development activities have to be expedited. Ironically, development is visible on paper but there is nothing on the ground,” he added. J&K has to be given three to four times more funds by Delhi, like what used to happen during our time, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/azad-heaps-praise-on-pm-for-remaining-connected-to-his-roots-101614545359910.html
01-03-2021||Other||Had thought of quitting saffron party after being asked to step down for exposing corruption: Shanta||Former Himachal chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party’s veteran leader Shanta Kumar revealed in his recently released autobiography that he had thought of quitting the saffron party after he was asked to step down as Union minister in the Vajpayee government for exposing corruption in a government scheme. While the common belief was that Shanta Kumar had been removed as Union minister of rural development in 2003 for speaking up against the 2002 Godhra riots and the then Gujarat chief minister Narendra Modi, the former’s memoir titled “Nij Path Ka Avichal Panthi” paints a different picture.The 85-year-old veteran leader revealed that he had exposed a ₹300-crore scam in the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojna of rural development department, which allegedly took place during the tenure of the sitting vice-president of India, Venkaiah Naidu. Naidu had given up the ministerial berth in Vajpayee government to become BJP’s national chief in 2002. Shanta Kumar revealed that while Naidu was angry, no one including the ex-PM Vajpayee, the then deputy PM LK Advani, then parliamentary affairs minister Pramod Mahajan or even the RSS supported him. Kumar recalled that senior central leaders and a few from Himachal had grouped up against him and he was eventually asked to step down. “However, I did not compromise on my principles,” he wrote. “I lost trust in them and the party. It was at that moment that the idea of quitting the party and exposing the scam in the House of Lok Sabha struck my mind. However, my wife stopped me,” added Kumar. ‘Ashamed to see party indulging in horse trading’The former two-term chief minister of Himachal Pradesh also wrote that he was ashamed to see his party, BJP, deviating from its principles and indulging in horse trading to topple governments. His remarks come close on the heels of the Congress government in Puducherry losing the trust vote after its MLAs quit the party to join BJP. By practicing unethical politics, governments can be changed but not the society, he wrote. “We came to politics to change the society and not the government,” he said quoting former PM Vajpayee. “I feel ashamed that my party indulged in the sale and purchase of MLAs. BJP became the world’s largest party due to its values and idealism, but it has now become power-hungry,” he wrote. Kumar also cautioned the BJP against compromising with its principles and said it should follow the path of Swami Vivekananda, whom the party reveres. He also hailed the Narendra Modi government for abrogating Article 370 and sought laws to curb the use of black money in elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/had-thought-of-quitting-party-after-being-asked-to-step-down-for-exposing-corruption-shanta-101614544338706.html
01-03-2021||Other||Fazilka villagers oppose setting up of distillery, continue to block NH-7||A complete blockade of the National Highway-7 by villagers in Fazilka in protest against the setting up of a distillery by a politically influential family at Hiran Wali village entered 14th day on Sunday.Villagers said the upcoming plant would pollute groundwater and the air quality of the area thus impacting agricultural production.‘Sharab Factory Virodhi Sangharsh Committee’ has also written to the Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar to intervene to maintain the ecological balance of villages located near the India-Pakistan border.After the protests, construction work has been stopped and the highway connecting Amritsar-Ferozepur-Fazilka-Bikaner has been blocked by farmers for the last two weeks near Fazilka.Over 20 panchayats have reportedly passed a resolution against the distillery being managed by the family of sports minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi. The minister’s son Raghumit Singh Sodhi is a director of M/s Savera Beverages.Interestingly, Congress legislator from Fazilka Davinder Singh Ghubaya has extended support to the agitation and demanded the state government to redress concerns of villagers.“I stand with the residents of my constituency. Their apprehensions are very serious in nature as the liquor factory may adversely affect the economic lifeline of the region. I have spoken to the chief minister in this regard and hope that a decision in support of farmers will be taken soon,” said Ghubaya on Sunday.Sodhis and Fazilka deputy commissioner Arvind Pal Singh did not respond to the calls.Official sources said the firm has all the necessary approvals to set up the distillery.“In all likelihood, residents of Hiran Wali and adjoining areas were not taken into confidence by the brewery management. The protest by farmers against the project also has a political angle and the entire matter is in the knowledge of the CM and the chief secretary,” said a source.According to the sarpanch of Hiran Wali Anil Kumar, Sodhis bought nearly 28 acres in 2013 and the panchayats had been opposing it since then.“In Fazilka, the topography is unusual where the groundwater table is less than 10-feet and any mishandling of wastewater by the brewery would severely affect the agriculture sector in the area. A panel of villagers visited three places in Bathinda and Patiala districts where liquor factories were started a few years ago. Residents of those villages told us how the ash and foul smell emanating from the liquor units has hit their daily lives,” said Kumar.Another activist from Ashwani Kumar of Begawali village said the Punjab government has adopted an indifferent attitude towards farmers. “Fazilka district administration is under political pressure and our representations have not been taken seriously. We demand the approval to establish a liquor factory should be withdrawn immediately,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fazilka-villagers-oppose-setting-up-of-distillery-continue-to-block-nh7-101614543378688.html
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||2 minors among 3 raped in Amritsar, Tarn Taran||Three incidents of rape, including two of minors, were reported in Amritsar and Tarn Taran districts on Sunday in which the accused are yet to be arrested.In the first case, the Tarn Taran police have booked Gurpreet Singh of Dall village, which falls under Bhikhiwind tehsil of the district, under sections 376 (punishment for rape) and 511 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 18 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, for raping a 13-year-old girl.In the police complaint, the survivor’s mother said, “The accused and his wife had come to our house as we have family relations. At around 2pm, my 13-year-old daughter was alone in the house, Gurpreet attempted rape on her. When my daughter raised the alarm, the accused pushed her and fled from the house.”In another incident, the accused, identified as Jajj of Nangal Guru village of Amritsar district, was booked at Jandiala police station under Section 376 of IPC and Section 4 of the POCSO Act, for raping a 16-year-old girl.The rape survivor in her police complaint said, “I was in a market where the accused saw me and forcefully took me inside his house. There, he attempted to rape me, and I started shouting. My mother, who was searching for me in the market, heard my screams and rushed to rescue me. The accused then fled from the spot and is still absconding.”In the third case, the husband of a 31-year-old woman said, “My wife is suffering from depression for the past three years and she is undergoing treatment at Amritsar mental hospital. At around 1pm on Saturday, she left our house and went to Khalchian village. When she didn’t return till evening, I started searching for her and later got to know that she was at the bus stand. When I reached there, she told me that one Meharban Singh of Sarna (Gurdaspur district), raped her at Khalchian bus stand.”Based on the complaint, the Amritsar police on Sunday booked Meharban under Section 376-B of the IPC and are making efforts to nab him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-minors-among-3-raped-in-amritsar-tarn-taran-101614542838445.html
01-03-2021||Delhi||Local issues top priority for voters in civic bypolls||New Delhi: An estimated 50.86% electorate voted on Sunday in the bypolls to five municipal wards that were touted as a precursor to the civic polls scheduled next year.Of the five wards, Kalyanpuri (under East Delhi Municipal Corporation) recorded the highest voter turnout at 59.72% and Shalimar Bagh (under North corporation) the lowest at 42.36%. Though the outcome of the bypolls will not alter the composition of the two municipal corporations, those who came out to vote said that they have voted for change and development of their ward. The Bharatiya Janata Party rules the three municipal corporation with a comfortable majority.The by-elections were also held in Chauhan Banger (041E) and Trilokpuri (02E) and Rohini-C wards.State election commissioner SK Srivastava said, “The voter turnout in the bypolls was good. The turnout in East corporation wards was more than the wards (Shalimar Bagh and Rohini-C) in North corporation. The three East corporation wards saw 56.92% voting whereas just 44.95% polling was reported from the North corporation wards.”This was the first election in the Capital to be held during the pandemic so the state election commission has made elaborate arrangements with dedicated waiting rooms, staff with PPE kits etc to allow Covid-19 positive patients to exercise their franchise.Thermal screening of voters, hand sanitisation was a common practice witnessed across all polling booths. Arrangements of masks were also made for those who reached polling centres without masks. At some polling stations authorities were also seen distributing polythene gloves to voters to cast their vote.“The last one hour (4.30 pm to 5.30 pm) was kept for Covid patients, but no one came to cast their vote,” said Srivastava. The result will be declared on March 3.For the residents of Kalyanpuri, a densely populated area with a large number of slum clusters and unauthroised colonies, garbage disposal, lack of streetlights, etc were among the key concerns that led them to the polling booths.“Garbage disposal and lack of street lights is a main problem in the area. So, instead of blindly following any particular party, this time I have voted for development,” Satish Kumar, a resident of Kalyanpuri said after exercising his franchise.The BJP is facing a litmus test Shalimar Bagh, which is considered the party’s stronghold. Of the five wards, this is the only ward which BJP won in 2017. “These bypolls will show strengths and weaknesses of main three political parties before the 2021 local body elections. There had been no development on local level. There are hundreds of dark spots in the ward as street lights at those places are yet to be fixed. Many times we have reported to local leaders but to no avail,” Karan Singh, a voter and a resident of Shalimar Bagh pocket-D, said after casting his vote.Bypoll was necessitated in Shalimar Bagh after the death of sitting BJP councillor Renu Jaju. The contest here is between Jaju’s daughter-in-law, Surabhi Jaju, AAP’s Sunita Mishra, AAP’s poorvanchali face in the region, and Congress party worker Mamta.As people voted local issues such as sanitation, which they say has worsened in the past few months due to frequent strikes by staff over non-payment of salaries, and area development, the three main political parties say that it will help them gauge the public mood ahead of civic polls next year.Political parties admit that the outcome of the bypolls will set the tone for municipal elections scheduled early next year. The ongoing tussle between AAP, the ruling party in Delhi, and BJP, which has been ruling the three municipal corporations for the past 14 years, over the municipal funding and financial mismanagement is going to be the key issue in the bypolls.In 2017, the BJP has won 181 seats, while AAP and Congress won 48 and 30 seats respectively. The three main political parties said the have already started preparations for the polls.Of the five wards, the AAP won Kalyanpuri, Chauhan Banger and Trilokpuri in 2017. Rohini-C ward is also AAP’s stronghold as the former councillor joined the party just before the assembly elections last year and is now a party MLA from Bawana.Sanitation topped the priority list for people in Trilokpuri ward. Dinesh Valmiki, a local resident, said the civic body has “failed” on the front of local development. “Salaries of municipal employees are not being paid so they go on strike and ultimately the public has to suffer. Sanitation and lack of proper drainage system are major issues being faced by the residents here,” Valmiki said while waiting in a queue to cast his vote.Voting in Trilokpuri ward also saw minor scuffle between volunteers of the AAP and the BJP over the issue of setting up tables near one of the polling centres. The matter was resolved soon.In Rohini-C, Kalyanpuri and Trilokpuri wards, women voters came out in good numbers to exercise their franchise.In Chauhan Banger ward, located close to Jafrabad Metro station, broken roads, lack of drainage, encroachment on pavements and roads were issues on which people voted.The BJP fielded senior party worker Mohammad Nazir Ansari from the ward while the AAP candidate was former Seelampur MLA Mohammad Ishraq Khan. The Congress fielded its youth wing leader Zubair Ahmad, son of former Seelampur MLA Mateen Ahmad.“There are a number of issues here as the area is among one of the most backward wards. Lack of proper drainage system, dug up lanes, encroachment and lack of sanitation services are among main issues here. In this bypoll, we have voted keeping in view the local area development,” said Asma Khatoon, who had come to vote with her husband.In Rohini-C ward BJP’s Rakesh Goel is pitted against AAP’s former Bawana MLA Ram Chander. The Congress candidate from the ward is ex-councillor Memwati Barwala.Rohini-C ward, which falls under Bawana constituency, saw a good number of women voters. “Local area development is our priority. Lack of street lights is a major problem in the region. It poses a security threat especially for women in the area. Dirty water supply is another issue here,” Sarita Goyal, a voter and resident of Prahlad Vihar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/local-issues-top-priority-for-voters-in-civic-bypolls-101614542017060.html
01-03-2021||Other||Phase-3 of Covid-19 vax: Mumbai civic body selects 8 centres for Day 1||Acting on the Centre’s instructions, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is set to begin the third phase of the Covid-19 immunisation programme on Monday. To fasten the nationwide mass vaccination programme amid the rising Covid-19 cases across the country, the Centre has instructed all the states to start the inoculation process for senior citizens and those above 45 with comorbidities from Monday. Eight centres have been selected for Day 1, of which four are Covid-19 jumbo centres, one is a Covid-19 hospital, while three are private hospitals empanelled under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY). Until further directions from the Union health ministry, only Covishield vaccines will be administered in the third phase. Private hospitals said that as the directions came on Sunday, they were short on time to make the necessary preparations. They would receive the vials only on Monday morning. “Earlier we were told that the civic body would visit for inspection. But on Sunday morning, we got to know that we have already been selected. So, at the eleventh hour, we had to make all the preparations,” said a senior doctor from KJ Somaiya Hospital, which is one of the selected vaccine centres. The hospital has ordered additional freezers to store the vials. But BMC’s executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said, “We have enough number of vials to start the third phase for citizens. We are expecting to get more vials from the government soon.” On Sunday, the civic body selected the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), Mulund, Goregaon and Dahisar Covid-19 jumbo centres as well as the SevenHills Hospital in Marol. These five centres will provide vaccines free of cost. As per BMC, the central government had sent them a list of 53 private hospitals who are empanelled under MJPJAY and the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS). Apart from KJ Somaiya Hospital (Sion), BMC has selected HJ Doshi Hindu Sabha Hospital (Ghatkopar) and SRCC Children’s Hospital (Mahalaxmi) to start the third phase. Each inoculation will cost ₹250 at these hospitals. All the three private hospitals already have an immunisation department. “We have the infrastructure in place. As we have been inoculating children for years, vaccinating adults won’t be a problem for us,” said Dr Varsha Dilip Phadke, dean, KJ Somaiya Hospital. From Tuesday, BMC will start the third phase in 19 more civic centres. However, before giving a go ahead to additional empanelled private hospitals, BMC said their officials would conduct inspections. “We need to check if the enlisted hospitals have the adequate infrastructure. They also need to train the staff for vaccination. We also have to check if they have intensive care units (ICU), in case a beneficiary develops an adverse effect after vaccination,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. Meanwhile, major private, charitable hospitals such as Bombay Hospital, Jaslok, Lilavati and Nanavati, are upset that their names did not show up in the list submitted by the Centre. They have requested BMC to ensure their participation in the next phase. “We have played a major role in providing treatment to Covid-19 patients in the past 11 months. We have the infrastructure and the staff strength to inoculate the public. But instead of us, smaller hospitals and nursing homes which don’t even have ICUs have been selected,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician at Bombay Hospital, who is in-charge of Covid-19 beds at city’s private hospitals. The list available with HT shows that many of the enlisted centres are just dialysis centres. Most dialysis centres do not have ICUs, but the availability of ICUs is a criteria required to get permissions. “Without permission from the central government, we can’t add empanelled private hospitals. We are hopeful of receiving more approvals and add private hospitals who are already inoculating healthcare workers in Phase 1,” said Kakani, adding, “We’ll also soon add other civic centres who are already conducting phases 1 and 2 of the vaccination drive.” To get the shots at private hospitals, citizens have to register on the Co-WIN app, which will be open from 9am on Monday. To get free vaccines at public vaccination centres, citizens can directly visit them between 12pm and 5pm. Citizens with comorbidities have to get a health certificate from a physician. A form has already been released by the Centre as a declaration of health certificate which has 20 comorbidities (diabetes, heart failure with hospital admission in the past one year, post-cardiac transplant, moderate or severe valvular heart disease, end-stage kidney disease on haemodialysis, severe respiratory disease with hospitalisation in the past two years, primary immunodeficiency diseases/HIV infection, angina and hypertension/diabetes on treatment) in the list of priority patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/phase3-of-covid-19-vax-mumbai-civic-body-selects-8-centres-for-day-1-101614541943478.html
01-03-2021||Education||JNU campus to open for final year MPhil grads from March 8||JNUFurther reopening its campus, the Jawaharlal Nehru University Sunday said all final-year M.Phil students who require access to the premises for submitting their dissertation on time will be allowed entry from March 8. The university has also permitted Bachelors and Masters students under the PWD category to enter the campus if they require access to laboratories and other facilities.“The reopening of all authorised canteens except ‘Mughal durbar’ and food court have been allowed with immediate effect, besides railway reservation counter and service providing shops like hair saloon, cobblers and xerox outlets,” the university said in an official order.Earlier, the JNU had allowed fourth semester M.Phil and M.Tech students of its science school and special centre, as well as final semester MBA students, both day-scholars and hostel residents, to return to campus in the different phases of reopening||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/jnu-campus-to-open-for-final-year-mphil-grads-from-march-8-101614541788191.html
01-03-2021||Delhi||Feel unsafe in our own neighbourhood, say locals after Adarsh Nagar murder||Anvit Srivastavaanvit.srivastava@htlive.comNew DelhiThe Saturday night murder of a 25-year-old woman while trying to fight back against a snatcher on the busy Rajan Babu Road in Adarsh Nagar has left the residents of the neighbourhood “shocked and in fear” as they said that such incidents have become common. Locals alleged that the spot is barely 50 metres away from a police post, which often remains unmanned, because of which the snatcher managed to escape on Saturday.Rajini Babbar, a resident of lane number 10, said that every 5-10 days they hear of a similar crime in the area. “The fact that Simran was targeted right in front of her house is scary. It reflects that criminals have no fear of entering residential areas to commit a crime,” she said.General secretary of Adarsh Nagar Green residents welfare association, SN Singhal, also said that police presence in the area is insufficient, which encouraged criminal activities.“Almost every evening, anti-social elements gather in parks in the area and create nuisance, making it difficult for locals, specially women and girls, to even walk through the areas. When we call the police, they send a policeman who takes a round of the area and goes back. The SHO has been made aware of these problems repeatedly, but nothing was done. We are waiting for more similar incidents to happen. Today, I’ve written a letter to the area DCP, senior officers and other concerned people, requesting strict action in this regard,” Singhal said.Another woman, who lives in the same area but wished not to be named, said that the lane in which their houses are located, has gates but they are closed only late night around 11-11.30pm. “The road outside is a busy one, with shops on both sides. Who would think that an outsider can attack you in your own residential neighbourhood in front of so many people? This is very shocking,” she said.Simran’s cousin, Taranjit Singh, who also lives in the same neighbourhood, said the locality has often reported snatching and robbery incidents. “Police presence during the night is sparse, which encourages street crimes,” he said.The municipal councillor from Adarsh Nagar ward, Garima Gupta said that she has told the station house officer of Adarsh Nagar police station repeatedly to step up patrolling in the area during night time at least. “There is also a police post less than 50 metres from the spot of crime, which should always remain manned. So far there has been no serious action on such requests,” said Gupta, who had visited the spot.Deepak Tiwari, the security guard who witnessed the attack on Simran, also recalls how he had a face-off with two thieves around 8-9 months ago. “I had caught them trying to enter a house in the same area. I attempted to catch the duo, but they threw stones at me. I chased them, but they managed to escape,” he said.When asked about the allegations by local residents regarding the law and order, joint commissioner of police (northern range) SS Yadav refused to comment.Deputy commissioner of police (north-west) Usha Rangnani also did not respond to multiple calls and text messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/feel-unsafe-in-our-own-neighbourhood-say-locals-after-adarsh-nagar-murder-101614541144137.html
01-03-2021||Other||Maharashtra cabinet nod for revised cost of ₹400cr for Thackeray memorial||The Maharashtra cabinet on Sunday approved the revised estimate for the construction of proposed memorial of Shiv Sena founder Bal Thackeray. The memorial, which will now cost ₹400 crore, will come up at the old bungalow of Mumbai mayor near Shivaji Park.The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), the executing authority for the project, had called for bids for the memorial at an estimation of ₹87 crore. However, the process was cancelled, as the quotation of the bids was very high.Later, the entire project was re-examined and there was an escalation in the cost, which went up to ₹400 crore.While MMRDA is in charge of the construction of the memorial, the Balasaheb Thackeray Rashtriya Smarak – a public charitable trust headed by Shiv Sena chief and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray – is the authority that decides on the designs of the memorial. The project is now divided into two phases: the cost of phase 1 is ₹250 crore, while the second phase will cost ₹150 crore.In the first phase, the architecture, aesthetics and construction of the building for the memorial will take place. Phase one will also include the construction of a parking lot for visitors and focus on the mechanism of rain water harvesting at the memorial.The second phase will consist of the technological part of the memorial. This will include preparation of digital mapping, films, audio visuals, etc, for the memorial to start its operations.The erstwhile mayor’s bungalow on the proposed memorial plot is a Grade II-B heritage structure, and will remain untouched during the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-cabinet-nod-for-revised-cost-of-400cr-for-thackeray-memorial-101614541338451.html
01-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 25-year-old murdered during snatching bid in Adarsh Nagar||A 25-year-old woman was stabbed to death when she fought back against a snatcher in north-west Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar on Saturday night.A CCTV footage of the incident, which was widely shared on social media on Sunday, shows the attacker first lunging at the chain of the woman, identified as Simran Kaur, as she is returning home from a nearby market with her mother and two-year-old daughter. Simran, however, immediately fights back, catching the snatcher off-guard and forcing him to retreat. As the snatcher flees, he fishes out a knife and stabs Simran multiple times, before escaping with an accomplice waiting on a scooter nearby. A security guard, on duty in the area, is also seen in the footage chasing the man on foot. Simran later collapsed just a few feet away from her house due to blood loss in front of her two-year-old.Police said they have arrested two men from Jahangirpuri for the murder.In Delhi, snatching cases had gone up by 27.11% in 2020 when compared to the previous year, data released by Delhi Police, during their annual press conference earlier this month showed. A snatching occurs in Delhi every 1 hour 6 minutes, the police data showed.According to investigators, Saturday’s incident took place between 9pm and 9.15pm when Simran — who lives with her husband in Patiala and had been in north Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar visiting her parents — was returning from a local flea market. Eyewitnesses and local residents said when Simran and her mother Mamta Kaur entered lane number seven from Rajan Babu Road, to reach their home, the snatcher approached them from behind.A police officer, who wished not to be named, said it has been established during initial probe that the man extended his arm to grab Simran’s chain or valuables, immediately alerting her and making her turn around. “Her two-year-old daughter, whom she was carrying in her arms, fell on the road as Simran lost balance while trying to fight back. The snatcher also fell while trying to flee. Seeing himself trapped, the man got up and stabbed Simran twice in her chest with a knife and managed to run away,” the officer said.The CCTV then shows Simran picking up her daughter again. However, she collapsed just a few seconds later, right in front of her parents house.The security guard, Deepak Tiwari, who was on duty at the time of the incident, said he was on the other end of the lane where Simran’s parent’s house is located. “It was roughly around 9.10pm when I heard her cry for help. I saw a man was attacking her and I chased after him. However, he jumped on a scooter, on which his accomplice was waiting, and they sped away. I could not see his face or note down the scooter’s registration number,” said Tiwari, who has been working in the area as a security guard for the last two-and-a-half years.Simran was rushed to Fortis Hospital in Shalimar Bagh, where she died during treatment. The crime was reported to the police around 9.45pm.On Sunday evening, deputy commissioner of police (north-west) Usha Rangnani in a statement said that multiple teams were formed to arrest the accused and following multiple raids, the two men – Fardeen,19, and Aqibul, 22, both residents of Jahangirpuri — were arrested. The weapon used in Simran’s murder and the scooter that the men had used to flee the spot, were recovered following their arrests, the statement said.A Special Investigations Team (SIT) has also been formed to further probe the incident.On one side of the spot where Simran was killed, is her brother’s photo studio and on the other side is here father Daler Singh’s house, both less than 20 metres away from the spot where she collapsed .Local residents said there is also a police booth which is fifty metres away from the spot but mostly remains unmanned.Simran’s cousin, Taranjit Singh, 20, who lives in the same neighbourhood said the incident was unfortunate and tragic.“I got a call late night informing that she had to be rushed to hospital. When I reached hospital, she was in the operation theatre, where she succumbed,” Singh said.When contacted, deputy commissioner of police (north-west) Usha Rangnani did not respond to calls and text messages.Delhi police also tweeted on Sunday, “Two arrested for murder of a young woman, committed in desperate attempt of snatching in Adarsh Ngr. Reaffirming our commitment to #ZeroTolerance to crime for safety & security of citizens, @DelhiPolice dedicated to swift & professional investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-25-year-old-murdered-during-snatching-bid-in-adarsh-nagar-101614540598897.html
01-03-2021||Mumbai||Annus horribilis: Maharashtra’s first Covid-19 patient recalls ordeal||On March 9, 2020, when the rest of India was readying for Holi, the festival of colours, a Pune-based middle-aged couple that had returned from Dubai a week ago after celebrating their wedding anniversary, tested positive for Covid-19. They were the first two persons in Maharashtra to be infected by the disease that soon became a global pandemic. They were not alone. Most of the nearly 40 people who had travelled with them in a group tested positive. The taxi driver who ferried them from Mumbai airport to their Pune home tested positive, and the next day, so did their daughter. Almost a year later, Maharashtra has recorded 2,155,070 cases, the highest for any state in India. It’s been an exhausting year for the Awati family, the husband Jivandhar (52) said over telephone from Jaipur where he had travelled for official work. “It is only now that our lives are getting back on track. I have resumed my work and physically and mentally I have completely recovered.” His family members declined to be named or interviewed for this story. After the Awatis tested positive, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) sealed all areas in a 3-km radius, a move that scared many and contributed to the Awatis being blamed on social media for bringing the coronavirus into the city. Their videos and personal information were uploaded on WhatsApp groups and other social media channels. “At this time,” the family said, “doctors and other staff at Naidu hospital were more than helpful to us, as were our relatives.” For both the couple and their daughter, March 2020 began with anxiety and fear, and it is only now – a year later – there is some semblance of relief. “The last 12 months have been the same for us as for everyone,” Awati, an engineer with a private firm, said. “We also faced a strict lockdown, but we were the first family to test positive. Unfortunately, the media and government’s spotlight was on us.” In an earlier interview to this newspaper in October 2020, a family member had said they had stopped watching news on television. “All we want is to look forward to a better life. A simple wedding anniversary trip turned into a nightmare.” Awati, a trained wrestler, said no one in the family faced any post-recovery complications. “We were always physically fit. I was a wrestler in my younger days. This helped a lot.” The Maharashtra health department was flummoxed when the first cases came to light. There was no established treatment protocol, and the only document they had was a list of guidelines from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “It was a new virus, and nobody knew much. As days passed, doctors began offering concrete treatment,” said Dr Subhash Salunkhe, who chairs the Maharashtra Communicable Diseases Prevention and Control Technical Committee. According to Dr Sudhir Patsute, medical superintendent, Dr Naidu Infectious Diseases Hospital, “These patients (the Awatis) were physically fit and had mild symptoms. We gave them antivirals, antibiotics, paracetamol tablets and cough syrup, which was enough. They were discharged on March 25 after a 14-day isolation. They had tested negative twice. If a patient comes to us with the same condition today, they would probably be suggested home isolation. Since the Awatis were the first case, we took it seriously.” India’s first case of Covid-19 was detected in Kerala on January 30, 2020, but India did not introduce airport restriction or testing protocols until the third week of March. At Mumbai airport alone, 43,000 passengers would pass through every day without being checked. The Awatis landed in Mumbai on March 2 and soon developed mild symptoms like cough and fever. Even before the test results could come out on March 9, the couple was isolated at PMC’s Naidu infection control hospital. In addition to being distraught by the news of their daughter being infected, the couple faced sharp and sometimes rude questions from the media and acquaintances. “Within days, all our personal details including phone numbers and addresses were out through mainstream media and WhatsApp. We got calls from random people asking us details and a local newspaper also put out our address which added to our distress,” said Awati. “My family saw the video and read the comments below it. Many blamed us for the Covid outbreak in the state. In addition to fighting such a deadly virus we had to fight this too,” said Awati. The episode made him afraid of even coming out of the house. “People who knew us supported us. My family and my housing society neighbours helped us. We even got calls from politicians asking for our wellbeing. Now, we want to avoid all questions and just move on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/annus-horribilis-maharashtra-s-first-covid-19-patient-recalls-ordeal-101614540558109.html
01-03-2021||City||'Heritage development through demolition?': Odisha BJP MP's jibe at CM||A day after Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik presented a resolution in the Assembly seeking quicker completion of the Jagannath temple corridor project, BJP MP from Bhubaneswar, Aparajita Sarangi, in an open letter to Patnaik, asked whether heritage development was being done by destroying it.On Saturday, Patnaik had placed a resolution in the Assembly on ₹3,200 crore Jagannath temple corridor project that seeks to transform the area around the 12th-century temple in Puri into a heritage corridor.“The greatest identity of the Odia community is Lord Jagannath. Our history, culture, tradition and belief system are all centred on the Almighty. He is the symbol of Odia esteem and pride. All devotees, who come to the Jagannath temple in Puri to see the Lord, have a desire in their hearts to behold the deities in a calm, beautiful and spiritual environment. It is the responsibility of all of us to come back with a divine feeling,” said Patnaik while tabling the resolution that was unanimously passed by the Assembly.Also read: 'Congress must unite to defeat ‘divisive’ forces' - Farooq AbdullahHowever, Sarangi, who met the servitors of Puri's Jagannath temple as well as Bhubaneswar's Lingaraj temple, on Sunday wrote an open letter asking several questions about the demolition of several heritage structures within the 75-metre radius of the iconic temple."The last few days have allowed me to delve deeper into the proposed Heritage Development Project in Shree Kshetra and Ekamra Kshetra. I have extensively toured the areas proposed for development, especially the surrounding areas of the two temples, and got the opportunity to discuss with servitors, evicted families, commercial shopowners and street vendors. In the name of beautification, some of the most sacred 'mathas' of Puri, namely, Emar Matha, Mangu Matha, Languli Matha, Uttar Parshwa Matha and Dakshin Parshwa Mathas, have been demolished and razed to the ground. I believe that you are aware of the roles of the mathas (mutts) in the development of the Jagannath cult and their role in many of the rituals associated with Lord Jagannath," she wrote."I would like to know which heritage conservationist is advising your government on demolishing monuments which are integral to the growth of Jagannath cult, demolishing mathas established by the holiest of Indian saints, namely, Acharya Ramanuja and Guru Nanak," she stated, demanding reasons behind demolishing mathas which are "integral to the daily rituals of Lord Jagannath".The BJP MP also sought from the state government, the basis on which it was concluded that "replacing these 'invaluable' monuments with manicured lawns, fountains and toilets is going to enhance the spiritual experience of visitors coming to pray to Lord Jagannath.""It is all the more painful to learn that mathas associated with the most revered saints have been razed to the ground. People are left with a sense of disbelief that mathas/heritage monuments which were so closely associated with our religious belief system, integral to the daily and special rituals of Lord Jagannath, have been demolished," she said.Sarangi said though some may argue that the heritage development in Puri and Bhubaneswar is simply following the path of Kashi Bishwanath Heritage Corridor, in reality, the demolition between the temple in Kashi and the Ganga ghat in Varanasi only covered residential buildings and commercial shops and no heritage structures have been destroyed."Which heritage conservationist was monitoring and guiding the reckless demolition using heavy earth moving machinery like JCBs, bulldozers and Jackhammer drills in an extremely sensitive zone and in areas which are sentimentally, emotionally and spiritually two of the most sacred sites for the Hindus? The result is there for everyone to see - razed mathas set up by the most revered saints, demolition of an iconic library like Raghunandan Library, the discovery of broken remnants of several sculptures on account of drilling and excavation below the area surrounding Lingaraj Temple. All this would leave any self-respecting Odia in shock and disbelief. It is possible that present generation of Odias may not be asking questions on such mindless and reckless demolition. However, posterity is going to seek accountability for such a gigantic scale of destruction of Odisha's rich heritage and legacy which probably happened for the first time in independent India," she said.Sarangi said that though she supported the development work around Jagannath temple and Lingaraj temple, it has to be conducted within the framework of the law.She urged the chief minister to set up a committee consisting of senior officials of the ASI, the archaeology department of Odisha, representatives of the INTACH and a few heritage conservationists to assess the scale of destruction and examine whether existing laws have been violated or not."In case existing laws have been violated, accountability must be fixed and strict action must be taken against people responsible for the destruction of centuries-old heritage and legacy. An inquiry must be done to see whether provisions of Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, Places of Worship (Special Provision) Act, Antiquities and Art Treasures Act, Indian Treasure Trove Act, Charter for Conservation and Restoration of Monuments and Sites (Venice Charter-1964), Charter for Protection and Management of the Archaeological Heritage (Lausanne Charter-1990), have been violated while taking up such demolition of centuries-old structures," she wrote in her letter.The Biju Janata Dal (BJD) did not comment on Sarangi's letter to Patnaik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/heritage-development-through-demolition-odisha-bjp-mp-s-jibe-at-cm-101614539467069.html
01-03-2021||Other||Covid-19: Mumbai civic body asks Bhandup, Powai societies to ban gatherings||In a bid to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has written to several housing societies and residential complexes in Vikhroli, Bhandup, and Powai, asking them to not arrange social gatherings in their premises. BMC has also asked the residents at these areas to stop using gardens, gyms and swimming pools in their societies.The corporation has further directed the societies to take all the necessary Covid-19 precautions such as checking temperatures of visitors who are entering the premises.The development comes in the wake of the rising cases, particularly from these areas. According to BMC’s data, S ward, under which Vikhroli, Bhandup and Powai are located, has eight of the 12 active containment zones in the city. Of the 127 buildings that have currently been sealed in Mumbai, S ward houses the highest (18) number of structures.However, the growth rate of Covid-19 cases in S ward is 0.26%, which is 0.2% lower than the city’s average growth rate of 0.28%. The doubling rate of S ward is 267 days, higher than the city’s 249 days.Currently, there are 466 active cases in S ward. The ward has recorded more than 14,000 cases and 721 deaths so far. A BMC official from S ward said, “The directions have been issued considering the rise in the cases. There’s no order for complete lockdown in the ward, but certain restrictions at society level have been issued to break the chain.”Bharatiya Janata Party corporator from Powai, Vaishali Patil, said, “After Diwali, there were fewer cases and the area witnessed hardly one or two cases daily. But for the past few days, there is a surge in the number of cases. We can’t afford another lockdown and hence citizens should themselves take precautions.”For the past few days, BMC has been taking localised decisions and is imposing restrictions in several clusters instead of the entire city.Last week, BMC’s A ward (includes areas such as Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, Churchgate and Colaba), had directed authorities to shut Oval Maidan from February 26, owing to the rising cases in the city. Around two weeks ago, housing societies in Chembur were put on high alert owing to the spike in Covid-19 infections.Meanwhile, on Sunday, a first information report (FIR) was filed against a 52-year-old Chembur resident on BMC’s complaint. BMC received a complaint from a housing society about the resident, who tested positive for the virus but was flouting the 14-day quarantine rule and roaming in the area. When the civic staff went to his home, the family refused to cooperate with them, officials said. On Sunday, Mumbai recorded 1,051 Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 325,917. Five deaths took the city’s toll to 11,475. As of Sunday, 305,273 patients have recovered from the virus. There are 8,299 active cases in the city. Mumbai’s fatality rate is 3.52%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-mumbai-civic-body-asks-bhandup-powai-societies-to-ban-gatherings-101614539658059.html
01-03-2021||Bhopal||MP govt to seek right to take criminal action against controversial web series||Madhya Pradesh government will send a proposal to the Central government seeking rights to take criminal action against web series for obscene and controversial content under the Information Technology Act, said a state home department official on Sunday.A decision to this effect was taken after BJP MLA from Mandsaur, Yashpal Singh Sisodia, raised the issue in the state legislative assembly during the budget session on Friday. A resolution to this effect was also passed by the state assembly.Sisodia said, “obscene language and scenes are being published without any censorship. Now, parents are worried about youngsters as they are learning abusive language and criminal activities through web series and the contents of social media. We are happy that the Information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javdekar issued new guidelines for social media and OTT platforms but we want the state must have control over the content of web series.”Also read: 'Congress must unite to defeat ‘divisive’ forces' - Farooq AbdullahState home minister Narottam Mishra resounded Sisodia's words and said, “The state government will send a proposal to the Centre seeking rights of taking criminal action the director and producers of controversial web series as a section of people are targeting Hindu Gods and Goddess and religion through web series.”A home department officer, requesting anonymity, said, “We are preparing a draft to ask the Centre to empower the state to take action against objectionable content. However, it will take some time to finalise the draft.”Earlier in MP, six FIRs have registered in the past four months against directors and producers of different web series. In November, the first FIR was registered against two executives of Netflix for hurting religious sentiments after the release of a web series 'A Suitable Boy'. Later, five FIRs were registered in different cities against OTT Platform Amazon Prime for releasing web series called 'Tandav'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-govt-to-seek-right-to-take-criminal-action-against-controversial-web-series-101614539013164.html
01-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra crosses 8,000 new Covid cases for fifth day in row||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded more than 8,000 Covid-19 new cases for the fifth consecutive day, while Mumbai reported more than 1,000 cases again, after a day’s gap. On Sunday, the state recorded 8,293 cases with 62 deaths. The number of cases in Mumbai was 1,051, compared to 987 on Saturday. The city saw five deaths. The state’s active Covid-19 cases stood at 77,008 while Mumbai’s active cases were 8,299. In case of active cases, Pune, which is facing restrictions like night curfew, stood first in the state with the number at 15,005, followed by Nagpur at 10,013. Amravati, which is facing a lockdown, has 6,599 active cases. Other regions like Thane, Buldhana, Wardha, Akola, Aurangabad, Washim, Jalgaon, Ahmedabad, Satara, Raigad and Nashik have more than 1,000 active Covid-19 cases. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray while addressing the media admitted that cases are increasing across the state. “We need to understand that cases are increasing, especially in Vidarbha. In several districts, the number is crossing last year’s peak. For this, citizens need to take precautions. I do not wish to impose another lockdown…,” said Thackeray. The third phase of vaccination, which was to begin from March 1 for citizens above 60 years and for those above 45 with co-morbidities, is awaiting clarity from the Centre. “We were in a meeting with the Central government officials and are preparing the programme for this new phase. The modalities will be finalised by Monday morning,” said a senior state government official, who refused to come on record. Citizens are confused. “I inquired with private hospitals, but even they are not sure about who will be allowed. I will check after the registrations open,” said Srikrishna Joshi, 64, a Parel resident. Thackeray, however, warned that vaccination is not the shield against the Covid-19 virus. “It is not that once you get vaccinated, you cannot contract the virus. You have to take adequate precautions like wearing a mask, washing your hands and maintaining social distance,” said Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-crosses-8-000-new-covid-cases-for-fifth-day-in-row-101614538938590.html
01-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai temperatures rise to match season’s highest at 36.3°C||The city observed a warm Sunday as maximum temperatures rose significantly owing to hot and dry northwesterly winds. India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Santacruz station, which represents the city and suburbs, recorded a maximum temperature of 36.3 degrees Celsius, at par with the season’s highest temperature recorded on February 2 and 21. The maximum temperature was 3.9 degrees above normal and 1.6 degrees above Saturday’s maximum temperature.At Colaba, a maximum temperature of 32.8 degrees Celsius was recorded, which was 1.9 degrees above normal. This was also slightly higher than Saturday’s 31 degrees Celsius.The rise in temperature was in line with IMD’s forecast for the day. “IMD had forecast rise in maximum temperature over the entire Konkan region including Mumbai because of hot and dry northwesterly winds in lower levels. Temperature will remain similar on Monday as well,” said Shubhangi Bhute, scientist at IMD, Mumbai.Minimum temperatures also remained above normal. At Santacruz, a minimum temperature of 20.6 degrees Celsius, 1.2 degrees above normal, was recorded while it was 22.5 degrees Celsius at Colaba, 1.3 degrees above normal.With rising temperatures, Mumbai’s air quality remained in the moderate range. An overall air quality index (AQI) — a pollutant measuring index — of 156 was recorded on Sunday. AQI is a pollution measuring indicator and was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe.“Air quality is in moderate category because of the rising temperatures and will remain so for the next two-three days,” said a spokesperson for SAFAR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-temperatures-rise-to-match-season-s-highest-at-363c-101614538698083.html
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||Speeding SUV kills two Chandigarh University students||Two youths lost their lives in the wee hours of Sunday when the bike they were riding was hit by an SUV at a Phase-7 traffic junction.The victims are Pranav Sharma, 22, of Himachal’s Una, and Vishal Yadav, 21, of Haryana’s Rewari. They were students of Chandigarh University in Gharuan.As per the information, the accident took place around 4am when the victims were going to Kharar from Phase 7. As they reached the light points, a speeding Toyota Fortuner hit the bikers and ran over them. The SUV then rammed into a railing before hitting a tree.The injured were rushed to the civil hospital in Phase 6, where they were declared brought dead, police said. The occupants of the SUV fled the scene after the mishap. As per the police, the vehicle is registered in the name of Eknoor Singh, a resident of Gurdaspur. Investigating officer Charanjeet Singh said the youths were staying in a rented accommodation in Kharar and had come to visit their friends in Phase 7. “We have registered a case under sections 304-A, 279 and 427 of the IPC. We will arrest the culprits soon,” he added.The cop said the victims’ bodies were handed over to their families after autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/speeding-suv-kills-two-chandigarh-university-students-101614538337917.html
01-03-2021||Other||70-year-old woman’s throat slit at her Kalyan apartment||A 70-year-old woman was allegedly murdered by an unknown person who slit her throat late Saturday evening. Hansaben Pravin Thakkar used to live alone on the ground floor of a residential complex at Datta Ali, Tilak Chowk, Kalyan (West) “We have registered a case of murder against an unknown person and started an investigation. The family members are being questioned too. The woman lived alone in the house, according to the family members,” said Yashwant Chavan, senior inspector, Bazarpeth police station. Police said the victim’s daughter tried calling her and went to the apartment when she did not answer the phone. The daughter found the woman lying in a pool of blood and informed the police around 10pm on Saturday. A police team rushed to the spot and sent the body to Rukmini Bai Hospital for a post-mortem. “We are yet to find a clue about the crime. All angles are being investigated. No valuables are missing as they were kept at the daughter’s place,” said inspector Chavan. Mithul Thakkar, a relative of the woman, said, “We have no clue what went wrong at the house when she was alone. We all live in Kalyan. As soon as I got to know, I rushed to her house. The police is investigating the matter. Thakkar had two daughters who are married and live nearby.” Kalyan deputy commissioner Vivek Pansare said that they are yet to get clues as to the reason behind the murder. “We are also checking the CCTV footage of the premise. Two cameras at the nearby Ram mandir and another behind the building were not functioning. We are also questioning the family members,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/70yearold-woman-s-throat-slit-at-her-kalyan-apartment-101614538277834.html
01-03-2021||Mumbai||2 women arrested for attacking Mumbai Police officers with knives at Kandivli||Kandivli police arrested two women for attacking police offers with knives when they went to arrest the accused’s relative in a case on Saturday. According to the officers, they had received information that Sameer Shaikh, 30, who was wanted in a preparation to dacoity case, was attending a wedding function at KB Hall in Kandivli (West). The officers said that when they entered the marriage hall, they noticed Shaikh dancing. As the officers approached the accused, they were stopped by Shaikh’s mother Ruksana and his sister Rubina. “We were not accompanied by women police constables so we could not respond to the women. However when we tried to talk to them, they picked up knives and attacked us,” said a police officer who suffered cuts on his hands and neck. After an argument and with the help of locals, the officers were able to arrest Shaikh. They then called up their superiors and asked women constables to come to the venue and arrest the two women. “We have arrested the women for assaulting police officers under section 323 of the Indian Penal Code,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-women-arrested-for-attacking-mumbai-police-officers-with-knives-at-kandivli-101614538039074.html
01-03-2021||Other||Boys playing cricket find body at abandoned factory in Ludhiana||Panic gripped Jugiana in Sahnewal after children playing cricket discovered a man’s mutilated body at an abandoned factory on Sunday afternoon. Stating that the body was decomposing, the police said the victim, who appeared to be around 35, seemed to have been murdered two days ago. His face was crushed with stones and a piece of cloth was wrapped around his neck.“Prima facie, it appears that the assailants strangled him to death and later crushed his face to conceal his identity. No identification proof or mobile phone was found near the body,” said sub-inspector Balwinder Singh, station house officer, Sahnewal police station.“The body was discovered by children playing in a ground near the factory after they entered the premises to find their ball. They informed the locals, who further sounded the police,” the police official added.He said the victim seemed to be a migrant worker. They had made announcements in the surrounding areas to identify him.The body has been sent to the civil hospital, where it will be kept for 72 hours for identification, before the autopsy is conducted. A case of murder has been registered against the unidentified accused.This is the second such case this month where an unidentified body was found in Sahnewal.On February 7, a woman was found murdered at a vacant plot near Dhandhari Bridge, also in Sahnewal, with a muffler wrapped around her neck. The case remains unsolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/boys-playing-cricket-find-body-at-abandoned-factory-in-ludhiana-101614538037834.html
01-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai taxi fare rises to ₹25, autos to ₹21||Citizens will have to pay more for their autorickshaw and black and yellow taxi commute in the city from today. The minimum autorickshaw fare for 1.5km will be ₹21 as opposed to ₹18 from today, and the minimum black and yellow taxi fare will be ₹25 as opposed to ₹22. The minimum auto rickshaw fare during night for auto rickshaw will be ₹27 and minimum taxi fare will be ₹32. Thereafter, there will also be an increase in fare per kilometre. The tariff card for passengers will be available at www.transport.maharashtra.gov.in. “The new fare will be implemented from March 1. Passengers can check the new fares on the website. Autorickshaw and taxi drivers have also been instructed to display the new fares inside the vehicles,” said a senior regional transport office (RTO) official. Autorickshaw and taxi drivers will use tariff cards to display new fares till the meters get recalibrated. The recalibration process will involve installing chips and then testing of meters by RTO officials. The recalibration of meters will begin tomorrow (March 1), and drivers have been asked to get their meters recalibrated by May 30. “The inserting of the chip takes half an hour, and the testing will be completed in one day. Extra meter tracks are likely to be set up by RTO in the city, ‘’ said Shashank Rao, leader, Mumbai Autorickshaw Men’s Union. The last auto and taxi fare hike was in June 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-taxi-fare-rises-to-25-autos-to-21-101614537798191.html
01-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Admissions delayed, 1st-year law classes to begin in March||Classes for first-year batches of professional courses have begun but the seat allotment process for law aspirants is yet to be finished. With the state common entrance test (CET) cell still in the process of allotting seats, classes for first-year batch in law colleges will commence only in March this year.“Law students are used to delayed admissions and a shorter academic calendar, but this year seems to be the worst. Once again teachers will be expected to complete a full year’s syllabus in four or five months and students will be expected to rote learn,” said the principal of a reputed law college in Mumbai. Admissions to most professional courses were delayed by a few months this year, first due to the lockdown and then due to a petition filed in the Bombay high court for clarity on the status of the Maratha quota. In December, the registration process for most professional courses including law, engineering, architecture and pharmacy had to be delayed by a few weeks to give students time to make necessary changes to their admission form after the state government decided to continue admissions without the inclusion of socially and educationally backward class (SEBC) quota.After much delay, the first list of three-year and five-year law courses were scheduled to be released in the first week of February, but the same had to be postponed again after the state CET cell received complaints of error in student information. CET cell then had to conduct a third party audit to re-check information shared by students at the time of registration, leading to further delay. The first seat allocation list was finally released in the third week of February.“This is not the first time that admissions to law courses have been delayed, or the fact the basic process of registration and seat allocation have been marred with technical glitches. Year after year the state government talks about enhancing and upgrading the education system but basic admission process has not been streamlined,” said Sachin Pawar, president of Student Law Council. He further pointed at how delay in admissions also leads to a condensed academic period for first-year law students, leaving many grappling with too much to cope. “A curriculum meant to be taught over nine-10 months is covered in five months or less, and students are expected to cope up. This is one of the main reasons why more and more first-year students end up failing in one or more subjects in the first two semesters itself,” added Pawar. He added that this year, the delay also forced many law aspirants to opt for admissions in law institutes in neighbouring states, which could lead to higher seat vacancy in state Institutes.As per information shared by the state CET cell, seat vacancy in law colleges for the five-year course stood between 48%-60% over the past five years. The seat vacancy in the past five years was highest in 2016-17 academic year when almost 60% seats had no takers, while seat vacancy stood at 48%, 53% and 51% in 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20, respectively. Many experts feel mushrooming of law institutes on a yearly basis could be one of the reasons for the high number of seat vacancy year after year.In August 2019, in a meeting of the general council of the Bar Council of India (BCI), it was decided to impose a three-year moratorium or a temporary suspension on grant of approval of affiliation to new legal education institutes, universities or deemed to be universities. It further had decided that only pending proposals, and no fresh applications, will be entertained for a period of three years minimum. “This decision of the bar council was taken mainly to address the issue of the large number of private law institutes mushrooming all over the country. Some states were witnessing high seat vacancy and Maharashtra is facing the same problem,” said a senior official from the University of Mumbai on condition of anonymity.Others pointed out that students too are very clear about their education and future prospects and many choose to drop a year in hopes of bagging a seat in an institute of their choice in the next academic year. “There are several law institutes spread across the state of Maharashtra and with every passing year, students are becoming very selective about their choice. A law institute in rural Maharashtra might be imparting good quality education but someone from tier 1 or tier 2 cities would not opt for the institute simply because of its location. This could be another reason for growing seat vacancy,” said Narayan Rajadhyaksh, former principal of New Law College, Matunga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-admissions-delayed-1st-year-law-classes-to-begin-in-march-101614537677806.html
01-03-2021||Mumbai||Covid impact: A year on, passengers yet to get refund from airlines||In early 2020, Lal Bahadur Singh had booked 11 air tickets – some for Bagdogra and some for Bhopal – for holidays at different times of the year. All his travel plans got cancelled with the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in March. Since then, Singh is awaiting his ticket refunds of up to ₹1 lakh from various airlines. One year on, passengers like Singh continue to negotiate with airlines on refunds after travellers had to forego their plans as Covid-19 cases spread across the country and flights were stalled. This comes after the Supreme Court (SC) in September 2020 directed airlines to provide immediate refund for tickets that were booked for travel up to May 24, 2020. Airlines were given time till March 31, 2021 to refund tickets affected due to lockdown. Aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) also had issued a notification on April 16 last year ordering immediate refund for tickets booked during lockdown (March 25-April 14). As per DGCA’s monthly traffic report, refund-related issues continue to comprise a major chunk of complaints this year too. In January, ticket refunds formed 41.3% of the complaints. In December 2020, it was 61.4%, in November 62.4% and in October 83.9% passengers complained of refund issues to the regulator. “As per DGCA circular and SC order, regardless of cancellation date, if the flight is cancelled due to Covid restrictions, then full refund is payable. Most of my air tickets are from SpiceJet and Air India. While SpiceJet has assured to refund after March 31, I have got no response from the national carrier on the issue,” said Singh, a Mulund resident and a frequent traveller. HT spoke to passengers who were affected similarly, some of whom have more than ₹50,000 with the airlines with no certainty of refund. Goregaon resident Anuradha Joshi booked a SpiceJet flight on February 16 last year for Mumbai-Delhi travel on March 26, but cancelled tickets on March 23. “Despite several requests, Spicejet has not refunded my entire money. I paid ₹11,592 but Spicejet has put only ₹2,016 in the credit shell. Moreover, I have no idea what will happen to my return tickets to Mumbai that were booked in Air India as they have not been replying to my emails and calls,” said Joshi who has written letters to not only the airline but also to the Prime Minister’s Office and DGCA. SpiceJet spokesperson said, “Refunds are governed by the order of the Supreme Court and we are adhering to those directions.” Air India said the revenue system was severely impacted due to complete stoppage of flights during the lockdown period followed by gradual restoration of flights in domestic and international sectors (through Air Transportation Bubble arrangements). “In view of this unprecedented situation, Air India has stopped automatic refunds in Global Sales Distribution. Ticket refunds are being processed through Air India’s own offices within pre-assigned budgeted amounts. The refunds are progressively increasing with the increase in revenue of the company. Air India is planning to open automated refunds on more occasions as the situation improves.” In an attempt to make passengers utilise their tickets, Air India has relaxed a number of ticketing rules and offered passengers options. This includes change in flight, date, name (for domestic only) and route for passengers booked between March 15 and August 24. International passengers booked from March 15 till September 2020 too have been given options to change date/flight/routing/booking code till March 31, 2021 and value of the ticket is protected. Ticket cancellation charges are also waived for all these tickets. However, passengers continue to wait for their refunds. Sushma Patel, a Colaba resident, who was set to travel to Bhutan in May last year, took two trips in December to utilise her money stuck with airlines. “Ï preferred taking credit shell and making use of some money. However, around ₹26,000 are still with SpiceJet. I am clueless of the way ahead, in case the airline does not return my money.” The SC order had stated that the value by credit shell will be enhanced by 0.50% per month (6% per annum) till June 30 2020 and thereafter till March 31, 2021 by 0.75% per month (9% per annum). The Apex court had mentioned that only the airlines in financial distress could issue credit shell vouchers till March 31, 2021. After this, the airlines will have to refund the credit shell amount with such enhanced value. “It should be ensured by the passengers that all their refund after March 31 is made with the enhanced amount,” said advocate Shirish Deshpande, chairperson of consumer body Mumbai Grahak Panchayat that was party to the plea in SC. “Airlines and even agents are taking undue advantage of the ignorance of passengers about the SC verdict. The Apex court had clearly said that only airlines in distress have time till March 31, after that money has to be mandatorily refunded.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-impact-a-year-on-passengers-yet-to-get-refund-from-airlines-101614537437848.html
01-03-2021||Mumbai||What to keep in mind while investing in real estate||“Buy land, they’re not making it anymore,” said author Mark Twain. Most people invest in land or real estate to earn profits in the near or distant future. Like all other investments, investing in a property necessitates careful consideration of many factors or evaluation of the total amount that would be spent. This may impede returns intended from the purchase or sale or unforeseen losses. A property or land is not a liquid asset, which makes it impossible to convert into cash, if and when needed. Here’s what to keep in mind while investing in real estate:Check your credit scoreBanks and non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) first check the credit history of people applying for property loans. This is a factor that most people continue to be unaware of and ignore to check their credit score online before applying for loans. A lower credit score can result in the loan application being rejected. The ideal credit score is 750 or more, which means that borrowers with high credit score benefit from low-interest rates on their loan applications. However, lenders may also charge high-interest rates from loan applicants with credit score less than 750.Real cost of investmentFace value of the property is just one part of the cost incurred. In real estate investment, there are more expenses involved including Goods and Services Tax, registration, stamp duty, brokerage, furnishing, loan-related fees, etc. Adhil Shetty, CEO, BankBazaar, an online market place for financial products and checking the credit score said, “The GST on under-construction flats which are not in the affordable housing segment is 5% without input tax credit (ITC). For affordable homes, the GST is 1% without the ITC. Sale of completed properties (where completion certificate has been issued) or the resale of old properties does not attract GST. In this case, you will need to pay stamp duty, not the GST.”Reiterating details regarding stamp duty, Shetty added, “Stamp duty on property registration is set by the state government, and different states have different stamp duty and registration charges. Even within a state, the stamp duty on property differs based on the jurisdiction under which property falls – municipal corporation limits, municipal council, or the gram panchayat. The age of the property may be taken into account, as may be the age and gender of the purchaser while calculating the stamp duty. For instance, many states offer rebates and discounts in stamp duty rates to women. States may also have special time-bound discounts on stamp duty to boost the sector. For instance, the Maharashtra state government announced a 2% reduction on stamp duty between January 1, 2021 and March 31, 2021, bringing down the stamp duty on property registrations to 3% for that three-month period.”Furnishing may cost extra. Besides, banks finance only up to 75% of the loan sought, which means that you must be ready to ready to bear 20-25% of the cost of the property.Check out the areaExtensive research must precede any property purchase. Apart from the amount that one must pay or retrieve as property loan, you must check infrastructural details of the area. Whether the price of the land or property would increase or remain stagnant in future is dependent on the surrounding area and infrastructure. Also, check if the land you propose to buy falls under the category of disputed property. CS Sudheer, founder & CEO, IndianMoney.com, an online advisor on financial products said, “Check for property title papers. Property should have a clear title. Take an encumbrance certificate, and cross verify. Check if the sanctioned plan is available with local municipal and town planning body. Ask for home loan approval from a reputed bank. As banks check the background, this will help you understand if the property that you intend to buy is free from litigation. Take help of a forensic documents examiner and advocate for getting better clarity.”Explore other investmentsParking all money in a major land or property transaction is futile. There are equally good investments that fetch equally good returns sans any loan or the burden of added taxes accruing from the possession of property. These include a healthy mix of mutual funds containing equity and debt. Investment and maintenance costs including yearly fees on Demat accounts, expense ratio, brokerage, among other things are negligible unlike the costs of maintaining your property. Besides, you can sell these financial instruments, in part or full, if you need money. However, selling off property for cash is not that easy, which means that you are likely to feel stuck during a sudden financial crunch.Personal Finance is a weekly feature that aims to provide our readers pertinent and helpful financial information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/what-to-keep-in-mind-while-investing-in-real-estate-101614537257774.html
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||Man held for posing as Punjab guv’s secretary, duping traders||A property dealer based in Mohali’s Mundi Kharar has been arrested for extorting imported liquor worth around ₹2 lakh from traders in Chandigarh after posing as the private secretary or assistant of the Punjab governor.Identified as Gurnam Singh, 50, he had allegedly extorted cases of premium scotch and vodka brands worth ₹1.5 lakh from a liquor contractor in Sector 31 on February 21 and 23. He also extorted two cases of imported liquor worth ₹42,000 from a shop in Sector 16, and visited a leather showroom in Sector 17 on February 20 and took away various belts and wallets using the same modus operandi, said police.After getting a complaint, police laid a trap and arrested him while he was trying to sell off the extorted liquor in Sector 22 on Saturday night. Some of the bottles were also recovered.“During the probe, no link emerged between Gurnam Singh and anyone in the governor’s office,” said senior superintendent of police Kuldeep Singh Chahal. “We are in the process of verifying from other shop owners if they were also duped in a similar manner.” Chahal said the accused has been active in the city for a couple of months, and it is being verified whether he has any accomplice. He was produced in court on Sunday and sent to one-day police remand.A case under Sections 384 (extortion), 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the Sector-17 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-held-for-posing-as-punjab-guv-s-secretary-duping-traders-101614537197696.html
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC to extend garbage collection to 12 more sectors||Shelving its plan to start city-wide door-to-door garbage collection from March 1, the municipal corporation will, for now, extend it to just 12 southern sectors.The MC on Monday will deploy its additional 70 garbage collection vehicles in Sectors 31-38, 38 West, and 46-48.“We will start collecting garbage in the rest of the sectors in another 20 days,” said Sorabh Arora, joint commissioner.The earlier pan-city plans were dropped as the civic body doesn’t have adequate manpower, particularly drivers, for its garbage collection vehicles.The MC initiated the takeover of garbage collection from unorganised card-based waste lifters on December 23 last year, after it deployed 93 vehicles in Sectors 1 to 30. The plan was to extend it to all sectors from March 1, as the MC General House approved the modified terms of the memorandum of understanding on February 15 and garbage collectors started signing it.Most of their demands, including sharing of user charges, life insurance, welfare fund and disbursal of income generated through sale of usable dry waste among them, were incorporated in the MoU.To start collecting user chargesThe MC will also start adding user charges to the water bill in the areas where it takes over garbage collection. “In the southern sectors, where the service will be launched on Monday, charges will be imposed for March onwards,” said Arora. The civic body will also start the trial of payment of bill through point of sale machines in a couple of northern sectors.On problems being faced in northern sectors, MC commissioner KK Yadav said: “The service will run in coordination with residents in a sustainable manner. Issues, such as timings of vehicles, will be resolved keeping in view their needs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-to-extend-garbage-collection-to-12-more-sectors-101614537078011.html
01-03-2021||Chandigarh||Health depts geared up for next vax phase in Chandigarh tricity||Health authorities across the tricity are ready to launch the next phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive for citizens above the age of 60 and those with specified co-morbidities in the age of group of 45-59 from Monday.In the first phase that was launched on January 16, only health workers and frontline workers from other departments were covered. The two groups will be able to access the facility in this phase too.As the Centre will be launching Co-WIN 2.0 app for online registrations on Monday, people will be registered on-the-spot for vaccination on the first day.The Chandigarh health department has released a list of seven government and five private facilities for the general public. The number will be increased in a couple of days. In Mohali district, the drive will be carried out at seven civil hospitals besides 29 private hospitals. The Panchkula administration will launch it from just three government facilities on Monday.The vaccine will be administered for free at all government hospitals, while private ones will collect ₹250, which includes the dose cost and service charges.‘Pre-register to avoid rush’“The five private empanelled hospitals have received the vaccines and necessary arrangements have been done at all the sites. The public will be able to see the slots from Monday morning when Co-WIN goes live,” said Dr Manjeet Singh, district immunisation officer, Chandigarh.Officials said that no target has been set for the first day and the number of jabs will depend on the response from the public.“We advise people to register online first and choose their slot in order to avoid rush; so that Covid appropriate behaviour guidelines can be ensured at vaccination sites,” said UT health secretary Arun Gupta.While the Mohali administration has roped in 29 private hospitals to avoid rush, deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan also advised senior citizens to pre-register in order to avoid queues. Dr Adarshpal Kaur, civil surgeon, Mohali said: “Private hospitals will set their own timings, while government hospitals will provide the vaccine from 9am to 3pm. We have enough stock of the vaccine, and we will be supplying it to all private hospitals on Monday morning. It is not a target-oriented programme, but a voluntary one; so we will register whosoever comes forward.” Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula, said the drive will be launched at the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, and Polyclinic, Sector 26, Panchkula, and Subdivisional Hospital, Kalka, on Monday. Though timings are from 10am to 5pm, health officials urged people to come early for vaccination. At the time of administering the first dose, the staff will inform the beneficiary about the next date of vaccination.Deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said the drive will be extended to around 20 government and private heath facilities. He said only those private hospitals will be roped in where people can avail themselves of central or state insurance schemes. Dr Meenu Sasan, nodal officer, health department, Panchkula, said separate slots will be created for Covid warriors who could not get vaccinated earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/health-depts-geared-up-for-next-vax-phase-in-chandigarh-tricity-101614537018403.html
01-03-2021||Delhi||Final-phase of contactless ticketing on Delhi buses to begin on Monday||The state transport department on Monday will roll out the month-long final phase of the contactless ticket system in the network of cluster buses in Delhi, which are operated by concessionaires, the government said in a press statement.Last week, the government introduced the contactless ticket system in the Delhi Transport Corporation’s (DTC) fleet of 3,760 buses. Through the trial, it will now cover the cluster fleet of 2,990 buses.The government launched the first phase of trials concerning the contactless ticket scheme in June 2020, soon after it started relaxing lockdown norms in phases. The idea was to cut down on physical human interaction, and minimise the risk of Covid-19 spreading.Passengers can make use of this service through the ‘Chartr’ app. Almost all buses now have QR code stickers pasted on the back of each seat, which can be scanned to make payments through the app. Several buses also had posters, written in Hindi, explaining how one should proceed with the online ticket purchase by using the app.Three such trial runs were conducted by the government till the scheme was introduced in the DTC fleet on Wednesday.The government said in its statement, around 400,000 tickets have been booked through the ‘Chartr’ app till now and 67% of the total tickets were pink passes -- the free tickets for women passengers.In Delhi, women commuters are exempted from paying for bus tickets under a government scheme launched in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/finalphase-of-contactless-ticketing-on-delhi-buses-to-begin-on-monday-101614535697573.html
01-03-2021||Delhi||In Delhi, 192 centres to vaccinate 60+ and those above 45 with comorbidities||Starting Monday, people aged above 60, and those above 45 with comorbidities, will be able to get vaccinated for the coronavirus at centres in 192 hospitals in the national capital, Delhi government officials said.Of the 192 vaccination sites, 56 are in government hospitals, where the doses will be administered for free, and 136 are in private hospitals, which will charge a maximum of ₹250 per dose, said a senior government official who asked not to be named.To be sure, these centres will be among the 312 existing vaccination points in the Capital, which till Sunday inoculated only health care and frontline workers against Covid-19.People aged between 45-59 years who have any of the 20 specific comorbidities listed by the Union health ministry — which include severe heart diseases, lung diseases, respiratory diseases, diabetes and hypertension clubbed with other health conditions, HIV infection and cancer — will be eligible to take doses of the vaccines against Covid-19 in these 192 sites, the state government official said.The government centres that will open up for the two groups include those in GB Pant Hospital, Hindu Rao Hospital, Kasturba Hospital, Maulana Azad Medical College, Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital, NDMC Charak Palika Hospital, Northern Railways Hospital, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, AIIMS, GTB Hospital, Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital, IHBAS and Safdarjung Hospital, according to a list prepared by the state health department.The private centres which will open up for the two groups include vaccination points in BLK Memorial Hospital, Jeevan Nursing Home, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Max Patparganj, Indian Spinal Injuries Centre, Primus Superspeciality Hospital, Fortis Shalimar Bagh, Jaipur Golden Hospital, Max Superspeciality Hospital Shalimar Bagh, Fortis C-doc Hospital in Greater Kailash, Max Superspeciality in Saket, Batra Hospital, Fortis Escort Heart Institute, Indraprastha-Apollo Hospital, Metro Hospital, Moolchand Hospital, Venkateswar Hospital, and Maharaja Agrasen Hospital, according to the list.“We will take all steps to ensure that no inconvenience is caused to any of the beneficiaries. More people should try getting vaccinated at the earliest,” said Dr Namrata Makkar, deputy medical superintendent at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, one of the 192 centres.The list, however, did not specify how many of these centres will administer the Covishield vaccine — manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) – and how many will offer Covaxin, which has been developed by Bharat Biotech.A senior health department official said, “The vaccination sites at AIIMS, Safdarjung and Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, and a few others will be administering doses of Covaxin.”Vaccine drive turnout in Capital remains lowMeanwhile, in the ongoing vaccination drive, fewer than half of all registered beneficiaries in the Capital have received shots of a coronavirus vaccine, shows state government data.Of around 700,000 health care and frontline workers registered for the vaccine in Delhi, as on Sunday, 328,967 have taken the shots since January 16, when the inoculation drive was launched across the country.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases department in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said: “There is no point waiting now. People should use such opportunities to get vaccinated as early as possible. Cases are rising in other countries and several states in India. We never know what awaits us. On part of the government, along with scaling up the vaccination drive, they should intensify their campaign on why, even after taking the vaccine, people should continue to wear masks, maintain social distance and adhere to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-delhi-192-centres-to-vaccinate-60-and-those-above-45-with-comorbidities-101614535457724.html
01-03-2021||Other||Delhi: February this year second warmest since 1901, says IMD||February this year was the second warmest in the Capital since 1901, according to data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD), a temperature spike that came due to clear skies, and fewer western disturbances than usual. However, weather experts clarified that this was not an indication that summer this year will be hotter than usual.IMD recordings show that the mean maximum temperature (MMT) in February this year was 27.9°C.The highest mean maximum temperature in February was recorded in 1960 and 2006, when the this level in both years shot up to 29.7°C.The average MMT for the month of February is 22.1 degrees Celsius.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said the high temperatures recorded this month were primarily due to clear skies, caused by fewer western disturbances.He also said the higher-than-usual February temperature does not mean that Delhi’s summer will be warmer than usual, and that the mercury levels were caused by an isolated weather phenomenon that will not affect temperatures over the rest of the year.“As against the average of six western disturbances that February usually gets, the city got only one active western disturbance, on February 4. With such a prolonged period without a western disturbance, the sky remained clear, which led to an uninterrupted passage of sunlight. This caused the day time temperature to be higher,” Srivastava said.On February 25, the city also recorded the highest maximum temperature for the month since 2006, when the mercury rose to 33.2°C. 34.1°COn Sunday too, the temperatures remained higher than normal. At the Safdarjung weather station, which is the official marker for the city, the maximum temperature was 32.3°C, seven higher than the season’s normal. The minimum touched 15.6°C, three above normal.IMD forecast said that temperatures are expected to fall slightly till March 2, after which the rising trends will return. From March 3 to March 6, the maximum temperatures are expected to hover between 30°C-32°C.Meanwhile, as the temperatures continue to inch up, air quality in the Capital has been improving. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall air quality of Delhi on Sunday was 208, in the ‘poor’ zone. On Saturday, the average AQI was 203, also categorised as ‘poor’ in the AQI scale.Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) forecast said, “The winter fury appears to be over but now Delhi air will start getting influenced by mineral dust. High surface wind speed, higher temperature, and higher boundary layer heights are influencing AQI positively. Hence, AQI is forecasted to be in ‘moderate’ to ‘poor’ category in the next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/february-this-year-second-warmest-since-1901-imd-101614535456840.html
01-03-2021||Delhi||₹5,000-crore plan to deal with traffic around redeveloped govt colonies||Union housing and urban affairs ministry and the Delhi Development Authority may discuss this week the funding for an approximately ₹5,000 crore integrated transit plan aimed at handling the expected rise in vehicular traffic around eight government colonies that are being redeveloped by the CentreThe Delhi L-G has asked the DDA to discuss the funding for the project with the urban affairs ministry before it is cleared by UTTIPEC, the apex body for traffic and transportation projects in Delhi.Officials said the plan includes a nearly 14-km elevated corridor from INA at Aurobindo Marg to Mahipalpur underpass at National Highway-8 and connecting all the flyovers between Moolchand and Moti Bagh, just before the start of the elevated Metro corridor on the Ring Road.The corridor, a senior DDA official said, will be an alternate route to the IGI airport covering all the general pool residential accommodation (GPRA) colonies in south Delhi —Sarojini Nagar, Nauroji Nagar, Srinivaspuri, Kasturba Nagar, Netaji Nagar, Mohammadpur and Thyagraj Nagar.The proposal for corridor was tabled by Delhi’s Public Works Department (PWD) in the governing body of the Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure (Planning and Engineering) Centre (UTTIPEC) in December last year.The PWD got a feasibility study done for the corridor for approval on behalf of the National Buildings Construction Company (NBCC-India) that is involved in the redevelopment of four government colonies in south Delhi.As per the minutes of the UTTIPEC meeting, seen by HT, the L-G asked DDA vice-chairman to organise a meeting with HUA ministry to “discuss the proposal regarding funding issue”. “GB (Governing Body) directed the proposal to be placed in the governing body meeting of UTTIPEC after detailed discussion with MoHUA,” read the minutes of the meeting, which was finalised on January 14.It is learnt that DDA is preparing a proposal to discuss with HUA ministry to get clarity on the funding of this project. “It is an expensive project. Before it is cleared by UTTIPEC, the LG just wanted that there should be clarity on its funding,” said a senior DDA official.The meeting between the DDA and HUA officials to discuss the issue is scheduled this week, said a senior HUA ministry official. “The construction of the transit corridor will be done by CPWD. A revised estimate is under preparation,” said the HUA official.The Centre is constructing over 25,000 dwelling units and a commercial complex in the seven residential colonies. NBCC India has already redeveloped East Kidwai Nagar.NBCC-India, which is redeveloping Sarojini Nagar, Nauroji Nagar and Netaji Nagar, asked Delhi PWD in 2018 to conduct the feasibility survey of the corridor. A senior NBCC India official said, “The approval process for funding the elevated corridor is going on. It is being discussed with the ministry and will be finalised soon. A meeting was held in this regard in the ministry last month. The process is in the final stages,” said a NBCC official.While the alignment of the elevated corridor is yet to be finalised, the PWD official said, the plan is to start the corridor from INA and go through Africa Avenue, Nelson Mandela Road and end at Mahipalpur underpass.Though the feasibility study was done by Delhi PWD, which is the road-owning agency in Delhi, the construction of the corridor is likely to be done by the central Public Works Department as it is a central government-funded project.A senior Delhi PWD official said, “We were asked to just carry out the feasibility study and get it cleared from UTTIPEC. We will not be executing the project.”Sarvagya Srivastava, former Delhi PWD engineer-in-chief, said, “With new high-rise development in these colonies, the traffic is bound to increase and the existing road network is not designed to take that kind of load. The Ring Road has already reached the capacity versus volume ratio. The corridor is an afterthought; ideally population density should be planned according to the infrastructure. There is no option but to construct an elevated corridor, as there is no space to widen the road.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rs-5-000-crore-plan-to-deal-with-traffic-around-redeveloped-govt-colonies-101614535398064.html
01-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi traffic police to install cameras in 31 locations||After the success of camera-based prosecutions last year when Covid-induced curbs were in place, the Delhi traffic department will install additional speed detection and red-light violation cameras in around 31 spots across the Capital by March 31, said senior traffic police officials.“We are maintaining the balance between technology and human intervention in policing,” said joint commissioner of police (traffic), Manish Agarwal. “Cameras are very effective for violations such as speeding, because traffic officials on the roads cannot screen all the cars that travel beyond the speed limit. However, cameras equipped to detect this violation can track each and every vehicle that goes beyond the set limit,” he added.He added that during and after the Covid-19 lockdown — which was imposed from March 25 and began being lifted in phases in the first week of May — the department relied heavily on camera-based fines to ensure the safety of commuters and its own staff.By March 31, the traffic police department is looking to increase the number of speed detection cameras at 25 locations. Another six spots will get red-light detection cameras, which are installed at traffic junctions and equipped to record violations such as stop-light jumps, stop-line violations and driving against the flow of traffic. These cameras also record speeding offences.Traffic officials in charge of the project said over 50 cameras will be installed in the 25 locations, and nearly 100 cameras will be installed at the six junctions where multiple violations will be detected.The speed detection cameras will be installed on Mathura Road, Mahatma Gandhi Road, National Highway-48, Rohtak Road and Mukarba Chowk. The red-light violation cameras will be set up at intersections around Peeragarhi Chowk, Britannia Chowk, Azadpur Chowk and Burari.Currently, the city has over 150 cameras installed at 37 locations, including ITO, Naraina, Rao Tula Ram Marg, Dwarka, Dhaula Kuan, Sarai Kale Khan, Mayapuri, among others.Traffic police data released last month showed that despite the three-month-long nationwide lockdown last year, when vehicular movement was low, the number of issued fines saw a significant increase compared to previous years.The traffic police issued 13,802,973 fines in 2020, as against 10,580,249 fines in 2019.Delhi also saw a sharp drop in accident fatalities last year, when the Capital reported 1,163 fatal accidents, down from 1,433 in 2019.Traffic officials explained that last year the department also made progress in digitally serving notices of violations to offenders. The department, officials said, has been working towards sending more and more challan notices through SMS.“By making linkage of mobile numbers mandatory while registering of vehicles, we have been able to send over 60% of the total challan notices via sms. Till 2019, this figure was only around 49%. Since people are getting notices on their phones, the challan payments have also gone up. The risk of notices getting lost in mail has been eradicated,” a senior traffic officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-traffic-police-to-install-cameras-in-over-20-locations-101614535397011.html
