02-03-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad police launch drive against illegal autos, 320 seized in 2 days||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad police have launched a drive against illegal auto-rickshaws and seized about 320 vehicles in the last two days. The move comes after a 30-year-old woman was kidnapped in an auto and gang-raped on February 24.The woman, from Greater Noida, had boarded an auto from Lal Kuan intersection on National Highway-9 in Ghaziabad but was kidnapped in the moving auto and later gang-raped at an isolated spot near Galand in Hapur district.The three men in the auto had posed as the driver and the passengers. The Hapur police registered an FIR and arrested the three suspects two days later. The three suspects confessed of the crime during interrogation, said the investigators. They kidnapped and gang-raped another woman 1.5 months ago, but nobody filed a complaint in the matter.Police said the drive, which started on March 1, will continue till all the autos operating without unique IDs and also those plying illegally from nearby districts are checked up. “We launched the drive to figure out all illegal autos here. We found over 200 autos operating under the jurisdiction of Masuri, Loni and Loni Border police station areas. We have seized the autos. The registration numbers are of Hapur, Meerut and Delhi. Apart from this, we have issued challans against 400 such autos registered in Ghaziabad,” said superintendent of police (rural) Iraj Raja. The Ghaziabad police provides a unique four-digit ID to autos operated and registered in Ghaziabad. According to official estimates, the district has around 16,000 autos ferrying passengers, mostly on shared basis. During the incident, the auto travelled on NH-9 from Lal Kuan and passed through the jurisdiction of Masuri police station area to reach Pilkhuwa. A similar drive was also launched under the jurisdiction of the area, which also includes the Lal Kuan intersection. “In the last two days, we have seized around 120 autos from other districts, and are also cracking down on autos plying without unique IDs. The drive will continue, and our personnel are taking up thorough checks at major points in Vijay Nagar, Lal Kuan and other areas,” said superintendent of police (city 1) Nipun Agarwal. The office bearers of the Ghaziabad Autorickshaw Chalak Sangh haveraised concerns about the illegally plying autos and said they had complained about the same several times in the past, but no action was taken. “Most of the autos plying in Ghaziabad are from Hapur. Many more autos, too, ply... The incident was very unfortunate. We demand all autos plying illegally be seized,” said Dilshad Ahmad, president of the association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-police-launch-drive-against-illegal-autos-320-seized-in-2-days-101614709168317.html
02-03-2021||Noida||Gang of seven busted; stolen clothes worth ₹22 lakh recovered||The police on Tuesday arrested seven people, including a security guard of a factory, for theft in Noida, Sector 63. The guard Chandra Mohan worked at the factory and allegedly leaked information to the gang about factories in the locality, where the suspects conducted thefts at night.The police recovered branded clothes worth ₹22 lakh from their possession. Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police(DCP), Noida Zone-1, said that the local police received some complaints regarding thefts in the factories. The police teams were working on these cases for a few weeks.The DCP said, on Tuesday, the police received information about the movement of the suspects on motorcycles in Sector 58. “The police stopped two people, who were travelling on two motorcycles, and found some stolen clothes from their possession,” he said.During interrogation, the suspects, Subhash, 20, and Ankur, 21, revealed that they were members of a gang involved in stealing clothes and valuables from factories. The police then conducted a search at their hideouts and arrested five more suspects and recovered 110 packets of branded clothes worth ₹22 lakh.The other suspects were identified as Ajay, 25, and Ankur, 23,both residents of Khoda in Ghaziabad; Chandra Mohan, 40, a resident of Nawada village in Sector 62; Sameer, 25, a resident of Chijarsi in Phase 3; and Danish, 23, a resident of Jalpura in Greater Noida West.The police said that Sameer was the mastermind of this gang. The suspects had targeted a sealed factory in Noida Sector 63 a few months ago. “The GST department had sealed this garment factory one year ago over some issues. Since, there was no worker in the factory. The suspects used to enter the premises at night after jumping the wall and steal garments,” said Anil Kumar, SHO, Sector 58.The security guard Mohan, who worked at a neighbouring factory, once objected to the suspects. “The suspects then befriended him and made him a gang member,” the SHO said.The suspects used to steal branded clothes and then sold them to shopkeepers in different markets. A case was registered against them under Section 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) and Section 414 (assisting in the concealment of stolen property) of the IPC. Around 10 cases of thefts have already been registered against them in Sector 58 police station. All the seven suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gang-of-seven-busted-stolen-clothes-worth-22-lakh-recovered-101614709108855.html
02-03-2021||Noida||GB Nagar identifies 35 pvt hospitals for Covid-19 vaccination||NOIDA: In Gautam Budh Nagar district, the senior citizens and people over 45 years of age with co-morbidities will be inoculated seven days a week at the district hospital in Sector 30 and the Government Institute of Medical Sciences in Greater Noida from March 4, between 9am and 5pm, officials said.The officials said that 35 private hospitals, where the shots will be given on paid basis, have been shortlisted for the drive.GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that inoculation of this lot of people will also be done at all other government hospitals thrice in a week. “At present, Monday, Thursday and Friday of every week after March 4 have been determined as the days of Covid-19 vaccination at other 15 government hospitals and health centres, which may be changed as per the convenience,” he said. He further said that the names of private hospitals have also been shortlisted. “The vaccination will also take place in as many as 35 private hospitals four times a week, after March 4. The days fixed for inoculation in private hospitals are Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday,” he said. GB Nagar district vaccination officer Dr Neeraj Tyagi said that for the third round of vaccination, there will not be any limited number of booths. “To inoculate senior citizens and co-morbid people above 45 years of age, there will no limitation for vaccination booths. They will report to their allotted sites and after their registration, they’ll get the jabs. The district administration has deployed adequate trained health officials to vaccinate them,” he said. Chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that the private hospitals in the district selected for the drive have been asked to conduct the vaccination, following all safety and rate norms of the government. “They can’t charge anything over ₹250 for each shot from a beneficiary. The district health officials will be deployed there to monitor the vaccination there,” he said. He also said that it has been made optional for all the health-care and front-line workers, who are slated to get their booster dose of vaccination in March, to take it from private hospitals, after paying ₹250 for the booster dose. “If they wish to get it free of cost, special sessions will be held at eight government hospitals for them, including district hospital, the Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute commonly known as Child PGI and Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) hospital,” he said. The CMO further said that the district health department has started searching people over 45 years of age, having some co-morbidities, to accommodate them in next sessions of phase 3 Covid-19 vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-identifies-35-pvt-hospitals-for-covid-19-vaccination-101614709108317.html
02-03-2021||Noida||Noida, Ghaziabad given vaccination target of 1.58 lakh for March||Ghaziabad: In order to get wider coverage of the Covid-19 vaccination for the elderly, the Uttar Pradesh government has rolled out guidelines for a greater number of working days for government and private hospitals involved in vaccination work and also reserved the time slots in urban and rural areas for those availing pre-registration and walk-in modes. The government has directed that about 25% of the beneficiaries under category 3 will be vaccinated in March and identified about 65,048 such beneficiaries for Gautam Budh Nagar and 93,480 for Ghaziabad districts. The beneficiaries under the category 3 include citizens above 60 years of age and those above 45 years but suffering co-morbid conditions. In the first two rounds of the vaccination drive, health-care workers and front-line workers were covered and many of them have also been given their second dose. As per directions issued by Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health), the government district hospitals and medical colleges will work six days a week for Covid vaccination while the other government health-care facilities like the primary health centres, community health centres and dispensaries will take up vaccination on three days -- Monday, Thursday and Friday. Overall, 19,778,507 estimated beneficiaries (total estimated population aged over 60 years + 10% additional) has been identified across the state and the overall target for the month of March is 4944627, said the directions issued by Prasad. The Ghaziabad district health department said that government hospitals will start the vaccination from March 4. “We have about 70 different government health-care centres and two district hospitals which have been identified to meet the target for March. We have also identified 33 private hospitals and five of these have deposited money for procuring vaccine. They can start with vaccination process, while the government centres will start the process from March 4,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. In GB Nagar, health officials said that they will start the vaccination as per guidelines on March 4. “We will definitely start vaccination from March 4 and we have identified about 15 government health-care facilities and 22 private hospitals for the purpose. Private hospitals are expected to come and procure vaccine,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer of GB Nagar. “The private hospitals can take up vaccination on minimum of four days and maximum of seven days in a week. The private sector will now take up vaccination only on paid basis and the health workers and front-line workers, who took up the first free dose at private hospitals, will now be shifted to the government facilities where they can get the jab free of cost,” said Gupta, Ghaziabad CMO. Under the current phase of vaccination, the private hospitals can administer one dose at the rate of ₹250 and they have also been asked to procure a minimum of 100 vaccine doses and further in multiples of 100 doses. In Ghaziabad, the health department has identified the District Women Hospital and the Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital to take up vaccination on six days. “The slots at the urban centres will be 60% for those coming through the self-registration mode and 40% for those who come in through the walk-in mode. It happened in Ghaziabad that more people walked in instead of taking up self-registration mode. Further, those coming in through the self-registration, will be able to get preferential vaccination from 9am to 11am and thereafter, from 11am onwards to 5pm, the other beneficiaries will be vaccinated on ‘first come, first served’ basis,” Gupta added. For the centres in rural areas, the ratio of beneficiaries coming through self-registration and walk-in modes is divided equally at 50%, the officials said. BOX: UP issues directions for category 3 vaccination In March, nearly 65,048 beneficiaries have been identified in Gautam Budh Nagar and 93,480 in Ghaziabad The government district hospitals and medical colleges will work six days a week for vaccination while other government facilities will work on Monday, Thursday and Friday. Private hospitals can take up vaccination on a minimum of four days in a week Slots for urban centres will be reserved 60% for those availing self-registration while 40% will be for citizens who walk in. People registering though self-registration method will get preferential vaccination timing from 9am to 11am while the rest can take up vaccination on ‘first come, first served’ basis from 11am to 5pm Slots at rural centres will be in ratio of 50% each for those registering though self-registration and walk-in||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-ghaziabad-given-vaccination-target-of-1-58-lakh-for-march-101614708988281.html
02-03-2021||Pune||Army recruitment racket: Two of the four arrested are serving personnel||Two serving Indian Army officials are among seven people who have been arrested in the Indian Army soldier recruitment entrance exam question paper leak, according to a written statement issued by the Pune police. “We first arrested three people based on the information received from military intelligence that some people were offering to sell the question paper. Parallelly, we also got to know that some people are roaming around with the question paper. So, we set a trap and arrested some more people. We have found the paper from the phone of one arrested person around 10 am and that is why exam scheduled for 11 am was cancelled,” said Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta. A response was sought by HT from the appropriate authorities of the Indian Army and was awaited until the report going to press. The police are now investigating the source of the leak. Pune police joint commissioner Ravindra Shisve suggested the formation of a special investigation team (SIT) in the case. The paper which is suspected to have been leaked was of the Common entrance exam (CEE) for the Indian Army which was scheduled for Sunday. The police confirmed registration of the second case at Wanowrie police station in the issue of paper leak. In addition to the three people arrested in the case registered at Vishrantwadi police station on Sunday, a case under Sections 420, 409, 34 of Indian Penal Code, Sections 6 and 7 of Maharashtra Prevention of Malpractices Act university, board and other specified examination act, 1982 was registered at Wanowrie police station. The accused arrested in Wanowrie were identified as Kishore Mahadev Giri (40), Malegaon in Baramati; Madhav Sheshrao Gitte (38) a resident of Sappersvihar Colony in Pune; Gopal Yuvraj Koli (31) a resident of BEG Center in Dighi; and Uday Dattu Auti (23) a resident of BEG Khadki. Koli works as a physical trainer at Training Battalion-2 and Auti works in the regimental police. While Shisve refused to confirm official orders, he did agree that a more channelised investigation in the matter was required as the nexus was possibly spread throughout the country. “We had formed two teams based on the information received and both the teams did their own investigation. We have subsequently registered two separate FIRs in the matter. Some of the people are ex-servicemen, some are coaching class owners, and some are civilians,” said Shisve. The three arrested in the case registered at Wanowrie police station have been remanded to police custody until March 6 by a local court. “We arrested three people on Sunday based on the information we received and found question papers on their phones. We also confirmed that the paper we had found was the right one. The exam was to be held at around 40 centres all over the country for 30,000 aspirants. Because of this investigation, the exam was cancelled around an hour before schedule,” Shisve added. Unit 4 of Pune police crime branch is investigating the case registered at Vishrantwadi police station while Anti extortion cell-1 also of the crime branch is investigating the case registered at Wanowrie police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/army-recruitment-racket-two-of-the-four-arrested-are-serving-personnel-101614708869986.html
02-03-2021||Pune||14-year-old apprehended for sexual assault of minor girl||A 14-year-old boy was apprehended by Pimpri-Chinchwad police for sexual assault of a five-year-old girl in a slum in Bhosari. The girl had gone to his house to watch TV and he had her alone with him, according to the complaint lodged by the child’s mother. “Her father was not at home and mother had gone out for a short while when she went to his house to watch TV. When the mother came home, she told her what had happened. We have sent her for a medical exam and he has been apprehended,” said police sub-inspector Pooja Kadam of Bhosari police station is investigating the case. When the child’s mother returned home, the girl narrated the incident to her and a police complaint was then registered. The teenager will be produced in the juvenile justice board on Tuesday. A case under Sections 376, 376(3), 376/2(j) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 4, 5(m), 6, 7, 8, and 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act, 2012 was registered at Bhosari police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/14yearold-apprehended-for-sexual-assault-of-minor-girl-101614708869456.html
02-03-2021||Pune||Unrepaired roads in Vishrantwadi a recipe for danger||The residents of Vishrantwadi and nearby areas are facing a daily hurdle to travel through roads that are lying unrepaired by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s road department. In the last few months, several works of underground water and drainage pipelines, or installing cable wires were carried out in these areas for which roads were dug. However, after the work was completed, the roads were left as it is in un-repaired conditions and now people have to face a problem. “After the lockdown, the public works related to road digging, underground pipeline works,and cable wires started in our area. For this, roads were dug and in the last few months, the work was carried out. During that period all the local residents faced some inconvenience, but we managed to travel with the hurdles. But now once the work was completed, roads were left as it is. The digging part should have been repaired and road concretisation should be done by PMC road department, which was not done,” said Vinod Pawar, a local resident and social activist from the Vishrantwadi area. Areas connected to Commerzone road, Alandi road, Pratiknagar road are dug up on one side. HT visited the places on Tuesday and found that roads are still as it is, at some spots half of the road width is in bad condition and commuters are slipping over the mud and small stones. Pawan Dahinje, a resident of the area said, “I regularly travel through Alandi road and on one side the road is dug and in bad condition. It is left by the PMC workers which need to be repaired immediately, as I have seen two-wheeler riders falling over this road during peak hours.” Vijay Kulkarni, PMC’s chief engineer and road department head said, “If the work is completed then the road repairing should also be done immediately. I will check personally which areas and roads are affected and get it repaired on priority.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/unrepaired-roads-in-vishrantwadi-a-recipe-for-danger-101614708868862.html
02-03-2021||Pune||PMC to develop Jambulwadi lake for recreational activities using PPP model||After Pashan and Katraj lakes, the PMC is set to develop the Jambhulwadi lake near Ambegaon using the public-private partnership (PPP) model. After development, the Jambhulwadi lake will allow citizens to enjoy recreational activities like boating and fishing. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has allocated ₹1 crore for the development of the lake in the budget announced on Monday. Pune is moving towards becoming a lake city with the PMC budgeting amount to develop them as potential tourist attractions. Earlier, the PMC had developed Pashan and Katraj lake and now it has decided to develop Jambhulwadi lake which is spread over 70-acre land near Ambegaon. PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “The PMC has decided to develop a lake located at Jambulwadi with the help of Public Private Partnership (PPP) model. Jambulwadi was added to the PMC limits recently. There is a natural lake here and can be seen from the Pune-Bengaluru highway near the New Katraj tunnel. The PMC had already declared a no construction zone in the 100 metre land from the lake. the civic body’s efforts are to preserve this lake and convert it into a tourist attraction.” According to Rasne, the civic body is planning to develop a garden, jogging track, yoga centre, boating, fishing, and many other facilities around this lake. “The PMC has made budgetary provision to prepare the Detailed Project Report (DPR) for it and made an allocation of Rs1 crore,” he said. BOX Lohegaon lake development Recently, Vadgaonsheri MLA Sunil Tingre also proposed to develop a lake at Lohegaon which is spread over more than 60-acre land. It is a natural lake at Lohegaon. Recently, a meeting was held at Mumbai with the sports and tourism department to convert this lake into a tourist spot and kick-start water sports activities,” said Tingre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-develop-jambulwadi-lake-for-recreational-activities-using-ppp-model-101614708868284.html
02-03-2021||Pune||PMC proposes ₹50 lakh for study on climate change’s infrastructure impact||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to conduct a study on climate change and its impact on the city’s infrastructure. PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne earmarked ₹50 lakh for it. Rasne presented an ₹8,370 crore budget for the year 2021-22 on Monday. While presenting the budget, he proposed the study on climate change for the environment department and allocated Rs50 lakh for it. Rasne said, “Climate change is having a lot of effects on land and lifestyle. I propose Rs50 lakh to study climate change and its impact.” Mangesh Dighe, PMC environment department head said, “PMC standing committee chairman has proposed ₹50 lakh for conducting a study of climate change and its impact on Pune city’s infrastructure. As suggested by the chairman, we would do the study and take necessary steps as the city would be ready for changes in the climate.” Another officer from PMC said on anonymity, “For the last few years, the city is getting heavy rainfall. It’s affecting the city’s infrastructure. For example, due to heavy rainfall in a short period, the city’s drainage system is not able to accommodate the rainy water and it got flooded on roads. If there would be a proper study, it will help suggest infrastructure in future which would be prepared to face various crises.” Another officer from the environment department said on anonymity that the department did not propose any such study and it is a decision of the standing committee chairman himself.According to the officer, the elected members made provisions for such a study, but it is good if there is a proper study on climate change and its impact on the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-proposes-rs-50-lakh-for-study-on-climate-change-s-infrastructure-impact-101614708808832.html
02-03-2021||Pune||Unidentified body with mutilated genitals found; police suspect brutal murder||A mangled body of a man with mutilated genitals was found and a case of murder was registered by the Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Monday. The body was found at 11am on February 28 near the Indrayani river flow in Shivnagari area of Dehugaon area of Pune. The identity of the man could not be ascertained as it did not have any belongings or clothes on it. “It is a forest area and there is no chance of CCTV. The face is completely mangled, and the genitals are separated in a blunt manner. It could be bitten by animals,” said assistant police inspector Prasad Gajjewar of Dehuroad police station who is investigating the case. The cause of death by the doctors who performed autopsy on the body was found to be multiple injuries including injury over the leg, stab wound over the stomach, and cutting injury on private parts, according to the police. A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (destruction of evidence) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Dehuroad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/unidentified-body-with-mutilated-genitals-found-police-suspect-brutal-murder-101614708808258.html
02-03-2021||Noida||Greater Noida Authority sanctions ₹1,000 crore to upgrade power infra||The Greater Noida authority on Tuesday sanctioned ₹1,000 crore to upgrade and enhance the existing infrastructure in the city to supply electricity as per the expected future demands in the newly developed residential and industrial clusters.The authority plans to set up as many as five additional power sub-stations to meet the increasing power demand. The move comes after officials noted an increase in the occupancy level in residential areas in the city and an increase in the local population in view of the ongoing Noida International Airport work. Currently Greater Noida’s population is around 800,000 and it is expected to increase up to 2,500,000 by 2031, said officials. Currently the electricity demand is 500 megawatt per day in Greater Noida and it is expected to increase three times of what it is now, stated an official estimate. To meet the future demand, the authority has decided to spend ₹1000 crore on setting up 5 new power sub-stations in different areas.“If we start work on these power sub-stations now, then only the city will be able to get required electricity supply in the time to come. We have sanctioned ₹1,000 crore for 5 new sub-stations,” said Deep Chand additional chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.The Greater Noida authority’s top officials also met with officials of Noida Power Corporation Limited(NCPL) and planned to set up sub-stations.Currently, Greater Noida has 16,000 consumers in urban areas and 65,000 consumers in rural areas. With the increase in occupancy of vacant flats, the demand for the power supply is bound to go up. “With the rise in population, the pressure on sewer lines, drainage network and other infrastructure is also expected to rise. So will the demand of electricity. If we need to maintain the quality of civic amenities, then we need to increase the supply of electricity,” said Chand.According to the authority it has planned to set up one 400 KV power sub-station in village Amarpur, two 220KV stations, one each in Jalpura and Sector Knowledge Park-5, two power sub-stations of 132KV each in Sector Ecotech 8 and one in Sector Ecotech 10. The authority will enhance the capacity of 220KV power sub-station in Sector 123 to 400KV, said officials.Currently the city depends on a 132KV sub-station located in Surajpur and 220 KV sub-station in RC Greens, said officials.“We are working well in advance to provide uninterrupted power supply to our consumers anticipating an increase in demand,” said S Ganguli vice-president of NPCL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-authority-sanctions-1-000-crore-to-upgrade-power-infra-101614708688231.html
02-03-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Serial rape suspect arrested after encounter||Greater Noida: A 30-year-old serial rape suspect was arrested after an encounter in Surajpur on Monday night. A countrymade gun, a live cartridge and one stolen mobile phone were recovered from his possession, police said, adding that he was carrying a reward of ₹25,000 on his arrest.The suspect was identified as Hari Shankar, a resident of Hamirpur in Uttar Pradesh. He was presently living in Sector Eta 1 in Greater Noida, police said.Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police (women safety), said that a woman had filed a complaint of rape against the suspect at Surajpur police station on February 25. “The woman said that she was returning home when the suspect overpowered her and raped her in the bushes in Surajpur,” she said. According to police, the suspect had threatened the woman of consequences if she reported the matter and also fled with victim’s ₹3,000 cash and a mobile phone.A case was registered against the suspect under Section 376 (rape), Section 392 (robbery) and Section 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC. The police launched an investigation and found that there was a suspect involved in several such activities.On Monday evening, police received information about the suspect’s movement near the Greater Noida authority office. “A police team visited the spot and asked the suspect to surrender. He opened fire with a countrymade gun and tried to escape. In the counter firing, the suspect was injured to his leg and arrested,” Shukla said.Police said Shankar had also committed rape and loot in 2019, and he was arrested and sent to jail. The suspect was released on bail recently and since then he has been involved in four cases of rape . However, only one woman approached police and filed a complaint, the officer said. The suspect used to drink and stand near some deserted location and spot vulnerable women. He then dragged the victim in bushes and raped her, said police. The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody. Shukla said that the Noida police will recommend fast-track court for early conviction in this case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-serial-rape-suspect-arrested-after-encounter-101614708568277.html
02-03-2021||Noida||Two food delivery executives arrested for burglary||The police on Tuesday arrested two food delivery boys for thefts and burglaries in different societies in Noida. The suspects were identified as Kafil, aged 25, and Ravi, 26 — both residents of Raipur in Sector 126.Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional DCP, Noida Zone-1 said that Sector 39 police had received some complaints of thefts in societies. “The police team was conducting a search drive, when they stopped two persons on a motorcycle in Sector 46 market. The police recovered a 32-inch LED TV, two pair of tracksuits, one wristwatch, one toolkit to break locks from their bag,” he said.The police interrogated the suspects, who confessed that they worked as delivery boys during day and conducted thefts at night. “They used to visit different societies to deliver food and conduct recce of houses which were locked. They mostly worked around the Golf Course area. They also carried a toolkit to break locks in their bag. We have seized their motorcycle which they had bought from the stolen money and the toolkit. The two persons were arrested,” said Singh.The police also contacted Yatish Agarwal — a resident — from whose apartment the two suspects had conducted theft one month ago. Agarwal identified the tracksuits and wristwatch which were stolen from his house. He said that these two suspects were the same who were identified in a CCTV footage.The police said two cases of burglary, under Section 380 of IPC, were registered against them at the Sector 39 police station and one case in Sector Beta 2 police station. The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-food-delivery-executives-arrested-for-burglary-101614708508804.html
02-03-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: 21-year-old arrested for killing sister’s friend||Greater Noida: Police arrested a 21-year-old man on Monday evening for allegedly stabbing his sister’s male friend to death in the Badalpur area of Gautam Budh Nagar district. The deceased was identified as 25-year-old Deepak Kumar. The suspect, identified as Vipin Kumar, is a native of Achheja village, police said.Vipin stabbed Deepak, his neighbour, to death for allegedly “talking to his sister over phone”, police said.Deepak’s brother Pramod Kumar has filed a complaint at Badalpur police station. “Deepak had gone to a local gym when Vipin met him near a sweets shop on GT Road. Vipin attacked him with a sharp knife several times and injured him. Locals informed us, and we reached the spot and found Deepak severely injured. We took him to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead,” Pramod said.According to Pramod, Vipin killed his brother, while three other people helped him in the crime. Pramod said he was not aware of his brother’s relationship with the suspect’s sister. “If the suspect had any problem, he should have informed us. We are shattered,” Pramod added.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said Vipin and other suspects live in the same village. “During the investigation, it was revealed that Deepak used to talk to Vipin’s sister over phone. Vipin was against this relationship. The suspect killed Deepak over the same issue,” Chander said.Badalpur police station in-charge Dharmendra Sharma said a case was registered against the four suspects under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 302 (murder) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy).“We have arrested main suspect Vipin, and launched a search for his accomplices,” Chander added.Meanwhile, Deepak’s family members protested against the crime and blocked GT Road for one hour on Tuesday, demanding action against all the suspects. A police team pacified the protesters and assured a fair investigation in the matter. The traffic movement was later resumed.Deepak was a contractual sanitation worker with the Greater Noida authority, his family said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-21-year-old-arrested-for-killing-sister-s-friend-101614708508291.html
02-03-2021||Noida||Mercury soars in Noida, gusty winds improve air quality||Noida: The minimum temperature soared by over two degrees Celsius in Noida in the past 24 hours even as the gusty cold north-westerly winds swept the city and neighbouring areas, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday.According to IMD, the mercury may further soar by two degrees Celsius (°C) over the next few days while the wind speed will remain higher. “The mercury will rise by two degrees over the next few days in the region. The wind speed on Tuesday was high and gusty, varying between 12 to 22 knots which is around 24 to 40km per hour,” said an official at IMD. On Tuesday, the minimum and maximum temperatures for Noida were recorded at 17.1°C and 27.6°C, respectively, while the same a day earlier was 15.6°C and 27.6°C. “The winds in the region are north westerly, but they are comparatively warmer. There is a feeble western disturbance arriving from Jammu and Kashmir, that prior to causing rains are slightly warmer. The mercury may rise further, but due to constant and gusty wind in the region, the heat would be bearable,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) at Skymet, a private weather forecaster.Meanwhile, air quality of Noida on Tuesday further improved due to better ventilation. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Tuesday improved to 153 against 169 a day earlier.However, AQI of Greater Noida on Tuesday deteriorated slightly to 218 against 215 a day earlier, Ghaziabad’s AQI was 218 against 208 on Monday.An AQI level up to 100 is considered ‘good’, between 101 and 200 is ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the air quality is likely to oscillate between ‘satisfactory’ and lower end of ‘poor’.“Surface winds are high and forecasted to stay high for the next 24 hours; the improved ventilation is influencing AQI positively. The winter fury appears to be over but now Delhi air will start getting influenced by mineral dust. AQI is forecasted to marginally improve and stay within the high end of the satisfactory to moderate category for tomorrow. A marginal deterioration and moderate AQI is forecasted on March 4 and 5,” said a statement released by SAFAR on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/mercury-soars-in-noida-gusty-winds-improve-air-quality-101614708448842.html
02-03-2021||Noida||Delhi Police shuts one lane of Delhi-Meerut Expressway after opening for a few hours||The Delhi Police on Tuesday opened up one lane of the heavily barricaded Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) on the Delhi-Ghaziabad side, only to shut it once again within a couple of hours. All the 14 lanes of the DME have been blocked by Delhi Police ever since January 26, when violence broke out between protesting farmers and police personnel. Thousands of commuters travelling from Delhi to Ghaziabad are required to follow diversions or take up alternate routes. Even the side road from Ghazipur to Vaishali in Ghaziabad is heavily barricaded by the police. “My friends and I were overjoyed when we heard that Delhi-Ghaziabad lane was opened up. Couple of hours later, we heard that it was blocked again. Thousands of commuters from Indirapuram, Vaishali, Vasundhara and nearby areas are facing a tough time during peak hours as they are forced to follow alternate routes. This is nothing short of harassment for the common man,” said Kuldeep Saxena, resident of Indirapuram, who travels daily to his office at Katwariya Sarai in South Delhi. “If commuters use alternate routes via Kaushambi, they get stuck in long traffic jams. Many are now following the canal road which leads them to Ghazipur. However, commuters are required to travel through areas near the filthy Ghazipur landfill site,” Saxena added. Many commuters are braving odds and using unpaved dusty road through a forest to travel to Vaishali and nearby localities as the main road from Ghazipur to Vaishali is barricaded. “These routes must be opened immediately. Even if one has to go to Connaught Place in Delhi, it takes about one to one-and-a-half hours as opposed to 20-25 minutes via the expressway,” said BK Pandey, a resident of Sector 5, Vaishali. The Ghaziabad police officials said that they have no role in closing down the expressway as the barricading was put up by the Delhi police. “They opened one of the lanes on late Monday night and commuters used it on Tuesday morning to travel to Ghaziabad. However, they closed the lane again on Tuesday afternoon,” said Gyanendra Singh, superintendent of police (City 2). Senior Delhi Police officers who did not want to be named said that no official order was issued to open up the border. The opening up of the border on Tuesday was only a temporary arrangement to facilitate the movement of emergency vehicles. “We had been facilitating the movement of ambulances earlier as well. The movement of vehicles was restored for a few hours in the morning as some emergency vehicles were stuck in the jam. The route has been closed again because there is no official order to open up the border,” said a Delhi Police officer, requesting anonymity. The protesting farmers, on the other hand, said that they have no issues if the Delhi Police decides to remove the barricades. “Our protest is being carried out only on one lane of the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway while the rest of the expressway is not occupied. If they want, they can open up the lanes. We also demand that the unoccupied lanes should be opened up for commuters who are facing issues,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, farmer leader and member of UP Gate farmers’ committee. The National Highways Authority of India(NHAI) officials said that due to closure of the border and expressway lanes, their pending works for the DME have been held up or delayed, despite the completion date of March 31 approaching fast. “Many works are getting delayed, such as installation of cameras, marking of directions, installation of signage, etc. Once the protest site gets cleared, we will make the assessment of damage caused to the new expressway. As a result of the protest, we are also not able to take up periodic assessments of the flyover as well,” said Mudit Garg, project director of NHAI. (With inputs from Delhi Bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/delhi-police-shuts-one-lane-of-delhi-meerut-expressway-after-opening-for-a-few-hours-101614708448224.html
02-03-2021||Gurugram||Employees of auto parts firm strike seeking pay hike||Employees of an auto parts company based in Manesar in Haryana protested against the firm’s alleged failure to revise their wages and keep other promises, pending for over two years. The protesters staged a demonstration outside the premises of the firm and said they would not leave the place till their demands are met.The Gurugram police deployed around 500 personnel in Manesar on Tuesday, following the protest.The employees of Satyam Auto Parts Component Limited said the wage revision has been pending since March 2019, and despite repeated promises and meetings, the company management has failed to keep its words.The employees, who had been boycotting lunch in the company premises since February 22 went on strike on March 1 after the company management forcibly asked them to partake the lunch, said Ravi Kumar, an employee of the company and leader of the labour union.“During the Covid-19 pandemic, the management asked the employees to co-operate and increase the production and we did. We also accepted wage cuts, however, despite the improving situation, the manager has refused to revise the wage. We were forced to resume the strike as our demands were not met,” said Kumar. A spokesperson for Satyam Auto said, “We are making efforts to resolve this issue in next couple of days.”Jaspal Rana, a trade union leader, said workers have been demanding wage revision for the last two years but there has been no response from the management and only vague assurances. The Gurugram labour department said efforts are being made to resolve the differences between the workers and the management over various issues.“A number of meetings have been held with both the sides and our efforts are to ensure that a fair deal can be struck for the benefit of all. The negotiations are on and both the sides will be asked to be flexible so that they could resolve the matter. Adequate measures have been taken to ensure there is no untoward incident and we are certain that this matter will be resolved soon,” said Manish Sharma, additional labour commissioner, NCR.Hitesh Yadav, assistant commissioner of police, said two police units were deployed on Monday. “We deployed police teams to ensure peace in the area. This is a sensitive issue, and at times it may take an ugly turn. Te situation is under control, but until the issue is resolved police teams will remain deployed here’s,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/employees-of-auto-parts-firm-strike-seeking-pay-hike-101614708091649.html
02-03-2021||Gurugram||Vaccination registry can be done online: Health dept||Fixing appointments for Covid-19 vaccine shots will now be possible on Co-Win portal as the service has been made functional once again on Tuesday evening, facilitating citizens to schedule a time slot 24 hours before they plan to take the vaccine jab, said a senior district health department official, adding that there will be no vaccination on Wednesday. “Advance self-registration process has not been functional for the last two days as schedules were not uploaded. Therefore, the Co-Win portal showed ‘no slots available’ and people could not book appointments. Now the service is available once again, with every vaccination centre in both public and private hospitals having access to generate schedules on the platform. On Tuesday evening, the service has once again been made operational, enabling people to fix appointments before 12 noon tomorrow (Wednesday) for receiving the Covid jab on March 4,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram. In the last two days, since the Covid-19 vaccination was opened for senior citizens above 60 years and those between 45 and 59 years with existing illnesses, people have been finding it troublesome to fix appointments for vaccination. According to the union ministry of health and family welfare, there are two ways to get the vaccine jab. In advance self-registration process, people can fix the date and time based on the available schedules. They can choose the centre of their choice. Second one is on-site registration for people who cannot register in advance. They can directly walk up to the nearest centre, get themselves registered and vaccinated. In Gurugram, people were able to register themselves on the Co-Win portal but could not fix the appointment for vaccination. Over 2,400 people reached almost 23 sites in the last two days and took the walk-in registration. “Once a person is registered on the portal, it becomes easy to trace them on the portal at our end . Once the registered beneficiary is identified, we take their ID proofs for verification. But in the last two days, many people had to be registered on the spot itself,” said a government medical officer, who preferred anonymity. With the appointment service being operational again, Yadav said that every vaccination centre will also have the authority to decide upon the number of people who will be inoculated through advance self-registration or walk-ins. “Every vaccination centre will get a minimum 100 vaccine doses. It is up to the centre concerned to decide as to how many doses have to be reserved for walk-ins and advance self-registration respectively. Online time slots will be fixed based on the hospitals’ decision,” said Yadav. To strengthen the co-ordination between private hospitals and the health department, a meeting will be held on Wednesday. Officials of the health department also said that staff from private hospitals will be trained to operate the Co-Win portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/vaccination-registry-can-be-done-online-health-dept-101614708091123.html
02-03-2021||Gurugram||DTCP seals, razes illegal structures in DLF Phase-3||The Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) on Tuesday sealed 150 commercial establishments that were being operated on plots meant for the economically weaker sections in U-Block of DLF Phase-3 licensed colony amid resistance from residents, said officials familiar with the matter.RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, said that the sealing drive that is aimed at curbing illegal use of residential plots started around 1pm. Four teams, comprising 20 DTCP officials and around 100 personnel of the Gurugram Police, were deployed for the purpose.“Repeated warnings were given to the owners of these plots but they continued to violate the rule. We have sealed around 150 shops that included salons, restaurants, grocery shops, property dealer offices and other businesses,” said Bhath. Officials said that a number of complaints were lodged by residents of the area about rampant commercial activities in the area. DTCP officials said that buildings have been constructed in violation of rules on plots meant for EWS housing and commercial activities were being run from the ground floor of most of them. The department officials said that since a majority of these floors were occupied, it was not possible to evict the residents, but they decided to seal the commercial activities being carried out to curb land use violations. DTCP officials said that the sealing drive took place in the U1 and U16 lanes of the licensed colony, amid resistance from property owners. “This is one of the largest sealing drives carried out in the city and action will continue against violators,” said Bhath.The enforcement team also cleared the right of way in these two lanes by removing illegal vends, small kiosks and other encroachments by residents. “There was also resistance from locals but our team managed to convince the residents that the violations will not be allowed. Action was also taken against owners of two under-construction houses in the area, where violations were noticed,” said Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner, enforcement. Sharma also said that one of the houses — the owner of which had covered the setback — was cleared of the violation, while the other one was sealed for violations of rules. To get the properties unsealed, the department said that the violators will have to pay the penalty as per norms and submit an affidavit stating they would not carry out such violations in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-seals-razes-illegal-structures-in-dlf-phase3-101614708090569.html
02-03-2021||Gurugram||Turnout for second phase of vaccination remains high on Day 2||Turnout for the second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive remained high on Tuesday, with at least 1,471 people above the age of 60 years and 170 between 45 and 59 years having co-morbidities taking the jab at 23 vaccination centres across the city. The footfall increased by almost 48% compared to Monday’s count of 852, as many people directly reached private hospitals and waited in lines for long hours to take the vaccine shot. “The turnout will continue to increase as we have seen no hesitancy among people to take the shot. There have been some technical hiccups but they are getting resolved to fix the registration process. Considering the heavy footfall at some big private hospitals, vaccination has exceeded 100 a day. In the next few days, the number of vaccination sites will be increased to make the process easier,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. With the launch of vaccination for the prioritised population on March 1, the elderly population of the city has come forward in large numbers to take the vaccine shot, especially at private hospitals. On Tuesday, the health department had allocated 1,200 vaccine doses for senior citizens and people aged 45-59 years having co-morbidities. As only 250 of 1,500 targeted healthcare workers and front-line workers turned up to take their shots, the additional doses were used for the general public.However, the pace of the vaccination remained slow during the early hours.Even as residents queued up from 11am at private hospitals to take the vaccine shot, many faced delays as the Co-Win platform remained slow for over an hour during the first half of the day. In a few hospitals, the walk-in process remained chaotic. At a private hospital in Sector 24, the elderly complained that there was no one to guide them through the walk-in registration process. “We were told to come on Tuesday. Today, we have waited for almost two hours but there is no clarity when the process will begin. There is no clarity on how to get the vaccine,” said 75-year-old Reema Bhadwani, who left the vaccination centre after the staff refused to issue registration forms. Aditya Arya, another resident, who is also the founder of the city’s Camera Museum, complained of a similar issue at the hospital. A hospital staff present at the site, requesting anonymity, said, “Since the Co-Win platform was not operational for a few hours, people could not be vaccinated. Many people have reached the spot but we can only cater to people based on the allocated vaccine doses. Until the portal gets operational, even the vaccination fee cannot be charged.” To avoid delays caused by issues with the Co-Win platform, officials at Artemis Hospital asked the visitors to register themselves with the hospital’s mobile application. “People who have approached us through helpline numbers were told to register on the Artemis PHR mobile application. After the registration, they receive a message confirming the walk-in. Thereafter, at the spot, they are verified on the Co-Win and are vaccinated. The process helps in creating the payment log,” said Reena Tiwari, head administrator, Artemis Hospital. Tiwari said that those who have been walking in without appointments are also being catered to. Indu Mittal, a resident of Sector 45, who reached the hospital at 1pm, could not get vaccinated till 3.30pm. “For almost an hour, no vaccination took place. We were told the vaccine stock got over. The process has started now, but it has been very slow.” At a few government session sites, people returned after long waits. At the Nathupur urban primary health centre (UPHC), almost 15 people left after waiting till 1.30pm. “Once the portal gets functional, we will contact people and ask them to come,” said a staffer at the UPHC. The process remained slow at the Wazirabad UPHC too, with only two people being vaccinated till noon. In addition to the vaccine cost of ₹250, a few private hospitals have been charging fees for preparing the medical certificate required by people aged 45 to 59 having co-morbidities. “People have to show their previous prescriptions and case history before we sign the medical certificate at the spot. It is required as the certificate helps in addressing the hitch among people who have some sort of illness. They need to be under medical supervision before taking the shot,” said Dr Ashish Kalla, general physician, Kalyani Hospital. The hospital charges ₹400 for the additional service being provided by them, according to Kusum Narang, the marketing manager of the hospital. “Once signed, the certificate is uploaded just like any verification ID used in registration,” said Narang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/turnout-for-second-phase-of-vaccination-remains-high-on-day-2-101614708089424.html
02-03-2021||Gurugram||Gadkari to take stock of Dwarka Expressway progress||The union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari will visit the Dwarka Expressway on Thursday to assess the status of the project and suggest measures to ensure that work is expedited on this project, which has been in the works since 2008. A senior official of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), meanwhile, said that work on phases 3 and 4 of the project, which are located in Gurugram, was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and that they would be completed by August 2021. “The work on these two phases is going on at a fast pace. The work on phases 1 and 2 in Delhi has started only recently and we are working hard to ensure that this project is completed by the end of 2022,” he said, adding that a delay in the transfer of a small plot near Kherki Daula remains the only stumbling block. Work on the Dwarka Expressway project, conceived by the Haryana government, was originally expected to be completed in 2014. However, due to delays in land acquisition and legal obstacles, the project was transferred by the state government to NHAI in 2016, which expanded the scope of this project and decided to create an access-controlled expressway with a toll plaza, at a cost of ₹7,000 crore. The 29-km expressway, with 10 kilometres in Delhi and the rest in the city, will connect Kherki Daula on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway with Shiv Murti near Mahipalpur. Gadkari’s visit comes on the heels of a meeting with Gurgaon member of Parliament Rao Inderjit Singh about the slow pace of the project and a review of other NHAI road works in Gurugram.Singh said on Tuesday, “The visit of the transport minister will start from Kherki Daula toll plaza on Thursday. He will inspect the entire highway under construction in four phases and interact with officials and the project contractors.”According to Singh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also expressed concern about the delay in completing Dwarka Expressway during a Pragati meeting chaired by him on December 30, 2020. “The pace of work has slowed due to technical reasons, particularly on the Delhi side. The visit by transport minister will help in resolving the issues as decisions on these are taken at the highest level and issues resolved with his intervention on the spot,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gadkari-to-take-stock-of-dwarka-expressway-progress-101614708090004.html
02-03-2021||Gurugram||Pedestrian refuge island to come up at Sector 70/75 intersection||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) will develop a pedestrian refuge island at the Sector 70/75 intersection, a key crossing on the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) that connects motorists to Sohna Road and National Highway 48, officials said on Tuesday.“Acknowledging the importance of the Sector 70/75 intersection, especially as development in new sector areas increases, we are redesigning the entire junction for catering to future needs. We expect this crossing to have a large volume of pedestrians and cyclists and have, accordingly, made adequate travel arrangements for each of them (modes). Keeping this in mind, a pedestrian refuge island is being constructed here on priority,” said Jitender Mittal, chief engineer, GMDA.The city’s first pedestrian refuge island was constructed last week at the Sector 44 intersection, near Huda City Centre. A pedestrian refuge island is a wide and elevated median that allows pedestrians and cyclists to safely wait on the structures and continue to navigate intersections according to the signal changes.GMDA officials said they have shortlisted the intersection as the city’s second spot for a pedestrian refuge island as they are also developing a cycle track and footpath at the crossing, and that the three features together will now be constructed mandatorily at all intersections in Gurugram.Mittal said that the three features will, together, be classified as a model intersection, where the allocation for all road users has been provided equally.GMDA officials said they expect the redesign to be completed by April.Mittal said that the GMDA has selected Ambedkar Chowk as the next location for constructing a pedestrian island, after the Sector 70/75 crossing.“The pedestrian refuge island, along with other features such as footpaths and cycle tracks, will not only make the Sector 70/75 intersection safer, but also provide a traffic management solution. The GMDA is redesigning the intersection, keeping both these aspects in mind. Without pedestrian or cyclist amenities, there will be continuous snarls at the crossing as people will use the main carriageway to reach the other side by coming in the path of moving vehicles,” said Sarika Panda Bhatt, road safety expert, Nagarro.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/pedestrian-refuge-island-to-come-up-at-sector-70-75-intersection-101614708088794.html
02-03-2021||Gurugram||Loud music from ahatas leave residents sleepless||Residents of societies located close to liquor vends and ahatas in sectors 56, 57, 61, 62, South City 1 and 2, Golf Course Extension Road and Palam Vihar have complained of loud music being played at these establishments during late hours and accused the police of inaction. Ahatas, authorised open spaces for liquor consumption near vends, were allowed to open last month after being shut last year due to Covid-19 restrictions. Digvijay Jain, a resident of Pioneer Araya in Sector 62, said that numerous calls to police control room number —100 — gives temporary relief, but the problem resumes after a day. “We have been writing to the authorities to look into the issue but no one is paying heed to our serious problem. Children need to study as exams are ongoing and people have late-night work shifts. We are finding it difficult to handle the situation and have been suffering for the past two months,” he said. The police assured of strict action against those violating norms and disturbing residents.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said, “We will write to the excise department to take action against these offenders and will book anyone found operating these establishments beyond midnight,” he said. The ahatas, 72 in number, are allowed to operate till midnight and are allowed to play music at45 decibels till 10pm during the night, as per the high court ruling in 2019. Even if pubs and restaurants have special licence to serve liquor till 3am, they cannot violate the sound level norms, said police.Suneel Rao, owner of an ahata, said that their customers insist on music, failing which people stop patronising their establishments. “People come to enjoy and dance. We have suffered huge losses due to Covid-19 and we are trying to revive (our business), but if issues like this start emerging, we will have to shut down. People will stop visiting if there is no music,” he said.Police commissioner Rao said that a team has been formed to keep a check on ahatas in Sushant Lok-1, South City 1 and 2, sector 56, 57, Golf Course Road, Golf Course Extension Road, sectors 40, 31 and Palam Vihar. He said a weekly review will be done to analyse the violations by these establishments. Residents of Pioneer Park, Pioneer Presidia and Pioneer Araya on Golf Course Extension Road said they are the worst affected, as the ahatas in their vicinity have installed outdoor sound amplifiers and blare out loud music during the night, in violation of the high court order passed in 2019 for not using loudspeakers and loud music. Bhawna Chauhan, vice-president of the Pioneer Park residents’ welfare association in Sector 61, said, “We have tried reaching out to the ahata owners and they promised to reduce the volume, but it was temporary. We have approached the police and have suggested a measure to the police. If the owner can cover the open area located in the rear portion, which is adjacent to the societies, the issue can be resolved,” she said. Residents have also taken to social media platforms to create pressure on authorities. Vishal Gupta, a resident of South City-1 that is located near Sector 29, a hub for pubs and bars, said that residents have been facing this problem for the last four years and that the police have failed to resolve the issue. “The hotels play loud music on their rooftop restaurants and two ahatas have no time restrictions. They are operational till 3am, causing sleepless nights for residents,” he said, adding that calls to the police control room only resolved the issue temporarily. Shruti Gilhotra, an office bearer of the Pioneer Araya RWA, said that residents of the society have been facing the issue for the last few months. “This noise pollution commences around 7.30pm and goes on till past midnight on most days of the week, causing severe disturbance to residents. Ever since we shifted to this society, our kids have been suffering due to this late-night loud music. This severely impacts their health and disturbed sleep makes them unable to focus on studies. This issue is causing us a lot of stress, both physical and mental,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/loud-music-from-ahatas-leave-residents-sleepless-101614708088255.html
02-03-2021||Gurugram||Contact us for issues related to stray dogs: MCG||A day after a family allegedly prevented from entering their condominium by other residents of the society in Sector 83 over disagreements in feeding stray dogs, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) officials on Tuesday said that residents and residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) may approach them for assistance on matters related to stray dogs.MCG joint commissioner Hariom Attri said that residents or RWAs can call their helpline, 18001801817, for assistance on matters pertaining to strays. “If a stray dog is suspected to be ill or found attacking residents in an area, people can reach out to us at our helpline number. Subsequently, officials from our concessionaire would be sent to the spot to attend to the animal. They will sterilise and vaccinate it and keep it at their treatment centres for examination and release them back in their natural habitat after two days,” said Attri.MCG officials said that as per a November 2015 Supreme Court (SC) order, any animal taken for sterilisation or vaccination has to be returned to their original habitats, i.e., the same location they were taken from and cannot be relocated to a new place.“All animal birth control matters come under the purview of the SC. The orders clearly state that no matter how much the situation of stray dog-related issues get out of control, only a scientific approach can be used for dealing with the matter. No authority can use innovative or subterfuge methods to deal with the matter,” said Chetna Devendra Joshi, Animal Welfare Board of India representative for Gurugram and member, People for Animals (PFA).The MCG has currently engaged two NGOs for dealing with such matters. In January, the MCG had terminated the contract with a Jhajjar-based concessionaire for sterilising stray dogs over allegations of animal cruelty, non-performance and misbehaviour with residents.Attri said that the concessionaire has received a stay on the termination order from the Punjab and Haryana high court and the MCG has been barred from floating tenders to hire a new contractor on a full-time basis until the case is settled. The next hearing in the case is scheduled for March 12.“In the interim, we have come to an agreement with two NGOs for vaccinating and sterilising stray dogs. They treat dogs at their respective centres in Basai and Farrukhnagar, and receive around ₹600 per dog from the MCG,” said Attri.Attri also said that the MCG is planning to set up Haryana’s first dog birth control centre at Begumpur Khatola, which will have an operation theatre, vaccination area, separate dog sheds and a ground for dogs to play. He said that an estimate for the project is being prepared at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/contact-us-for-issues-related-to-stray-dogs-mcg-101614708028816.html
02-03-2021||Gurugram||Family of three held hostage in car for feeding stray dogs||Residents of Vatika G21 Apartments in Sector 83 on Monday evening disallowed a family of three that stays there from entering the complex for feeding stray dogs in the area, said police, adding that a case has been registered against unidentified persons under sections of molestation and rioting, based a complaint from the family.While residents of the condominium alleged that stray dogs had attacked over 20 people over the last three months, the police said that the family, of a couple and their three-year-old daughter, was held hostage in their car for nearly five hours. The family recorded a video of the incident and posted it on social media platforms, where it was widely shared. The woman’s husband said he had also started a live session from inside the car to seek police intervention and show their plight. Members of the residents’ welfare association (RWA) said that they had asked the family not to feed the strays, but despite repeated requests, they did not pay heed. “Stray dogs are attacking residents. Even a day before (the incident), one of the residents was bitten,” an RWA member said, requesting anonymity. Praveen Kumar, another resident of the society, said that he had also filed a police complaint against the couple. “The couple lives in another block and I had already warned them several times not to do any activity outside my apartment. If they want to feed the stray dogs, why should they target another block?” he said. Incidents pertaining to stray dogs continue to create friction among residents of societies. A man was arrested in 2019 for allegedly hiring people to beat stray dogs, after several residents complained that the dogs were missing from the area.The woman from the family of three that was denied entry said that they were intercepted by a mob of residents and prevented from getting to their residence. “They started getting violent and abusive, and women attacked us with an intention to cause physical harm and to kill my husband and daughter. A dog I was feeding and I tried to break through. When we tried to escape, they deflated our car tyres. Some of them tried to snatch my daughter also. All the men and women held us hostage and in captivity in our car while they continued to push our car, bang on the windows and doors, attempting to break in and kill us,” the woman, the complainant in the case, said. The family alleged that the police failed to ensure their safety, sided with the mob and asked them to seek their forgiveness. The complainant said they sought help from the assistant commissioner of police following which a woman constable arranged for a water bottle for the child. “The police kept pressing us to step out, but I did not allow my husband to do that fearing for his and the rest of our lives,” she said. She also alleged that someone in the crowd threatened to rape her and murder her family to ensure that they stopped feeding the dogs.“Around 11pm, the police were finally able to escort us home. The situation was so bad that police staff had to form a cordon around us while the crowd chanted and jeered,” she said. A case under sections 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 341 (wrongful restraint), 354 (molestation) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Kherki Daula police station on Tuesday. Police officials refuted the family’s allegations and had called the ACP due to the severity of the situation. Krishan Kant, station house officer of Kherki Daula police station, said that they had tried to resolve the issue on Monday night and had dropped the family at their apartment. “We registered a case on Tuesday after we received a complaint,” he said. Chetna Devendra Joshi, associate campaign manager, People For Animals, public policy foundation, and a representative of Animal Welfare Board of India in Gurugram, said that the conflict over street dogs is covered in entirety by the various orders of the Supreme Court of India vide SLP (C) 691/2009 and central acts such as PCA Act 1960. She said that Animal Birth Control Rules, 2001, promulgated under Section 38 of PCA Act, 1960, crystallises that the street dogs cannot be relocated, except for sterilisation. “A lot of these incidents where societies and residents resort to acts of mobocracy against compassionate citizens — who take to looking after the street dogs around their residence, help with the implementation of animal birth control and also for rabies control via the yearly anti-rabies vaccine drives — stem largely out of intolerance and unawareness about the laws in place concerning the subject matter,” she said. Dr Vivek Yadav, a veterinary surgeon from Badshahpur, said that dogs tend to aggressive behaviour and bite when they perceive a threat. “If the dog bites, first take medical aid and try to get in touch with the animal welfare body or the authorities so that they can check the reason for the attack and to ensure that the incident is not repeated in the future. The best practice is to avoid their territory if one is not pet friendly and one should not suddenly approach a stray,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/family-of-three-held-hostage-in-car-for-feeding-stray-dogs-101614708028186.html
02-03-2021||Pune||Tunnel testing of challenging stretch from Swargate to Civil court complete, TBM machine to begin work||The most challenging underground tunnel work from the heart of the city areas which are congested and packed with old structures-is set to start soon. The testing of the underground tunnel work has almost been completed from Swargate as well as on the side of the Civil court. In an effort to avoid any calamity in the old city area, Pune Metro has completed building condition survey and clicked photographs of more than 1,000 structures including old wadas and buildings in this stretch. Currently, there are two tunnel boring machines (TBM) that are presently working at Agriculture college ground, while two more machines will start digging the tunnel from Swargate. There are four tunnel boring machines used to dig the 10-km underground tunnel from Agriculture college depot to Swargate underground station. The maximum tunnel depth is 30 metres which will be at the civil court station. It will take around 10 days to start the actual tunnel boring machine work. According to Pune Metro officials, there was a challenge to make the New Austrian Tunnelling Method (NATM) towards Mandai from Swargate area. It is a sequential excavation method or sprayed concrete lining method and the TBM setup is challenging due to the congestion and insufficient space at the site. This is when the NATM is preferred for tunnelling. Three months to reach Mandai Atul Gadgil, director, Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (MahaMetro) said, “There was a challenge to construct 150 metres of NATM work. After that, it was possible to start the TBM work. It was completed and was fully manual work. Now, we can start TBM work soon, It is mechanical and it is not challenging as compared to NATM.” “The TBM work will start from both sides, Civil court and Swargate and it will meet at Mandai. From the Swargate site, it will take around three months to reach Mandai,” he added. He further said, “We have completed our scientific study. There is nothing to worry about old structures or wadas on the ground of this underground stretch. We have an influence zone of 50 metres on either side of the tunnel. More than 1,000 structures fall in the influence zone.” Metro photographs over 1,000 structures Hemant Sonawane, general manager, public relations, Pune metro said, “We have conducted a building condition survey of Swargate to Civil court stretch. We have clicked pictures of the current condition of structures that are falling within the influence zone. It has been submitted to the concern building owners to keep a record of the structure before and after work.” “It is a working procedure of underground work to check any damage or cracks after or during work. There is a possibility that people may register complaints of crack or damages of structure to Metro and claim compensation. At that time, we should have some record to verify the claim of people,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/tunnel-testing-of-challenging-stretch-from-swargate-to-civil-court-complete-tbm-machine-to-begin-work-101614705208016.html
02-03-2021||Other||Jumbo Covid care centres prepped to reopen if case spike continues: Rao||PUNE In light of the increasing Covid cases in Pune, the administration has decided to keep its Jumbo Covid care facilities in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PMC) ready to admit patients. Until patients are admitted to these facilities, the district administration has devised a plan to use the infrastructure for inoculation. According to Saurabh Rao, Pune divisional commissioner, the Jumbo Covid facilities will be ready with basic preparations in a week, and as per requirement the capacity of these facilities will be increased. Following a steering committee meeting held on Tuesday, Saurabh Rao said that the Jumbo hospitals in PMC and PCMC will be made ready with oxygen beds. “Considering the present Covid situation it is essential to keep Jumbo facilities ready for the next three months as part of health infrastructure preparedness,” said Rao.Pune district had two Jumbo Covid facilities, one at the College of Engineering Pune (COEP) and another at Annasaheb Magar Stadium in Bhosari. The COEP facility was made operational during the last week of August with a capacity of 800 beds. The Annasaheb Magar facility was operational in September with an 800-bed capacity. As the Covid tally came down drastically by December, the administration decided to shut down both facilities and distribute the health equipment such as beds, ventilators, and oxygen cylinders, to other government-run medical facilities. In next three days a structural and electrical audit of both the Jumbo facilities in PMC and PCMC will be done by the College of Engineering, Pune. Rao said that once the audit is completed, basic preparations will be carried out within a week. Corporations will float tenders for new operators. After reopening, the Jumbo hospitals will only have oxygen beds and patients needing ICUs will be transferred to Sassoon hospital. “We have decided that we will not keep a high dependency unit (HDU) at a Jumbo facility. We only use oxygenated beds in the facility and a new operator will be appointed for this. We are tying up a Jumbo facility with Sassoon. Sassoon hospital’s dean has agreed to admit the ICU patients on priority. Of course we will have to increase the infrastructure and human resources at Sassoon. In Friday’s meeting we will put this before the guardian minister and take further decisions as per his instructions,” said Rao. The district administration has decided to use the jumbo facilities as a vaccination centre until patients are admitted. “We have made detailed plans for the actual preparations at the vaccination centre when people come to get the vaccines. There is ample space there and people can sit properly. So as per need we are gradually increasing the infrastructure,” Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jumbo-covid-care-centres-prepped-to-reopen-if-case-spike-continues-rao-101614704188084.html
02-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s daily Covid-19 cases remain below 8,000 for second straight day||Maharashtra’s daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) remained below 8,000 for the second day in a row as the state recorded 7,863 new infections on Tuesday, according to data released by the government. The state had reported more than 8,000 cases up until Saturday. According to data, the state’s tally stands at 21,69,330 and there are close to 80,000 active cases so far.With 54 deaths on Tuesday, Maharashtra’s death toll reached 52,238. The state had recorded more than 40 fatalities due to Covid-19 per day since last week with the death rate dropping to 30 on Sunday. Also, 6,332 people recovered from the disease taking the tally of recovered people to 20,36,790. The health authorities conducted 75,521 tests in the last 24 hours.Mumbai recorded 849 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday taking the number of cases to 327,621. The number of new cases in Mumbai remained above 800 for a week in a row and two people succumbed to Covid-19 taking the death toll to 11,481. The recovery rate in the city stood at 93.89% while the case fatality rate remained at 2.41%. The positivity rate also remained at a high of 13.21%. More than 350,000 people are in home quarantine and 3,558 others are under institutional quarantine.Among other districts, Thane reported 567 new cases of Covid-19 taking the total infected tally to 265,485. The death toll rose to 6,276 as four people succumbed to Covid-19. The Covid-19 mortality in the district is currently at 2.36%, according to a report by news agency PTI.Pune reported 703 new cases of the coronavirus disease which took its Covid-19 tally to 210,399 and with three deaths the toll in the city has gone up to 4,578. Nagpur and Amravati reported 809 and 483 new Covid-19 cases respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-daily-covid-19-cases-remain-below-8-000-for-second-straight-day-101614696249590.html
02-03-2021||Delhi||IndiGo flight to Lucknow makes emergency landing at Karachi airport as flyer takes ill||An IndiGo flight from UAE’s Sharjah to Lucknow had to make an emergency landing at the Jinnah International Airport in Karachi, Pakistan, early Tuesday due to a medical emergency on-board the aircraft. A 67-year-old flyer, whose health had deteriorated during the flight, was de-boarded in Karachi and was pronounced dead by a medical team at the airport. The landing was made on humanitarian grounds, airline officials said, despite flight operations remaining suspended between the two countries.Flight operations between India and Pakistan were suspended since February 2019 in the wake of the Balakot air strike by Indian forces. It was only in July 2019 that Pakistan had reopened its airspace for international air traffic after around five months of restrictions, though flights between the two countries are suspended.However, as per the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) convention, any aircraft can land in any country in life-threatening situations, such as a medical emergency or serious technical faults. The passenger who died on board the Sharjah-Lucknow flight was identified as Habib ur Rehman, an Indian citizen. According to the officials aware of the development, the flight 6E 1412, an Airbus 320 aircraft with a seating capacity of 182 passengers, departed from Sharjah International Airport at 1.59am on Tuesday for Lucknow. The flight had two pilots and four crew members on board.“But after two hours of remaining air-bound, around 4am, when the aircraft had just entered the Pakistani air space via Iran, one of the passengers started feeling unwell. The crew then alerted the captain who decided to land under medical emergency and contacted the nearest air traffic control (ATC), which was the Karachi airport. Permission was sought on humanitarian grounds to land the aircraft,” said an official, who wished not to be named.ATC Karachi provided 6E 1412 a clear route to land and the flight touched down at Jinnah International Airport at 4.59am.“The passenger was taken out of the aircraft and was attended to by a team of medical experts from the Karachi airport, who pronounced him dead. The man’s family members and authorities in India were informed of his demise,” the official said.After due formalities, the aircraft took off at 8.18am, but it was made to land in Ahmedabad at 10.02am, due to the Flight Duty Time Limitation (FDTL). A second official said the crew on board had completed their flying time limit and had to stand down. Hence, the aircraft had to be landed in Ahmedabad and the crew changed. The flight finally left Ahmedabad at 12.08pm and landed in Lucknow at 1.47pm. The usual four-hour flight from Sharjah to Lucknow took close to 12 hours,” the second officer said, requesting anonymity.IndiGo on Tuesday said, “We are deeply saddened with the news and our prayers and wishes are with his family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/indigo-flight-to-lucknow-makes-emergency-landing-at-karachi-airport-as-flyer-takes-ill-101614698487696.html
02-03-2021||Other||Dagdusheth Halwai temple closed; Thousands of devotees on road cause mega traffic jam||PUNE Using Chhatrapati Shivaji road was difficult for commuters on Tuesday, as there was a massive traffic jam outside the Shrimant Dagdusheth Halwai temple. As Tuesday was Angarkhi Chaturthi, the temple administraion decided to close the temple against the backdrop of the increasing number of Covid cases in the city. Still, thousands of faithful were present seeking blessings of the temple’s Ganesh statue, from the roadside. Public transport buses and other vehicles were diverted by the Pune traffic police, as there was huge crowd present throughout the day. “We were fully prepared and extra bandobast was given to clear the expected crowd. Though the temple was closed for darshan, devotees were coming right from early morning and till late at night. Accordingly, our police bandobast was deployed outside the temple area and on road to clear the rush and monitor the traffic. Public transport buses were diverted to another route,” said assistant commissioner of police (traffic) Vijay Chaudhary. The traffic jams began from the Shaniwarwada chowk till the Dagadusheth temple. Vehicles were moving slowly on the Shivaji road throughout the day, if at all. Mahesh Suryavanshi, treasurer, Dagdusheth Ganpati Mandal trust, said, “We have taken all the necessary safety precautions at the temple and today it was closed for public darshan. Online darshan was going throughout the day on our mobile application and website for devotees across the world. Still we need to respect the faith of people who came to take darshan from outside, and good traffic management was done by Pune traffic poilce.” Sagar Abnawe, a Ganpati devotee said, “On every Chaturthi day I come to Dagadusheth Ganpati temple to take darshan and today, being one of the most important Chaturthi’s in the year, I had to come here. I was bit disappointed when I got to know that temple was closed, but then I took the darshan from outside and it took me an hour to walk to the temple and take darshan as a massive crowd was there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dagaduseth-halwai-temple-closed-thousands-of-devotees-on-road-cause-mega-traffic-jam-101614697947808.html
02-03-2021||Chandigarh||Teachers’ protest: Panjab University postpones all exams scheduled on March 4||Panjab University has postponed all exams scheduled on March 4 to March 6 in the wake of the protest call given by teachers of Chandigarh and Punjab.The decision comes a day after the teachers announced that they will go on mass casual leave and boycott exams on March 4. The teachers are protesting against the Punjab government’s move to delink their pay scales from those of the University Grants Commission (UGC). Through an official statement, PU said, “It is notified for the information of the public in general and the students that the papers of all the examinations scheduled for March 4, 2021, are postponed to March 6, 2021.” On March 4, the teachers of Panjab University, and colleges of Chandigarh and Punjab, under the banner of Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (PFUCTO), will assemble at the parade ground on the PU campus and march towards the Punjab Assembly to submit a memorandum regarding their demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/teachers-protest-panjab-university-postpones-all-exams-scheduled-on-march-4-101614695608488.html
02-03-2021||Other||Isro-SPPU’s Space Technology Cell invites research proposals||PUNE In a bid to encourage young minds to take up various space-related research projects, the Space Technology Cell of the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) at the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has now appealed for new research proposals under its SPPU- Isro joint research programme for 2021-22.All proposals must be submitted before March 31. Financial support is going to be provided by ISRO for research given the project’s relevance to Isro’s present and future programmes.“Research proposals related to launch vehicle technology, satellite technology, ground-based systems and space sciences are supported. Proposals may be made by the faculty of SPPU and its affiliated colleges or recognised research centres. Participation of Isro’s scientists, right from the stage of formulating the proposals, is found to help in successful completion of the projects. It is, therefore, necessary to interact with Isro’s scientists before submission,” said M C Uttam, director of the Isro–SPPU space technology cell located inside the university campus.“Proposals jointly prepared with the participation of Isro scientists will be given preference. Process for final selection of the proposals involves evaluation at two-three stages and also interaction with the prospective investigators. As a first step, research proposals received in response to this invitation will be scrutinised by a preliminary evaluation committee (PEC), and shortlisted proposals will be called in for a detailed presentation,” he added.Isro focusedA list of topics of interest to Isro is available in the ISRO website under the link – www.isro.gov.in/research-and-academia-interface/submission-of-research-proposal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/isrosppus-space-technology-cell-invites-research-proposals-101614695547563.html
02-03-2021||Other||Central government team in Pune to assess Covid situation||PUNE With Covid-19 cases in the city spiking, a central government team arrived on Tuesday, to take a review of the situation and the ongoing vaccination drive.Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “The central team arrived in the city. Nipun Vinayak, joint secretary, ministry of health, is here. They are having meetings with officials representing the various health machineries. Their aim is to analyse the Covid situation in Pune district and the trend for this year. They will submit a report to the state and central government.”Meanwhile, officers from the district administration and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) declined commenting on the central team’s, but confirmed that the team visited places in the city and had discussions with various government agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/central-government-team-in-pune-to-assess-covid-situation-101614694827566.html
02-03-2021||Other||No handling of products by customers: Tulshibaug tightens Covid norms||PUNE As the strict restrictions have been imposed in Pune district due to the increasing number of Covid cases, Tulshibaug market has also taken cognisance of the situation. Along with the regular Covid-19 safety precautionary measures, traders and shop owners in Tulshibaug have decided to make the Covid norms stricter and safer for customers and themselves.“The number of Covid cases is on the rise in the city. Since the market started we have been taking all the necessary safety precautions like sanitisation of shops, using hand sanitiser, social distancing and face masks. Now, going forward we have decided to make it stricter and safer, so products will be displayed to customers from a distance. Also, we are thinking of restricting some of the entry points to the market, so that crowds can be monitored,” said Nitin Pandit, secretary, Tulshibaug market shop owners association.There are 300 shops and 300 registered hawkers in Tulshibaug market, which is located in the heart of the city on Bajirao Road. Jewellery, cosmetics, clothes, children’s wear and household items are sold here. Earlier, there was always a crowd in the market, except on Mondays, when the market is closed.“Traders, shop owners and small hawkers in the market all suffered due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Business came down drastically last one year. During the Diwali period, it somewhat gained momentum. Now again, in the last 15 days, the crowd has reduced to almost 50 per cent of normal and business is also down. We hope that all the shop owners are ready to make the necessary changes for the safety of the public,” Pandit added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-handling-of-products-by-customers-tulshibaug-tightens-covid-norms-101614694527441.html
02-03-2021||Delhi||Results of keenly contested Delhi MCD by-poll tomorrow||Results for the by-polls in five wards of Delhi’s civic body, two of which fall under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) and three under East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), will be announced on Wednesday. Polling was held in five wards on Sunday - Ward No 32N, (Rohini-C); Ward No 62N, (Shalimar Bagh North) in north Delhi and Ward No 02-E (Trilokpuri); Ward No 08-E (Kalyanpuri) and Ward No 41-E (Chauhan Bangar) in east Delhi.Around 50.86% voters turned out to vote in the MCD by-polls with the highest voting percentage recorded in Kalyanpuri and the lowest in Shalimar Bagh North. The elections are being seen as a test for Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, as they are a precursor to the 2022 Delhi civic body polls.In the 2017 MCD elections, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) won four of these five wards but all the three civic bodies were retained by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the city. The BJP has ruled all three MCDs in Delhi for nearly 15 years now. The Congress was pushed to a distant third in the 2017 MCD elections.The AAP, which has fielded two former MLAs in these by-polls, saw its party chief campaign for all the five candidates, as did other cabinet ministers, including deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia. The AAP’s Delhi unit convener Gopal Rai called the by-polls a “semi-final” to end the BJP’s 15-year control of the civic bodies.“The BJP spread politics of hate during the Delhi assembly elections, but people again voted for an AAP government under chief minister Kejriwal. The AAP will defeat BJP in the MCD by-election just the way it did in the assembly elections,” Rai said.The BJP also held many roadshows and meetings at the booth level and tasked each party worker with getting support from at least 21 houses, as part of their campaign. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said his party will win all five wards, claiming that the people of Delhi believe in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s motto of “sabka saath, sabka vikas aur sabka vishwas”.Congress in its poll campaign accused both the BJP and the AAP of not doing anything other than “bickering”. Shaktisinh Gohil, Delhi Congress in-charge, said people are tired of the misrule and shadow boxing of the BJP and the AAP governments. “Governments of both the parties at the Centre and in Delhi have been self-obsessed without doing any work. In the past few years, they only made charges and counter-charges against each other, about fund misuse, stalled developments and corruption,” said Gohil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/results-of-keenly-contested-delhi-mcd-by-poll-tomorrow-101614692209910.html
02-03-2021||Delhi||As CNG prices rise in Delhi-NCR, auto drivers bear brunt||The Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL), the firm that retails CNG to automobiles and piped natural gas to household kitchens, on Tuesday, increased prices of Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) and Piped Natural Gas (PNG) in Delhi and the NCR, leaving auto drivers in the lurch.The price of CNG has been increased by 70 paise per kilogram and PNG by 91 paise. The new rates have come into effect from Tuesday morning. In Delhi, the price of CNG has now gone up to ₹43.40 per kg. At the same time, CNG will be available at the rate of 49.08 per kg in Noida, Greater Noida, and Ghaziabad.The increase in the CNG and PNG prices in Delhi-NCR has put the auto and taxi drivers in trouble due to a continuous hike in the prices. They say their survival is getting tougher amidst such inflation.Noida-based auto driver Manoj Ojha, speaking to ANI, said, "Prices of everything are going up. Whether it is petrol, diesel, LPG, or PNG. The price of CNG has been increasing continuously since the COVID-19 lockdown. It is getting very difficult for us to survive."Atul Kumar, another auto driver from Noida, said there is no work, people are paying less fare too. The problem of unemployment is worsening. The way prices are increasing, it is becoming very difficult for us to bear the cost of a CNG auto."Increasing the rate of CNG will cause several difficulties for us. It is getting tougher for us to bear the auto's expenses. Where the CNG tank used to get filled in ₹100 is now taking ₹120. Also, because of the farmers who are sitting on the border right now, we have to cover several kilometres for a ₹10 ride," said Sameer, a Ghazipur auto driver.A Delhi-based cab driver Atul Kumar, who drives his cab in Delhi-NCR, said, "The expenses have exceeded the earnings. Only we know how we are managing. The inflation is increasing. What can we do?"Meanwhile, Youth Congress workers staged a protest outside the petroleum ministry over rising prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas.Hundreds of Indian Youth Congress activists assembled outside the petroleum ministry office with placards in their hands and raised slogans against the central government. The police, meanwhile, arrested a few of the protesters to control the situation.The prices of petrol and diesel have increased sharply over the past few days, with that of petrol touching the 100-rupee mark in some of the cities. Opposition parties have held protests in different parts of the country over the rising prices of fuel. On February 25, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that she will not be able to answer when the prices of petrol and diesel will be reduced.However, Union Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas and Steel Dharmendra Pradhan has said that price of fuel will decrease once the winter season ends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-cng-prices-rise-in-delhi-ncr-auto-drivers-bear-brunt-101614691110977.html
02-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi records zero Covid-19 deaths, positivity rate drops to 0.33 per cent||No new fatality linked to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was recorded in Delhi in the last 24 hours, according to Delhi government's health department data on Tuesday. The national capital recorded 217 new cases which pushed the its infection tally to 6,39,681.The health department data also showed that the positivity rate fell from 0.44 per cent to 0.33 per cent. Seventy eight more people have recovered from the disease in the national capital in the last 24 hours, it further showed.In the said period, 66,624 tests for Covid-19 were conducted, out of which 23,992 were rapid antigen tests and 42,632 RT-PCR.The health department bulletin also said that there are 562 containment zones in Delhi.On Monday, Delhi recorded 175 new cases of the coronavirus disease, and conducted 39,700 tests, which led to a positivity rate of 0.44%, the highest since January 15.The Delhi government is also holding a Covid-19 vaccination drive for its population, along with the nationwide exercise. On Monday, nearly 6,200 persons over the age of 60 years or with co-morbidities took the jab on the first day of the drive held across 308 vaccination sites.On the day when registrations had started on the Co-WIN 2.0 portal, 5,176 people over the age of 60 years received the vaccine. There were 1,009 people over the age of 45 with one of the 30 listed co-morbidities who also received their first dose of the vaccine on Monday.The 308 vaccination sites are located in 192 hospitals across the city - 136 private hospitals that can charge up to ₹250 for each jab and 56 government hospitals where the shot will be administered for free.Experts have also called for faster pace of vaccination in areas witnessing an increase in the number of cases. Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences had told HT last week that people in the high-risk groups residing in regions seeing a spurt in infections should be immunised quickly “as it will help in decrease mortality and hospitalisations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-zero-covid-19-deaths-positivity-rate-drops-to-0-33-per-cent-101614690516543.html
02-03-2021||Bhopal||MP CM says Budget will make state 'aatmanirbhar', Kamal Nath hits back||Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday described the state's budget for 2021-22 as one aiming at making Madhya Pradesh "Atmanirbhar".Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Kamal Nath, on the other hand, said it provided no relief from high fuel prices, nor did it make any concrete provisions for industry reeling under the impact of the coronavirus pandemic.Finance Minister Jagdish Devda presented a budget of ₹2.41 lakh crore for 2021-22 in the Assembly with no additional tax burden earlier in the day.Before finalizing the budget document, the government had invited suggestions from experts by organizing a webinar "to prepare a roadmap for making the state Atmanirbhar (self- reliant)," Chouhan told reporters."It is based on four pillars -- development of physical infrastructure, health and education, economy and employment and good governance," he said.These four "missions" will be implemented on the lines of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision to make the country self-reliant, he said.For infrastructure the budget has made a provision of ₹44,152 crore, ₹40,958 crore has been allocated for providing quality education at government schools and nine new government medical colleges will also be set up, he said."The nal-jal (tap water) scheme (for which funds have been allocated) is historic and will be a major boon for women," the chief minister said.Chouhan also noted that despite the COVID-19 pandemic, GDP of the state fell by only 2.12 per cent, much less than the expected 7-8 per cent decrease."We have managed to restrict it (the fall) and compared to last year, we have enhanced budgetary provisions by 22 per cent," he said.Amid the pandemic, his government provided adequate assistance to farmers and those schemes will continue, the chief minister said.State Congress chief Kamal Nath termed the budget as "a bundle of lies". It was directionless and did not provide any relief from the skyrocketing fuel prices by reducing VAT and did not extend the agriculture loan waiver scheme, he said."No relaxation has been given in the registration fee and there is no solid action-plan for generating employment," Nath said.There were no concrete provisions for health and education sectors, not was there any budgetary provision for measures to curb crime against women, he claimed.There was nothing for reviving the economy by providing relief to the industries and businesses, the Congress leader claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-cm-says-budget-will-make-state-aatmanirbhar-kamal-nath-hits-back-101614688416525.html
02-03-2021||Noida||Covid-19: Ghaziabad achieves 100% target on soft launch of vaccination for senior citizens||Ghaziabad: During the soft launch of the vaccination drive against Covid-19 for the third category of beneficiaries on Monday, the Ghaziabad district achieved 100% of its target. District health department officials said that over 60% beneficiaries were walk-ins while the rest had registered themselves earlier on the Co-WIN website.Officials said that of the overall target of 300, 135 were administered their first shot at the Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital, while 78 and 87 beneficiaries were vaccinated at the District Women’s Hospital (DWH) and Yashoda Hospital at Kaushambi, respectively.“Overall, the three hospitals combined vaccinated a total of 300 beneficiaries and nearly 60-62% of these were walk-ins. Some beneficiaries said they were not comfortable using the portal, which is why they simply came by and got themselves registered at the session centre itself,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad.He said that all three hospitals had been given a target of 100 beneficiaries each. The DWH and Yashoda hospitals were given doses of Covishield while the Sanjay Nagar District Hospital was given stock of Covaxin, as per government directions, he added.While Yashoda Hospital offered the vaccine at a payment of ₹250, the two government hospitals provided the jab free-of-cost, as per government directions.“We will have a video-conference with state health officials on Tuesday when further course of action for the category three of vaccination will be decided on a large scale,” Dr Gupta added. The beneficiaries under category three consist of citizens who are aged or will attain the age of 60 years or more as on January 1, 2022. The other group consists of citizens who are aged or will attain the age of 45 to 59 years as on January 1, 2022 and have any specific co-morbidities. “I chose to walk-in and took the vaccine. I faced no issues after. During the earlier phases of vaccination held for healthcare workers, I had sent all details but my name did not figure in the list. So I waited and walked-in at Sanjay Nagar Hospital on Monday as a beneficiary under category 3,” said Dr Satya Prakash, a resident of Kavi Nagar, aged 92 years.He said his wife, aged 90 years, passed away due to Covid-19 on November 25 last year.“We vaccinated 87 beneficiaries and there was an issue with the self-registration module on the portal when entries were held up for about an hour. Of those who came, about 50 had registered themselves prior to coming. To reduce wastage, we ensured that a vial of vaccine will be opened only when 10 beneficiaries are present at a site. So, we had no wastage Monday,” said a spokesperson from the Yashoda Hospital at Kaushambi. Dr Sangita Goel, the chief medical superintendent of DWH, said all recipients were walk-ins. “They came and completed the on-spot registration. About 50 beneficiaries at our hospital were senior citizens,” she added. Dr Sanjay Teotia, the chief medical superintendent of the government hospital at Sanjay Nagar said that the hospital surpassed the target of 100 beneficiaries. “We had an additional stock of vaccines (150 doses) so we vaccinated people who walked-in instead of asking them to return. The response was encouraging and only 10-11 beneficiaries were those who had pre-registered while the rest had walked-in. We used the Covaxin vaccine,” he added. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday took his first vaccine dose at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi. He shared his picture on social media.Senior citizens like Dr OP Agarwal, aged 76, who came with his wife as a walk-in entry, said they were motivated by the PM.“It was very encouraging and I along with my wife came even though we had not done pre-registration. People should not worry and must come forward to get vaccinated,” he added. Regarding the Cowin 2.0 app, the ministry of health and family welfare on Monday had clarified that, “Registration and booking for appointment for Covid-19 vaccination is to be done through the CoWIN portal: http://cowin.gov.in. There is no Co-WIN app for beneficiary registration. The App on Play Store is for administrators only.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-ghaziabad-achieves-100-target-on-soft-launch-of-vaccination-for-senior-citizens-101614688287265.html
02-03-2021||Other||Plague, H1N1 & Covid-19: 103-year-old Naidu Hospital is Pune’s first line of defence in battle against contagious diseases||When the bubonic plague was wreaking havoc in Mumbai in the late 19th century, neighbouring Pune also suffered. Years, later, the British realised the need for a medical facility dedicated to combat contagious diseases, and in 1918, built a smaller ward, known today as the Dr Naidu Hospital.The Naidu hospital has been at the forefront, in terms of treatment, in Pune’s war against Covid-19.Even as the city has seen multiple super-specialty hospitals come up over the years, the Naidu hospital is first in line, and has been used as the primary healthcare centre to treat infectious diseases, from plague a century ago to H1N1 (Swine flu) and now Covid-19. When Covid cases first surfaced in the city, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) chose to admit most patients to the Naidu hospital, where the staff is used to dealing with epidemics. So much so, that Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke on the phone to Chhaya Jagtap, a nurse at the hospital and applauded the role the hospital and its staff played during the early days of pandemic last year. “Like you, there are lakhs of nurses, paramedical staff, doctors, who like true “tapasvis”, are serving patients in various hospitals in the country right now. I would like to congratulate you. I am happy to have heard your experiences,” PM Modi had said then, during the conversation with Jagtap. It was in 1918, that the British regime built the two wards at the Raja Bahadur mill road near Sangamwadi. The location chosen for the wards was deliberately kept outside the city, to keep patients suffering from contagious disease in isolation. As Pune grew over the years, the hospital is now in the heart of city, in a manner of speaking. Started as an epidemic hospital to address the plague, the facility was later renamed after Dr Naidu, about who the civic body does not have any concrete information. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant medical officer, PMC and in charge of the infectious disease cell, said, “We don’t have an idea about Dr Naidu and his background, but it is said that he played an important role in fighting the plague in the British era. Considering his contribution, his name was given to this hospital.” Dr Naidu, according to some, was said to be the head of the “Plague Prevention Committee” of the then Pune Sub-Municipal Council. Dr Subhash Konkane, 70, who is an honorary consultant for Naidu hospital said, “ Naidu hospital is the key hospital in the city. For any infectious disease, the first important thing is to get admission for patients and keep them in isolation. All airborne diseases are dangerous and spread fast. For that we need to keep them in isolation. Naidu’s location is important.” Konkane has been working with Naidu hospital since 1980 and regularly used to visit the hospital till the age of 65. “We saw very critical epidemics. Not a single hospital gives admission to patients when there is outbreak of infectious disease. Though my age is 70 years, considering shortage of medical manpower, I treated Covid -19 patients in Naidu hospital for almost four months,” said Kokane. The hospital played an important role during the 2010 swine flu outbreak too. All the first cases in all epidemics are admitted to Naidu hospital. In every such epidemic, Naidu’s hospital’s service has been appreciated by citizens. Sanjay Pardeshi who used to wash clothes at Naidu hospital said, “Traditionally our three generations are associated with this hospital. My grandfather, father and now our generation are carrying out laundry work in this hospital. Earlier, there was only a ground floor and a few quarters. We have played games on the premises from childhood. As we saw the various epidemics from childhood, we did not have any fear about it. This hospital is like a family member for us.” While it had only two wards initially, Dr Naidu hospital’s capacity gradually increased with every pandemic. Earlier, there were barracks on the ground floor. The bed capacity was 50 patients, but during every epidemic, the bed capacity increased. Later, PMC converted this hospital into a multi-storey building in 2014. There are various departments in Naidu hospital Shripad Deshpande who is 69-years-old and worked as part of the nursing staff in the hospital said, “I worked with the Naidu hospital for 11 years as a nursing assistant. We treated many patients. At that time there were no gloves or masks. I really enjoyed the service at Naidu hospital. It’s the need of the hour to have such hospitals in the city. It is true that we don’t know much history, but it was established by Britishers for the treatment of plague patients.” In 2020, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) decided to build a medical college to be named after former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on the premises of the Naidu hospital. “It is good that we are erecting a medical college, but while doing it, we must ensure that there will be infectious disease hospitals and wards on the premises,” said local corporator Arvind Shinde. In May 2020, the PMC staff stumbled upon 200 new beds lying unused inside a godown at the hospital. The beds are now being used by the hospital. “I spent my whole childhood in Pune station and the Naidu hospital area. We have seen that snake bite, dog bite and AIDS patients visit this hospital. Sometimes there were no vacancies and patients used to take treatment under the tree in this hospital. Even the government-run Sassoon Hospital used to refer their patients to this hospital,” said Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/plague-h1n1-covid-19-103-year-old-naidu-hospital-is-pune-s-first-line-of-defence-in-battle-against-contagious-diseases-101614686547143.html
02-03-2021||Delhi||'Not allowed': Delhi HC raps petitioner for using 'Tom, Dick and Harry' in plea||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday pulled up a petitioner for using "Tom, Dick and Harry" in the petition and said such language is not permissible in pleadings before the court.A single-judge bench of Justice Prathiba M Singh was hearing a petition filed by Group Captain Atul Jain against the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) and the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT), on the ground that wrong procedures are being adopted by these tribunals.The petitioner was appearing in person. The court noted that the petitioner appeared to have drafted the petition on his own.The court also noted that a perusal of paragraph 6(f) shows that there is slang language being used in this petition."The said paragraph reads as under, '(f) The AA/NCLT cannot permit any person - Tom, Dick, and Harry' to represent and defend the respondent u/s-7 of IBC, as the rules do not permit it," the court noted.The court further said the petition is liable to be dismissed, however, the petitioner later wished to withdraw it.Also read: Supreme Court ends bail of over 2,000 prisoners given on Covid-19 ground"Such language is not permissible in pleadings before the court. Accordingly, this petition is liable to be dismissed. If the petitioner is, aggrieved by any order of the NCLT or NCLAT, he may draft a proper petition and only then, file the same," the court said.The court added that the petition is dismissed as withdrawn with liberty to avail of his remedies in accordance with the law."Since the petitioner is appearing in person, this court is refraining from imposing costs at this stage," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/not-allowed-delhi-hc-raps-petitioner-for-using-tom-dick-and-harry-in-plea-101614683774027.html
02-03-2021||Mumbai||Probe not against Tendulkar or Lata Mangeshkar but against BJP IT cell: Deshmukh||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday clarified in the state assembly that investigation into Twitter posts by Indian icons in response to tweets by international celebrities on farmers’ protests is not aimed at legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar or former Indian cricketer Sachin Tendulkar.Deshmukh while replying to a question to the Leader of Opposition and Maharashtra’s former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said, “The probe has been ordered against people belonging to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) IT cell. Twelve people have been identified and they will be probed, not Sachin Tendulkar or Lata Mangeshkar.”Fadnavis had said that the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) wanted to investigate people speaking in the interests of the nation. “The MVA government wants to investigate and question people who tweeted in national interest,” Fadnavis was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Deshmukh on February 8 ordered a probe to check if Indian celebrities were forced to tweet by the BJP to counter the tweets posted by international celebrities who tweeted criticising the government’s handling of the farm laws.Several Indian celebrities mostly from India’s film industry as well as the cricket industry had tweeted using the hashtags #IndiaAgainstPropaganda and #IndiaTogether on February 3 and expressed their support towards the government. This came after pop star and singer Rihanna and Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg had extended their support to the farmers who have been protesting for the last 96 days at Delhi’s borders.Maharashtra Congress had then alleged that the tweets must have been shared due to pressure from the Centre. “There is a similar pattern in these tweets by celebrities, including Akshay Kumar, Suniel Shetty, and sportspersons Sachin Tendulkar and Saina Nehwal. There needs to be an investigation to check if these national heroes were pressured by the BJP for such advocacy on social media,” Maharashtra Congress leader Sachin Sawant had said.Sawant had also said that these celebrities need to be given more protection and suspected that there was communication between these celebrities and the ruling party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/probe-not-against-tendulkar-or-lata-mangeshkar-but-against-bjp-it-cell-deshmukh-101614684031270.html
02-03-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Ghazipur border opened briefly, shut again||Vehicular movement to Ghaziabad from Delhi through the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border was partially restored for nearly six hours till Tuesday noon, providing some relief to commuters who have been facing traffic snarls due to the closure of the border, where farmers from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand have been protesting against the three farm laws for over three months.However, the route was closed again noon onwards and traffic was diverted to the other border points. Senior police officers who did not want to be named said that no official order had been issued to open the border. They said it was a temporary arrangement to facilitate movement of emergency vehicles.“We had been facilitating the movement of ambulances earlier as well. The movement of vehicles was restored for a few hours in the morning as some emergency vehicles were stuck in the jam. The route has been closed again because there is no official order to open the border or the roads,” said an officer, requesting anonymity.Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Delhi’s Ghazipur border partially reopensAll the six carriageways of Delhi-Meerut Expressway, NH-9 and NH-24 have been completely blocked with multi-layered barricading and deployment of police personnel following the violence that erupted during the farmers’ tractor rally on January 26 (Republic Day). Movement of vehicles via the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad border has remained affected since November 25-26, when thousands of farmers who arrived from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand occupied the roads after they were stopped from entering Delhi.On Tuesday, one carriageway of NH-9 was opened around 6am for traffic going towards Ghaziabad from Delhi, even as the Delhi Police said that the barricades had been removed post midnight; movement of vehicles on the road was allowed from around 6am.Around noon, the carriageway was again barricaded at the entry of the Ghazipur flyover near the Ghazipur flower market. Police personnel were also deployed to regulate the traffic and guide motorists towards alternative routes for travelling towards Ghaziabad. The sudden closure led to confusion and chaos among motorists and many of them tried to argue with the police personnel about the closure.“Many vehicles passed before the police closed the road again. When we asked why they opened it in the morning and closed it again, the policemen said they received orders from their higher-ups. People are facing traffic jams and inconvenience because of the blockade, but nobody is bothered about it,” said Sanjeev Kumar, a resident of Kaushambi, who was returning home after dropping his friend at Sarai Kale Khan bus terminal.The Ghazipur border is among the three main borders where farmers have been protesting against the three contentious farm laws for the past 97 days. Initially, only the carriageways going towards Delhi from Ghaziabad were closed because of the farmers’ sit-in protest. But after the January 26 violence, all the carriageways have been closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-ghazipur-border-opened-briefly-shut-again-101614683007784.html
02-03-2021||Delhi||Fuel price hike: Youth Congress stages protest outside petroleum ministry||citiesYouth Congress workers on Tuesday staged a protest outside the petroleum ministry over rising prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas.Hundreds of Indian Youth Congress activists assembled outside the petroleum ministry office with placards in their hands and raised slogans against the central government. The police, meanwhile, arrested a few of the protesters to control the situation.The prices of petrol and diesel have increased sharply over the past few days, with that of petrol touching the 100-rupee mark in some of the cities. Opposition parties have held protests in different parts of the country over the rising prices of fuel.On February 25, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that she won't be able to answer when the prices of petrol and diesel will be reduced."I won't be able to say 'when'. It is a 'dharam sankat' (dilemma)," Sitharaman said at an event in Ahmedabad after being asked when would the central government reduce fuel prices.Union Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas & Steel Dharmendra Pradhan has also said that price of fuel will decrease once the winter season ends."Increase in petroleum price in international market has affected consumers too. Prices will come down a little as winter goes away. It is an international matter, price is high due to increase in demand, it happens in winter. It will come down as the season ends," Pradhan had said on February 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fuel-price-hike-youth-congress-stages-protest-outside-petroleum-ministry-101614680285911.html
02-03-2021||Mumbai||Technical glitches in CoWIN cause crowding at Mumbai’s BKC vaccination centre||On the second day of the third phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive for senior citizens and those over 45 with comorbities , chaos and crowding was reported at one of the key vaccination centres of Mumbai at Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) on Tuesday.According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials, some technical glitch in CoWIN portal led to a huge crowd gathering at BKC jumbo vaccination centre.However, the situation was brought under control soon enough, said Rajesh Dere, dean of BKC jumbo vaccination centre. “There was some technical glitch in CoWIN portal due to which, there was crowding at BKC vaccination centre. But the glitch was resolved by 11.20am, and the crowd is under control now. I request citizens to not panic and follow all Covid-19 appropriate norms throughout.”Also Read | Covid-19: Lockdown extended in Maharashtra’s Amravati for another weekFrom Monday, vaccination of general public -- comprising individuals above 45 years of age having comorbidities and senior citizens above 60 years of age -- has begun. On Monday, 1,981 beneficiaries from this category were vaccinated at eight vaccination centres in Mumbai. Of the eight centres, five were BMC-run while three are private hospitals.However, by Monday evening. BMC decided to open all 22 civic-run vaccination centres for general public. With three private hospitals also part of the drive, the number of vaccination centres for this category of beneficiaries is 25 in Mumbai. Overall, there are 44 vaccination centres in which over 200,000 citizens have been vaccinated since January 16, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/technical-glitches-in-cowin-cause-crowding-at-mumbai-s-bkc-vaccination-centre-101614681807487.html
02-03-2021||Lucknow||UP Assembly ruckus: Ruling and opposition benches trade charges||The Uttar Pradesh Assembly Tuesday witnessed a slanging match between the ruling and opposition benches over withdrawal of criminal cases by the BJP government in the state.Ruling party members alleged that cases against terrorists were withdrawn during the previous regime, while the opposition benches trashed the claim and said cases against "rioters" were withdrawn by the BJP government.Replying to a question by BSP member Shyam Sundar Sharma, Law Minister Brijesh Pathak said that from April, 2017 to July, 2020, as many as 670 cases were withdrawn by the government in 'janhit' (public interest) and "the cases pertain to political leaders and workers".He said that after the government formation, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath announced the decision to withdraw "political cases" to lessen the burden on judiciary.In his supplementary query during the Question House, the member asked about the political cases and sought a list of all people with their party affiliation whose cases were withdrawn.To this, the minister said that political cases are not defined but those with less serious charges were withdrawn."After an application is made for withdrawal of cases, a 13-point report is sought from the District Magistrate concerned and then Principal Secretaries of Home and Law departments go through it before final decision," he said, adding that as law doesn't permit discrimination on basis of parties, it would not be appropriate to take names."If Speaker permits, I can make the list of the persons whose cases were withdrawn public," the minister said.In his reply without taking name of the Samajwadi Party, the minister said that the previous government withdrew cases against terrorists who had charges under the Explosives Act and even POTA.His reaction led to a sharp attack from Leader of the Opposition Ram Govind Chowdhary who alleged that the government had taken back cases of their own men."Even Chief Minister has withdrawn his own criminal cases. The cases against rioters were withdrawn. Those who orchestrate riots are terrorists," Chowdhary said, alleging that the minister had not responded to the main question.The SP members also trooped into the well of the House raising slogans against the government.Pathak said while the first cabinet meeting of the Yogi Adityanath government decided on loan waiver of farmers, the first cabinet in 2012 had decided on withdrawal of cases against terrorists.Chowdhary taking exception to the comment said, "The minister should show the file in which terrorist word is mentioned."Replying to him, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Kumar Khanna said that on March 15, 2012 a circular was issued by the then chief secretary seeking details of such cases terming those lodged in jails as innocent.Law Minister Pathak said that he had the list of all the persons against whom cases were withdrawn and added that if the Speaker permits he could make it public.Speaker Hriday Narain Dixit, however, said that "there is not need of this." Pathak said that his government will continue to withdraw "political cases" in future also.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-assembly-ruckus-ruling-and-opposition-benches-trade-charges-101614674673253.html
02-03-2021||Bhopal||MP lawyer held for sending indecent message to magistrate, morphing her photo||The family of a 37-year-old lawyer arrested in Madhya Pradesh last month for allegedly sending an “indecent message” to a magistrate on her birthday on January 28 and morphing her picture has accused police and Ratlam district bar of framing him.Vijay Kumar Yadav’s family has moved the Madhya Pradesh high court after lower courts rejected his bail twice. His brother, Jai Singh, said Yadav was framed for speaking up for the poor and questioning the working of the police and the District Bar Association. “He lodged a complaint against three magistrates including the madam, who lodged a complaint against him... He also sent a notice to the police superintendent of police... As my brother served the people free of cost and fought against injustice, the association debarred him. He was targeted by the association and police.” Also Read | Mumbai real estate developer arrested for raping woman on pretext of marriageGaurav Tiwari, the police superintendent, said Yadav sent an indecent birthday message to the magistrate and also edited her picture after downloading it from her Facebook account. He added Yadav posted the picture on a birthday card. “Later, the system officer of the district court lodged a complaint...” Tiwari said Yadav was arrested on February 8 under the Indian Penal Code’s Sections related to cheating, forgery of valuable items, forgery for purpose of cheating, and under the Information Technology Act for downloading and editing the picture without the magistrate’s consent. He added Yadav also had the picture printed in a magazine he runs.Public prosecutor Vimal Chhipani, who opposed Yadav’s bail application, accused the lawyer of sexually harassing the magistrate by sending her the indecent message. “Yadav has insulted both judiciary and advocates. He always created a nuisance. He wrote cheap and indecent stories on his blog and always insulted women.”District Bar Association secretary Pankaj Billala called Yadav an indecent man, who allegedly used legal knowledge to suppress people and to terrorise them. “He started practising two years ago. His activities always offended the people in the court... we debarred him from the association a year ago.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-lawyer-held-for-sending-indecent-message-to-magistrate-morphing-her-photo-101614681028326.html
02-03-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Nadda asks BJP officials to strengthen cadre, do self-analysis||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Jagat Prakash Nadda on Tuesday advised party officials to strengthen the cadre and do self-analysis.Addressing the 'State Executive Meeting' at Birla Auditorium, Jaipur, Nadda asked the officials to complete the formation of booth committees by September 24."A lot of people among us have stopped self-analysis. This reduces our productivity. You all need to start doing self-analysis. You need to analyse --what you are giving to the party, how much contribution are you making to the party, at what level are you accepted in the party," he said."The formation of our booth committees should be completed by 25th September i.e. Deendayal Upadhyay ji's birth anniversary. There should not be any booth where our booth committee is not formed and every booth should have women, youth, Dalit brothers, people from backward caste in our committees," he added.Nadda asked the party officials to ensure BJP's victory in Rajasthan in the next Assembly polls."Ashok Gehlot government's priority is to not have a well-governed state. Seeing this, it is our responsibility, to say 'namaskar to this sarkar' and make sure that the lotus blooms here," he said.Commenting upon the goal of the party in 2021, Nadda said, "We have a good image in public, but we are a cadre-based party. Therefore, it is our responsibility to strengthen the cadre. Strong mandals, active booths and active panna pramkukhs, these are the three goals we have to complete in 2021."Lauding the Prime Minister's role in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic, the BJP chief said, "Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the second phase of Covid-19 vaccination has begun. We have sent the Made-in-India vaccines to over 20 countries.""Prime Minister Narendra Modi by taking the Covid-19 vaccine yesterday has given a clear message that we must take the vaccination drive ahead," he added.Nadda also slammed Opposition parties over the protest against the three farm laws saying that farmers are our 'annadata' and "we need to bring them in the mainstream. But, many parties are exploiting the protest for their own gain."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-nadda-asks-bjp-officials-to-strengthen-cadre-do-selfanalysis-101614678913983.html
02-03-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka HC refuses to stay proceedings against Kangana Ranaut||The Karnataka high court on Tuesday refused to stay proceedings initiated against actor Kangana Ranaut over her last year’s tweets against farmers’ protests. The court further posted the case for hearing on March 18. Ranaut had moved the high court, seeking to quash the First Information Report filed against her by the Tumkuru police here last year on the directions of the judicial magistrate first class.The bench headed by justice HP Sandesh told Ranaut’s advocate, Rizwan Siddiquee, to comply by the office objections in a week’s time for the court to consider his submissions. Also Read | Defamation case: Bailable warrant issued against Kangana RanautAdvocate Ramesh Naik had filed a complaint against Ranaut in September last year over her tweet which allegedly said, “People who spread misinformation and rumours about CAA that caused riots are the same people who are now spreading misinformation about Farmer’s bill and causing terror in the nation, they are terrorists.”Later, Naik approached the judicial magistrate first class in Tumkuru, alleging that the authorities had failed to take action against the actor. Following this, on October 12, 2020, a First Information Report was registered against Ranaut under Sections 153 (giving provocation with intent to cause riots), 153(A) (vilification or attacks upon the religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc of any particular group), and 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-hc-refuses-to-stay-proceedings-against-kangana-ranaut-101614679407578.html
02-03-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka man found alive just before autopsy, is responding to treatment||A 27-year-old man declared brain dead after an accident in Karnataka was responding to treatment and his vitals were normal on Tuesday a day after he was rushed to another hospital when a doctor deputed to conduct his postmortem noticed goosebumps and movement of his hands when he touched him.A private hospital in Belagavi declared Shankar Gombi brain dead after keeping him under two-day observation and asked his family to take his body after he met with an accident in Mahalingapur on February 27. The body was sent to the Mahalingapur government hospital in Bagalkote on Monday for post-mortem as the family prepared for Gombi’s funeral on Monday.SS Galgali, the doctor assigned to perform the post-mortem, said as he was driving towards the hospital, there were cut-outs and banners across the town announcing Gombi’s death. “I knew the face on my surgery table, but I did not expect he would be alive,” Galgali said. Galgali found Gombi was still on a ventilator. Gombi’s family told Galgali that the doctors at the private hospital told them he will stop breathing once the ventilator support was removed.Also Read | Farmer arrested for shooting neighbour dead over common water stream“The family had been told that once the ventilator is removed, he will be officially dead. So, they had started preparing for the funeral also. His friends had posted the news of the death on social media and as I reached the hospital, at least 1,000 people had gathered there,” said Galgali. He added as he started the autopsy, he saw goosebumps on Gombi’s body when he touched it. “...[It] meant there were sensations in the body. I checked with a pulse oximeter and I checked his heartbeat. There was a pulse. Then I removed him from the ventilator and waited for a bit. To my surprise, he moved his hands. I immediately called the family and shifted him to another private hospital.”Galgali said he was told on Tuesday that Gombi was showing some improvement and his vitals are normal. “I am told there is a chance of his survival and he responding to treatment,” he said. “I have done more than 400 post-mortems in my 18-year-old career but never seen a case like that.”A Bagalkote police officer, who did not want to be named, said no case has been registered yet as they were yet to receive a complaint. “For the case of medical negligence, the district health department will have to take a call,” he said.Authorities at the private hospital, where Gombi was first admitted, were immediately unavailable for comments. The story will be updated as and when the hospital responds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/man-found-alive-before-his-autopsy-in-karnataka-responding-to-treatment-101614677907535.html
02-03-2021||Other||Maharashtra: Teenager rapes 5-year-old girl in Pune||A 14-year-old boy allegedly raped a 5-year-old girl in Pune when she came to his house to watch TV, according to the police complaint lodged in the case.“Her father was not home, and mother had gone out while when she went to his house to watch TV. We have sent her for medical examination, and he [the boy] has been apprehended,” said sub-inspector Pooja Kadam, who is investigating the case.The teenager will be produced before a Juvenile Justice Board on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-teenager-rapes-5-year-old-girl-in-pune-101614677427326.html
02-03-2021||Delhi||Focus on vertical growth, Delhi needs to protect modern heritage buildings||What do the Ashok Hotel, Vikas Minar, one of the tallest buildings in Delhi, Dak Tar Bhawan, and Akbar Bhawan have in common? These are some of the buildings that dominated the Capital’s skyline in the mid-50s and 60s and represented the evolution of post-colonial architecture. But with the focus on vertical growth for optimal land utilisation set to alter Delhi’s skyline, experts have called for protecting these post-Independence buildings that are an essential part of the city’s modern architectural heritage.The buildings figured on the 2013 Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH)-Delhi’s list of 62 modern heritage structures submitted to the Delhi Urban Art Commission (DUAC), an urban development regulatory body.The list also included the iconic Hall of Nations, which was razed in 2017 to make way for the Pragati Maidan redevelopment project, Baha’i Temple, Vigyan Bhawan, Asiad Games Village, Nehru Memorial Library, Supreme Court, Garden of Five Senses, India Habitat Centre, National Science Centre, among others. From design and use of technology in their construction, these buildings are symbolic of the city’s growth since Independence.Also Read | Vista avenue project given heritage panel nod: CentreSwapna Liddle, the convenor of the INTACH-Delhi, said that they are now working on detailed criteria to identify such modern heritage buildings and also grade them based on a thematic framework. There are rules to protect over 100-year-old structures of historical importance but none to recognise the city’s modern heritage and protect it. The absence of any guidelines defining post-Independence heritage value led to the demolition of the Hall of Nations. The Delhi High Court decided against intervening as only buildings older than 60 years were considered for heritage status.Constructed in 1972, the Hall of Nations commemorated 25 years of India’s Independence. It symbolically and technologically reflected India’s important place in the modern industrialising community of nations, according to INTACH. The World Health Organisation’s headquarters, another piece of Delhi modern heritage, constructed in 1962 was also demolished in 2019 for redevelopment.Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Ahmedabad’s decision to demolish 14 of its dormitories designed by architect Louis Kahn in the 1960s was rolled back following widespread opposition. The move revived the debate about the need to protect modern heritage buildings.“These modern heritage buildings are game-changers, and heralded new trends in architecture post-Independence. For instance, Louis Kahn’s IIM Ahmedabad buildings marked a shift in design for educational institutions,” said KT Ravindran, a former DUAC chairperson.As the Centre plans to commemorate 75 years of India’s Independence, heritage experts say it is about time to put in place a policy to give official recognition to buildings that represented post-Independence, neo-Indian architecture and nation-building efforts.Annabel Lopez, project consultant, INTACH-Delhi, said they prepared their list of heritage buildings based on six broad themes: architecture, structural ingenuity, typology or function, context, socio-cultural developments and historical events.“The grading was also undertaken based on the value or significance assigned to the structures, which is a reflection of the number of criteria it satisfies and not the age of the building. These landmarks of the post-Independence period [should] also receive some protection.”Delhi’s skyline is set to transform dramatically as newer development projects focus on vertical growth. Old residential areas such as Sarojini Nagar, Nauroji Nagar, Kidwai Nagar have given way to new high-rise developments to cater to the growing housing requirement. The new Transit Oriented Development policy, which will be notified by the Centre, allows for skyscrapers with mixed development along with the mass transit hubs.Experts believe that multi-storey flats in RK Puram have an important place in the city’s architectural history. The eight-storey Y or T shaped buildings, with lifts in the central core, were among the early attempts to provide multi-storey housing in the capital.Similarly, built in 1988, the Jeevan Bharti building in Connaught Place represents the high-rise development around the British-era market in the 80s and 90s. “Some of the buildings such as the Hall of Nations were recognised for their architectural significance worldwide. But being not protected under the law, it was demolished to make way for new development. Given the current pace of development or redevelopment in the city, soon we may not have any buildings built in the 60s or 70s left,” said Liddle.Also Read | Pollution control measures key in big development projects: ExpertsINTACH’S list also includes Vigyan Bhawan, which was constructed in 1955 and is among the buildings that fall in the area surrounding Central Vista that is under redeployment. “It is a modern building with reinterpreted elements from historic architecture such as jaalis and the chaitya window opening,” said Liddle.The Centre is redeveloping the Central Vista to construct a new common central secretariat, the new Parliament House, Central Conference Centre, residences of the vice-president and the Prime Minister. While the new Parliament is likely to be ready by next year, the rest of the project will be completed by 2024.There are 1,208 protected monuments in the city wherein any change in structure or renovation has to be approved by the Heritage Conservation Committee. Experts have called for similar regulations for modern heritage buildings. “There is an urgent need to have norms to identify and protect modern heritage,” said AGK Menon, an urban designer who was involved in preparing the INTACH’s list. “Several buildings constructed post-1947 are of great significance. Udyog Bhawan...for example, represents what we were capable of building immediately after Independence.”Urban designer Abhimanyu Dalal, who also a DUAC member, says efforts have been made globally to protect modern heritage. “These buildings are cultural markers in time, and there is a need to have regulatory mechanisms to protect them. Cities such as Paris, New York, and Chicago have rules to protect modern heritage. Any redevelopment or change in these buildings should be as per some rules.”With several set to be razed as part of the Central Vista project, Ravindran called for the need to protect buildings such as Krishi Bhawan and Udyog Bhawan. “They might not be architectural masterpieces, but certainly have heritage value, representing... adaptation of Indo-Saracenic style.”Raj Rewal, the architect of the Hall of Nations, called for an independent committee comprising eminent architects, conservationists, architectural historians, art and architecture critics to protect the post-Independence heritage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/focus-on-vertical-growth-delhi-needs-to-protect-modern-heritage-buildings-101614676773544.html
02-03-2021||Bangalore||Over 8.25 lakh vaccinated in Karnataka so far: Health Department||With the inoculation drive against Covid-19 for senior citizens and those with comorbidities kickstarting, a total of 4,942 people have received the shot, taking the total number of those vaccinated in the state so far to 8.25 lakh, the Karnataka government said. In 199 sessions held on Monday, 2,264 vaccinated were above 60 years and 624 were between 45-60 years with comorbidities. The nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive was launched on January 16 and all these days it was limited to health care workers and front line Covid warriors. According to the health department data shared on Tuesday, all those above 60 years and those with comorbidities vaccinated on Monday were administered the Covishield vaccine. Vaccination has been planned at a total of 82 sessions sites on Tuesday, with a plan to inoculate 6,760 beneficiaries, it said. Infosys founder N R Narayanamurthy, his wife Sudha Murty, another cofounder Kris Gopalakrishnan, and a centenarian were among many others in the state to get inoculated as the vaccination drive for those above 60 years and people aged 45 yrs to 60 yrs with specific comorbid conditions kick started in the country on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/over-8-25-lakh-vaccinated-in-karnataka-so-far-health-department-101614664804862.html
02-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai man arrested for raping woman on pretext of marriage||The Maharashtra police have arrested a man for allegedly raping a 27-year-old woman repeatedly on the pretext of marrying her. The woman filed a case in Mumbai against Sunit Waghmare after he refused to marry her. The case was later shifted to Lonavla as Waghmare first allegedly raped the woman at a resort there in 2019.“On February 27, we arrested Waghmare from his Mumbai home and produced him in court the next day. The court has remanded Waghmare in police custody up to March 5,” said S Sangale, who is investigating the case.In her complaint, the woman said she first met Waghmare in 2019 when he offered her a job and began chatting with her over the phone. Waghmare allegedly offered to marry her, but she refused his proposal as he was already married with kids as old as her. Waghmare allegedly told her that he planned to divorce his wife.Also Read | No relief to rape accused, he got consent by ‘concealing facts’: Bombay HC“Waghmare asked her to come with him to Lonavla, where he would be meeting his lawyer to discuss the divorce procedure. She went with him to Lonavla to check Waghmare’s divorce claim. But on arriving at a resort, when the woman asked him about the lawyer, he told her that he lied to her.” Waghmare allegedly forced himself upon the woman and allegedly threatened to harm her. He allegedly raped her multiple times and arranged a rented room for her in Mumbai.Waghmare also allegedly made the woman sign an agreement with him for a live-in relationship before avoiding her by telling her that his wife refused to divorce him. “Even if the accused got into the agreement with the complainant for a live-in relationship... she was forced to have a physical relationship against her consent... it amounts to rape,” said Sangale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-real-estate-developer-arrested-for-raping-woman-on-pretext-of-marriage-101614675267247.html
02-03-2021||Mumbai||No relief to rape accused, he got consent by ‘concealing facts’: Bombay HC||The Bombay high court’s Aurangabad bench last week refused to quash a case against a 31-year-old for allegedly raping a woman after promising to marry her, saying he did not tell her his parents would not let them get married because of her so-called lower caste status. The accused, Ashish Pande, cited his parents’ opposition to their relationship and refused to marry the woman. The refusal prompted the woman to lodge a rape complaint against him in Maharashtra’s Latur.The woman said they met while working together in Kolkata in 2012. In February 2013, he proposed to her, and the next month they went to Shimla, where she initially refused to have physical relations with him since they were yet to get married. Pande allegedly took her to a temple and applied kumkum to her forehead, a marriage ritual. The relationship continued until Pande refused to marry her in January 2019 after his family allegedly humiliated and threw the woman out of their house. The woman filed the case against Pande two months later.Also Read | ‘Are you willing to marry her?’ Supreme Court to rape accusedPande moved the court to have the case quashed, saying the relationship was consensual. The court dismissed his petition. “If the accused had made known to the informant that his parents would not consent for their marriage, the informant would not have submitted herself to his desire to have physical relations with her,” said the bench. “This clearly indicates that he concealed this fact from the informant and obtained her consent projecting as if the parents would not go against his wish. He did not let her know that her low caste would also be an obstacle for their marriage.” The bench added the woman’s consent was obtained by “misconception of facts and it was not a case wherein the accused could not fulfill his promise because of some unforeseen circumstances”. “It cannot be believed that the accused was not aware that his parents would oppose his marriage with the informant, on the ground of her low caste.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-relief-to-rape-accused-he-got-consent-by-concealing-facts-bombay-hc-101614674847176.html
02-03-2021||Bangalore||Priya Anand: I have been spoilt in the Kannada film industry||Actor Priya Anand, who is shooting for James co-starring Puneeth Rajkumar, says that she’s in the happiest place that she has ever been in, both personally and professionally. “I have got so many opportunities which found their way to me. It’s a blessing. I am a lucky girl and I don’t take anything in life for granted. Especially after last year, one has to ensure balance in life and I think I have found that balance,”she says.Co-starring with Rajkumar would be a big deal for any actor, and it’s no different for Priya, who is working with him once again. “He is one of the nicest people I know, let alone one of the nicest co-stars I have. It is lovely to work with him. It is always special as we gave such a huge hit, Rajkumara (2017) together, so we are hoping to recreate that magic again. James is a family drama, entertainer and an action film, yet, for all audiences,” says Anand, who has also featured in Bollywood films such as English Vinglish (2012) and Fukrey (2013)Having done films in Malayalam, Telugu and Tamil, apart from Kannada, the actor admits she enjoys Kannada movies a lot. “Audiences liked me, the industry liked me, so I could survive. That has to be in your favour. Doing films in different languages is fun as each one has its own speciality. But I love the Kannada industry, as I feel I have been spoilt over here. I never had to struggle in Kannada as I started with one of the biggest stars, Puneeth Rajkumar,” says Anand, who will shoot for another Kannada project, RDX soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/priya-anand-i-have-been-spoilt-in-the-kannada-film-industry-101614673527277.html
02-03-2021||Lucknow||IndiGo’s Sharjah-Lucknow flight lands in Karachi after passenger falls ill, dies||A Lucknow-bound flight of Indigo 6E 1412 from Sharjah made an emergency landing at Karachi airport on Tuesday morning when a passenger complained of chest pain. The 67-year-old passenger, identified as Habeeb-ur-Rehman, died before the plane landed at Karachi’s Jinnah International Airport, people familiar with the matter said.A report Pakistani newspaper Express Tribune said the passenger had suffered a heart attack. The plane was allowed to land on humanitarian grounds by Karachi air traffic control in view of the passenger’s deteriorating condition, the report said.The plane took off for Ahmedabad where the patient was declared dead.According to one official at Lucknow airport, the pilot had requested Karachi airport authorities to sanitise the aircraft but the request was not accepted.The passengers were deplaned at Ahmedabad airport and the aircraft was sanitized before being allowed to proceed to Lucknow."IndiGo flight 6E 1412 from Sharjah to Lucknow was diverted to Karachi due to a medical emergency. Unfortunately, the passenger could not be revived and was declared dead on arrival by the airport medical team," the statement by the airline said, according to news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/indigos-sharjah-lucknow-flight-lands-in-karachi-after-passenger-falls-ill-dies-101614671874557.html
02-03-2021||Delhi||DDA to change land use of 31 acres for redevelopment project||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has initiated the process to change the land use of three plots, spread over 31 acres, including 19 acres of green space, in the heart of the city. It is learnt that this is being done for the Centre’s ambitious Central Vista redevelopment project, but there isn’t an official word on the same.The land use of 101.1 acres was changed in 2019 for the approximately ₹14,000 crore project.The land-owning agency invited the public’s comment on the proposed change.As per the public notice put out by the DDA, land use of two land parcels of 9.5 acres each, earmarked as district park, is being changed to government office. To compensate for the green space, where a government office complex is proposed, land use of 12.58 acres earmarked for government office will be developed as a district park.“The land use change is related to the redevelopment project. DDA is only responsible for changing the land use,” said a senior DDA official.As part of the Central Vista redevelopment, the Centre plans to construct a new Parliament House building (construction work has already started), a common central secretariat and redevelopment of Central Vista precinct (work for which has also started). The entire project is slated for 2024 completion.The land parcels where government offices will come up are located close to where the Prime Minister’s new residence is proposed as per the redevelopment plan. Spread over 15 acres, the PM’s residence is proposed on Dalhousie Road.A senior DDA official said, “The land use of a 12.58 acre land parcel will be changed from government to district park. There are no major offices located on this land parcel.”Also Read |  ₹5,000-crore plan to deal with traffic around redeveloped govt coloniesApart from central Delhi, the DDA has also proposed land use change of two land parcels measuring 4 acres and 2.54 acres from residential to recreational in Civil Lines.“People will have to send their suggestions or objections within the next 30 days. There will be a board of inquiry if we get objections from the public regarding the change of land use. The proposal will be tabled again in the authority meeting before being sent to the Union housing and urban affairs ministry for notification and amendment in the Master Plan of Delhi-2021,” said the official.Kanchi Kohli, environment campaigner and researcher with the Centre for Policy Research, said, “The government continues to adopt a piecemeal approach for both land use change and the environmental approvals related to the Central Vista project. The inappropriateness of this process has been also clearly recorded in the dissenting judgment of the Supreme Court. This fresh notice for land use change once again brings to light that earmarked public, green and recreational spaces are being converted to high security, gated infrastructure only for government use. The proposal includes conversion of government and residential land into recreational use, but the implications of that need to be understood.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dda-to-change-land-use-of-31-acres-for-redevelopment-project-101614672027609.html
02-03-2021||Mumbai||Farmers suffered losses during lockdown, now facing power supply cut: Fadnavis||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Tuesday said the drive of disconnecting power supply to farmers or other domestic consumers who failed to clear their dues will be stopped immediately till the issue is discussed in the state Assembly.Pawar made the announcement in the state Assembly after Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis raised the issue in the House.Fadnavis said there is "lot of anger" among people across the state over the inflated electricity bills.Lakhs of people have received notices for power supply disconnection, he said."Farmers have already suffered big losses due to the lockdown and heavy rainfall. Now, they are facing the power supply disconnection crisis," the BJP leader said.Without naming state Energy Minister and Congress leader Nitin Raut, Fadnavis said the former had talked about giving relief to lockdown-hit consumers, but instead power tariff was increased."Small shopkeepers could not do business during the lockdown. Now you are asking them to pay bills. From where are they going to pay it? So, there is a big problem," the former chief minister said.Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole pitched for stopping the on-going drive of disconnecting power supply.Also read: Farmers’ protest: Delhi’s Ghazipur border partially reopensAlso read: Punjab governor says farm laws don't address farmers' stagnating income problemPatole also said the tradition of issuing average electricity bills to consumers has to be stopped.He demanded that the electricity department take actual power meter reading before issuing bills to consumers.Responding to this, Pawar said,"I would like to tell on behalf of the state government that the drive of disconnecting electricity supply of farmers or other domestic consumers will be stopped immediately until the issue raised by Devendra Fadnavis saheb is discussed."He said other decisions with regard to the issue will be taken after members of the House are satisfied with the discussion.Fadnavis thanked the government for taking the decision, but demanded restoration of power supply to consumers who faced disconnection earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/farmers-suffered-losses-during-lockdown-now-facing-power-supply-cut-fadnavis-101614669397776.html
02-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Amid govt-guv tussle, dev boards, MLC appointments in a limbo||Maharashtra’s deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Monday said in the state assembly that they wanted the governor to clear 12 appointments recommended by the state Cabinet as members of the legislative council, indicating that the tussle between governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government could continue. Pawar also said they will constitute the development boards of Vidarbha and Marathwada regions as soon as the governor clears the appointments.The governor, in April last year, had written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray requesting him to extend the term of these boards for another five years. But Thackeray took no cognizance of his letter and is yet to form the development boards.To remove development backlogs in irrigation and other sectors, three statutory development boards—one each for Vidarbha, Marathwada and rest of Maharashtra—was set up in 1994 under Article 371 of the Constitution. The five-year term of the boards expired in April last year.Also Read | MVA may ignore Governor Koshyari’s order, delay Speaker’s election“The development boards will be formed and there is no doubt about it. While presenting the budget I will ensure appropriate provisions of funds are made for Vidarbha and Marathwada regions. We are also looking to constitute the boards as early as possible. But the state Cabinet has proposed 12 names to be appointed as members of the legislative council and has sent them to the governor. The day the governor makes the appointments, we will constitute the development boards the same day or the very next day,” Pawar said in the Lower House.He was responding to the demand of Opposition leaders to constitute the development boards, which, according to them, are necessary for the balanced development of all the regions in the state.“I request you to take necessary action for securing extension to the term of the development boards by five years urgently as the present term expires on April 30, 2020,” states the letter written by Koshyari to the chief minister on April 24 last year.“The development board structure was put in place to ensure that attempts towards balanced regional development are well-implemented and that all the regions are provided equitable development. Considering the progress in ensuring equitable regional development since the boards are working and need to work further in view of the existing regional inequalities, I feel that there is a necessity to continue this structure for a further period,” it added.The governor exercises direct control on these development boards following the provisions under Article 371 (2) of the Constitution. He is also authorised to give specific directions on the allotment of funds to remove development backlogs of regions, which are binding on the government.The MVA government is locked in a bitter tussle with the governor over various issues. It has been almost four months since the government, on November 6, 2020, recommended 12 names to Koshyari for nomination to the legislative council from governor quota . MVA leaders have been expressing unhappiness as Koshyari is yet to accept the government’s recommendation.Last month, Thackeray did not permit Koshyari to use the state’s aeroplane to travel to Dehradun in Uttarakhand. This has led to a controversy and blame game between the Raj Bhavan secretariat and the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-amid-govt-guv-tussle-dev-boards-mlc-appointments-in-a-limbo-101614670953164.html
02-03-2021||Other||Civic Sanskriti: The new ABCs of plantations and maintaining green areas||Two recent news items related to plantations caught my attention. The first concerned a study by Delhi-based organisation LIFE (Legal Initiative for Forest and Environment) that shows several cities have not done urban plantations in accordance with air quality plans. The second news was of forest fires in and around Pune, worsening air quality. These reminded me of discussions initiated a couple of years ago among researchers, NGOs, and the PMC for biodiversity conservation, especially in the Biodiversity Park. The question of whether to plan for forests or grasslands on Pune’s hilltops and slopes had come up. The importance of these sites for water recharge was also noted. A mosaic of grasslands on the hilltops and slopes, and shrubs and trees along nallah courses had been broadly agreed as appropriate for biodiversity conservation and water recharge. What to do with the existing exotic species plantations on hills that suppress local species, had remained an unresolved important question.What species to plant and where, and whether to plant trees at all in some localities? Answers to these questions relate to Air Quality, Biodiversity, Climate Change, and a few more words beginning with other letters of the alphabet, such as Ecosystems, Equity, Forest fires, Livelihoods and Water. The National Clean Air Programme recommends plantations around hot spots of pollution. The Central Pollution Control Board guidelines for green belts consider the nature of pollutants from industrial areas, roads and transport. It lists pollution-tolerant tree species and those that help remove pollutants from ambient air.Pune’s Bicycle Plan includes roadside vegetation guidelines. It recommends trees species for shade, as well as grasses, herbs and shrubs that help reduce road-side dust, often neglected in urban plantation plans. It also lists characteristics to watch out for and avoid, such as tree species with weak branches that may fall on road users or those with allergenic pollen.The issue of forest fires (uncontrolled), and controlled annual burning of grasslands is more complex. Urban dwellers concerned about tree plantations for air quality, biodiversity (of tree species) and climate change (to sequester carbon), might overlook the needs of community groups directly dependent on a different biodiversity mix. Dr Nitya Ghotge, veterinarian and director of Anthra, an organisation promoting sustainable farming and livestock rearing, reminds us that hill slopes in and around Pune were once village commons where livestock grazed. Both fire and grazing, criticised from a certain environmental perspective, are actually sound grassland management techniques when used carefully. They support and maintain grassland landscapes and the biodiversity these landscapes harbor.Dr Erach Bharucha, surgeon and founder of the Institute of Environment Education & Research at Bharati Vidyapeeth, says that while vegetation burning has health impacts, only considering air quality perspective misses aspects like the basic survival of communities who depend directly on grassland ecosystems.As summer approaches, fodder for cattle, sheep and goats is hard to find especially in the western deciduous regions of Western Ghats. Crop residue is all but over and natural vegetation has dried out. When dry vegetation is burnt, it quickly produces a flush of grass that provides some food for livestock. Dr Bharucha adds that tribal farmers say that vegetation burning releases nutrients by soil heating and kills soil pests. Soil scientists should study such traditional knowledge, he suggests. There is scientific evidence that Pune region had savannah grasslands with sparse trees especially fire-resistant species like Khair, Hivar, Babhul, Tendu, Ain and Charoli. Grazing and naturally occurring fires are two phenomena maintaining grassland landscapes as evident from a part of Vetal hill. We also need studies and documentation of current landscape changes. For example, we don’t know if fires around Pune have increased or decreased over the last decade with increased urbanisation. Dr Shamita Kumar, principal, BVIEER, suggests that GIS and time-series studies would be useful to track such changes, and be useful in planning plantations, and forest and grassland conservation. It’s also important to draw out the learnings from restoration projects in the Sahyadris by the Ecological Society as well as by community groups.Satish Awate, programme director, Biodiversity Programmes at Centre for Environment Education says that plantations by municipal authorities and Forest department should consider science and community practices. Satish recommends localised planning of plantation activities, in consultation with citizen’s groups, communities and scientists. It’s time to work out the new ABC of plantations and maintaining green areas, to be more inclusive and better-informed, with ecology and equity in mind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/civic-sanskriti-the-new-abcs-of-plantations-and-maintaining-green-areas-101614670406343.html
02-03-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi’s Ghazipur border partially reopens||Vehicular movement to Ghaziabad from Delhi through Ghazipur border has been partially restored since Monday evening, over a month after all the carriageways on the border were closed and traffic was diverted to alternative routes following the violence that erupted during the farmers’ tractor rally on January 26. The Delhi Police said that the traffic on one route (from Delhi to Ghaziabad) has been restored only for emergency vehicles and motorists in emergency situations. “We had been facilitating the movement of ambulances earlier as well. Now, we have partially opened the route and allowing motorists who are facing an emergency. The situation will be monitored and examined. As of now it’s a temporary arrangement. If any issues arise, we will close the route again,” said a police officer, who did not want to be named. Also Read | Punjab governor says farm laws don’t address farmers’ stagnating income problemThe Ghazipur border is among the three main borders where farmers have been protesting against the three contentious farm laws for the past 97 days. Initially, only the carriageways going towards Delhi from Ghaziabad were closed because of the farmers’ sit-in protest. On January 26, clashes broke out between farmers and security personnel as the protesting groups allegedly defied their agreement with the Delhi Police by not following the routes given to them for their tractor rally and instead broke barricades and entered restricted routes. Following the violence, the police blocked the entire Ghazipur border, placed multiple layers of barricades, and installed iron nails on the road to ensure the farmers do not attempt to enter the city again. Traffic was diverted to alternative routes, causing traffic jams and inconvenience to motorists travelling between Delhi and Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-s-ghazipur-border-partially-reopens-101614668307251.html
02-03-2021||Patna||Cong MLA gives 48-hr time to catch nephew’s killers; kin blame security removal||Withdrawal of police security resulted in the murder of Kargahar Congress MLA Santosh Kumar Mishra’s nephew, Sanjiv Kumar Mishra, alleged his family in Bihar’s Sasaram. Sanjiv was shot dead in his house at Parsathua on Saturday evening by armed assailants who later fled riding bikes.Hundreds of angry locals gathered after the murder demanded action against the local station house officer (SHO) alleging large scale illegal liquor business was running at Salathuan under police protection, attracting criminals and anti social elements.A murder case against Sarvottam Kumar Ray alias Chunnu Ray and Niranjan Ray of adjacent Salathuan village and five unidentified criminals had been registered with Parsathua police station.Following three previous incidents of daylight murders in the family and an apparent threat perception, police security was given to the deceased’s brother Manjiv Mishra. But the cover was withdrawn in December last year. Manjiv is secretary of Pt Girish Narayan Mishra College at Parsathua.Manjiv wrote to the authorities and personally met IG special security Bacchu Singh Menna and director general of police (DGP) SK Singhal in the first week of January, informing them of the threat perception and requesting for the resumption of security cover, which did not materialise, Manjiv said.My brother would not have been killed if the security cover was not withdrawn. It gave courage and safe passage to the killers, said Manjiv, who was at home when the killers struck.Five to seven criminals riding on bikes killed Sanjiv at his house and fled through the market firing rounds in the air. They were reported to have reached Salathuan village and engaged in further celebratory firing claiming their “revenge” was complete.Later that day, deceased’s wife and a candidate for panchayat polls, Rinki Mishra received a threatening call saying all family members will be killed as Sanjiv’s murder was just a “trailer,” Manjiv said.Also Read: Bihar politician kidnapped in Patna, rescued from Sasaram a day laterMLA Santosh Mishra said as a “responsible citizen” he cooperated with police and the administration after the murder, pacified the angry local crowd and allowed the body to be sent for post-mortem examination.“I have given the police 48 hours for action. After that the matter will be raised from roads to assembly to get justice for the family,” the MLA said.Superintendent of police, Ashish Bharti said he met the bereaved family and posted security guards at their house. Two DSP rank officers were camping at the place with sniffer dogs. Meanwhile, raids were being carried out to arrest the absconding accused and to identify all the criminals through scientific method, Bharti said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cong-mla-gives-48-hr-time-to-catch-nephew-s-killers-kin-blame-security-removal-101614667088824.html
02-03-2021||Mumbai||TRP scam: Bombay high court grants bail to former BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta||The Bombay high court on Tuesday, granted bail to former Broadcasting Audience Research Council (BARC) CEO Partho Dasgupta who has been booked in the TRP manipulation case by Mumbai police. The bail was granted on furnishing a personal bond of ₹2 lakh and two solvent sureties. Thereafter, on the request of Dasgupta’s lawyers, the court allowed his immediate release. The bail conditions stipulate that Dasgupta has to visit the crime branch on every first Saturday of the month for six months. A single bench comprising justice PD Naik had heard arguments in the bail application and reserved its order on February 16. Dasgupta had approached the high court after the sessions court had rejected his application in January. Dasgupta was shifted to Taloja Jail on January 22. Also Read | TRP case: WhatsApp chats contain proof of my innocence, says Partho DasguptaThe bench, while hearing the arguments on behalf of Dasgupta, had been informed by senior counsel Aabad Ponda and advocates Shardul Singh and Arjun Thakur that of the 16 accused in the TRP manipulation case only Dasgupta was still in jail while others were out on bail or anticipatory bail. Ponda had submitted that just because Dasgupta had exchanged texts with Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami on WhatsApp, he could not be held solely responsible for the alleged offences. They also submitted that as the charge sheet had already been filed and as Dasgupta suffered from health issues, he should be granted bail. Ponda had also argued that as the COO of BARC Romil Ramgarhia had been granted bail, though he had a much larger role to play in the alleged fraud, Dasgupta should also be granted bail. He had also argued that the alleged kickbacks received by Dasgupta in the form of watches and silver jewellery from Goswami had been purchased much before they were in touch with each other. He also argued that the allegations made by an employee of BARC regarding Dasgupta not taking action when alerted about the sudden spike in TRP ratings of a channel would not amount to criminal action and was just dereliction of duty. However, special public prosecutor Shishir Hiray had opposed the application on the grounds that Dasgupta was the kingpin in the fraud and could tamper with evidence and influence witnesses if he was granted bail and hence the application should be rejected. Hiray had submitted that as BARC was the only agency in India to be assigned the duty of monitoring TRPs across all channels and the post that Dasgupta held was a responsible post, his chats with channel heads and journalists showed that he had compromised his duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/trp-scam-bombay-high-court-grants-bail-to-former-barc-ceo-partho-dasgupta-101614667107035.html
02-03-2021||Patna||Bihar politician kidnapped in Patna, rescued from Sasaram a day later||A team of Patna and Sasaram police rescued Rakesh Panday, a leader of Bihar-based Bharatiya Sabgoal party, from Sasaram, a day after he was abducted by Scorpio-borne criminals from Patna’s Kidwaipuri area late on Sunday evening.“A special police team of Patna and Sasaram rescued Pandey near Tarachandi temple. The police team left Sasaram for Patna for further action,” said a police official on condition of anonymity.Pandey was kidnapped when he left his party’s Kidwaipuri office after attending a meeting at around 6pm on Sunday and was headed to hire an auto rickshaw. Police teams from Buddha Colony and Kotwali police stations later reached the abduction spot and began investigations, during which Pandey’s cell phone was found to be switched off after the incident. Police scanned several CCTV’s footage to get a clue about the incident.Also Read: Bihar police books landowners for illegal opium cultivation to check the menacePandey’s friend Raviranjan of Makhdumpur in Jehanabad district told the police that the Scorpio-borne men allegedly tried to kidnap him also after abducting Pandey, but he raised an alarm forcing the criminals to leave him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-politician-kidnapped-in-patna-rescued-from-sasaram-a-day-later-101614664536092.html
02-03-2021||Lucknow||CM Yogi Adityanath to invoke NSA against accused in Hathras murder case||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday directed officials to invoke the National Security Act (NSA) against all the four accused involved in the murder of Amrish Sharma, a resident of Hathras.Amrish Sharma was shot dead by the main accused, Gaurav Sharma and his friends. The deceased had filed a case against Gaurav Sharma in July 2018 for allegedly molesting his daughter at a village in the Sasni police station area on Monday, Uttar Pradesh police said."Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directs officials to take strict action in the matter. He has also given directions to invoke the National Security Act against all the accused involved in the case," the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said in a statement.Also read: Hathras gangrape case: CBI files status report before high courtNSA is an act that empowers the government to detain a person if the authorities are satisfied that he/she is a threat to national security or to prevent him/her from disrupting public order.According to the police, an FIR has been registered against four accused, two of whom have been arrested.Vineet Jaiswal, Superintendent of Police (SP) Hathras said that Amrish Sharma was shot dead in his Nojalpur village by the main accused Gaurav Sharma along with his friends on Monday at around 4 pm.The SP said that the police reached the incident spot and an investigation was carried out on Monday."During the investigation, it came to light that in July 2018, Amrish Sharma had filed a case of molestation against Gaurav Sharma, who was sent to jail but he came out on bail after one month. Both the families were having a dispute since then," Jaiswal added.Speaking about the incident, the police official said, "The wife and the aunt of the main accused Gaurav Sharma and both daughters of deceased had gone to temple in the village. They had an argument there over the old case. The accused and the Amrish Sharma came there later where they argued and the accused shot the latter, who died while being taken to hospital."The SP said that teams have been formed to nab the remaining accused and further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cm-yogi-adityanath-to-invoke-nsa-against-accused-in-hathras-murder-case-101614660728115.html
02-03-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka Congress chief sets ball rolling on ‘padayatra’ plan||Congress president of Karnataka unit D K Shivakumar on Monday set in motion his plans to undertake a ‘padayatra’ or march to at least 100 assembly constituencies across the state starting Wednesday.Over the next 10 months, the Congress leader aims to visit these constituencies where the party lost in the 2018 elections, to identify its area of weakness and subsequently better its chances in the 2023 assembly polls.However, the war within the party’s top brass — mainly between Shivakumar and leader of opposition Siddaramaiah — in the state has dented its prospects and plans to corner the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the state.Former Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah has refused to cede control over the party and continues to remain a challenge to Shivakumar who looks to mobilize support, end growing factionalism and pursue a cadre-based approach ahead of the next elections.People familiar with the development said that Siddaramaiah’s significant control over party affairs and its legislators has left Shivakumar slightly distraught and seemingly isolated.“There are no groups. All of us belong to the Congress. All of us are working to bring the party to power in the state,” Shivakumar told reporters in Kolar district on Monday, refusing to acknowledge the simmering trouble within the party.The state Congress chief is slated to begin his ‘padayatra’ on Wednesday from Devanahalli, just outside Bengaluru, where he will hold meetings with workers before proceeding further.The growing differences between the two top Congress leaders was reignited in the recently-held Mysuru mayor elections where the party lost the top chair to its ally Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S).It was two years ago that the Congress and JD(S) came together to keep the BJP at bay in the Mysuru corporation. The JD(S) retained the mayor’s post despite an agreement to handover the same to the Congress this year.“The message was passed on to the JD(S) and our party corporators in Mysuru but they did not go according to the plan,” a Congress leader said on condition of anonymity.However, Congress corporators chose to back the Janata Dal (Secular) despite orders from its top leadership as they feared losing power in the corporation, the leader added. The grand old party feared that the Janata Dal (Secular) would join hands with the Bharatiya Janata Party incase the former withdrew their support.Siddaramaiah chided Shivakumar and two others — Congress legislator Tanveer Sait and former MP from Chamrajanagar R Dhruvanarayana – after he lost control of the council in his home district of Mysuru, people familiar with the matter said.Both Sait and Dhruvanarayana were directed to oversee the mayoral polls and have now been summoned to Bengaluru on February 24 to explain their version of events.Earlier, Siddaramaiah and Shivakumar had locked horns over the youth Congress elections where the former had backed Raksha Ramaiah and the latter supported Mohammed Nalapad as contenders for the polls.Nalapad was disqualified even though he won the highest number of votes, leading to more friction between the two main factions.While the BS Yediyurappa-led government in the state has been forced to go on the backfoot due to dissent within his ministers, shortage of funds and his inability to get the Centre release more funds for the state, the Congress has remained toothless so far in its attack on the government. The infighting within the Congress had rendered them ineffective against the Yediyurappa government.Siddaramaiah has also met senior party leaders in Delhi to discuss the ongoing tension within the party, people familiar with the matter said. The two leaders aspire to become the next chief ministerial candidate, a Congress leader said on condition of anonymity.Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s presence at Shivakumar’s daughter’s wedding on February 17 is being construed as the high command’s support for the Vokkaliga leader, the Congress leader added.Rahul is expected to take part in Shivakumar’s padyatra sometime later this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-congress-chief-sets-ball-rolling-on-padayatra-plan-101614662346043.html
02-03-2021||Bangalore||Only 22% Covid-19 vaccination amid glitches on Day 1 in Bengaluru||A 102-year-old and a 97-year-old were among the recipients of the Covid vaccine, as the third phase of distribution began in Bengaluru and across Karnataka on Monday. The list of recipients also included the co-founder of Infosys, NR Narayana Murthy, and philanthropist Sudha Murthy.However, the first of the day of the vaccination drive, aimed at senior citizens and comorbid patients, resulted in confusion due to glitches in the CoWIN portal.According to data released by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), 938 senior citizens and comorbid patients were administered the vaccine on Monday whereas the target was 4,200 shots, thus limiting the drive to 22%, an official said.According to data, out of the 22 vaccination centres, four centres — Victoria Hospital, CV Raman Nagar General Hospital and Columbia Asia Hospital in Whitefield and Sarjapura - did not provide a single shot of the vaccine. This was attributed to the glitch in the CoWIN portal and app, wherein officials couldn’t access data. “Details of those who registered for an appointment did not reflect on the portal,” said the official.BBMP commissioner N Manjunath Prasad, said that the app and portal were unable to handle the traffic and the glitches needed to be fixed at the earliest. “The vaccination drive was scheduled to be held between noon and 5pm but the portal showed it as 9am and 6pm. This ended up in people lining up for hours before scheduled time,” he said.In some cases, officials were unable to log into the system for hours, resulting in the vaccination starting late. “Another problem we faced was regarding the OTP. People were not getting OTPs even after being registered. This delayed the process,” said an official at a hospital in east Bengaluru, on condition of anonymity.Meanwhile, the emergence of multiple Covid-19 clusters in Bengaluru and the government’s decision to impose travel restrictions on those coming from Kerala and Maharashtra, have led to one big question among citizens — will there be another wave of the virus in the city?While the Centre has sent a team to assess the situation and suggest steps to curb the spread of the virus, data and experts tell a different story.A comparison of the number of Covid cases reported in Bengaluru shows that the average number in the last three months has come down. In January, the average number of cases reported in Bengaluru was 601. This came down to 338 in January and the average further dropped to 241 in February.“The numbers at this point are not alarming. Nonetheless, we are stepping up our surveillance and other precautionary measures. More than the numbers in Karnataka, these steps are in place because of the caseloads in Kerala and Maharashtra,” Trilok Chandra, commissioner, health and family welfare department, said.While the numbers of cases have dropped, there are questions raised about testing. In December, the state conducted 1,02,195 test per day on average. In January, this dropped to 85,294 and it dropped further in February to 62,105 tests per day. Health department officials said that a target of 75,000 tests has given to the officials.Prasad defended the drop in the number of tests saying the reduction in cases led to fewer tests. “If someone tests positive, we test primary and secondary contacts. We are doing it and because the number of cases is less, the number of contacts are fewer,” he said.A member of Karnataka’s Covid-19 technical advisory committee (TAC) said that talks of the second wave in Karnataka, especially in Bengaluru, is mere speculation.“The numbers have come down. We are now deploying marshal at weddings and other large events to ensure social distancing and other precautions are followed,” he said.However, restaurants, pubs and cafes remain occupied in Bengaluru, despite the government asking citizens to take precautions. “Malls are witnessing high footfalls and the number of people travelling to tourist destinations has increased over the last few months. There has been a record attendance of people participating in political events and marriages with no masks or compliance with any safety measures,” said a health official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/only-22-covid-19-vaccination-amid-glitches-on-day-1-in-karnataka-101614661403461.html
02-03-2021||Other||This Telangana village celebrates birth of girl child with festive fervour||From musical processions to distributing sweets and rewarding parents with cash incentives— this is how a village in Telangana’s Sangareddy district celebrates the birth of a girl child.Welcome to Haridaspur, a small village in Kondapur block, about 70 km from Hyderabad, where every girl childbirth is an occasion for celebration. The village panchayat, supported by youths and students, takes out procession beating drums and distributes sweets to all residents. At night, the panchayat building is illuminated with colourful lights and the parents of the newborn are given a small cash incentive.“We celebrate the births of girl children, who bring good omen for all of us. It is our way to ensure every girl child feels empowered and respected,” Haridaspur village panchayat secretary Rohit Kulkarni said.The panchayat also opens a bank account under the Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana (SSY) scheme in the name of every girl child with an initial deposit of ₹1,000.SSY is a scheme launched in 2015 as part of the central government’s Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao initiative. The scheme enables guardians to open a savings account for their girl child, below 10 years of age, with an authorised commercial bank or a post office branch and the amount deposited fetches an interest of 8.4 per cent, which is exempted from tax.With just around 300 families and a population of 1,100, Haridaspur shot to the limelight when authorities of Lord Venkateshwara Swamy temple at Chilkur on the outskirts of Hyderabad, visited the village on February 21 to perform “Kanyavandanam” (worshipping girl children). The head priest of the temple, C S Rangarajan, performed the rituals by applying turmeric and vermillion on the feet of girl children, something that is routine during the worship of goddess Maha Lakshmi.On how the girl childbirth celebrations started, Kulkarni shared the story of one Nagesh’s family. Kulkarni said Nagesh’s wife Satyavathi had given birth to a gild child for the third time. “They were hoping for a boy. It was then, we decided to start a campaign to celebrate girl children,” he said.Later, the gram panchayat passed a resolution stating that the village would celebrate the birth of all girl children. “In the last one year, eight girls have been born in the village and we celebrated each one of them with participation from the entire village,” he said.The panchayat decided to open bank accounts in the name of all newborn girls and also those below 10 years, under Sukanya Samruddhi Yojana.“The panchayat has paid an initial deposit of ₹1,000 in the name of each child. Initially, we pooled money from our pockets, but later, we have received donations from several individuals. One Samaritan donated ₹50,000 and we instantly opened 50 accounts,” the panchayat secretary said.On the day of “Kanyavandanam” programme, an activist from the Brahmin Welfare Trust, donated ₹5,000. “Now, all the 60-odd girls in Haridaspur have bank accounts in their names,” Kulkarni said.“We were worried how to bring up the third girl child, as we are very poor. But the sarpanch and secretary gave us a lot of moral support. They also got our daughters enrolled in SSY scheme,” Satyavathi said.The story of Haridaspur inspired the neighbouring Eddu Mailaram village to adopt the same resolution. “We will also celebrate girl child birth in our village,” Eddu Mailaram sarpanch Malla Reddy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/this-telangana-village-celebrates-birth-of-girl-child-with-festive-fervour-101614656457819.html
02-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra cyber police suspects cyber attack behind Mumbai power outage||The Maharashtra government on Monday said that a preliminary report of the cyber cell of the Maharashtra police also suspected cyber-attack as a reason behind power outage in Mumbai in October last year. State home minister Anil Deshmukh said the findings of the report indicated cyber sabotage by some foreign countries. However, more details will come only after further investigation.Some 14 trojan horses (a virus often disguised as a legitimate software) may have been introduced in the server of the Maharashtra State Electricity Board (MSEB), data of around 8GB may have transferred from unaccounted foreign servers, similarly, login may have been made by blacklisted IP (internet protocol) addresses in the MSEB server, says the findings of cyber police, following the analysis of supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) networks,” Deshmukh told reporters at Sahyadri guest house on Monday. SCADA is a common framework of control systems used in industrial operations.“This is a preliminary report and we don’t know which of the countries are involved in it. More details will come following further investigation,” he added.Deshmukh shared the findings following the findings of a report conducted by a US- based firm Recorded Future that has indicated a Chinese cyber-attack behind power outage in Mumbai, according to news reports published by the New York Times and Wall Street Journal.Also Watch: After Chinese hand claim by US firm, govt reveals prelim report on Mumbai blackoutThe home minister also submitted the report of the cyber cell to the state energy minister Nitin Raut. Raut said he had then suspected the possibility of a sabotage. “Following the outage, I had suspected sabotage then. I have also received probe reports of Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) and the Centre on the matter but cannot share the details as the budget session of the state legislature is going on,” he said.A grid failure resulted in massive power outages in Mumbai and its suburban areas on October 12, stopping trains on tracks, hampering those working from home and hitting the stuttering economic activity hard. It took two hours for the power supply to resume for essential services; other pockets started getting power in a phase-wise manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cyber-police-suspects-cyber-attack-behind-mumbai-power-outage-101614654439868.html
02-03-2021||Lucknow||Woman accused of killing husband, can't be given child's custody: HC||The Allahabad high court has held that a woman accused of killing her husband cannot be given the custody of her minor daughter considering the welfare of the child, unless she is acquitted in the case.Justice JJ Munir, while dismissing the petition, observed that if the mother is acquitted in the murder case by the concerned court, she would have the right to move court for her daughter’s custody, which would then be decided in accordance with law. The court passed this order on February 26 in a habeas corpus writ petition filed by a woman in 2019.In the plea, the woman residing in Mumbai had alleged that on May 11, 2018 her husband went to his native place at Jhansi while she stayed back. On May 13, 2018, she received a call from her husband’s maternal uncle claiming some unknown person had killed her husband. However, when she reached Jhansi with her daughter, she was falsely implicated in her husband's murder case and was arrested while her daughter was taken away by her husband's maternal uncle. Since then the child was in his custody.The court observed, "This court assumes that the possibility of conviction may be remote or not so remote, but the possibility is there. The existence of this possibility and the adverse impact of the event, if it were to come to pass, would far outweigh the transitory benefit the minor would derive from her mother's care and company."Also Read: Reservation list for UP panchayat election to be released today"This facet of the matter apart, the possibility that the mother might truly be a conspirator in her husband's murder, predicates a personality which would not be beneficial for the minor in grooming her about her moral values - a very important aspect of a child’s welfare. On the other hand, if the mother is innocent and is acquitted, the loss, the minor would suffer on account of deprivation of her mother's care and custody, cannot be re-compensated, but nevertheless, it is a reverse that must be accepted for the minor’s surer welfare, in preference to a contingent better, fraught with risk," further observed the bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/woman-accused-of-killing-husband-can-t-be-given-child-s-custody-hc-101614653156677.html
02-03-2021||Chandigarh||Prashant Kishor appointed political adviser to Punjab CM , gets cabinet rank||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday appointed political strategist Prashant Kishor as his principal adviser with cabinet rank.The election consultant’s appointment in the chief minister’s office (CMO) was announced by Singh himself on social media. “Happy to share that @PrashantKishor has joined me as my principal advisor. Look forward to working together for the betterment of people of Punjab!” he tweeted.The announcement came after months of speculation that first began in early 2020 when the chief minister had indicated to some party leaders and MLAs his intention to engage Kishor for the assembly elections. The state unit has already announced that Singh will lead the party in the polls next year.The political strategist, who has been appointed in the rank and status of a cabinet minister in Punjab, will be paid a token honorarium of ₹1 per month. However, he will be entitled to a fully-furnished government residence and camp office, executive class travel, official vehicle, medical facilities and secretarial staff as admissible to a cabinet minister, according to an official order released by the state government.The chief minister’s principal adviser has also been allowed an expenditure of up to ₹5,000 per month on hospitality. His term will be co-terminus with the tenure of the present chief minister, the order issued by principal secretary, general administration, Vivek Pratap Singh, read. Kishor will advise the chief minister on draft development policies and strategies with an eye on the state polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/prashant-kishor-appointed-political-adviser-to-punjab-cm-gets-cabinet-rank-101614649798836.html
02-03-2021||City||Punjab govt to amend excise act to add death penalty||The Punjab government on Monday decided to amend its excise act, introducing the death penalty for the guilty in cases where people die after consuming spurious liquor.The decision was taken by the Punjab Cabinet on Monday in the wake of a hooch tragedy in Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran, where several died due to the consumption of spurious liquor in July last year.The Bill in this regard will be introduced in the ongoing budget session of the state legislative assembly, a government release said, adding that the aim was to instil fear of law among the offenders.A new Section 61-A will be inserted in the Punjab Excise Act, 1914, according to which in case of death, the guilty shall be punished with death or imprisonment for life and shall also be liable to fine up to ₹20 lakh.In case of disability, the guilty will be jailed for at least six years extendable up to life imprisonment with up to Rs10 lakh fine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-govt-to-amend-excise-act-to-add-death-penalty-101614649269834.html
02-03-2021||Delhi||New normal: Intimate weddings, virtual events||The Covid-19 pandemic turned the Capital’s big fat weddings into a low-key affair with restrictions on gatherings, and sanitisers, social distancing and masks becoming the new normal. But, for many, it was also a moment of truth about their closeness to a certain family or friend as hosts began to mercilessly downsize their guest lists.Deepshikha, an IT professional who goes by her first name, was invited to attend her college friend’s wedding in December last year. But, a week before the wedding, she got a message from the bride, saying, “Due to the latest Covid restrictions, we will be limiting our guest list to an intimate number. Please accept my apology for not having you with us on the special day...”Deepshikha, who had already purchased a dress for the wedding, said she was looking forward to the event. “When the wedding pictures came up on her Insta profile, I found out that another girl from our group back in college was invited. It’s just an awkward feeling where you realise that you were not as close to a person as you thought. It’s funny how the pandemic has brought out such aspects and emotions of people,” she said with a nervous laugh.On October 31, 2020, the Delhi disaster management authority (DDMA) lifted the restriction of allowing only 50 people in weddings. In banquet halls and closed spaces, the DDMA allowed up to 200 people, while the decision on the number of guests in open spaces was left on the district administration.But, after Delhi was hit by the third and the most severe Covid wave on November 16, the DDMA reduced the number of guests to 50 on November 18.The norms were again relaxed on January 31, allowing a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity, with a ceiling of 200 people. In open spaces or grounds, the number of permissible people now depends on the area of the venue.Tara Khosla, a wedding planner in South Delhi, said weddings now have become more intimate and requests from the hosts have also changed drastically. “The packages post Covid also include costs for virtual weddings where the entire ceremony is live streamed to those who could not be invited. The welcome hampers now mostly include designer masks and well scented sanitisers, among other things,” she said.People are no longer spending a lot on physical cards, she added. “It has mostly gone all digital with some even demanding websites with details about the couple, how they met, apart from the events, dress code and the venue. The idea of a small, intimate and well decorated wedding has trickled down really well and is in huge demand among the young working class where the bride and the groom take the onus of their own weddings,” she said.Ramesh Dang, president of Community Welfare Banquet Association, Delhi, said banquet halls and farmhouses have still not recovered from the losses incurred during the pandemic.“The business is picking up slowly, but the demand is still not the same as pre-Covid times. Even as weddings were allowed with up to 50 persons, people hardly booked a large hall and rather shifted all events to their homes. So, you can say that our properties were out of business for at least 10 months. During this time many of our banquet halls were also taken over by the government to convert them in Covid car centres, most of which were hardly used as hardly any patient came,” he said.But not just weddings, even business or corporate events, which were an annual affair for many companies, have shifted to digital modes. “We are losing out on corporate events big time. In pre-Covid times, there used to be conclaves, summits, off-site team building meets and what not. All of that has now shifted online. The worst part is, very few companies are going back to physical participation. Most of them have decided to continue with the webinars or digital conclaves as it saves money,” said Rakshit Singh, a corporate event handler in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-normal-intimate-weddings-virtual-events-101614645314023.html
02-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi's year of isolation||Cities shuttered, streets emptied, trains halted, and our days wrecked by fear — for our loved ones, our jobs, our everyday functioning. A great many books will be written, and movies made, on this first year of the pandemic. Here’s a snapshot of how Delhi coped with the once-in-a-lifetime occurrenceLaila’s stay-at-home consolationsDressed in a many-hued hand-woven Murshidabad silk sari, craft activist Laila Tyabji, 73, is sitting in her book-lined drawing room in south Delhi’s Shantiniketan. Behind her sofa is a huge glass window through which all you see are sky, clouds and trees. As she chats, the birds fly past the window—like fish swimming in the aquarium. During the lockdown last year, “my drawing room window reminded me that looking out is as important as looking in,” she said. “Things have their own beauty, but also the beauty of memory and the people with whom you associate them.” She tells us about five cherished objects that were a source of comfort during the homebound isolation we all underwent in the early months of the pandemic.The bottlebrush trees outside, brilliant with colour, planted by my parents in 1971 when they built the original house, now tall enough to reach my 2nd floor window.The South Indian elephant lamp, bought by them in Mysore on a car trip through South India circa 1954. I’ve always had a thing for elephants and, aged 5, swore I would marry a man like one – big, wise and with a twinkle in his eye. Alas I never found the right one!A brass Buddha head bought by me to replace a family one that fell to my brother’s share and whose serene beauty I’d loved all my life.Chiks on either side, made by Ram Singh, who arrived early morning to hang them the day (god-daughter) Urvashi and I moved into the reconstructed new flat in 2001. The only supplier (from fancy air-conditioning companies and master masons to Italian kitchen manufacturers) who met his deadline absolutely on time and accompanied it with a blessing, mithai, and an Om on my door.Rows of books, almost concealed behind the sofa but an essential magic entry into other worlds and minds.Claiming the new normalThe auditorium at Ghalib Academy in central Delhi can accommodate 200 people. These days it has set its maximum limit to 50 in accordance with social distancing. One afternoon last week, the auditorium was empty with chairs marked with posters saying “Please do not sit here.” The institute has resumed its popular literary meet held every second Saturday of the month. Its first pandemic-era gathering took place in December to mark poet Mirza Ghalib’s birth anniversary.Prachi’s fresh start, A young woman emerges from a disrupted yearThis is Tagore. This is Yeats. And this is Vikram Seth—says Prachi Sharma, pointing out cuttings of poems stuck on her closet. She wants to be a writer, and has chosen this tiny fourth floor room in cramped Delhi locality of Saidulajab as the setting to realise the dream. It is the first home of her own. “Pandemic or not, this house is a beginning for me,” she says. “It feels like a return to normalcy.”Ms Sharma, 21, moved here a month ago from her parents’ house in nearby Faridabad in Haryana. “Though they wanted me to stay with them.”But staying in Faridabad was never in her original plan. The pandemic had forced her to do so. Last year, she spent the successive lockdowns alone in her PG (paying guest) accommodation in north Delhi’s Roop Nagar — she was then a literature student in Delhi University’s Kirori Mal College. Ms Sharma’s only roommate had left for her parents’ just before the lockdown started, and so had the other 40 students living in the building. She had stayed back “because I liked being alone in a quiet unmoving time.” Eventually she was obliged to give it up in June “when my contract to stay ended, and because nothing else had fallen into place. I had to return to Faridabad.”Some months after getting a job as a content writer in a Gurugram firm, Ms Sharma decided to “take the leap” and move to Saidulajab.“The locality is good... full of young people still in college or with their first jobs... they look like people who live my kind of life.”The great part of her optimism comes from her apartment. “No matter where I am during the day, the thought that I will be returning to this place is comforting.”At night, the young woman sees the moon through her curtain-less window. In the morning, “the sunlight wakes me up.” There’s no bed but a mattress on the floor.“I like listening to my thoughts in this room,” she says, turning on a Jagjit Singh song on her mobile phone. It’s lying atop a bed table, along with a Murakami novel, a pair of jhumka and a facemask with a Madhubani design—the only thing in the room hinting that we are still in the midst of a pandemic. Does she feel its oppression?She says—“In my room, I do not feel the pandemic. Because only one breath, and only one touch live here - mine.”Shakespeare as Dilli’s migrant workerHow would Shakespeare cope with this year of pandemic in Delhi? Jonathan Gil Harris, former president of Shakespeare Society of India and professor of literature in Ashoka University, gives us his take.“Shakespeare was no stranger to pandemic. It shaped his thinking, his language and his career in ways that might seem uncannily familiar to us here in India. Picture this: an epidemic is ravaging the capital. Healthy people fall ill with fever, aches, and dry coughs; many die within a matter of days. A migrant worker, one of many in a city swollen by people desperate for economic opportunity, faces a difficult decision. His livelihood has disappeared overnight: the place where he has worked, has shut down, and his company has disbanded. He has to find another source of income. And that means walking back to his village, about sixty kilometres from the city – or finding employment elsewhere in the countryside.A Dilli worker from UP? A Mumbai labourer from Bihar? No. This migrant worker was Shakespeare, who arrived in London from his native Stratford just two or three years before the devastating plague of 1592-3, which killed maybe as many as 10% of London’s population.Shakespeare survived, obviously. His forced relocation led him to find new employment as a poet for hire. Under the patronage of the Earl of Southampton, he wrote and published his first works: two poems, Venus and Adonis and The Rape of Lucrece. These helped gain him money and some reputation. But all his subsequent work bears the silent imprint of the trauma wrought by the pandemic. Many of his plays – Romeo and Juliet, The Tempest – speak of the horrors of sudden, enforced exile; others – Merchant of Venice, Timon of Athens – address the trauma of the sudden loss of income. Shakespeare prospered. But the pandemic left him with a lasting sense of the fragility of life, livelihood, and home.”We, the isolationistsDuring the lockdown, we asked Delhiites what they see when they close their eyes in self-isolation. Faiza Hashmi , video producer, 25, who spent the lockdown with parents in Hardoi, said, “I close my eyes in self-isolation from corona… and I see my home. Rays of sunset are dazzling upon my mother’s shoulder as she picks bougainvillea flowers from the scaffold of the gate. My father is done doing wazoo in the courtyard and calls my brothers emphatically to ensure they don’t miss maghrib namaz. And there I was standing at a distant balcony looking at them and thinking what if I had made it to home on time? May be that smile that was missing on their faces would have made a comeback.”Abhishek Chaswal, ad writer, 45, who spent the lockdown with his wife, son and a dog in Saket, said, “I close my eyes in self-isolation from corona… and I see myself watching my facial hair grow like the plants in my balcony. Everything has slowed down so much I can almost feel them growing in slow motion. Don’t want to start hating the indoors too much because eventually an urbanite’s life is all about moving from one box to another. Reading quite a bit about the Hikikomoris of Japan as dystopian fiction unfolds the day in front of my eyes. What else can a man do but hope to grow as wise as one’s beard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-year-of-isolation-101614645559004.html
02-03-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram techie jailed for 13 months develops software to make prisons high-tech||Once a techie, always a techie. And so, when software engineer Amit Mishra was jailed in Haryana’s Gurugram for 13 months in connection with his wife’s suicide he got busy developing a software to make Indian jails hi-tech.A year on, when Mishra walked out of Bhondsi jail after proving his innocence, he found himself much in demand by jail authorities across Haryana after the success of his software, Phoenix — a prison management system software.On Monday, the Supreme Court acknowledged the efficacy of Mishra’s software, seeking his assistance in ensuring that life convicts could exercise their legal right of early release after serving 14 years in jail.An SC bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta noted that the feasibility of Mishra’s software should be explored by states so as to have a uniform platform where statistics relating to the inmates can be stored digitally for suitable actions.“One of the detenus/convicts in Haryana, Shri Amit Mishra, prepared a software which the State of Haryana itself thought is worth implementing and is supposed to be quite comprehensive. The feasibility of adopting that on a country-wide basis with modifications, if any, can also be explored,” stated the court order.The idea to seek Mishra’s assistance was put forth by amicus curiae Gaurav Agrawal, who was assisting the court in framing guidelines on a way to ensure that the convicts entitled to a remission could move their requests immediately after completing 14 years, with authorities then deciding on the request in a time-bound manner too.According to the law, people sentenced to life imprisonment are jailed for the rest of their lives. However, the law allows the state government and jail authorities to consider the release of convicts, based on their behaviour, after a minimum jail-term of 14 years.Agrawal told the bench about Mishra and his software Phoenix. “All the records of the prisoners, including their addresses, period of sentence served and remaining, are available to the jail authorities on a real time basis. I suggest such a software should be installed in all jails,” he submitted.Agrawal added that he met Mishra a few years ago and was impressed by the improvement in the management and administration of the jail after use of this software. At this, the bench told Agrawal to seek Mishra’s help to come up with a system where prisoners’ pleas for early release can be filed without inordinate delays. The court will hear the case next on April 19.Mishra said: “It will be a privilege to assist the court. The software I developed is presently used by 19 jails in Haryana, 38 jails in Rajasthan, 31 jails in UP and 13 jails in Himachal Pradesh. Use of this software will definitely serve the ends of justice for the inmates, apart from streamlining the administration of jails.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-techie-jailed-for-13-months-develops-software-to-make-prisons-hightech-101614638740662.html
02-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi police to quiz jailed man as part of probe into plot to kill Sushil Pandit||Days after nabbing two men for allegedly plotting to kill human rights activist Sushil Pandit, senior officers of the Delhi Police special cell said they will seek the custody of one Prince Kumar, a criminal currently under trial in Faridkot who the agency claimed had hired the two arrested men to carry out the murder.According to the police, the two alleged contract killers, Sukhvinder Singh (25) and Lakhan (21) revealed during interrogations that they were hired by Kumar, who is also known as Tuti, to kill Pandit. They were promised ₹10 lakh each for killing Pandit, deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh had said on Saturday, after their arrest.The police have also initiated a threat assessment procedure to decide on giving a security cover to Pandit, who said he has written to the city police chief, seeking suggestions on the precautionary measures he should take. He has also asked if he will be given police protection.“I have been contacted by some police officers who asked if I suspected anyone who could have plotted my murder, plot or if I thought any particular incident may have led to such planning. Some senior police officers I have spoken to told me that the threat perception process for my security is underway,” Pandit said on Monday.Pandit, who hails from Kashmir, is an activist advocating the rights of Kashmiri Pandits. He was also very vocal about his support for the revocation of Article 370 in August 2019.The two men were arrested Friday from RK Puram with four firearms, four cartridges, and a cellphone that contained a photograph of Pandit, which Kumar had allegedly sent them. “It’s important to question Tuti to verify the disclosures made by the duo regarding him. Since he is lodged in a Faridkot jail, we will be seeking his custody. We will confront the two in front of Tuti,” said a police officer associated with the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-to-quiz-jailed-man-as-part-of-probe-into-plot-to-kill-sushil-pandit-101614637846552.html
02-03-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Lost time, regained||So sad, and so beautiful—these are the thoughts that pop up simultaneously on seeing this sight.Can there be a more haunting lane anywhere in the Delhi region than this alley of the Millennium City of Gurugram? One side of the lane is completely unremarkable, lined with conventional everyday shops. The facing side has the same sort of shops too, but they lie under a most extraordinarily beautiful but severely derelict mansion, the kind of old haveli that you might not even see in Old Delhi. The wooden edifice runs across the length of the short street. Its long balcony rests on a series of sculpted brackets. The balusters under the handrail have been substituted by a metal netting, whose design is as ‘maheen’, or delicate, as an elaborately crafted hand-woven sari border. The series of doors, presumably leading to the rooms inside, are gigantic—the door head of each a fine geometrical piece of glass, arrayed with narrow metal slabs arranged like the rays of a rising sun. The windows have their panes broken in places. Plants are growing out in certain places, suggesting that domesticity, if it ever existed within these walls, has given way to wilderness.Nobody in the street can tell much about the antecedents of the great house. “It’s very, very old,” says a footpath hawker. “It was built long ago by a lawyer,” says a shopkeeper. “There were many such houses earlier, but they all have been replaced by new buildings,” volunteers yet another trader. “Nobody lives upstairs,” says one more shopkeeper.One of the establishments under this building houses the workshop-cum-shop of an elderly shoemaker. The place used to be dream-like, with wooden walls looking so smeared with the patina of several years that they seemed as soft as churned butter. During the lockdown last year, the shoemaker’s son gifted him a revamped interior (which appeared on these pages). All that wood was removed, and the shop is now gleaming and new with white painted walls and straight-lined shelves in place of spacious taaks, or niches. These modern-day alterations, however, lend greater dignity to the structure above, that has remained unaltered. The fact that hardly anybody in the area cares to look up at the picturesque mansion makes the place even more poignant.While the building’s ground level portions stay hidden behind a series of shops, these small businesses do give a charming contemporary flavour to this architectural souvenir, reflecting the area’s eclectic chaos. Mehta Gift Gallery gives “fancy dress on rent,” for instance. While a pavement tailor is busy over a kurta, his woman customer standing beside him, her eyes nervously following his hand as the scissors make a cutting through the precious fabric.One end of the building has its lower portion bare of any shop. It is covered with old-style bricks. A huge door fitted into the wall has its entire surface arrayed into a series of 20 panels—a thing rarely seen these days.Just across the street stands a new building, of grey and glass, that speaks most forcefully for the more widespread aesthetics of today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-lost-time-regained-101614637176915.html
02-03-2021||Delhi||Vasant Kunj RWA asks L-G to step in, put stop to ‘illegal’ construction work||The residents’ welfare association of Green Avenue in Vasant Kunj has written to Delhi’s Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal seeking his help to stop alleged illegal commercial construction at a building in the neighbourhood. The RWA has alleged that the building owner was going ahead with the work despite South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) sealing the premises twice.According to a senior SDMC official who is aware of the development, the corporation sealed the building in January over allegations of illegal construction. After the latest charges that work was still going on at the building, civic officials inspected the premises in February and found that the seal had been broken.“We sealed the property again. We also demolished the illegal structures. We also initiated the process to file an FIR against the owner. The property owner is a repeat offender. We filed an FIR against the owner in the past as well,” said a senior SDMC official.Located in south Delhi’s Vasant Kunj, Green Avenue has farmhouses measuring an acre to 2.5 acres.Deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said they have received a complaint and, accordingly a first information report (FIR) has been registered under appropriate sections. “The matter is being looked into,” Singh said.Satyavir Singh, vice-president of Green Avenue RWA, said, “This is a residential area but the owner is constructing a commercial property. Despite action by the South corporation, they are brazenly violating the norms and carrying on with construction.” In its letter to the L-G, the RWA alleged that the demolition carried out by the civic body was “perfunctory, and the crew clearly were instructed not to do any structural damage”.The owner of the property did not respond to calls and text messages. He was not named in the RWA letter.The letter has also been marked to SDMC commissioner, director (vigilance) SDMC, DDA vice-chairman, deputy commissioner South zone of SDMC and SHO of Vasant Kunj police station.Narendra Chawla, leader of the House in SDMC, said that he has directed the officials concerned to check if illegal construction was still going on at the building.“The property’s owner was illegally constructing a school in violation of prescribed norms. We have received several complaints. So, demolition was conducted on February 19 in the premises and the property was sealed,” said Chawla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vasant-kunj-rwa-asks-l-g-to-step-in-put-stop-to-illegal-construction-work-101614635835160.html
02-03-2021||Delhi||No EV policy perks for electric version of Tata Nexon SUV||The Delhi government on Monday temporarily delisted the electric variant of the Tata Nexon from subsidies it offers under the state’s electric vehicle (EV) policy, citing deficiencies in delivering the mileage promised by the automotive giant. The government also constituted a committee comprising a representative each from the transport department, Delhi Integrated Multi-modal Transit System (DIMTS), Tata Motors and an expert from the field to investigate the matter in detail.The order delisting the Tata Nexon EV variants stated that the transport department examined Tata Motors’ explanations in detail and found them to be “non-satisfactory”. It also added that the temporary suspension from subsidies and other benefits under the Delhi EV policy, 2020 was done in “public interest” as such “misplaced” claims could discourage people from buying EVs as the range of vehicles is one of the major parameters or expectations while purchasing such a vehicle.On February 8, the Delhi transport department issued a showcause notice to the auto maker after it received complaints from residents regarding the EV variant of the SUV. After this, a Tata Motors representative appeared before the city transport deputy commissioner on February 15 to explain the reason for the deficiencies, which the government has now termed unsatisfactory.When asked to comment on the matter, a Tata Motors spokesperson called the transport department’s order “unfortunate”.“We will continue to engage constructively to protect the interests of our customers. The Nexon EV is the only personal segment EV available in the market today that meets the stringent FAME norms. The range at a single full charge (312 km) for the Nexon EV is basis of the certification received from the Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI), which is the official body that independently tests all mass-produced vehicles under standard/defined test conditions before they can be offered to customers,” the spokesperson said.But state transport minister Kailash Gahlot said the only piece of evidence given by Tata Motors about the certification from ARAI is not sufficient to displace the basis of the complaints received by the government.“We received multiple complaints from Tata Nexon EV owners who raised the issue of mileage, which did not cross even 200km on a single charge. The Delhi government is very serious about its EV policy, and we want to ensure the effective implementation of these guidelines, which will help make Delhi the EV capital of India. People are still very sceptical about EVs, because of which sales are not so high, on top of it, such misplaced claims by OEMs will only negatively impact the public sentiment towards EVs,” he said.The minister further stated that the suspension of the subsidies on this vehicle variant in only temporary and it will be lifted only on the basis of the findings of the committee which was constituted on Monday.The Tata Motors spokesperson said with conventional vehicles (with IC engines), the actual range achieved in EVs is dependent on AC usage, individual driving style and the actual conditions in which the vehicle is driven.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-ev-policy-perks-for-electric-version-of-tata-nexon-suv-101614635240006.html
02-03-2021||Delhi||Endless cycle of traffic chaos at Ashram Chowk||The traffic chaos at Ashram Chowk, instead of getting better, has only become worse.The Public Works Department (PWD) last month started work on extending the Ashram flyover on Ring Road, even as work on a 750-metre Ashram underpass is going on after missing several deadlines. These two projects running simultaneously has made one of the Capital’s most crucial intersections — one that connects south and central Delhi, and virtually serves as the connection for two NCR cities Noida and Faridabad — a nightmare for commuters.Experts feared the situation may get even more troubling, with PWD and traffic police officials saying work on the projects will overlap for at least two months, and questioned the decision to start work on a second project despite not finishing the first.According to S Velmurugan, chief scientist, traffic engineering and safety division, Central Road Research Institute (CRRI), the high traffic volume on Mathura Road and Ring Road should have made the completion of the Ashram underpass project a top priority for the construction agency.“Once the situation normalised after the Covid-19 lockdown, attempts should have been made to speed up work and complete the project. Authorities should have fast-tracked the project to complete it on time so that the public did not have to go through such traffic logjams. When such important projects get delayed, it not only results in traffic snarls, but the cost of the project is also escalated,” Velmurugan said.“While undertaking construction at arterial roads such as Ashram and ITO, the focus should be to finish before time and free up the space for traffic. The authorities should have made additional arrangements such as additional manpower at least towards the end of the year to make up for the time lost due to the pandemic,” he said.Experts also pointed out that instead of “worsening the traffic mess” at intersection, PWD should first devote its resources to the completion of the underpass, and then take up the flyover extension so as to create alternative routes for better vehicular management.Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning at the School of Planning and Architecture, said that things were bad even when the Ring Road was acting as an alternative route to Mathura Road, where digging work has been going on since January. Now, he said, the intersection will get harder to negotiate.“The Mathura Road and Ring Road cross each other on the intersection, and if simultaneous work is initiated, there will be no clear route for traffic to move,” he said. “Even if the initiation of the flyover extension has to be postponed a little, the way to go is to wrap up work on one road first and then move to the other. This will make traffic management easier for the agencies.”While underpass connects Nizamuddin rail bridge with Mathura road near CSIR Apartments,, the flyover extension aims to extend the six-lane flyover from Ashram to DND with ramps for traffic to and from the Sarai Kale Khan bus terminal. The initial deadline of the underpass was December 2020 which has been missed. It has now been extended to April 2020. The flyover extension project will take nearly 18 months to be completed from the date of start of the work which means it has to be completed by June 2022.The Delhi Traffic Police confirmed on Monday that they received fresh permission requests from PWD to begin digging work on the Ring Road for the extension of the Ashram flyover. Officers admitted it would worsen the already bad situation considerably.“We are working out a diversion plan. The challenge will be to accommodate work on both — the Ring Road and Mathura Road — because there will be no alternative route to bear the load. In fact, the traffic on the flyover will also be affected now,” said a senior traffic official who asked not to be named.The official added that they are considering a plan to “divert load” from the Ring Road much before vehicles reach the Ashram intersection. For instance, traffic going towards east Delhi and Noida will be warned of the construction work before they reach the AIIMS flyover, so that they can use Barapullah elevated corridor and avoid Ashram altogether. Similarly, diversions will also be made near the Moolchand flyover for traffic going towards central Delhi and Faridabad.“However, despite the best laid plans, we cannot deny that till the time work on both roads continues, congestion on this stretch will be a regular feature,” the traffic official said.On Monday, when HT visited the infamous intersection, traffic jams extended to the entry of the Delhi-Noida-Direct Flyway.Juhi Kataria, a regular commuter on the route, said that additional barricades were placed on the Kilokri side and on the Maharani Bagh side of the Ring Road about two weeks ago. She said that this made wading through the stretch even more time-consuming.“Till a month ago, after crossing the intersection, traffic would move relatively smoother. However, now both sides of the Ring Road have barricades, eating up around a lane’s space. Once work intensifies here, traffic will be a nightmare,” she said.Subhash Chand, head of traffic engineering and safety division at the Central Road Research Institute (CRRI), said that traffic is in a mess at the Ashram intersection primarily because of the poor site and safety management by PWD.“A lot of the traffic jams could have been managed if the construction agencies took the required steps for site management. Since this is an important connection, with high traffic volume, there should have been signage warning commuters of ongoing construction from a few kilometres ahead. This would allow people to rationalise their route, instead of crowding at the intersection,” Chand said.A PWD official who asked not to be named admitted that things would be bad “for a while” but hoped a traffic plan would make the situation better.“To intensify flyover construction work, we will require putting barricades in the middle of the road to build foundations and erect piers to support the flyover. This can be done only when we get proper traffic diversion, which we hope to get in a fortnight’s time. We have started widening the road by removing pavements on Maharani Bagh and Kilokri so traffic can be accommodated on this additional space,” the official said.There was no response from the government and the PWD despite texts and calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/endless-cycle-of-traffic-chaos-at-ashram-chowk-101614634448442.html
02-03-2021||Delhi||Test positivity rate highest in 45 days; Delhi adds 175 Covid-19 cases||The Covid-19 test positivity rate on Monday was the highest recorded in the national capital since January 15, showed state government data.Delhi added 175 new cases of the coronavirus on Monday, on the back of 39,700 tests, leading to a positivity rate of 0.44%, the highest since the Capital saw the same rate on January 15.While the positivity rate has continued to stay lower than 1% since the end of December last year, the marginal increase in the number comes amid what seem like new waves of the infection in at least five states in the country — Maharashtra, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Chhattisgarh.Further, Monday’s high positivity rate — when numbers for Sunday’s cases and testing are reported – is also due to fewer tests conducted. Only 39,733 tests were conducted on the day, a sharp drop compared to an average of 61,000 tests conducted a day during the week.To be sure, the number of tests usually sees a dip on weekends. There were 42,242 tests according to last Monday’s bulletin, recording a positivity rate of 0.30%. However, the Monday before that (January 15) there were fewer – 39,065 – tests conducted and yet the positivity rate had been 0.36%.“We have to keep a close eye on the numbers. The increasing positivity rate indicates that the disease is spreading faster. However, with a seroprevalence of around 56% I am hoping that the number of infections will remain under control. The current infections might be in areas where some susceptible people remain. But, we need to keep an eye out for re-infections,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.“We need to determine whether the current infections are in the susceptible population or is it because of a virus mutation,” said Dr Kishore.“There is a laxity in the Covid-19 norms in Delhi now... This needs to change,” he said.Experts have also called for faster pace of vaccination in areas witnessing an increase in the number of cases. Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences had told HT last week that people in the high-risk groups residing in regions seeing a spurt in infections should be immunised quickly “as it will help in decrease mortality and hospitalisations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/test-positivity-rate-highest-in-45-days-delhi-adds-175-covid-19-cases-101614633787059.html
02-03-2021||Delhi||FIR against AAP MLA after woman accuses him of molestation||New Delhi Police on Monday said they have registered a case of molestation, voluntarily causing hurt and wrongful restraint against Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) legislator from Seelampur Abdul Rehman, following a complaint filed by a woman, who accused him, a woman worker of the party and others of allegedly assaulting her during the civic bypolls in northeast Delhi’s Chauhan Bangar area on Sunday. The FIR was registered at the Jafrabad police station.When contacted, Rehman said, “All the allegations against me are false and baseless as I did not meet the woman (complainant) yesterday (Sunday) or even in the past. Now, that the police have registered a case, I am hopeful that they will do a fair investigation. I am ready to face the punishment if I am found guilty. Else, the person who filed the false complaint or those who are supporting her should be punished.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/firagainst-aap-mla-after-woman-accuses-him-of-molestation-101614633361758.html
02-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi school shut for 1 week after student contracts Covid-19||A city school in north Delhi on Monday postponed exams for classes 9 and 11 and closed its campus for a week after a student allegedly tested positive for Covid-19, two days after attending the school.Queen Mary’s School made the announcement after a group of parents protested outside its campus on Monday demanding that the exams -- which were supposed to begin from Tuesday -- be conducted online now.In a message sent to all parents on Monday, the school said, “The school will remain closed for students of classes 9 to 12 from March 2 to March 6, 2021. The students will have to submit their Corona negative report to their class teachers on March 8.”According to parents, a class 11 student, who had attended school on February 24, tested positive for Covid-19 two days later. They also shared a Covid-19 positive report, purportedly that of the student. In a video shared on social media by the parents, the mother of the student, who is believed to have the infection, could be heard saying, “My daughter came to school and there was no social distancing. She is now sick and she is at home….The school has put so many lives at stake. They made 300 children sit in an auditorium.”School principal Ritu P Soloman denied the allegations. “The school is taking all Covid-19 related precautions.” A senior official at the school, who wished not to be named, said, “The school has decided to postpone the exams and close the campus for a week, acting on parents’ request. However, the parents of the student concerned have not officially informed the school about the condition of their child.”“The school has asked students to submit their Covid-19 negative report because that’s the only way to verify their health status in the present scenario. We can’t again take the risk of allowing students to attend school with only an undertaking,” the official added.Parents, however, are still apprehensive about the safety of their children. The mother of a class 9 student, who wished not to be named, said, “The school should either shift the exams to the online mode or postpone them till the situation becomes normal. What difference can they make by closing the campus just for a week?”Aparajita Gautam, president of Delhi Parents Association, said, “We have been repeatedly writing to the Delhi government requesting it to direct private schools to give students the option of giving their exams either online or offline. The government should now take the case of this school into consideration and take a decision.”A senior government official said, “We have not received any information about the Covid positive case at a private school. We will look into the matter. The directions for offline exams for classes 9 and 11 have been issued by the CBSE. Delhi government has no say in it. The Delhi government schools have already announced to conduct exams for these classes in offline mode only.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-school-shut-for-1-week-after-student-contracts-covid19-101614632896071.html
02-03-2021||Chandigarh||Illegal distillery busted in Ajnala, 3 women among 8 held with 110 tonne lahan, 1,780 litre liquor||An illicit liquor manufacturing unit was unearthed by the state excise department at Khiala Kalan village in Amritsar district’s Ajnala sub-division in the wee hours of Monday and nearly 110 tonnes of lahan (raw material used for making liquor) and 1,780 litre liquor were recovered from the site. Eight persons, including three women, were arrested, excise department officials said. Besides lahan and liquor, six stills, 62 drums of 200 litre each, 6 LPG cylinders, 31 plastic cans of 100 litre each, 2 water tanks of 500 litre capacity, 2 plastic drums of 50 litre each, 11 plastic cans of 35 litre each and tarpaulins were seized by an excise department team with the help of the police. The incident comes nearly eight months after the state’s worst-ever hooch tragedy claimed more than 130 lives in Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts last year. Those arrested were identified as Kuldeep Singh, Satnam Singh, Ravinder Singh, Dharamvir Singh, Harjindersingh, Savinder Kaur, Preeti, Simranjit Kaur, all Khiala Kalan residents. The officials said modern methods of distillation were being used by the bootleggers to produce liquor. Branded yeast, permanent pipeline plumbing systems, and RCC pools were being used for large-scale production of illicit liquor, they said. Deputy commissioner (excise) Jaspinder Singh said, “We have identified six more accused who are absconding. Raids are on to nab them. It is not clear yet as since when this illicit unit was being operated in the village. During the remand of the accused, we will find out whom they were supplying the liquor.”Another excise department official said, “Once we got a tip-off about the illicit liquor manufacturing, a joint raiding party of the excise department, excise police and the Amritsar police was formed. A recce of the area was conducted first. The village was cordoned off during the raid. At least 25 houses were searched and the recoveries were made from 7 houses.” Those involved in the illicit business were supplying the illicit liquor to various villages of Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts, he claimed.Hundreds of people were arrested and huge caches of illicit liquor were recovered in the three districts in the wake of the last year’s hooch tragedy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illegal-distillery-busted-in-ajnala-3-women-among-8-held-with-110-tonne-lahan-1-780-litre-liquor-101614632847385.html
02-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi citizens express anger as crime spikes||Residents held a protest on Monday in Adarsh Nagar, where a 25-year-old woman was murdered by a snatcher just metres away from her house even as she held her two-year-old daughter was in her arms, complaining about rising crime in the area on a day when the Capital recorded at least four murders, one molestation case, and a shoot-out.The spurt in crimes has renewed calls by some citizens groups for enhanced police patrolling, action against organised gangs, and establishment of police posts at key locations to make the people feel safe.BS Vohra, president of the Joint Forum of East Delhi RWAs, said that law and order situation in the city has gone for a toss. “There is a surge in crimes such as chain snatching, theft, robbery in the city and the police have failed to control them. It is often seen that a police van is parked on one corner of the street while a snatching or robbery takes place on the other corner of the street. Policing should be more strict and more beat constables should be deployed to make streets safer,” Vohra said.General secretary of the Adarsh Nagar Green residents’ welfare association, SN Singhal, who led Monday’s protest, said that over 100 residents of the area gathered at Adarsh Nagar Metro station to protest against the murder of Simran Kaur, 25.Kaur was attacked on Saturday night by a man when she was returning from a local flea market carrying her two-year-old daughter and was accompanied by her mother Mamta Kaur. As the attacker tried to snatch Kaur’s chain, she resisted, during which the man stabbed her. She collapsed in front of her house and later succumbed to the injury at a hospital in Shalimar Bagh.“It could be anybody. The residents of the area are shocked at how criminals are attacking people right in front of their house. During our agitation, we demanded round-the-clock police presence and regular night police patrolling in the area,” Singhal said.DCP (northwest) Usha Rangnani said they were planning to intensify police patrolling in the area, especially at night. “We are also planning a dedicated crackdown on street crimes like snatching and robberies across northwest district. Pickets are being raised to check vehicles and keep a watch on anti-social elements. It is an unfortunate incident and efforts are being made to make police presence more visible in the area,” said the DCP, who has recently taken over the charge of northwest district.Meanwhile, a 42-year-old man was killed in outer Delhi’s Nangloi on Monday following an ongoing enmity over meat supplying business, police said. To avenge the killing, the deceased’s associates gunned down the killer’s brother-in-law who runs a meat shop in the same area. More than 10 rounds were fired, and both the men were shot at least four times, police said on Monday. Additional deputy commissioner of police (outer) Sudhanshu Dhama said multiple teams have been formed and efforts to arrest the remaining accused was underway.In the third murder case, a 21-year-old man died while his two friends suffered stab wounds after two men assaulted them and attacked them with a knife following an altercation near Delhi Gate in central Delhi on Sunday night, police said. Both the alleged attackers were arrested on Monday morning and the weapon used in the crime was recovered from them.The fourth murder was reported from south-west Delhi’s Pratap Garden area in Bindapur on Sunday night. Police said a 30-year-old man died and his brother sustained injuries when they were stabbed for allegedly objecting to a rash driving by a biker.The police also arrested a civil defence volunteer for allegedly molesting and threatening a woman in South Delhi’s Sangam Vihar. The man also attacked a police constable with a brick when a police team was sent to arrest him.Commenting on the spate of crimes, Delhi police spokesperson, DCP Chinmoy Biswal said in all these cases immediate police action was taken followed by arrests.“Controlling crime is Delhi Police’s priority and all efforts are being for the safety of citizens. At times, there is a sudden spurt in incidents, but we rise to the challenge and get on top of the situation. Adequate measures are being taken to curb street crime,” Biswal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-citizens-express-anger-as-crime-spikes-101614632511457.html
02-03-2021||Delhi||‘Media leaks need to be controlled to keep probe fair’: Delhi HC slams Police||The Delhi high court on Monday observed that media leaks need to be controlled to “ensure fairness to the accused, investigation agency and purity of trial” while slamming the Delhi Police for their half-baked vigilance enquiry to ascertain how the disclosure statement of Asif Iqbal Tanha, an accused in the north-east Delhi riots, was leaked to the media.Justice Mukta Gupta, while hearing a plea by Tanha seeking action against the errant police officials, said the enquiry was even worse than what was done in a petty theft case.Advocate Amit Mahajan, special public prosecutor in the north-east Delhi riots for the police, told the court that leak was “undesirable” and should not have happened. He said that whenever action is taken against any of the media houses, they start running a campaign against it.To this, the court said, “Yes it is undesirable, but this needs to be controlled to ensure fairness to the accused, investigation agency and purity of trial”.“You have to find the errant person. You cannot shrug the responsibility off your shoulders,” the court said.Justice Gupta also asked the special commissioner of police, vigilance, to be in court on March 5, the next hearing date.In his petition, Tanha said he was aggrieved by various publications reporting that he has confessed to orchestrating the Delhi riots and alleged that he was coerced to sign certain papers in the effective custody of police. Tanha said this information does not have any evidentiary value and alleged that the Delhi Police officials, with mala fide intent, leaked statements to the media to prejudice his case.During the hearing on Monday, the court said that the allegations of police leaking the information were substantiated and it has to just find out who leaked it. The court cautioned that harsher orders will be passed if the police fail to do so.“It is a case of theft of your documents. It’s a case of sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and anything that goes out of your hand illegally, you have to take action. Your document was not with anyone except for senior IAS officers. This is nothing but a half-baked vigilance enquiry without any application of mind,” Justice Gupta said.When Mahajan told the court that the document had been sent only to the home ministry and the Delhi government and even they are aggrieved with the leak, the court said, “Mind you, these are senior IAS officers. Where did you do the enquiry, who did you enquire of? Where were the files sent? Who took them to MHA and Delhi government and who brought them back from there? These are not documents lying on the road…..and amazingly, if these were lying on the road, the journalist is confident that these are those very original copies”.Tanha, a third-year student of BA in Persian language, was arrested in May last year in connection to the conspiracy in the north-east Delhi riots cases. He was arrested in connection with the violence in the Jamia area during a protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in December 2019.The police had said Tanha was a member of the Students Islamic Organization and was part of the Jamia Coordination Committee which spearheaded protests against CAA.On Monday, advocate Siddharth Aggarwal, appearing for Tanha, pointed to the police’s status report along with the vigilance enquiry report highlighting that the cause of leak or the person has not been substantiated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/media-leaks-need-to-be-controlled-to-keep-probe-fair-delhi-hc-slams-police-101614632057235.html
02-03-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Over 6,100 in Delhi get jabs on 1st day of expanded drive||Enthused by Prime Minister Narendra Modi taking the Covid-19 vaccine shot from the All India Institute of Medical Science on Monday, nearly 6,200 persons over the age of 60 years or with co-morbidities took the jab on Day One of the inoculation drive being opened to the general population across 308 vaccination sites in the national capital.After receiving the made in India Covaxin, administered by health worker P Niveda, Modi tweeted, “Took my first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at AIIMS. Remarkable how our doctors and scientists have worked in quick time to strengthen the global fight against Covid-19. I appeal to all those who are eligible to take the vaccine. Together, let us make India Covid-19 free!”Dr Jitendra Singh, minister of state for the Prime Minister’s office, was also administered the vaccine at the hospital.On the day when registrations had started on the Co-WIN 2.0 portal, 5,176 people over the age of 60 years received the vaccine. There were 1,009 people over the age of 45 with one of the 30 listed co-morbidities who also received their first dose of the vaccine on Monday.Only 4,296 front-line workers received the vaccine on Monday, bringing to a close the vaccination drive for the second priority group. A total of 1,954 health-care workers, the first priority group, also took the shot on Monday.“With the closing of the previous Co-WIN portal, the vaccination drive came to an end for health-care and front-line workers. That does not mean they will not be able to get the vaccine, but they will have to register themselves on CoWIN 2.0 and book a slot just like others from the general population,” said a senior district official.At the outset of the vaccination drive, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had said, “The registration for the vaccination is simple. It can be done by self on the Co-WIN app. At the moment, we should not go towards on-site vaccination as there are too many people left to be vaccinated. So, this will make the process tough. We will do it slowly and steadily so that everyone gets a slot.”The 308 vaccination sites are located in 192 hospitals across the city – 136 private hospitals that can charge up to ₹250 for each jab and 56 government hospitals where the shot will be administered for free.At Max Super Speciality Hospital in Patparganj, 220 persons were vaccinated on Monday. According to hospital officials, the vaccination drive started late due to technical issues in the Co-WIN app. “Many people complained that they faced issues while registering on the app. The matter was resolved by noon and we managed to give jabs to over 100 persons (the daily quota) by 2:30pm itself,” the official said.Among those who got a jab at the hospital on was Archana Kaupur, 61, a resident of Kaushambi in Ghaziabad. “My husband and I were looking forward to getting vaccinated. We registered ourselves on the app early in the morning and reached here to complete the payment. We are more confident about the vaccine now that we saw Modi ji getting the jab,” she said.Many chose the online mode of payment to make the process quick at the hospital. Ayachi Gupta, a resident of Indirapuram, who took his parents for vaccination, said, “I called the customer care to check if online mode of payment was available. I received a link on my registered email ID for the purpose. This was helpful as the queue outside the payment counter was long.”Across Max hospitals, 770 people received the jab on Monday. “The enthusiasm among people for the vaccination was only too palpable. With a considerable high number of people (turning up), we are sure that overall, people are extremely positive about getting vaccinated,” said a statement from Max healthcare.An official from East district, where the hospital is located, said, “There were two takeaways from the drive today. One, people are enthusiastic. Two, the new software is much better than the previous one; it did not crash despite so many people getting registered.”At Lok Nayak hospital only 10 could get jabs on Monday.“There were some teething issues. We faced problems in the Co-WIN app — it was either not generating the OTP or was crashing too often. We expect more people to get the jabs from Tuesday as the system has been streamlined to some extent,” said a senior official of the hospital on condition of anonymity.As per the hospital records, the facility gave the first dose of the Covishield vaccine to eight senior citizens and two persons above the age of 45 years with comorbidities.(with inputs from Anonna Dutt)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-over-6-100-in-delhi-get-jabs-on-1st-day-of-expanded-drive-101614631696787.html
02-03-2021||Chandigarh||Covid vaccination for senior citizens starts on tardy note across J&K||Coronavirus vaccinations for senior citizens started on a tardy note in Jammu and Kashmir as health authorities, who were earlier supposed to start vaccinations from March 7, were caught off guard when they were asked to start the process on Monday. Senior citizens had reached Gandhi Nagar Government Hospital and Sarwal Government Hospital to get the vaccine. However, after the Centre’s directive the health authorities in Jammu and Kashmir started vaccinating senior citizens. Financial commissioner health and medical education Atal Dulloo said, “Earlier, it was decided that vaccination for the senior citizens will start from March 7 but then we received a message and mobilised our staff and started vaccination for senior citizens across the UT.” Dulloo said the process will be smoother from Tuesday. Government Hospital Sarwal medical superintendent Dr Harbaksh Singh said, “On the first day,120 persons were inoculated with Covishield vaccine, of which 80 were senior citizens. No side effects were observed.” In the second phase, senior citizens above 60 years of age and those with comorbidities between 45 to 59 years were required to get registered by producing any photo voter identity card, pan cards, driving license and Aadhaar Card. A septuagenarian Chaman Lal Raina, who received the first jab, said he was fine and had suffered no side effects. “I am fine. I had no health conditions. Somebody informed me that vaccinations were taking place and I came here to get inoculated. The hospital authorities were well prepared and were adhering to social distancing and other norms,” said Raina.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-vaccination-for-senior-citizens-starts-on-tardy-note-across-jk-101614631285913.html
02-03-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s legacy waste to affect it’s rankings in Swachh Survekshan||At a time when the municipal corporation (MC) is struggling with solid waste management, its failure in disposing of over 16 lakh metric tonnes of legacy waste and inability to ensure waste segregation at source is expected to affect its rankings in Swachh Survekshan-2021. The inspections for this competition are held in the month of March across the country. The third party, which has been roped in for the inspections, is expected to reach Ludhiana this week.Cities are ranked on various criteria, including segregated collection, processing and disposal of waste and sustainable sanitation (2,400 marks), garbage-free city (6,000 marks) and ODF status (1,800 marks). Similarly, 30% marks (1, 800 marks) is also reserved for citizen’s feedback, engagement, experience, swachhta app and innovation. After the dismal performance in Swachh Survekshan 2020, wherein the city was ranked at the 34th position out of 47 cities with over 10 lakh population, the civic body has been working hard to improve its ranking. However, different projects mooted to deal with legacy waste have been hanging fire for years and waste segregation has also not been achieved in many parts of the city.The MC has also failed to come up with a waste plant for treating construction and demolition waste.Adding to the woes of the civic body, A2Z company left the work in the city on February 4 after serving a self-termination notice. The MC is yet to sign a contract with a new firm and has made stop-gap arrangements by signing an agreement with a third party to whom A2Z had sublet the work of lifting garbage from the city. As A2Z company was running the refuse derived fuel (RDF) plant to dispose of the fresh garbage generated on a daily basis, the plant has come to a halt and over 100 metric tonnes of garbage is being accumulated at the site in addition to over 16 lakh metric tonnes of legacy waste that has accumulated over the last decade or so. The MC is also yet to install static compactors under the smart city mission and there are over 40 open secondary dump sites in the city where the garbage is discarded by household waste collectors. The Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) had however installed compactors at Sarabha Nagar (Block J), Hambran road and Rishi Nagar among a few other areas.MC Commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said that the MC is working to rope in a new contractor for solid waste management and tenders will be floated soon. “The legacy waste will also be disposed off. Waste segregation is being at most parts of the city and MC staff, including the senior officials, are on ground to keep a check on the same. Challans are also being issued to the violators especially those polluting Buddha Nullah. All efforts are being made to improve the rankings under Swachh Survekshan 2021.”MC makes last-ditch effortsWith Swachch Survekshan inspections drawing near, the civic body is making last-ditch efforts to improve its scores. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal conducted a meeting with the officials of MC’s health branch at Zone A office on Monday and directed officials to regularly check the attendance of sweepers and sewermen. Further, it was also decided to hold ‘swachhta’ activities every Sunday and conduct competitions like ‘Main bhi hoon Swachhta Superstar’. Sanitary inspector and chief sanitary inspectors have also been deployed to ensure that only segregated waste is collected from houses and dumped at secondary dumping sites. Sabharwal said that apart from conducting competitions between the residents’ welfare associations and youth clubs, the MC will also be appointing brand ambassadors under Swachh Bharat mission. Demonstrations will also be done to promote home compositing. MC will also be issuing challans for failure to segregate waste, indulging in littering, use and sale of plastic carry bags among other violations. The amount of challan may range from ₹250 to ₹5, 000, depending on the category of property and violation done by the owner. A challan of ₹250 will be issued to residents if they fail to hand over segregated waste to the waste collector. Challans upto ₹20, 000 will be issued on sale of plastic carry bags and for burning garbage, challans upto ₹25, 000 will be imposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-legacy-waste-to-affect-it-s-rankings-in-swachh-survekshan-101614631284831.html
02-03-2021||Chandigarh||Prashant Kishor returns as Capt’s principal adviser with cabinet rank||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday appointed political strategist Prashant Kishor, or ‘PK’ as he is often called in political circles, who has scripted several successful electoral campaigns, as his principal adviser with cabinet rank. The election consultant’s appointment in the chief minister’s office (CMO) was announced by Amarinder himself on social media. “Happy to share that @PrashantKishor has joined me as my principal advisor. Look forward to working together for the betterment of people of Punjab!” he tweeted. The announcement came after months of speculation that began in the first half of 2020 when the chief minister had indicated to some party leaders and MLAs his intention to engage Kishor for the assembly elections. The state unit has already announced that Amarinder will lead the party in next year’s polls. The political strategist, who has been appointed in the rank and status of a cabinet minister, will be paid a token honorarium of ₹1 per month. However, he will be entitled to a fully-furnished government residence and camp office, executive class travel, official vehicle, medical facilities and secretarial staff as admissible to a cabinet minister, according to an official order on the terms and conditions of his appointment that was released by the state government on social media. The chief minister’s principal adviser has also been allowed expenditure up to ₹5,000 per month on hospitality. His term will be co-terminus with the tenure of the present chief minister, reads the order issued by principal secretary, general administration, Vivek Pratap Singh. Kishor will advise the chief minister on draft development policies and strategies with an eye on the state polls. The political strategist was adviser to Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar with cabinet rank earlier before the two fell out in January 2020. Kishor and his agency, the Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC), had worked with the Congress in Punjab in the 2017 assembly polls with Amarinder as the state unit chief. He was also the brain behind the ‘Coffee with Captain’ and ‘Punjab da Captain’ that had worked well for the party and the CM-face. Amarinder, who led the Congress to victory, had tweeted, “PK & his team and their work was absolutely critical to our victory in Punjab!” Though there is talk that I-PAC will also start working with the Punjab Congress once the assembly polls in West Bengal where Kishor is guiding chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress get over, state unit chief Sunil Jakhar said he has learnt about Kishor’s appointment just a short while ago. “There has no discussion on engaging the agency so far,” he said. Kishor and his advocacy group have also worked with the BJP, YSR Congress and the AAP in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/prashant-kishor-returns-as-capt-s-principal-adviser-with-cabinet-rank-101614630624577.html
02-03-2021||Chandigarh||Alignment on cards to bump up speed on Kalka-Shimla track||The railways is planning to realign the Shimla-Kalka narrow gauge track, a United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNSECO) world heritage site, to accelerate the speed of the trains, Union railway minister Piyush Goyal said on Monday. The Union minister, who is on a tour to Himachal to review ongoing and proposed railway projects in Himachal, said efforts were being made to boost the speed of trains running on this track. At present, it takes trains around five-and-a-half hours to cover a 96.6km journey between Shimla and Kalka. “Efforts are made to increase the speed from the exiting 25 kmph but it has not be achieved so far becaused of a steep gradient and sharp curves,” said the Union minister adding that the railways would soon conduct a survey to realign the track. Railway authorities have been directed to replace old coaches, which will enhance the tourist experience, he said, adding two ‘hop in-hop off’ coaches will be added on the track. Survey for rail track between Paonta Sahib-Jagadhri The railways minister said a a fresh survey will be undertaken for a proposed railway line to be laid between Poanta Sahib and Jagadhri. The survey will be conducted with a focus on freight expected from the industrial area in Paonta Sahib and a study would be conducted by RDSO to examine if the Kalka-Shimla track could be strengthened to improve the speed of trains plying on this track. This was decided in a meeting held between Union railways minister Piyush Goyal and chief minister Jai Ram Thakur. Goyal said budget on infrastructure and other railway services in Himachal had been increased from ₹108 crore in 2009- 2014 to ₹280 crore in 2014 – 2019. A provision of ₹770 crore has been made in the 2021-22 budget for different projects, a 613% increase as compared to 2014-19, he said. The chief minister said that coaches of the Kalka-Shimla Railway should be designed and manufactured to enhance the tourism experience. He also urged the minister to provide vista-dome type coaches so that the tourists can get a panoramic view of the beautiful valleys along the route.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/alignment-on-cards-to-bump-up-speed-on-kalka-shimla-track-101614629725394.html
02-03-2021||Other||26 set to attend Maharashtra budget session test positive for Covid-19||Around 26 people, including police personnel, constabularies and media persons, tested positive for Covid-19 ahead of the budget session of the Maharashtra legislature that started from Monday. “Test reports of around 26 people have been found positive for Covid-19. None of them are legislators,” said Rajendra Bhagwat, secretary, state legislature.The state legislature secretariat has made a negative test report for Covid-19 mandatory for attending the legislature session for all the ministers, legislators, officials, employees and security staff. It has also organised a two-day camp where tests of around 3,260 people were conducted. Amid resurgence of Covid-19 infections in the state, a number of the state’s political leaders and ministers, including the health minister Rajesh Tope, had been declared Covid-positive earlier.Apart from Tope, Jayant Patil (water resources minister), Dr Rajendra Shingne (food and drugs administration minister) and Bachchu Kadu (minister of state for water resources) along with Member of Parliament from BJP Raksha Khadse, have been recovering with the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/26-set-to-attend-maharashtra-budget-session-test-positive-for-covid19-101614629665627.html
02-03-2021||Other||‘Building a health care staff pool was Maharashtra’s biggest challenge’||Ajoy Mehta, Maharashtra’s principal advisor on Covid-19 from June 2020 to February 2021, speaks about how the state dealt with its greatest ever crisis MUMBAI Soon after Maharashtra’s first two Covid-19 cases were detected on March 9, 2020, the state began surpassing others in both cumulative cases and deaths. By May 2020, it became evident that it would require a gargantuan effort from the state to put the brakes on what was described as the crisis of the century. In May 2019, Ajoy Mehta, a 1984 batch IAS officer and former Mumbai municipal commissioner, was appointed the state’s chief secretary. In June 2020, Mehta was due to retire, but, by then, had earned enough trust with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to be appointed his principal advisor on all matters Covid, a post he occupied until February 10 this year. This month, Maharashtra observes its first Covid-case anniversary. Mehta candidly admits it was his toughest year as an administrator; even though, he says, the state’s bureaucratic and medical machinery looked indefatigable and was never short on motivation. In an interview, Mehta, among other key issues, speaks how Mumbai needs to learn from this experience and create better housing and public transport facilities for its residents to ensure the next medical emergency is dealt with quickly and effectively. How effectively did the state machinery handle the Covid-19 crisis? It was handled with firmness and honesty. We were not shaken or unnerved, but yes, we were not certain of the direction it was heading. The infection was new. Nobody knew how it would behave. We were quick to learn as we went along. We took some bold decisions that other Indian states quickly followed. What were those decisions? Maharashtra was the first state to admit discrepancies in reporting Covid-19 deaths. We undertook a massive reconciliation exercise. We faced flak, but we stood by our decision. In all our meetings, the chief minister repeatedly said we should report the right numbers; otherwise, we will never find solutions to the crisis. We were also the first state to take control of 80% of the beds in private hospitals, in spite of stiff opposition from the sector. We took over private premises and set up jumbo facilities. We offered a universal scheme through the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (a state-sponsored health insurance scheme). Maharashtra instituted a medical task force comprising private and government healthcare experts to create a treatment protocol. We were the first to set up a death audit committee. We decided to give personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to small clinics as many were shut causing stress to non-Covid patients. During the migrant workers crisis, we had housed more than half a million citizens in our camps where we served them three meals a day. To serve 1.5 million meals a day is no small task. What were the challenges in building healthcare facilities in Mumbai and the rest of the state? The biggest challenge was to build a pool of experienced healthcare staff. Here, the medical workforce should be given a lot of credit. They forgot their eight-hour shifts. They left their families and stayed in makeshift arrangements. They really came forward. Our next challenge was to set up physical infrastructure – beds, ventilators and oxygen facilities. We created anywhere between 100,000 and 150,000 oxygen beds in a short span. We did not have an adequate number of ambulances in Mumbai, so we converted BEST buses into ambulances. Dialysis for kidney patients had become a parallel crisis, so we set up a new protocol and opened a chain of dialysis centres. The administration had to change its way of working since physical meetings were not possible. How was that challenge met, given the scale of the crisis? Maharashtra’s bureaucracy has been responsive during disasters. Whether it be the earthquake in Latur (1993), the floods (2005 and 2019), or the drought (an ongoing crisis), we have handled it. But these were known adversities. We knew how to deal with them. This (Covid-19) was a disaster we knew nothing about, and the very people who treat others were exposed to danger. Motivation, however, was never a challenge; it was about giving direction. In fact, many IAS officers went beyond their call of duty. The CM also decided that each officer should handle a vertical – data management, camps for migrant workers, train movement, NGO assistance, stocking up on essentials, everyone was handling a key part. Since you mention IAS officers, you received flak for replacing the Mumbai municipal commissioner (Praveen Pardeshi was replaced by IS Chahal in May 2020) at a crucial juncture. You also replaced the municipal commissioners in the Mumbai metropolitan region. Your comment? No comment. Just when the state was hitting a peak in the middle of 2020, there was a point when low availability of beds and ventilators had become a major issue. How did the state tackle it?Several hospitals did not accept Covid patients, even if there were beds. Patients were moved from one hospital to another and, unfortunately, some even died in the ambulances. We came down heavily on this by passing an order stating no patient can be denied treatment if he or she arrives at a hospital. We sent auditors to every hospital to check bed availability. Owing to the caseload in Mumbai, we also asked IAS officers to handle hospitals. The jumbo facilities helped a lot in solving these issues. Cases in both Mumbai and the rest of Maharashtra are increasing again. Why do you think this is happening? Do we need restrictions again? It will not be correct for me to say what the government should be doing now (Mehta is currently the chairman of Maharera, the state’s real estate regulator). However, having worked with this government, I can tell you that the decision-making is prudent and accurate. The state reports cases honestly and that should continue. What do you think is the reason for increasing number of cases? It’s not just Maharashtra. If you look globally, at some point countries such as the UK, Israel, just about everyone said it’s over. Everything opened up. However, it’s back to square one now. The very nature of the virus is that it comes in surges. The only thing I would say is please be cautious, don’t do away with your masks, continue to wash your hands frequently and maintain social distancing. You have been the municipal commissioner of Mumbai. What are the lessons to be learned from an urban planning point of view? Mumbai needs to sort its housing issue. We need good quality housing with hygienic facilities. We have to also improve our public transport. With Covid, public transport became a super-spreader. We had to shut trains and buses, which knocked off Mumbai. We need to sort this (transport). What do you think are the major vaccination challenges? Most challenges seem to have been sorted. Initially, there was vaccine hesitancy. It seems to have gone now, and the software concerns (of the Co-WIN app) have been resolved. Even the issues of cold chain facilities in rural areas seem to be have been sorted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/building-a-health-care-staff-pool-was-maharashtra-s-biggest-challenge-101614629664124.html
02-03-2021||Mumbai||Tales of pandemic: Each day was a blur, says matron of BYL Nair Hospital, Mumbai||For 52-year-old Rucha Salgaonkar, who was assigned the post of matron at BYL Nair Hospital in Mumbai Central in March 2020, the first assignment was to prepare a Covid ward. “Our dean asked me to prepare 40 beds in a separate ward for Covid patients. Within two days the entire hospital was declared a Covid-care zone and overnight everything changed,” said Salgaonkar, who heads a team of 680 nurses at the hospital. Soon, Salgaonkar and her team were working 12-hour shifts administering continuous care for patients and staff as well; they got their first weekly off only four months later. It started with an average of two patients every day in March. By April-end, approximately 240 patients were being admitted every day, and a Super Specialty Out-patient Department (OPD) was set up in a make-shift tent. “At its peak, in the months of May and June, on an average we were admitting anywhere between 500 to 680 patients every day. “Our 1600-bed hospital was converted into a 1043-bed hospital after following social distancing norms. Each day was a blur of tending to the needs of everyone admitted,” Salgaonkar said. “We had to set up an ambulance bay and make sure beds were ready immediately so that patients could undergo a quick check-up and get admitted without any hassle. We had to ensure that we were not falling short of oxygen and other essential supplies at all times,” she said. Salgaonkar, who lives in Haji Ali, which is close to her workplace, refused to take up accommodation in the hospital’s hostel and chose to live with her family comprising her husband, a BMC employee, and two daughters. “My husband and daughters were very supportive and for months together, my older daughter would buy the groceries and cook dinner while my husband and younger daughter would keep my clothes ready so the minute I entered my home, I would bathe,” she said. Each day brought with it a new set of challenges, and Salgaonkar said with some measure of pride that the staff worked in tandem to come up with solutions. For instance, nurses had a tough time working in PPE gear during the peak summer months with little or no access to air conditioning in the municipal hospital. “We were spending hours in PPE and by the time we got out of it, we were drenched in sweat. I therefore made it a point to ensure that a nurse does not spend more than six hours in the PPE kit, and rest of the time managed with basic protective gear including gloves, masks and face gear,” Salgaonkar said. Nair Hospital continued to cater to non-Covid patients through the pandemic, and on August 15, the hospital started operations of non-Covid wards. “It took almost five months of continuous work and in mid-August we finally opened the doors for non-Covid patients. So the work doubled, but we had all hands on deck all the time,” she said. Second and third year nursing students began to undergo counseling following which they started providing counseling to Covid patients to help them alleviate their stress and anxiety. The staff members too required counseling on a regular basis, as they were witnessing the suffering and death caused by a pandemic, for the first time themselves. A special public notice system was formulated by so that relatives would get regular updates on their family members admitted in the hospital, as they were not allowed to meet in person. The hospital also managed over 830 deliveries of Covid-19 positive mothers. The incident that left a lasting impression on Salgaonkar’s mind however was when she lost a pregnant patient. “At the peak of the pandemic, we lost an eight-month pregnant mother and her baby to Covid, despite all the medical care we gave. We were as heartbroken as the family but there was no time to grieve because we had to ensure the next patient lived to see another day,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tales-of-pandemic-each-day-was-a-blur-says-matron-of-byl-nair-hospital-mumbai-101614629304669.html
02-03-2021||Other||Maharashtra did well in handling Covid-19 pandemic: Governor in address to legislature||Amid the tussle between ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and principal Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, in an address to the joint session of the state legislature on Monday, praised the Uddhav Thackeray government’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and said its measures have become a model for the country and the world. Lauding the state government on its Covid-19 response, Koshyari said, “My government took several measures for the control and management of the Covid-19 pandemic which have become a model for the rest of the states and even other countries. Maharashtra has most effectively managed the epidemic by bringing down the number of active cases and successfully dealing with difficult settlements such as Dharavi.” The Governor also said that the state is yet to get goods and services tax (GST) dues worth ₹29,290 crore from the Centre. He pointed out that despite a significant drop in the revenue and delay in getting GST compensation dues, the state government has provided “priority funding” to health, medical education, relief and rehabilitation, food and civil supplies, and home departments during the pandemic. Out of the ₹46,950 -crore worth of dues to the state government as GST compensation, the Centre has paid only ₹6,140 crore, while ₹11,520 crore has been given as loan for GST compensation. Koshyari’s speech, which reflects state government’s plan for the year, set the tone for the 10-day budget session that is expected to witness a face-off between MVA and BJP, which also sparred over the Vidarbha and Marathwada statutory development boards and the approval of the 12 upper house members to be appointed by the Governor. The tenure of the development boards, which were created by a Presidential Order in 1994 to help remove regional imbalance, had ended last April, and the state has not formed the board since then. These boards are responsible not to the legislature, but to the Governor, who exercises direct control over them. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Monday said that the boards will be formed immediately after the names of 12 Members of Legislative Council (MLCs) to be appointed from Governor’s quota are approved. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis condemned Pawar’s comments and accused MVA government of holding Vidarbha and Marathwada to ransom over the appointment of 12 MLCs, whose names were sent to Koshyari in November last year. Fadnavis asked what have the people of the two regions got to do if the names are not being cleared. “It’s between you and the Governor, who is not of any party but an authority... I thank Pawar for saying what he had in his mind. You have held Vidarbha and Marathwada to ransom for 12 MLCs. How much politics are you going to play?” said Fadnavis. During his address, Koshyari also said that the Maharashtra government will continue its strong stance on the border dispute with Karnataka. “My government has strongly presented Maharashtra’s case in the original suit filed in the Supreme Court on the Maharashtra-Karnataka border dispute and henceforth, will continue to present the same. My government expresses its commitment to the Marathi -speaking people of the border areas and is committed to get them justice,” Governor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-did-well-in-handling-covid-19-pandemic-governor-in-address-to-legislature-101614629125870.html
02-03-2021||Mumbai||Tales of pandemic: Worked 5 days in a row, says 108 ambulance driver||Atik Khan, 43, an ambulance driver with 108 ambulance service operated by the Maharashtra Emergency Medical Services (MEMS), was on a night shift when the national lockdown was declared on March 24, 2020. His partner who was supposed to relieve him from duty the next day couldn’t, as all modes of transportation had come to a standstill. For the next five days, Khan worked 24x7 ferrying suspected and confirmed Covid-19 infected patients to hospitals. With shops and restaurants closed, he recalled knocking on strangers’ doors requesting for food and water. Khan, together with 200 other 108 service ambulance drivers, were put on Covid duty.“I was stationed at Churchgate station. When the lockdown was declared, all roadside food stalls where we would have our meals closed down overnight. We were struggling to find even a glass of water. All the while, I kept responding to emergency calls, even from Borivli which is 40 kilometres away,” he said. “Due to the rush, we had to ask patients to wait sometimes for up to an hour.” The lockdown had brought the city to a grinding halt, and private vehicles were not allowed to move. So ambulance staffers also had to carry bodies to cremation grounds. “This doubled our work pressure,” he said. One evening, a hungry and exhausted Khan knocked on the doors of a few Cuffe Parade residents seeking food. One family offered him and other fellow ambulance staffers food. “We asked them to give us food in plastic bags as it would have been risky to enter anyone’s house then. I will always remain thankful to the family for feeding us,” he said. On March 30, when he finally returned to his flat in Govandi, he was worried that he may infect his wife and three children. “I was directly handling the infected patients while ferrying them. Though I always wore personal protective equipment (PPE), I was still scared of infecting my family. So, even before entering the house, I took a bath with hot water on the road outside our house,” he said. Eventually, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation and other non-government organizations began to organise food for frontline workers like ambulance workers. A year later, Khan waits outside the Lokmanya Tilak General also known (Sion hospital) where his 11-year-old son is undergoing treatment after meeting with an accident. Khan hasn’t been able to go on duty for over a month. “I have worked tirelessly in the pandemic. But no one from my office has come to meet my son in the hospital, nor have I received my salary for February,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tales-of-pandemic-worked-5-days-in-a-row-says-108-ambulance-driver-101614629124610.html
02-03-2021||Mumbai||Informed at last minute, 3 Mumbai hospitals scrambled to get ready for vaccination||After being informed on Sunday that they have been shortlisted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for the third phase of vaccination, HJ Doshi Hindu Sabha Hospital, KJ Somaiya Medical College and SRCC Children’s Hospital scrambled to prepare for beneficiaries on Monday. “We have been keen to take part in the vaccination process but on Monday, when the drive started, we weren’t prepared logistically,” said a senior doctor from SRCC Children’s Hospital. Each hospital has been given an initial target of 100 beneficiaries. KJ Somaiya Hospital vaccinated 111 people on Monday, while HJ Doshi Hindu Sabha Hospital vaccinated 105 people. SRCC Children’s Hospital saw a 56% turnout. “We got the vials of vaccine on Monday morning. After that, Co-WIN collapsed. It was chaotic. But as soon as the app got activated, we immediately started vaccinating the public,” said an officer from HJ Doshi Hindu Sabha Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/informed-at-last-minute-3-mumbai-hospitals-scrambled-to-get-ready-for-vaccination-101614628884175.html
02-03-2021||Mumbai||Budget session: Maharashtra govt tables supplementary demands worth ₹21,076 crore||On the first day of the budget session of the state legislature, the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on Monday tabled supplementary demands worth around ₹21,076 crore, in addition to the annual budget. Supplementary budget refers to additional expenditure required for the year for unforeseen expenses over and above the annual budget. The state has sought ₹16,200 crore to repay loans taken last year, ₹2,650.60 crore for payment of pension and other retirement benefits for government employees and ₹826.68 crore for three Metro rail projects — 2A, 2B and 7. The state has already spent ₹51,076 crore in addition to the annual budgetary outlay. It had sought ₹29,084 crore and ₹21,992 crore as supplementary demand during last year’s monsoon and winter session, respectively. With the fresh supplementary demands of ₹21,076 crore, the sum of additional expenses over and above budgetary provision will go up to ₹72,152 crore. Maharashtra was reeling under acute financial crisis owing to the months-long lockdown imposed to contain the spread of coronavirus last year. “It has been decided to provide an additional fund of ₹16,200 crore to repay the advances taken under the special drawing facility. Hence, a supplementary appropriation of ₹16,200 crore is proposed,” states supplementary statement of expenditure 2020-21 tabled by the deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar in the state assembly on Monday. “The state had taken a loan of around ₹76,000 crore last year. The supplementary demand was made with an intention to repay it,” said Manoj Saunik, additional chief secretary, finance department. The state has also sought ₹561.13 crore for subsidies given to farmers in power bills for agricultural pumps. “It has been decided to provide an additional fund of ₹1,866 crore for the expenditure incurred on concessions given in electricity tariff for agricultural pumps consumers of the state, which is to be adjusted against electricity duty and tax on sale of electricity to be received from the MSEDCL. An expenditure of ₹1,304 crore can be accommodated within the sanctioned grants for the current financial year. Therefore, a supplementary demand of ₹561.13 crore is presented,” states the finance department document. Further, the state has allocated ₹400 crore for various irrigation development corporations for completing various irrigation projects under Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana and Baliraja Sanjeevani Yojana and ₹242.25 crore for providing relief to those affected due to Cyclone Nisarga hit Konkan region last June. It has also earmarked ₹24.15 crore for renovation and other related works of Jalbhushan (governor office cum residence) and Darbar Hall buildings where all the swearing in ceremonies and other programs are being held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/budget-session-maharashtra-govt-tables-supplementary-demands-worth-21-076-crore-101614628644088.html
02-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees slight dip in Covid cases with 6,000 new ones||While battling glitches on the CoWIN app, 4,723 members of the general public received the first shot of the vaccine on Monday. The state also saw the number of new cases of Covid-19 fall to the 6,000 range after hovering above 8,000 for the past five days. Of the total 27,115 people who were inoculated on Monday, 3,777 were citizens above the age of 60 while 946 were between 45 to 60 years with comorbidities. The remaining beneficiaries were healthcare (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs). The total number of beneficiaries who have received vaccines till now stands at 1,228,211 of which 218,170 are from Mumbai.Citizens said the process of registering on Co-Win was fraught with difficulty. “I started early morning and registration itself was an issue as it was showing there was a problem on the server. After 30 minutes, I was able to register, but they did not allow me to schedule an appointment,” said Parel resident Srikrishna Joshi, who is 64 years old. Officials admitted to technical glitches and said the app was expected to function properly in coming days. Maharashtra recorded 6,397 new cases of Covid-19 and 30 deaths, marking a fall from Sunday’s tally of 8,293 new cases and 62 deaths. Mumbai also saw fewer cases with 855 new cases on Monday compared to 1,051 on Sunday. In the last 24 hours, 61,746 tests have conducted compared to 84,794 tests conducted in the previous 24 hours. State surveillance officer Pradeep Awate said, “Since it was Sunday, when less tests are conducted, we had fewer patients. However, the number has stabilised in the last five days.” After 6,218 new cases last Tuesday, Maharashtra had seen a significant rise in numbers with daily tallies increasing last week on Wednesday (8,807), Thursday (8,702), Friday (8,333) and Saturday (8,623). The number of active cases stood at 77,618 on Monday, with Pune’s tally at 16,199 active cases followed by Nagpur (10,167 cases). Mumbai and Thane have 8,294 and 8,073 active cases respectively. Amravati, which is under lockdown, has 6,497 active cases. Ravi Rana, an independent legislator from Badnera constituency in Amravati, has asked chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to repeal the lockdown because it only serves to inconvenience locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-slight-dip-in-covid-cases-with-6-000-new-ones-101614628524472.html
02-03-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC vacates stay on GR restraining hike in school fees amid pandemic||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday vacated the stay on the government resolution (GR) that restrained schools from hiking fees for the academic year of 2020-21 in view of the pandemic. However, the court has said the state may initiate action against a school in case of complaints from parents or even take suo motu action in case of alleged exploitation by a school. The hearing in the case has gone on for almost four months. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni was hearing petitions filed by various private unaided schools which challenged the GR of May 8, 2020. According to the GR, schools were not allowed to raise their fees in light of the pandemic and schools were to refrain from taking coercive action (like expulsion or not being allowed to attend classes) against students whose parents were unable to pay the fees. Senior counsels and advocates representing the schools argued the GR was unconstitutional and that the Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fee) (MEIR) Act had enough provisions to restrain schools from hiking fees. Representing the state, senior counsel Anil Anturkar justified the GR, pointing to the extraordinary circumstances and disaster management Acts being invoked across the country as parents had lost their jobs. On Monday, the bench declared the GR was “only prospective in nature and cannot apply to schools which have already fixed/ declared their fee for Academic Year 2020-21 and/or where such fees are duly accepted in terms of the MEIR Act as amended and/or has been acted upon before the Resolution dated 8th May 2020.” The court did not pass orders on the question of the constitutional validity of the GR and reiterated that parents had to pay the fees. The bench also directed the state to address complaints of parents or take suo moto action against schools that violated the MEIR Act. It also restrained schools from taking coercive action against students whose parents had lodged complaints.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-vacates-stay-on-gr-restraining-hike-in-school-fees-amid-pandemic-101614628164891.html
02-03-2021||Other||South Mumbai murder: Domestic help, his friend held||Worli police have claimed to solve the case of murder of a 77-year-old resident within 48 hours of the crime and have arrested the victim’s domestic help and his friend, who were missing since the incident. The police have also recovered valuables, allegedly robbed by the accused. The accused – Amarjeet Nishad and Abhijeet Zoriya – both aged 22, hail from Uttar Pradesh’s Sultanpur, police officers said. Nishad had been employed at the two-storey bungalow Prasana Kutir at Worli sea face at the home of the victim Vishni Dolwani. On Thursday late night, Dolwani was watching television on the ground floor, while her husband was sleeping in the first-floor room. Her son and his family were on the second floor. The two accused had tied the Dolwani’s hands and legs and also gagged her with a piece of cloth, and tightly covered her face with a dupatta to rob valuables from the house. While they had fled with her gold bangles and a watch, collectively worth around ₹4 lakh, the 77-year-old died of suffocation. Around 12.30am, Dolwani’s son Pankaj realised what had happened and informed the police. “Nishad was the prime suspect from day one, as he was absconding after the incident. Multiple police teams put in co-ordinated efforts and Nishad and Zoriya, who worked as a domestic help for a Malabar Hill family, were arrested on Monday,” said deputy commissioner of police (zone 3) Paramjit Singh Dahiya. The police have refused to disclose the location from where the accused were arrested. After committing the crime, the accused had decided to move to Kolkata and settle there with the help of the looted booty, said a police officer. The two accused had also robbed diamond jewellery from the safe vault on the first floor. “The exact value of the recovered jewellery is being evaluated,” said Dahiya. During interrogation, the duo told the police that they had no intention to kill Dolwani. They gagged her mouth and covered her face to ensure that she did not scream for help. The police, however, said they do not buy the claims made by the duo and are likely to charge them for murder and robbery. Nishad and Zoriya will be produced in court on Tuesday, said Dahiya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/south-mumbai-murder-domestic-help-his-friend-held-101614628163839.html
02-03-2021||Chandigarh||Covid infections in Himachal see 168% increase in a week||Coronavirus cases in Himachal, which had plateaued out in January, have registered a steep increase yet again with as many as 389 new infections being recorded in the last week of the February and on the first day of March, an increase of 168.2% as compared to the penultimate week of the February when 145 cases were reported. The epicenter of the spike is a Dharamshala based Gyuto Tantric Monastery where 106 monks have been tested positive in five days. The monastery, which was exile home to spiritual leader 17th Karmapa Ogyen Trinley Dorje before he shifted to US two years ago, has been declared a containment zone since February 25, when the first infections were reported. All the infected monks have been home isolated The monastery is home to 350 monks and staff. Meanwhile in the wake of the spike, the health department has put district authorities and medical colleges on the alert. Officials have been instructed to increase sampling and chief medical officers are to report to state authorities on a daily basis. With schools, colleges and other educational institutions opening across the state, there is a possibility that the case count may further increase. The state on Monday recorded 132 new infections taking the state’s tally to 58,777 while the death toll reached 983 after one more patient succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 108 cases were reported in Kangra, of which 98 were Buddhist monks of Gyuto Monastery. Six cases have been reported in Shimla, five in Una, four in Chamba, three in Kullu, two each in Bilaspur and Solan and one each in Mandi and Sirmaur. SPIKE IN ACTIVE CASES The surge in fresh cases has also led to a corresponding increase in the number of active cases, which have reached 434. The number was down to 227 on February 22, indicating a 92% increase in cases in one week. At present, Kangra is the worst affected with 219 active cases followed by 58 in Shimla, 36 in Solan and 33 in Sirmaur. Health secretary Amitabh Awasthi attributes the rise to people lowering precautions and not wearing masks. They are also not following social distancing norms. “We have asked medical college authorities and the chief medical officers to be cautious. The number of infection is also increasing in neighbouring states, which may also affect Himachal,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-infections-in-himachal-see-168-increase-in-a-week-101614628103943.html
02-03-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination phase 3: 1,982 get a shot at safety in Mumbai||On first day of the third phase of the vaccination drive, 1,982 citizens were vaccinated on Monday. Of these, 260 were between the ages of 45 and 59 years, with comorbidities, while 1,722 were senior citizens and above 60 years old. Vaccination for citizens was started at five civic-run hospitals and three private hospitals on Monday. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has selected the jumbo centres in Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), Mulund, Goregaon and Dahisar to administer vaccines to the public along with Seven Hills Hospital in Marol. These five centres will provide vaccines free of cost while private hospitals are allowed to charge ₹250 per dose. With technical glitches on the centralised app Co-Win, which is monitoring the nationwide vaccination drive, hundreds of hopefuls experienced long waiting hours on Monday. Many could not register and after long waits were informed they could not be vaccinated on Monday. Crowding was reported at the vaccination centres where senior citizens are being inoculated as many showed up at the centre when they were unable to register on the app. Worli resident Salil Worlikar said, “I took my father to get vaccinated, but the hospital took the registration and said they will contact us with an appointment. I had tried to self-register using the Co-Win portal, but did not get any slot.” Overall, on Monday, 7,530 people were vaccinated, including 2,267 frontline workers and 3,281 healthcare workers. Till now, 228,840 citizens including frontline and healthcare worker have been vaccinated in Mumbai since January 16, 2021.Mangala Gomare, chief of BMC’s public health department, said, “From Tuesday all civic-run hospitals will start vaccination as this will ensure the crowd is divided. On private hospitals, we are yet to carry out inspections to gauge whether they are ready for vaccination. For now, three private hospitals will continue vaccination.” She added, “On Tuesday, we also hope the number of common citizens getting vaccinated will go up as the functioning of Co-win portal is expected to normalise.” Further, as per BMC, the Centre had sent a list of 53 private hospitals which may participate in the third phase of the vaccination drive and are empanelled under Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY) and the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS). Apart from KJ Somaiya Hospital in Sion, BMC has selected HJ Doshi Hindu Sabha Hospital in Ghatkopar and SRCC Children’s Hospital in Mahalaxmi to start the third phase. Meanwhile, the city reported 855 cases and four deaths on Monday, taking the Covid tally to 326,772. The total number of Covid deaths stands at 11,479. The recovery rate is 93% with 306,129 recoveries. As of Monday, there are 8,294 active cases in Mumbai. Pawar, Sule take Covid vaccineNCP chief Sharad Pawar and his daughter Supriya Sule, who is an MP from Baramati, took the first shot of Covid-19 vaccine on Monday. Pawar and Sule went to JJ Hospital for inoculation. They were administered Covishield, manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII), Pune.Following the protocol, both stayed at the hospital from half-an-hour, officials said. “I took my first dose of the #COVID19Vaccine in Sir J. J. Hospital, Mumbai today. To strengthen the Vaccination Drive, I appeal to all those who are eligible to take vaccines and join the fight against corona virus,” Pawar tweeted.“Took My First Dose of #COVID19Vaccine today at JJ Hospital Mumbai. Thanking Dr. Lahane and the entire team of JJ Hospital. Covid - 19 Vaccine is safe. Requesting you to kindly register and get vaccinated when your turn comes,” Sule tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-phase-3-1-982-get-a-shot-at-safety-in-mumbai-101614627863898.html
02-03-2021||Other||Final-year MBBS exams: Students from Maharashtra fear offline tests amid rise in Covid-19 cases||After much delay, the offline exams for final-year MBBS students are set to begin from March 8. However, the rising Covid-19 cases across Maharashtra have left the students in a fix as many are worried about the risks of appearing for physical exams in the current scenario.“Exams are just eight days away and after conducting lectures and practicals the entire year online, it is unfair that our exams are being conducted in offline mode, especially when the state is recording more than 8,000 Covid-19 cases each day,” said a final-year student, adding that aspirants and parents are equally worried about the health and safety of staff and students.A group of students on Monday also approached minister of medical education Amit Deshmukh and cabinet minister Aaditya Thackeray, seeking their help over the issue.“For the past one year, we [final-year students] have been at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19 and have not cared for our own health while ensuring the safety of others. We now request the state government to consider our health and safety and push for our final-year exams to be conducted in online mode,” stated the letter signed by several students from KEM, Sion, Cooper hospitals and Grant Medical College. “Our exams last for a full month and with thousands of students slated to appear for them from March 8, we are worried about the risk the students and teachers will be under during offline exams,” said some students, who have also shared their concern on several social media platforms.While the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) had previously released circulars postponing all final-year medical and dental exams from January to February and then to March, there has been no update from MUHS in the past one week.“Without any intimation from the state, we can’t decide to postpone the exams any further. We’ll stick to the schedule, and if there are any updates, they will be intimated to the students,” said an official from MUHS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/finalyear-mbbs-exams-students-from-maharashtra-fear-offline-tests-amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-101614627683782.html
02-03-2021||Mumbai||Crowding, queues at all vaccine centres in Mumbai on first day of third phase||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) started the third phase of its mass immunisation programme on Monday. However, technical glitches in the newly-updated CoWIN app, lack of coordination among civic officials and confusion among the public affected the overall turnout. Vaccination centres also didn’t have adequate number of wheelchairs and seating arrangements for senior citizens. On Sunday night, BMC selected four jumbo centres in Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), Mulund, Goregaon and Dahisar along with Seven Hills Hospital to start inoculating senior citizens and people above 45 years with comorbidities. On Monday morning, the Central government relaunched the centralized app, Co-WIN 2.0, following which registrations started from 9am. However, much like when healthcare workers (HCWs) had attempted to register on the app in January when the nationwide immunisation programme began, the app crashed when people attempted to register, possibly because it was unable to handle to load from across the country. Citizens can also directly approach any nearby vaccination centres to register for their first shot. The problems with Co-Win, which is monitoring the vaccination drive, led to tussles between beneficiaries and officials at vaccination centres. “They asked us to either wait or go back home and come later. They instructed us to call at the landline number before coming again,” said Sunita Joshi, a 64-year-old who had gone to the NESCO jumbo centre in Goregaon with her 70-year-old husband. Many senior citizens said they had to wait for hours without any food and drinking water. “When I tried to register on the app at around 9am, it didn’t work. When I tried later, I could register my parents, aged 66 and 64 years. It generated a message which suggested reaching the centre after 12.30pm. But on reaching the centre, we were asked to wait in the queue along with people who hadn’t registered online,” said Pratik Goradia, 37, a resident of Dahisar. There was chaos at the NESCO jumbo centre. Madhusudhan Jha, 43, who accompanied his senior citizen parents, pointed out that social distancing could not be maintained at the facility. “Senior citizens are most vulnerable to contracting the infection. So the centres should have made better arrangements because people were pouncing on each other at the registration counter. This is too risky,” said Jha, whose parents got their first shot of the vaccine after waiting for two hours. At the Dahisar jumbo centre, there were only three wheelchairs and not enough chairs. “The entry point at gate 3 has a sloping dome which is extremely risky for elderly to walk across. There were no helpers to assist aged people who were coming alone for vaccination,” said Prasoon Gupta, a Kandivli resident who had taken his 67-year-old father to the centre. At around 2pm, the Dahisar jumbo centre asked those who had come to the centre without registration to return home. “My son took a leave today to get us vaccinated but now, we are being asked to come tomorrow as the app isn’t working properly,” said Girish Pednekar, a 65-year-old Borivli resident. Officials said they weren’t given enough time to prepare for senior citizens. “We have been already conducting the vaccination in phase I and II. So, the Central government should have given us a heads-up before suddenly instructing us to start phase III,” said a senior civic official from the BKC jumbo centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/crowding-queues-at-all-vaccine-centres-in-mumbai-on-first-day-of-third-phase-101614627566106.html
02-03-2021||Chandigarh||British-era water supply structures crumbling in Ambala Cantt||For nearly a century since its inception in the 1880s, the water supply system built by the British Empire quenched the thirst of people in Ambala Cantonment. Around 10-kilometre long, the duct water supply system, known as Handesra waterworks, ensured clean water supply to both troops and civilians.After almost 150 years, the well-like structures and underground pipes spread across three villages and in some areas of the cantonment lie in ruins. Mostly made of limestone and bricks, now surrounded by wild growth, remnants of these structures can be found near Dangri river in Ambala’s Bora Khera village on the Roorkee highway besides in Handesra and Sarangpur villages in Punjab. Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (Intach) convener Colonel RD Singh (retired), whose team has done primary research in these pockets, says this water supply system primarily works on the principle of gravity as these villages are at a higher altitude than Ambala. “Water collects in the larger wells through shallow wells and enters the 20-foot-deep pipes without the assistance of any elaborate mechanism. When water levels dropped after an earthquake in 1905, a steam engine was installed, which was later replaced with an oil-based engine after advancement in technology,” the colonel said. Youdhvir Singh, an irrigation research scholar at Panjab University, said the structure came into existence to ensure round-the-clock drinking water after the British setup a permanent colony in the 1840s. “River water was filtered through sand and was used for drinking through storage wells. Even in times of drought, the wells were large enough to meet the region’s requirement till a backup could be arranged,” Singh said. Locals say dependence on the system gradually decreased as the water levels had dropped and tubewells were setup across the region in the decades after Independence. An official from the Cantonment Board said the supply was used in few parts of the cantonment till the 1990s, after which other alternatives replaced it. However, the board has made attempts to beautify it. Intach lists the waterworks as a heritage site and has recommended that the engineering marvel be maintained and developed as a tourist spot or site of historical importance. The board’s chief executive officer, Anuj Goel, said that the body can undertake its restoration either on directions or any proposal from the Military Engineering Services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/britishera-water-supply-structures-crumbling-in-ambala-cantt-101614627504238.html
02-03-2021||Mumbai||Builder murder case: Bombay HC rejects plea to transfer trial||The Bombay high court on Monday refused to transfer the ongoing trial in the sessions court against the accused in the 2013 murder of developer Sunil Kumar Lahoriya at Navi Mumbai to a different court as the current bench had completed a substantial portion of the trial and the petitioner had not shown any glaring exceptional circumstances to cause a transfer. The petition was filed by the deceased businessman’s son Sandeep, alleging a biased and hurried examination of witnesses and the judge not complying with the 2018 directions of HC to conduct an expeditious trial. The HC bench while directing the sessions judge to conduct day-to-day trial from March 4 also directed all court officers involved to cooperate. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale while hearing the petition filed by Sandeep Lahoriya was informed by advocate Himanshu Kode the sessions judge is biased and he is in a hurry to wrap up the trial, as a result of which, procedural and substantive errors were being committed while conducting the trial, which is prejudicial to the prosecution. Kode also submitted that specific instances have been stated in the writ petition to claim that the aforesaid judge has not been conducting the trial properly and that this has resulted in frequent skirmishes between the Special Public Prosecutor (SPP) and the judge, which is detrimental to the trial. It also claimed that vital applications like the application filed under Section 173(8) of the Cr.P.C. by the SPP have been kept pending and instead, evidence is being hurriedly recorded. Senior advocate Rajeev Chavan for Mahesh Bijlani, one of the accused however objected the contentions raised on behalf of the petitioner. Counsels for other 13 accused concurred with the submissions of Chavan and sought dismissal of the petition. After hearing the submissions, the court observed that barring a few accused, all others have been in jail for about seven years by now and this factor needs to be taken into account while ensuring The trial is completed at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/builder-murder-case-bombay-hc-rejects-plea-to-transfer-trial-101614627383245.html
02-03-2021||Mumbai||Irrigation scam in Maharashtra: HC strikes down nod to prosecute officer||The Bombay high court last week struck down sanction to prosecute Chandan Jibhkate, the then senior divisional accounts officer of the Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC), in five irrigation scam cases. Jibhkate had moved high court challenging five separate orders passed by Accountant General (Accounts and Entitlement) II, Nagpur, on January 17, 2019, granting sanction to prosecute him in all the five cases registered against him in connection with irrigation scam cases involving VIDC projects. As the senior divisional accounts officer, the 63-year-old was entrusted with the task of clearing bills submitted by VIDC engineers and officers during the period when estimates prepared for several irrigation projects were allegedly inflated manifold and huge government funds were misappropriated in connivance with the contractors. It was argued on his behalf that sanction to prosecute him was denied by the competent authority in three cases on December 14, 2018 and in remaining two cases on December 7, 2018 and and January 9, 2019, respectively. A week later the competent authority reviewed all earlier orders and granted sanction when there was no fresh material, warranting reconsideration of the earlier decisions, advocate Rajnish Vyas, who represented Jibhkate, had submitted. Vyas added that such an exercise was not permissible under the law and referred to the Supreme Court’s ruling in Nishant Sareen’s case on the point. As a matter of fact, the bench added, it was nobody’s case that after first refusal of sanction further investigation was carried out and that it resulted into discovery of any fresh material that required fresh consideration by the competent authority, the bench added. “All these orders manifestly show absence of consideration of any fresh material or evidence discovered after the earlier orders were passed and as such, would be the orders adversely hit by the law laid down by the Supreme Court in the case of Nishant Sareen,” said HC. In Nishant Sareen’s case, the Supreme Court has held that whenever there is a refusal to grant sanction, it would not be open to the competent authority to review such an order on same material because power of review conferred upon the authority is not unbridled and unrestricted and putting of some fetters on its power of review is essential to accord finality to such an exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/irrigation-scam-in-maharashtra-hc-strikes-down-nod-to-prosecute-officer-101614627203058.html
02-03-2021||Mumbai||MMRDA invites tenders for pedestrian bridge at BKC||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has called for tenders to construct a pedestrian bridge connecting Bandra-Kurla Complex’s (BKC) City Park to Maharashtra Nature Park (MNP) in Mahim. The 695-metre wooden and glass deck bridge will be constructed above the Mithi river, offering a view of the mangroves. In its recently released budget 2021-22, the development authority also allocated ₹77 crore for the project. Mumbai suburban guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray on Monday tweeted, “MMRDA is now connecting BKC to Maharashtra Nature Park. This connector itself will be a point of tourism, and more so will take a lot of people for a stroll to Maharashtra Nature Park and enjoy its biodiversity!” The nature park, between Dharavi and Mithi river estuary, is spread across an area of 37 acres and is home to more than 130 species of birds, 80 types of butterflies, 32 varieties of reptiles and 12 types of spiders. BG Pawar, joint metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA, said, “It will probably be the longest suspension bridge in India. The glass floor of the bridge will also provide a soothing view to tourists.” Earlier, MMRDA had held a global competition for a makeover of the nature park in 2016, which included the plan to construct the bridge. The pedestrian bridge is touted to be one of the longest suspension bridges in the world. Deep Dey, the architect who has designed the bridge, said, “The unique free flowing form of the bridge is enthused with Mithi river flowing below the bridge deck between the mangroves. This design allows gathering of pedestrians at certain intervals on the bridge deck for the soothing view of the lush green mangroves in the river also through the glass floor pockets in the wooden bridge deck, and provides visual access to the migratory birds visiting the vicinity all part of the year creating another opportunity for bird watchers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mmrda-invites-tenders-for-pedestrian-bridge-at-bkc-101614627025392.html
02-03-2021||Other||Won’t hear cases if social distancing is not followed: Bombay HC to lawyers, litigants||Taking cognisance of overcrowding in courts, a Bombay high court division bench headed by justice SS Shinde on Monday warned advocates and litigants that the board will be discharged if social distancing norms were not maintained in the court room, as it was essential to maintain health and safety of everyone. Referring to the incident wherein physical hearing had to be suspended after 60 lawyers in Amravati had contracted Covid-19, the bench said that any breach in the standard operating procedure laid down by HC administration would not be tolerated. Two weeks ago, justice GS Patel had also passed similar directions and had even ensured that only those litigants and advocates whose cases were coming up for hearing were allowed in the courtroom. Similarly, justice PK Chavan had last week refused to hear a matter after the petitioner’s lawyer removed his mask, when his case came up for hearing. HC had resumed physical hearing last year in December after nearly six months of virtual hearing, while the pandemic was its peak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wont-hear-cases-if-social-distancing-is-not-followed-bombay-hc-to-lawyers-litigants-101614627024949.html
02-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Mercury crosses 35°C as summer sets in, warmer days ahead||The city continued to witness warm conditions on Monday, recording a maximum temperature of 35.4 degrees Celsius at the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) automatic weather station in Santacruz. While the temperature was down from 36.3 degrees Celsius recorded on Sunday, it marked the second consecutive day that the mercury remained above 35 degrees Celsius — indicating that Mumbai has begun experiencing the onset of the summer.The minimum temperature at Santacruz was recorded at 21.4 degrees Celsius on Monday, up from 20.6 degrees Celsius on Sunday. Both minimum and maximum readings were recorded above the mean temperature, with a departure of two and three degrees from normal, respectively. As per IMD data, both readings have remained consistently above normal since February 23.IMD forecast predicts that the mercury may soon touch 36 degrees Celsius in Mumbai, by March 3, while the minimum temperature is expected to hover around 22 degrees Celsius. Mainly clear skies are expected to prevail for the next week. Meanwhile, IMD’s weather station in Colaba recorded a maximum temperature of 32.5 degrees Celsius on Monday, little less than 32.8 degrees recorded a day prior. The minimum temperature in Colaba was 23 degrees Celsius, as against Sunday’s reading of 22.5 degrees Celsius. “The daytime maximum temperature will most likely now remain above 35 degrees. Technically speaking, it is not really summer yet, but we can say that the pre-monsoon period has begun. This is the time between March and May which is marked by rising temperatures. The reason for this is due to dry and hot north westerly winds which are blowing close to the earth’s surface,” said Shubhangi Bhute, scientist at IMD, Mumbai.Air quality in Mumbai remained in the moderate category with the air quality index (AQI) at 190 on Monday, according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR).“Air quality will remain moderate for the next few days as temperature is also rising. This makes the air less dense and increases wind speed, allowing for pollutants to be dispersed easily. On the other hand, hot, dry winds blowing into Mumbai from the north are expected to bring in some dust storms as summer sets in. We will issue an alert three days before such an event is forecasted,” said a SAFAR spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mercury-crosses-35-c-as-summer-sets-in-warmer-days-ahead-101614627023944.html
02-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai man held for rape||Pant Nagar police on Sunday arrested a 22-year-old man for allegedly raping a woman repeatedly on the pretext of helping her with money during the lockdown in 2020.The survivor, a 26-year-old mother of two, had approached her neighbour Bikanu Kanojiya, a resident of Ramabai Colony in Ghatkopar, for help after her husband lost his job in the lockdown. Kanojiya, however, took advantage of her and raped her on multiple occasions between April and December last year.The accused later blackmailed the woman by threatening to reveal their relationship to her husband and raped her repeatedly on several occasions.On Friday, she told her ordeal to her husband, following which they approached the police..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-held-for-rape-101614626963051.html
02-03-2021||Mumbai||Auto, taxi fare hike in Mumbai: Drivers and passengers still confused||Confusion among passengers and autorickshaw and taxi drivers regarding implementation of the new tariff was witnessed on the first day after fare hike on Monday. Many autorickshaw and taxi drivers said they were not aware about the display of tariff cards and continued to charge the earlier tariff.Increased fares of autorickshaw and taxis were implemented from Monday in the city. The minimum autorickshaw fare is now ₹21 as opposed to ₹18 previously and the minimum black-and-yellow taxi fare is now ₹25 as opposed to ₹22. The minimum auto rickshaw fare during night is now ₹27 and minimum taxi fare is now ₹32. The Maharashtra government on February 22 announced the decision to increase the minimum fare of autorickshaw, and thereafter, per kilometre rate has increased to ₹14.20 from the earlier ₹12.19.In case of black-and-yellow taxis, the per kilometre rate has increased ₹16.93 from ₹14.84. “The meters have not started to get recalibrated yet. We were not informed regarding update of the tariff card display which is why we are continuing to charge the old fares. I came to know about the fare hike through newspapers. I was not aware about it,” said Sanjay Singh, a black-and-yellow taxi driver and a resident of Sewri. Drivers also said that with the increase in fares, they are likely to get less passengers as many will shift to Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses.“People will not want to sit in autorickshaws if the bus fare is equivalent or even less at times. The business is already down due to coronavirus. We want financial aid more than a fare hike,” said Rafique Shaik, an autorickshaw driver and resident of Andheri. Passengers also appeared to be confused with non-display of tariff cards on autorickshaws while drivers said they did not know about downloading the tariff card. “We are not tech savvy and had no idea on how to check the new fares. It is good that the autorickshaw drivers have not started immediately charging the new fares and are waiting. The hiked fares will not be financially viable for the citizens,” said Hemangi Desai, a Ghatkopar resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/auto-taxi-fare-hike-in-mumbai-drivers-and-passengers-still-confused-101614626724147.html
02-03-2021||Mumbai||Two murders within 12 hours in Nallasopara near Mumbai||Nallasopara witnessed two murders within 12 hours on Sunday. In the first incident, a security guard was stabbed to death while in the second case, an autorockshaw driver was killed by a passenger. Kailash Pathak, a 50-year-old security guard with a Vile Parle firm residing in Shankeshwar Nagar in Nallasopara (East), was murdered when he was leaving for work at around 4.30 am on Monday over a tiff regarding loud music. Pathak, who visited his house on weekends, had a tiff over loud music being played by a disc jockey (DJ), who is his neighbour, and the DJ’s friends on Saturday. “It seems the accused knew the movement routine of Pathak that he would board the first Mumbai local for work,” said a Tulinj police officer. The accused stabbed Pathak to death just 50 metres away from his flat. As it was early in the morning, there were no eyewitnesses. During inquiry, the police came to know from Pathak’s relatives about the fracas and arrested the accused for murder. “The arrested accused will be produced before the Vasai court on Tuesday. We are investigating further. The post mortem report is awaited,” he said. In the second case, Kishan Shukla, 25, was stabbed to death by an unidentified passenger who stole Shukla’s mobile. The incident took place, when Shukla chased after the passenger, who stabbed him in the neck, killing him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-murders-within-12-hours-in-nallasopara-near-mumbai-101614626487237.html
02-03-2021||Chandigarh||Ahead of MC polls in Himachal, BJP attempts to mend fences with Dhumal||In the run up to municipal corporation elections in Dharamshala, Solan, Mandi and Palampur, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party has started reaching out to hitherto sidelined leaders, including former chief minister Prem Kumar Dhumal and his supporters. Political pandits attribute this change in strategy to the party’s performance in the recently concluded Panchayati Raj Institution (PRIs) elections, particularly the Zila Parishad polls, where the party had struggled to form councils although it was ultimately able to get BJP-backed chairpersons elected in 10 of the 12 districts in the state. Recently, Avinash Rai Khanna, who is the BJP in-charge of Himachal, held a closed-door meeting with the former chief minister and his son Union minister of state for finance and corporate affairs Anurag Thakur at their native place in Samirpur. It is learnt that they discussed the political scenario in the state and at the Centre. Dhumal and Thakur also apprised him of the treatment meted out to them and their supporters during the tenure of the chief minister Jai Ram Thakur-led government. Dhumal and his supporters are allegedly displeased with the repeated attempts being made by the government to undermine them, especially at a time when the BJP has absolute majority in the Vidhan Sabha. Asked about the party’s overtures to Dhumal, Khanna said, “His (Dhumal’s) contribution to the party cannot be ignored. He has been chief minister twice and is a popular leader. We discussed our future strategy and plans for the party.” “Dhumalji is veteran leader. He was invited to the BJP’s executive in Dharamshala and he addressed workers in separate session after a long time,” said Khanna. The septuagenarian, who has been a farmer and an English teacher at a private college, is seen as the common man’s representative. He has helmed the state from March 1998 to 2003, when he had headed the Himachal Vikas Congress-BJP coalition and again from January 2008 to 2013. Dhumal’s easy availability and amiable nature made him popular among the masses. In 2017, Dhumal, a chief minister designate, had been defeated from Sujanpur by his one-time confidante turned rival Rajender Rana. At 76, Dhumal still wields influence over the state and a substantial number of his supporters have made it to the Vidhan Sabha. Over a dozen leaders from Dhumal’s camp had lost the 2017 assembly polls, among them were former ministers Ravinder Singh Ravi, Gulab Singh Thakur, former Rajya Sabha member Kripal Parmar, Randhir Sharma and Sanjay Chaudhary. Khanna had also recently met Dhumal’s close confidante Ravinder Singh Ravi. Ravi is a former five-time legislator. He was elected for four consecutive terms from the Thural assembly segment. Ravi shifted his base to Dehra in 2012 after his home constituency was reserved in a delimitation exercise. “ I have apprised Khannaji about the issues we faced” said Ravi, who was embroiled in a controversy after a letter alleging corruption in the state government had been widely shared on social media in November 2019. The letter, addressed to veteran leader Shanta Kumar, raised serious allegations of corruption in the health and industry department and questioned the former chief minister’s silence on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ahead-of-mc-polls-in-himachal-bjp-attempts-to-mend-fences-with-dhumal-101614626486314.html
02-03-2021||Mumbai||Defamation case: Bailable warrant issued against Kangana Ranaut||A metropolitan magistrate court at Andheri on Monday issued a bailable warrant against actor Kangana Ranaut for failing to appear for hearing on the defamation complaint filed by lyricist Javed Akhtar.The magistrate court had on February 1 issued summons to Ranaut to appear before the court on Monday. The actor failed to appear in person while her lawyer, advocate Rizwan Siddiquee, appeared on her behalf.“Ranaut’s lawyer told the court that they wish to challenge the proceedings. However, the lawyer did not file an application seeking exemption for the actor to appear before the court. In the absence of the plea, we move the application seeking non-bailable warrant against the actor,” said advocate Jai Bharadwaj lawyer for Akhtar.On the application of the complainant, the court issued bailable warrant against the actress and posted the matter for further hearing on March 26.Siddiquee said, “The said magistrate court has grossly erred in taking cognisance of the matter and issuing summons to my client, without even verifying the Complainant’s four witnesses on oath, as mandated under section 200 of CrPC. As such the entire proceedings including and not limited to the Summons and the bailable warrant issued against my client are legally sought to be challenged, on merits. I shall be soon moving before an appropriate court challenging all actions taken by the learned magistrate so far; and I am quite hopeful that proceedings initiated till date by the magistrate court, would be stayed on merits.”The court, while considering the application for issuance of warrant, observed, “Though the accused is going to challenge the entire proceedings before the hon’ble high court, as stated by her learned advocate, however, in absence of any orders from high court, her remaining absent shows her conduct. Furthermore, mere intending to challenge the proceedings would not absolve her liability as an accused from attending this court.”The writer-poet approached the magistrate court in November 2020. On December 3, his statement was recorded by the magistrate under the process of verification of the complaint. Later, the court directed Juhu Police to conduct an inquiry and submit their report on the allegations.Police in their report has concluded, “There was a meeting between Akhtar and Ranaut in March 2016. In the said meeting Dr Ramesh Agrawal (family doctor of Ranaut, Akhtar and Roshans’) was also present. It is said that Akhtar has never told her that she will commit suicide or she will have to go to jail.”The police also said that during the investigation they had issued summons to Ranaut on several occasions, but she failed to apprear.Police, in its report, attached statement of three witnesses — the complainant, the family doctor and a family friend of Akhtar.In his statement, the doctor, Ramesh Agrawal, has claimed that it was in 2015-16 that he came to know about the problems between Hrithik Roshan and Ranaut. During that time, Agrawal said, Akhtar had asked him to mediate and resolve the dispute between the two since he knew both of them well.Agrawal claimed that when he asked Ranaut, she agreed to meet Akhtar at his house to discuss the issue between her and Roshan over the alleged fake email controversy. It was in 2016, that Ranaut, her sister and Dr Agrawal had visited Akhtar’s house. The doctor further said that in the meeting, Akhtar had only said, “Aap dono celebrity ho, aap dono ke bich me jo fake email ke bare me vaad hoga uska media me aur public me aapki pratima malin ho jati hain, iss liye aap dono samjhota kar ke vaat mita do. Iss liye aap Hritik Roshan se sorry bolke vaad khatam kar do. (Both of you are celebrities. The dispute between both of you regarding the fake email incident will malign your reputation in media and public. Hence, sort out your differences and apologise to Hrithik Roshan).Aggarwal said Akhtar had never said things like “you will commit suicide, and you will be sent to prison”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/defamation-case-bailable-warrant-issues-against-kangana-ranaut-101614626243655.html
02-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: February gone by was hottest in 7 years||With record-breaking hot days towards its end, February 2021 saw highest average temperature for the month since 2015, for which the data is available with the India Meteorological Department (IMD). According to the IMD, average temperatures will remain higher than normal in the city from March to May as well.“With maximum temperature going up to 32.7°C, it was expected that the average temperature in February will remain high,” said IMD, Chandigarh, director Surender Paul. “The western disturbances were weak and too few in numbers this February. Even in the first week of March, a western disturbance will be active in the city, but is unlikely to bring any rain. Dry and sunny weather will continue, and maximum temperature will cross 30°C again.”Chandigarh had recorded maximum temperature in excess of 30°C for three consecutive days, as it climbed to 32.7°C on Friday (February 26). It was highest for a February day since 1954, when it had reached 32.8°C. After some rain on Friday night, mercury had dropped below 30°C over the weekend. Maximum temperature went down from 28°C on Sunday to 26.7 degrees on Monday. Minimum temperature stayed unchanged at 11.1°C.Paul said a strong anticyclonic movement had formed over the city, which kept winds under control. “With less traffic and pollution due to Covid, average temperatures have stayed high for previous months as well, as otherwise suspended particulate matter in the air reflects sunlight and keeps the city from getting too warm,” he said.Hot months ahead tooIMD, Delhi, has also released their long-range forecast on Monday, according to which Chandigarh — which is considered a part of Haryana for forecast purposes — will have average temperature 0.71 degrees above normal. La Nina conditions in the Pacific Ocean (which boost monsoon in the country) are prevailing over the country and are likely to sustain over the period. Meanwhile, in the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 28 and 30 degrees while minimum temperature will remain between 11 and 13 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhfebruary-gone-by-was-hottest-in-7-years-101614626183653.html
02-03-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC allows Varavara Rao to temporarily get out on cash bail||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday permitted 82-year-old Telugu poet P Varavara Rao, accused in the Elgar Parishad case, to furnish cash surety, till the process of submitting solvent sureties was completed by April 5, to be released on bail. Rao, who is still in Nanavati Hospital, approached the court seeking modification of the February 22 order wherein he was granted bail on medical grounds for six months on furnishing a personal bond of ₹50,000 and two solvent sureties. Rao sought modification to be allowed to deposit temporary cash surety for a month till the solvent sureties were arranged. The court accepted the same but said the modification to the bail order was limited to the extent of April 5 only. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing the criminal application filed by Rao seeking modification to the February 22 bail order, was informed that as submission of the solvent sureties would take time, Rao was seeking urgent release from Nanavati Hospital on furnishing temporary cash surety. The petition stated that furnishing solvent sureties was taking time due to the Covid-19 situation and would be provided within April 5, and hence the court should grant the limited prayer. On February 22, the HC had granted Rao bail for six months with strict conditions on health grounds. The court asked him to stay within the National Investigation Agency (NIA) special courts’ jurisdiction in Mumbai during that period. After hearing the submissions, the bench observed, “We are of the opinion that in the interest of justice, due to the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic situation, the limited prayer can be granted.” The court then directed Rao to be released on bail on furnishing cash surety of ₹50,000 and granted extension of time till April 5 for furnishing two solvent sureties. While disposing the petition, the court noted that all other conditions mentioned in the February 22 order would operate without any modification and the extension of time to furnish two solvent sureties was being granted for the limited period in view of Covid-19 pandemic situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-allows-varavara-rao-to-temporarily-get-out-on-cash-bail-101614626064763.html
02-03-2021||Chandigarh||Hope for safe future drives people to vaccination centres in Chandigarh||Commoners, couples, those with travel plans and VIPs were seen waiting for their turns as the vaccination drive for elderly kicked off in the city on Monday. As many as 556 were inoculated on the first day, including 493 senior citizens. Among them was former Punjab director general of police (DGP) PC Dogra, who walked in at the GMSH-16 vaccination centre with his wife early in the morning to take the jab.“What apprehensions can one have when the vaccine is approved by the government? It is our responsibility to take the shot as early as possible. Personally, it is a step towards a safer future. After we get the second dose too, we will be completely safe against the deadly virus,” said the 81-year-old.His wife, Vineeta Dogra, 74, said, “We wish normalcy returns in our country and we can move freely without any fear of infection. The vaccine is completely safe.”The first couple to report at the vaccination centre here was Dr PS Handa and Rajesh Handa.“I took the vaccine during the first phase when the retired doctors were invited. My wife wanted it too, but she was ineligible. So, when we got to know that the on-site registration is allowed from today, we rushed in and are waiting for the jab,” said 84-year-old Dr Handa.72-year-old Harbhajan Singh and 77-year-old Suresh Kumar from Sector 38 (West), both retired government employees, waited patiently during the initial hiccups on the registration platform. However, this did not deter them from getting inoculated. “It’s worth waiting for the vaccine,” they said. People keen to travel were also seen reporting at the vaccination sites.“Since the mortality rate in our group is very high and chances of catching infection during the travel increases, I want to get the jab as early as possible as I have to travel. Moreover, it also gives hope for a safe future,” said Raghbir Singh, 82, while waiting for his turn at Government Medical College Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hope-for-safe-future-drives-people-to-vaccination-centres-in-chandigarh-101614626063584.html
02-03-2021||Chandigarh||PU, college teachers to boycott exams, evaluation on March 4||The teachers of Panjab University (PU) and colleges of Chandigarh and Punjab will hold a protest rally on March 4 on PU campus against the decision of the Punjab government to delink their pay scales from those of the University Grants Commission (UGC).Under the banner of Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (PFUCTO), teachers will also boycott the conduct of examination and the evaluation process on that day. The teachers are pressing for the implementation of the 7th Central Pay Commission.The teachers will assemble at the parade ground of PU campus and will march towards Punjab Assembly to submit memorandum regarding their demands.PUTA heeds callHeeding to the call given by PFUCTO, the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) on Monday appealed to the teachers of the varsity to participate in the scheduled protest. The teachers of PU will also go on mass casual leave on March 4.PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar said, “We have appealed to all teachers to participate in the state-level rally to press the Punjab government to accept our demands.”PU controller of examination Jagat Bhushan said, “We have appealed to the teachers that examination should not be affected. We will look for alternative options if the need arises.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-college-teachers-to-boycott-exams-evaluation-on-march-4-101614625403534.html
02-03-2021||Chandigarh||Water tariff hike: Chandigarh MC to rationalise rates||After the Chandigarh administration asked the municipal corporation to reconsider its General House’s resolution to roll back water tariff hike, the civic body is planning to bring a fresh resolution focusing on cutting down on the 30% sewerage cess and restructuring tariff slabs. “The MC will bring a fresh agenda on the issue for the approval of MC General House in its next meeting,” said MC commissioner KK Yadav on Monday.In September last year, the administration had notified a hike in water tariff, ranging from 50% to 200%, depending on the category of users and consumption levels.After facing public outcry and criticism from the opposition, the MC General House passed a resolution in October , asking the administration to withdraw the notification.Now, rather than asking the administration to shelve the entire notification, the MC will recommend specific amendments in the rates. The MC is likely to call a General House meeting on March 8 or 9.“One, the sewerage cess would be reduced. Currently, it is 30% of the total water usage charges. After water tariff was increased, the cess is adding a huge financial burden on residents,” said mayor Ravi Kant Sharma. The cess was introduced in June 2019.The MC is also considering reduction in rates for water usage in the 31-60 kilolitre slab. Under the notification, it was doubled from ₹6/kl to ₹12/kl. It is likely to be reduced to 8% hike, said Sharma.Even commercial rates may be on actual usage, and not fixed. “Either, we would reduced the fixed rates or charge it on actual consumption basis. This would bring relief to booth owners,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/water-tariff-hike-chandigarh-mc-to-rationalise-rates-101614625343565.html
02-03-2021||Chandigarh||Third vaccination round: 556 jabbed in Chandigarh on Day 1||As many as 556 people were vaccinated against Covid-19 in Chandigarh as the nationwide drive entered the third phase on Monday. The neighbouring districts of Mohali (Punjab) and Panchkula (Haryana) saw a poor response. Only 79 people came forward to get vaccinated in Mohali, while the number stood at 139 in Panchkula. Though all seven government hospitals in Mohali district were to be roped in for the drive, only the civil hospital in Phase 6 was operational. At one of the three centres in Panchkula, many returned after waiting for their turn for long.Among the two priority groups, senior citizens (above the age of 60 years) were seen more enthusiastic in Chandigarh as 493 of them were inoculated as compared to just 63 people with comorbidities in the age group of 45-60. The trend was similar in Mohali and Panchkula.Private hospitals, which had only five sites, inoculated 256 persons, while at 10 government vaccination centres, 300 people received the jab.At 106, maximum number of people were inoculated at a vaccination centre in Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16. Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore was the first to get the jab at the dispensary in Sector 7, where only five people turned up. Other prominent people who got the shot in Chandigarh were Union minister of state for commerce and industry Som Prakash, former Punjab chief secretary Sarvesh Kaushal, former UT home secretary Krishan Mohan, former Punjab director general of police (DGP) NPS Aulakh, former Uttar Pradesh DGP Harmol Singh Gill and former Rajasthan DGP Amarjot Singh.Teething problems on Co-WIN portalDue to hiccups in the online registration portal Co-WIN, senior citizens had to wait for more time for their turn, but the process got smoother as the day progressed, said officials. Registration for comorbid groups was also stopped for some time, as it takes more time for them to register on the portal.At the civil hospital in Sector 45, people were seen waiting for more than three hours for the jab. A senior official said the staffers were not able to verify appointments that were pre-booked, and thus the appointments had to be cancelled and booked again at the sites, leading to delays. “The issues with on-site bookings were resolved, but those with online appointments remain,” said the official, wishing not to be named.“At 9am, when the portal was launched, it took more time for registration The initial hiccups were anticipated. However, in the afternoon, the registration numbers picked up. Many people reported at the sites in the afternoon, and we received a good response,” said Dr VK Nagpal, joint director, UT health department.Dr Manjeet Singh, district immunisation officer, said: “People can go for both online and on-spot registration. It is advisable to check the portal once. The footfall is less at the Manimajra site; so people can go there as well.” More private hospitals roped in“The five private hospitals that have participated in the vaccination drive also saw a good turnout of beneficiaries, who at most of the places availed the facility of on-spot registration,” an official statement said.“The response was better than expected. There seems to be no hesitancy,” said Dr Neeraj Kumar of Chaitanya Hospital, Sector 44.HS Sehgal, nodal officer for vaccination at Healing Hospital, Sector 34, said they are receiving a number of queries through phone calls, and arrangements are being made as per instructions from the authorities.The other three private hospitals where vaccination took place were Dharam Hospital, Sector 15, and Santokh Hospital and Landmark Hospital in Sector 38.Dr Amandeep Kang, director, UT health department, said: “The authorities have fixed a minimum load of 200 inoculations per day at government sites and 100 at private sites. The number can be increased if more response is received.” She said four new private sites will be open for registration from Tuesday: Eden Critical Care Centre, Industrial Area; Kare Partner Heart Centre and Mukat Hospital in Sector 34; and CHD City Hospital, Sector 8C.The government vaccination sites have been created at GMCH, Sector 32; GMSH, Sector 16; PGIMER; Civil Hospitals in Sector 45 and Manimajra; Health and Wellness Centre, Sector 49; and ESI Hospital, Ram Darbar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/third-vaccination-round-556-jabbed-in-chandigarh-on-day-1-101614625223597.html
02-03-2021||Noida||Covid-19: Inaugural session of phase-3 vaccination drive records over 98% turnout in Noida||NOIDA: Vaccination for senior citizens on Monday saw an overwhelming response in Gautam Budh Nagar with the district recording a turnout of about 98%.District vaccination officer Dr Neeraj Tyagi said that on Monday, a soft launch for the third round was held in one private hospital (SJM super specialty hospital in Chhijarsi), and two government hospitals (district hospital in Sector 30 and the Government institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida). As many as 319 out of a total of 325 beneficiaries took their first shot at three hospitals in the district on Monday.“While both – SJM Hospital and the district hospital – were sent 100 doses each, GIMS was sent 125 doses. The turnout at SJM hospital was 100% while it was 99% at the district hospital. At GIMS, as many as 120 out of the 125 enlisted senior citizens were inoculated Monday,” he said.Police personnel deployed at the district hospital said they had a tough time lining up the senior citizens and setting up chairs for the six-feet apart, as per social distancing protocols. “Though it is hard to make senior citizens stick to norms, I am really enjoying my duty,” said Rajesh Kumar, a constable posted there.Most of the senior citizens did not appear too worried about the possible after-effects of the jab. “The moment I came to know that I am getting the Covishield, I started feeling at ease. I’ve taken the jab and I am absolutely fine,” said Sushila Singh, who took the shot along with her husband at SJM Hospital.Although the soft launch began on a slow note, due to technical issues, the overall coverage accelerated by the end of day. Officials said the on-spot registration began at 9am, but the dissemination could begin only after two hours, due to a glitch. “We need to fill all details about allotment before administering the doses. The updated Co-WIN application was new for us, so completing this process took a longer time,” said a health official at GIMS, asking not to be identified.Meanwhile, the Gautam Budh Nagar district admin has prepared a list of 424,555 beneficiaries, aged 60 years and above, through the electoral roll, for the third phase of the vaccination drive. Besides, people above 45 years of age with co-morbidities will also be covered in the third phase, but they need to self-register on the updated version of the Co-WIN 2.0 app.Chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that as many as 220 vaccination booths in 26 hospitals, including private facilities, have been identified for the third phase. “The full session of vaccination for phase 3 is likely to begin March 4 in the district. We are waiting for detailed guidelines from the state government. To maximise coverage, the health department has prepared a list of beneficiaries for the third phase with the help of the latest electoral roll,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-inaugural-session-of-phase-3-vaccination-drive-records-over-98-turnout-in-noida-101614624142833.html
02-03-2021||City||DMK seals seat-sharing deal with two minority allies||Tamil Nadu's principal opposition Dravida Munnetra Kazhaga (DMK) on Monday reached a seat-sharing deal with the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and the Manithaneya Makkal Katchi (MMK) for the assembly election due on April 6.The DMK allotted three seats to the IUML and two to the MMK. DMK president MK Stalin signed the agreement with IUML’s Kader Mohideen whose party would contest under their ladder symbol and not DMK’s iconic ‘rising sun’ symbol.“It is a tradition since Kalaignar’s (late M Karunanidhi) period that DMK’s first signature would be with IUML,” Mohideen told reporters at DMK’s headquarters in Chennai. He said that though the IUML sought five seats, the DMK had explained to them that they needed to contest more seats given the political situation and to accommodate new allies.Also read: Covid-19 in Maharashtra - How various districts fared since Feb 24“The DMK coalition must win most seats and party must form the government with its own majority so that Tamil Nadu remains a cradle of social justice and BJP’s plans are defeated,” MMK leader MH Jawahirullah told reporters. “We have to defeat the BJP-AIADMK alliance,” he said. He said that decisions on which party symbol to contest on would be decided later. Constituencies are also yet to be finalised.The DMK started its first round of negotiations with the Congress last Thursday where the regional heavyweight wasn’t willing to part with more than 20-25 seats even as the national party desired between 40 and 50 seats. The second round of seat-sharing talks will resume between them after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi completes his campaign on March 1. The DMK on Friday formed a seven-member committee headed by party treasurer and MP TR Balu to hold seat-sharing talks with the allies.The DMK won 80 out of 180 seats it contested in 2016 where the AIADMK led by late J Jayalalithaa retained power for the second time. The other allies in the DMK-led alliance are Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK), Left parties Manithaneya Makkal Katchi (MMK), Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) and two smaller partners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dmk-seals-seat-sharing-deal-with-two-minority-allies-101614623766054.html
02-03-2021||Noida||GB Nagar police prepare criminal dossiers of panchayat poll aspirants||NOIDA: Ahead of the upcoming panchayat elections in the state, the Gautam Budh Nagar police have started checking the criminal past of expected candidates. Police will cancel the arms’ licences of poll aspirants involved in the criminal activities and seize their weapons, officials said. The GB Nagar commissioner of police (CP), Alok Singh, said that police will take stern action against criminals, land mafias and liquor smugglers as they may influence and pressurise the mandate during the election. “All the police stations have been asked to prepare the criminal dossiers of poll aspirants, and that of land and liquor mafias in their respective areas. We will seize all the weapons of those involved in any illegal or violent activities,” he said. Singh further said that the police will also keep a strict vigil on illegal transportation and distribution of liquor and cash, which the poll aspirants generally use to woo the gullible voters in rural areas. “All the station house officers (SHOs) have been asked to ensure timely closure of liquor shops in their areas concerned and take tough action against the bootleggers. The police will also launch joint crackdown with the excise officials in the identified areas,” he said. The district police chief also said that as the panchayat elections will also be held in bordering districts, the state borders will be closed and screened 48 hours before the polling day. “There will be adequate deployment of police force and jawans from provincial armed constabulary (PAC) to ensure free and fair polling in the district. We are also focussing on cleaning societal ills, like drugs and sleaze during the election,” he said. It may be noted that one-day training of officials for forthcoming panchayat election, which is slated to be in May this year, has already been done. The voters in the district will use their rights to franchise for 88 gram panchayats, five zila panchayats and three vikas khand (blocks) representatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-police-prepare-criminal-dossiers-of-panchayat-poll-aspirants-101614623482714.html
02-03-2021||Other||Haryana seeks SC approval to restart mining in Gurugram, Faridabad Aravallis||The Haryana government will, on Thursday, seek the Supreme Court’s approval to begin mining in the Aravallis in Gurugram and Faridabad, a controversial move that could threaten one of the oldest mountain ranges in the country and have significant environmental impact, in terms of groundwater recharge and biodiversity.“In view of pending litigation in the Haryana mining matters case, mining in Aravalli hill areas in the districts of Faridabad, Gurugram and Mewat is lying closed since May 2009…that on the one hand the state and its citizens are being disadvantaged of the benefit of its natural resources and at the same time it has to depend on mineral from adjoining states at higher cost to its economy both public and private. The execution of infrastructural projects in the state is not only getting delayed but the cost escalation of the same due to higher cost of basic material has been a major concern affecting all new projects,” said Haryana’s appeal in the apex court, which will be heard on March 4. The appeal, reviewed by Hindustan Times, claims that there is large-scale unemployment in Haryana due to the Covid-19 pandemic which can be addressed by opening up mining.Also Read | Students demand protection of Aravallis, withdrawal of amendment to land actIn 2009, the Supreme Court imposed a blanket ban on all mining of major and minor minerals in the eco-sensitive Aravalli hills in Faridabad, Gurugram and Mewat.The order suspended all mining activities in the region till statutory provisions for restoration and reclamation were complied with, particularly in cases where pits or quarries had been abandoned.“We are ready to comply with all of SC’s orders on mining issued earlier. The SC directed us to prepare a rehabilitation plan for areas which were affected by mining. MoEFCC (the union environment ministry) prepared it in 2013 but it is yet to be finalised. Our appeal in SC will be to finalise the rehabilitation plan and allow us to start mining operations in Gurugram and Faridabad ,” said Anil Grover, senior advocate general of Haryana.He added that in 2009, the Supreme Court, in principle, agreed to allow mining on 600 hectares of land across Faridabad subject to finalising of a rehabilitation planMeanwhile, Social Action for Forest and Environment, an environmental activist group has filed an application for intervention in the matter. The group, which will be represented by advocate Sanjay Upadhyay, suggests that the origin of this 600 hectares to be opened up for mining is the report of a private consultant engaged by Haryana. “It is believed that the mining is proposed to be carried out in new areas which remained untouched from mining earlier. That out of the 600 ha which has been identified by the above consultant, about 238 ha land is protected under Punjab Land Preservation Act, 1900, Aravalli Notification and Aravalli Plantation areas,” the group said in a statement.The Union environment ministry said it is unaware of any plan.“No reference has been made to us on mining in the Aravallis. We can only comment when the reference is made to us. If it goes to court it will be referred to us also,” said a senior environment ministry official who asked not to be named.Environmentalists warned of the dangers of allowing mining to restart in the region.“The total extent of mining leases granted in the past and the extent of illegal mining have not been assessed so far. Illegal mining’s impact has been much greater than the legal mining allowed. It has exceeded any rational level of carrying capacity in the Aravallis. The impact of the illegal mining on forests, wildlife habitat and corridor movement and groundwater recharge were devastating. All three have been recovering slowly with the healing powers of nature. Allowing mining to restart in the Faridabad-Gurugram belt will again devastate the ecology of the region, destroy forest cover, and wildlife habitat,” said Chetan Agarwal, a Gurugram-based environmental analyst.“Haryana has the lowest forest cover in the country, around 3.62%. Most of this is concentrated in the Aravalli hills in south Haryana (and some in the Shivaliks in the north). Allowing mining in the little remaining forest cover will lead to disproportionately high environmental impacts,” added Col SS Oberoi (retd), an environmentalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-seeks-sc-approval-to-restart-mining-in-gurgaon-faridabad-aravallis-101614584841633.html
