03-03-2021||Other||HC registers PIL on vaccination of judges, lawyers and court staff||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Wednesday registered a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) to examine the issue of Covid vaccination for members of the judiciary, employees, court staff and advocates.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli took note of a communication sent by the chairman of Bar Council of Delhi (BCD), Ramesh Gupta who had sought directions to the concerned administrative/ medical authorities to make available necessary infrastructure in court premises, particularly in medical dispensaries and other “appropriate places conducive for vaccination”.The lawyers’ body had also sought vaccination of the members of the judiciary, the employees/staff working in the courts, as well as the advocates who throng the courts to attend to their cases, by treating them as well, as frontline workers.The court accepted the contention of the BCD and said that “prima facie there is weight in the claim made by them for declaring all persons associated with the judicial functioning, which includes the Judges, the court Staff and the lawyers as frontline workers, so that they could receive vaccination on priority, and without limitations of their age or physical condition”.The court issued notices to the Centre, ministry of health and family welfare, and the two vaccine manufacturers -- the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech.The bench said that there is a clear pattern emerging that the number of Covid-19 cases increases with greater intermingling and congregation of people. It noted that the premises of the Delhi high court and some of the district courts are air-conditioned and with increased footfall, there is likelihood of the rate of infection amongs those who attend the courts spiking, once the full-fledged physical functioning of courts in Delhi resumes.“We may observe that the co-morbidities enlisted by the government to accommodate persons falling in the age group of 45 to 60 years, are serious conditions from which the Judges, the court staff and advocates may, or may not, be suffering.“Even if, they are not found to be suffering from one of the co-morbidities, it does not mean that the risk of their contracting the disease and suffering serious health issues – including fatality, does not exist. To examine the aforesaid aspects, we are inclined to register this communication of Ramesh Gupta, chairman, Bar Council of Delhi dated March 1 as a Public Interest Litigation,” the bench said in its order.It said that the need of the hour is to vaccinate the masses on a war footing so as to secure the life and health of all those who step out of their homes to attend to their avocations and professions. It said that courts, by their very nature, are places which have very high density congregations of people on a daily basis.“Hundreds and thousands of cases are listed in any given court complex every day. Apart from judges, the court staff – which is substantial, and advocates – who have to attend to their respective cases, and a large number of litigants visit courts in which their cases are listed, on a daily basis. Since, the cases listed on any given day are mostly different from those listed on the previous day, or the next day, the litigants visiting the Courts constitute a different group from day to day to a great extent,” it said.It asserted that such peculiarity exposes the judges, court staff, and the lawyers functioning in the court system to the risk of contracting the disease from not only each other, but also from the large number of litigants who visit the courts every day to attend to their cases.“In fact, the number of persons visiting a court complex – such as the Tiz Hazari courts on any given day, may well be in excess of the number of persons visiting and thronging the hospital for treatment of patients,” it said citing an example.The matter will be now heard on March 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hcregisters-pil-on-vaccination-of-judges-lawyers-and-court-staff-101614795332788.html
03-03-2021||Other||Teachers spreading false propaganda, says JNU V-C Jagadesh Kumar||New DelhiJawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) vice chancellor (V-C) M Jagadesh Kumar on Wednesday alleged that a section of teachers were spreading misinformation to serve their “false propaganda”, days after JNU teachers association (JNUTA) alleged that the V-C had weakened the university’s unique character through “arbitrary” decisions.Kumar said that if “anyone” claims that the university has not progressed in the last five years, “they are among the people who want to see the university get destroyed”. “There is a small set of faculty members who are indulging in all kinds of false propaganda to damage the image of the university. I think, time has come to tell them to focus on academics and all of us should work towards achieving excellence in our university,” Kumar told PTI.The JNUTA on Monday had alleged that the delay in appointing the new V-C was “deliberate” in order to further extend Kumar’s term. The teachers’ body also said that for the first time in the history of the university, teaching staff salaries have been delayed by a month. It had also raised concerns over the changes in admission process, recruitment process and other functioning at the university under Kumar’s tenure.Kumar’s five-year controversial tenure as the V-C officially came to an end on January 26, but the government has asked him to continue till a successor his found.While he did not share as to by when a regular V-C will be appointed, Kumar said he will continue to hold office until a replacement comes. “The JNU Act states that the current vice chancellor will continue in office until a new vice chancellor takes over,” he said. “The executive council has to choose two experts, and they’re given to the ministry. We have done our job. So, whatever the process that takes place, that the ministry will take care of,” he said.Rejecting concerns raised by the JNUTA about his tenure, Kumar said the governance system of the university had only strengthened in the last five years.“If anybody is saying that this university has not progressed, they are misrepresenting, and it is only those people who want to see this university get destroyed…it is only those people who are spreading this misinformation.“During the last five years, we have been following all university statutes, regulations and ordinances in letter and spirit. And we have also been following all the UGC notifications and rules. And this is what has strengthened the governance system in the university,” he said.Responding to the JNUTA’s allegation that it was under him that the teachers did not receive their salaries on time, for the month of February, he said, “Yes, there was a delay of one day. Yesterday, all the staff members were issued their salaries. And today, we already have received the funds from UGC in our bank. And the salaries are being dispersed to everybody.” Kumar said that while he was welcoming of “dissent, and protests”, he is wary of spreading “false propaganda”.According to Kumar, the admission process, which is being taken care of by the National Testing Agency (NTA) for the last few years, had made the exercise “transparent and accessible”. “In fact, as part of the National Education Policy, most of the entrance examinations in future will be conducted by the NTA. So, I fail to understand their logic, why they are (JNUTA) against JNU working with NTA to conduct the entrance examinations,” he said.Talking about JNUTA’s opposition to the establishment of management and engineering colleges, the V-C said, the move was meant to “broaden the academic programs of the university”.Kumar said that barring this “small cross-section of faculty members”, the entire student and teacher community of JNU “was appreciative of a large number of reforms that we have carried out, whether they are academic reforms, or administrative reforms”.“We respect dissent, we respect protests. We want to provide every opportunity for them to freely express their opinions, but, there is a difference between people who are perpetually creating confusion by spreading false propaganda, and those who want to genuinely express their disagreement with something. So we need to separate these two. This university is known for debate discussion, and freedom of expression, and we will continue to protect that,” he said. Reacting on the V-C’s statement, JNUTA secretary Moushumi Basu said, “JNUTA condemns this spin which is being manufactured by the V-C -- a few teachers bringing a bad name to the JNU. A large section of the faculty is opposing the arbitrary decisions taken by this V-C. Many issues raised by JNUTA are already declared illegal by the high court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/teachers-spreading-false-propaganda-says-jnu-v-c-jagadesh-kumar-101614795212742.html
03-03-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 cases reported among students, parents urge schools to hold online exams||In light of Covid-19 cases being reported among school-going children, school administrators are taking extra precautions to ensure student safety as parents are now apprehensive about sending children to school. Public and private schools in the national capital had reopened for students of classes 9 to 12, between January and February, after remaining shut since March 2020 when the pandemic had hit the country.Parent association groups said students in at least two Delhi schools has tested positive for Covid-19 after attending in-person classes. Adding to their worries is a recent report from Karnal, Haryana, that 54 students there had contracted the disease after attending school. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said 78 persons, including 54 students, had tested positive on Tuesday. He said school authorities have been alerted and affected blocks have been declared as containment zones. Classes and other activities have also been suspended.On Monday, Queen Mary’s school postponed exams for classes 9 and 11 and closed its campus for a week after a student allegedly tested positive for Covid-19, two days after attending school. The announcement came after a group of parents protested outside its campus on Monday. The school denied all allegations of social distancing norms not being followed on the premises.Parent groups organised protests outside multiple schools on Wednesday as well. Aprajita Gautam. president, Delhi Parents Association said parents are also questioning the need for in-person exams for students of classes 9 and 12. “We have been getting messages that schools are trying to suppress information if a student tests positive for Covid. Our association had received mails and calls from parents saying they are worried about sending their children to school,” said Gautam.“When parents from Venkateshwar International School got to know that a student tested positive for Covid-19, 200 parents submitted a memorandum to the school on Monday morning asking the school to allow students to take the exams online. After the protest, the school allowed the online option,” said Gautam.The parent of a class 11 student at the school, requesting anonymity, said exams were supposed to begin from Wednesday. “School officials said they weren’t clear about the reports of the said student and wanted to hold offline exams. Teachers in contact with the child didn’t quarantine themselves. My child had interacted with that student and since there was no school transport, many students had gone back home together. We were worried and asked for online exams but the school dismissed our concerns at first. Later, they agreed and sent a note late Tuesday night,” said a parent.Manisha Sharma, principal of Venkateshwar International School, in Dwarka’s Sector 10, said the school had not received any formal communication from the parents about the student’s Covid-19 status.“We circulated a note among parents that such a rumour was going around. We informed them that the student had attended classes for one day, over 15 days ago. There are provisions for offline and online classes. So, there is no chance of students or staff being under risk,” she said.The school said it held “special weekly meetings” with support staff and stakeholders to ensure that proper sanitisation and Covid-19 protocols were being implemented.“We have to address concerns of anxious students who don’t have devices and wanted to take the exams in the offline mode. Our support staff are well trained and we have ensured that everything -- from doorknobs and handles to staircase and balcony railings -- is thoroughly sanitised and there is no risk to anyone’s health,” she said.Modern Public School in Shalimar Bagh, which was one of the first private schools in the capital to reopen for board students on January 18, said their school has ensured that they don’t deviate from Covid-19 protocols, which helped in mitigating parent concerns.“Instructions are being repeated every day to ensure that the guidelines are strictly followed and there is no lapse. We do the orientation with parents and students on a regular basis. We have also requested parents not to attend social gatherings as children have their exams. Even if parents have to go out, we have asked them to ensure that children are following safety norms for their own sake,” said principal Alka Kapur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-cases-reported-among-students-parents-urge-schools-to-hold-online-exams-101614795152895.html
03-03-2021||Delhi||AAP wins four of 5 municipal wards in by-polls, BJP draws a blank while Cong wins one||: A year ahead of elections to Delhi’s municipal corporations, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday won four out of five wards in civic bypolls held on February 28, while the Congress bagged one seat, and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has been the ruling party in the three MCDs for 14 years now, drew a blank.Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal said the result were a positive message for his party ahead of the 2022 contest. “The results show that the people of Delhi trust the AAP’s model of good governance,” he said, before accusing the BJP of corruption and misgovernance in the three municipal bodies.In terms of overall vote share, the AAP got 46.1% of the total votes cast. The Congress and the BJP got 27.29% and 21.84% respectively, according to election commission data.Out of the five seats that went to bypolls on February 28, AAP retained three seats that it had won in the 2017 municipal polls, and gained one from the BJP, while losing one to the Congress.The bypoll results are a blow to the BJP -- the party lost all seats with margins varying from 2,700 to 7,000 votes, which are significant given the sizes of wards, indicating the people’s dissatisfaction with the performance of the civic bodies.Of the five wards, the AAP pushed the BJP to second place in four -- Kalyanpuri (margin of 7,043) and Trilokpuri East (margin of 4,986) in the East Delhi Municipal Corporation; and Rohini-C (margin of 2,985 votes) and Shalimar Bagh (margin of 2,705) in the North Delhi Municipal Corporation.While the first three were won by the AAP in 2017 municipal polls, too, Shalimar Bagh was won by the BJP in the last municipal polls.The AAP, however, lost Chauhan Banger ward (one of the few wards with a large Muslim population) in east Delhi to the Congress by a margin of 10,642 votes. The five seats fell vacant after four councillors won the assembly elections in 2020 representing the AAP, and one -- Renu Jaju, former BJP councillor from the Shalimar Bagh ward -- died two years ago.During its bypolls campaign, AAP had hit out at the BJP for corruption, mismanagement and flawed policies, which, it alleged, has landed the corporations in a crisis. The BJP, on the other hand, was blaming the ruling party in the Capital for paralysing the corporations by not giving funds on time.“The BJP should resign from the municipal bodies after this miserable defeat and let the municipal polls happen in Delhi right now. People have lost their trust in the BJP. They believe that only the AAP can bring a positive change in the municipal corporations,” AAP’s incharge of municipal affairs Durgesh Pathak said on Wednesday.Accepting defeat in the bypolls, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said: “We accept the people’s verdict. But this is not the end. We will analyse the results and see where we went wrong. We still have a lot of time to prepare for the municipal polls.”While the Congress won just one seat, Chauhan Banger, the party’s vote share improved as compared to the 2020 assembly polls. Delhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhary said: “The impressive show by Congress in the by-elections and the victory in Chauhan Banger ward has raised the party’s overall vote share from 6% (in the last Assembly elections) to 22% now.”Rahul Verma, a fellow with the Centre for Policy Research, said, “In terms of overall figures, the AAP was in power in four of these five municipal seats, and they will continue to be in power in four. It has lost one seat and gained one. There is not much difference as far as the numbers are concerned. However, I would still say the party has much better prospects in the 2022 municipal polls. They have won the assembly polls with a huge majority for two terms now and the party machinery has strengthened at the grassroots level.”Tanvir Aeijaz, associate professor in the department of political science at Ramjas College, said, “These are local elections where the candidate matters a lot. In these elections, local issues are of real importance. People have seen and benefitted from AAP’s model of governance. The bypoll result indicates that people are happy with it.”Delhi has 272 municipal wards -- the north and south Delhi corporations have 104 wards each and the east corporation has 64 wards. The BJP has a majority in all three of them with 64, 70 and 47 councillors, respectively. If all three of them are taken together, the AAP and the Congress have 49 and 31 councillors, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-wins-four-of-5-municipal-wards-in-by-polls-bjp-draws-a-blank-while-cong-wins-one-101614795092804.html
03-03-2021||Other||Industrialists term Haryana’s job reservation move regressive, may challenge law in court||GurugramInformation technology, auto and export companies based in Gurugram said on Wednesday that the Haryana government’s decision to reserve 75% jobs for local job-seekers who have a state domicile will signal that the city and the state were no more business-friendly destinations. While IT industry bosses termed the government’s new law as regressive, industrialists based in Manesar questioned the legality of the quota and said that they were looking for possibilities to challenge the government decision in a court of law as it will enable “another era of inspector raj in the state”. Haryana governor, Satyadev Narayan Arya, on Tuesday had given his assent to Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020, which provides for 75% reservation in private sector to job seekers in the state which have a salary of less than ₹50,000 per month in private companies, societies, trusts, limited liability partnership firms, partnership firms. The quota will initially be applicable for 10 years, after it is notified by the government. Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who made the job quota a central plank of his election campaign in 2019, on Wednesday said the state government will begin a massive employment campaign from next month for youths of the state to benefit, as per their qualification and skills. Chautala, however, also made it clear that the government will make an exemption in the reservation if the company fails to find a local skilled employee. He said the youth of the state will be entitled for jobs of chowkidar, security guard, clerk, steno clerk, and others which offer a monthly salary of ₹50,000. Stating that there is a provision of penalty if the firms violate rules of this law, he said private companies will have to mandatorily give complete details of their registration and employees on the portal. More than 300 Fortune 500 companies are headquartered in Gurugram that has emerged as one of the largest IT and ITes hub in the country with several top companies setting up operations in the last two decades. It is also home to large auto and auto part makers such as Maruti, Hero Moto Corp and Honda, while garment exports also forms a major chunk of industry.Vinod Sood, managing director, Hughes Systiqe and chair, NASSCOM, Haryana, said that the new law and will send a very wrong message to MNCs and IT companies, which are headquartered abroad. “While all other states in India are coming up with forward-looking policies, this reservation will create a perception that Gurugram is no longer a business-friendly destination. Companies abroad don’t want to get into such technicalities and their immediate response would be to expand or shift to Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad. The reservations might have some caveats, but optics are too bad, and don’t augur well for the city” said Sood. IT companies also said that instead of imposing reservations there is need to train local youths and skill train them for these jobs. “We at Nagarro appreciate the desire of the Haryana government to create jobs for local youths. However, it is ironic that an industry that competes around the world and brings nearly ₹5 lakh crore in foreign exchange into India will have to deal with these restrictions that may hamper its operations and efficiency. We are also nervous that the current scope of reservations may be expanded later. We believe the best way to expand opportunities for Haryana’s youth is equipping them with skills,” Manas Fuloria, CEO, Nagarro, a city-based IT company. Industrialists based in Manesar were also worried that the job reservations will bring back the era of ‘inspector raj’ and it would be difficult to run industrial units. “Where are the workers in Haryana who are experts in leather cutting, fabric stitching, cutting, weaving. These jobs need talent and is mastered when generations work on the same skill set. This move will destroy the export industry and other manufacturing units in Gurugram and Haryana. We are looking for options to challenge this move in a court of law,” said Manmohan Gaind, vice president, Manesar Industries Welfare Association, who heads an export company. The Confederation of Indian Industry’s Haryana chapter said that Haryana was already facing a tough competition in attracting industrial investment as other states are offering liberal industrial policies and employment incentive schemes. The government’s new move will prove to be quite the deterrent to bring in new investments and expansion of existing businesses. “The law mandating job reservation in private sector in Haryana will act as a blow to the industry-friendly image of Haryana. This law is detrimental to the economic growth of Haryana and will impact existing businesses present in the state by slowing down investments and further deteriorating the state’s ease of doing business ranking,” said Anadi Sinha, vice chairman, CII Gurugram zone and group president - HR and corporate affairs, Minda Industries Ltd, which has large presence in the city. Director general of the Confederation of Indian Industry, Chandrajit Banerjee, too released a statement which read, “At a time when it is important to attract investments at state level, the Haryana government could have avoided imposing restrictions. Reservation affects productivity and industry competitiveness. We hope the state government of Haryana re-looks at the legislation. With Prime Minister’s vision of ‘Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat’ we look forward to an integrated and mobile labour market within the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/industrialists-term-haryana-s-job-reservation-move-regressive-may-challenge-law-in-court-101614795032843.html
03-03-2021||Gurugram||Over 25 acres of Aravalli land encroached in Faridabad||A little over 25 acres of forest land in Ankhir village of Faridabad’s forest division have been encroached upon, with the construction of a boundary wall and a gate, officials familiar with the matter said on Wednesday. Raj Kumar, the divisional forest officer for Faridabad forest division said, “We have learnt from locals that almost 25 acres of forest land have been illegally encroached upon in Ankhir village of the division and we will be investigating the matter.” The land in question is notified under special sections 4 and 5 of the Punjab Land Preservation Act, which extends protection against land-use change to specified Aravalli patches, forests and trees. “This is an old issue where construction has been demolished two-three times earlier also and a case was lodged. Damage reports have also been filed in this case. We will once again probe the matter as we have learnt that a gate has been set up and the encroached area is being increased,” Kumar said. Ankhir is one of the two villages in Faridabad district (the other being Mewla Maharajpur), where over 90% of the village common land is notified under the PLPA. As per previous Supreme Court orders, this accords the land legal “forest” status, with protection under the Forest Conservation Act, 1980. Sarvadaman Oberoi, a city-based legal and environment activist, said, “There has been a construction of a new kuccha road, large-scale felling of trees and construction of walls in the Aravalli hills of Ankhir village in Faridabad district. Around five farmhouses covering about 25 acres have been made. The said area presents an encroachment in a hitherto fairly dense forest area and creates a block to the movement of wildlife due to its long length. The area falls in mushtil 19 and 20, as per the revenue record of Ankhir village.” He said that on the northern front, a 470-metre wall has been built and on the western side, a 230-metre section has been constructed. With internal divisions on the plot, at least three gates are visible through satellite data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/over-25-acres-of-aravalli-land-encroached-in-faridabad-101614794555712.html
03-03-2021||Gurugram||Four held for robbing Amazon goods truck containing goods worth ₹50 lakh||The police on Tuesday arrested four persons for allegedly robbing electronic gadgets and accessories worth ₹50 lakh from a delivery truck of e-commerce company Amazon on February 19, by holding the driver at gunpoint. The driver was ferrying laptops, tablets, mobile phones and clothes from the company’s warehouse in Farrukhnagar to another in Manesar when the incident took place, the police said.The suspects were identified as Sunil Singh, Dinesh Kumar, Rahul Singh and Deepak Singh, all of Tauru in Nuh. The police recovered a motorbike, a countrymade pistol, a live cartridge and the robbed gadgets from their possession. Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the driver was thrown out of the truck in Kapadiwas, following which he informed his company staff, who checked the GPS location but could not find the truck. “The investigation was handed over to the crime unit, following which they arrested four men from Jorasi village in Nuh. They have confessed to the crime and revealed that one Sunil was the mastermind and had worked at several warehouses as a driver, due to which he was familiar with the routes and operations at night. He was aware the trucks are loaded with goods worth lakhs of rupees,” he said. A spokesperson for Amazon India said, “As India’s most trusted online marketplace, we take incidents of theft very seriously. Local Haryana authorities have investigated and resolved this case. We continue to work closely with the local police authorities and thank them for all their efforts in the investigation.”According to the police, the driver, Ansal Ali of Siwan in Bihar, was on his way to Bhangrola in Manesar after loading the truck from the Amazon warehouse on February 18, when he was intercepted by four persons on a motorbike near Khawaspur village in Farrukhnagar. Ali said it was around 3am when the suspects asked him to stop the truck. “I asked them what the matter was, following which two of them climbed up to my cabin and started hitting me. One of them snatched the truck keys and my mobile phone and held me hostage,” he said. The other suspects, who were on a motorbike, followed the truck, took him to Kapriwas in Rewari, threw him in a field and threatened him against approaching the police. The suspects as per their plan intercepted the truck, held the driver hostage and drove towards Bhiwadi. They had already taken up a room on rent to keep the robbed goods, said police. Sangwan said after unloading the goods they parked the truck near Dharuhera in Rewari in an isolated stretch which was recovered by the police the next day. “This gang has earlier also robbed three more drivers but were not identified. We are investigating if they are involved in more cases,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/four-held-for-robbing-amazon-goods-truck-containing-goods-worth-rs-50-lakh-101614794556261.html
03-03-2021||Gurugram||Four held for murdering two children in Meerut||The police on Wednesday arrested four persons for allegedly murdering two children of a 37-year-old woman by throwing them into a canal near Meerut in Uttar Pradesh. The bodies of the children, who were reported missing since February 27, were recovered early Wednesday, the police said. The woman was also allegedly pushed into the canal but rescued by locals.The police said that the main suspect, identified as 33-year-old Sonu Yadav, the woman’s live-in partner, decided to throw them in the canal due to domestic problems. Hitesh Yadav, the assistant commissioner of police (Manesar), said that the incident took place on February 27 after a scuffle broke out between the couple. Yadav is alleged to have forcefully taken the woman and her kids, along with his family members in a car. “They threw them in running water and returned to Gurugram the following day. The woman survived after locals rescued her but despite attempts, they could not rescue the children. The woman approached us and filed a complaint following which four teams were formed and sent to different locations,” he said. According to the police, Yadav had started living with the woman after her husband’s death two years ago. They were having problems as Yadav was not fond of the children, aged 2 and 6 years, whereas the woman was pressurising him to marry her and ensure her financial security, the police said. The woman also threatened to implicate Yadav in a fake rape case, it has been alleged.The suspects were identified as Sonu Yadav (33), his brother Pradeep Kumar (33), cousin Sachin Kumar (22), and his mother Ravita Devi (55). The police said Yadav worked as a pizza delivery guy and lived in Bhangrola village along with the woman and his parents. “The teams spent more than eight hours a day in the canal for three days after we received the complaint. On Wednesday early morning, the water level was controlled and we managed to recover the bodies and conducted raids to arrest the suspects,” said ACP Yadav. A case under sections 364 (kidnapping or abducting in order to murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Kherki Daula police station. “Gurugram police had brought Yadav to Meerut who showed them the spot where he had thrown kids in the Upper Ganga Canal. Soon after, divers were deployed and the girl’s body was fished out from Jani while the boy’s body was recovered in Modinagar of Ghaziabad,” said Keshav Kumar, superintendent of police (Rural), Meerut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/four-held-for-murdering-two-children-in-meerut-101614794555241.html
03-03-2021||Gurugram||Private hospitals asked to assign slots for vaccination registration||Private hospitals and government facilities designated as Covid-19 vaccination centres have been directed to assign vaccination sessions on the Co-Win portal 15 days to one month in advance, to help people reserve appointments online by choosing the date and location most convenient to them, according to the district health department officials. Officials said that private hospitals will also have to keep slots open for walk-in beneficiaries throughout the week, as the department added 30 more private hospitals to the existing list of 10. At government facilities, vaccination will be held four times a week, on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday. “As directed by the union ministry of health and family welfare on Wednesday, the focus will be on walk-in registration, as it (response) has been high. Private and government vaccination centres will have to keep the slots between 9am and 5pm 100% open for walk-in beneficiaries,m along with those who have scheduled their appointments,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, who attended the health ministry’s meeting. The process to book an appointment for Covid-19 vaccination on the Co-Win portal became operational from Tuesday evening in Gurugram. The appointment has to be fixed at least a day in advance for the vaccine shot, said officials. To check the online beneficiary registration, a special vaccination session was set up on Wednesday by the district health department at the Sector 31 polyclinic. At least 219 people above the age of 60 years took the vaccine shot, of whom 42 had fixed their online appointments Tuesday evening through Co-Win, while the rest were walk-ins and were registered on the spot. Besides, 29 people aged 45 to 59 years having co-morbidities took the shot, of whom nine had made online reservations and 20 were walk-ins. For Thursday’s vaccination drive, private hospitals already have an advance list of self-registered vaccine beneficiaries. “At least 70 people have done advance self-registration for the vaccination drive to be held on Thursday. We have been doing registration at the site too for walk-in. The process will start at 9am tomorrow (on Thursday) and hopefully, things will move smoothly so that beneficiaries above 60 years of age do not have to wait too long,” said Dr Anjali Kaul, medical superintendent, Artemis Hospital.According to doctors of Narayana Hospital, at least 41 people have made appointments for vaccinations on Thursday. “Walk-in registration is for beneficiaries reaching the vaccination centre directly without prior registration. The hospital is prepared to cater to nearly 300 vaccine beneficiaries in a day. In one go, a batch of 30 people will be allowed to enter, to ensure social distancing,” said Dr Swadesh Kumar, consultant and head of emergency, Narayana Hospital. In a meeting with the Covid Vaccination Centre (CVC), attended by managers of private hospitals at the Mini Secretariat on Wednesday, hospitals were asked to follow standard operating procedures to avoid crowding at vaccination sites.As per the directions, each centre should have separate rooms for registration and verification of documents, vaccination and observation for 30 minutes. There should be facilities for managing people showing mild side effects due to the vaccine. Also, basic cold chain equipment for storing the vaccine vials must be ensured, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/private-hospitals-asked-to-assign-slots-for-vaccination-registration-101614794553965.html
03-03-2021||Gurugram||Environmentalists protest against mining in Aravallis at Haryana Bhawan, ahead of SC hearing||Ahead of a Supreme Court (SC) hearing on the Haryana government’s plea to allow mining in the Aravallis of Gurugram and Faridabad, environmentalists in the city have raised concerns over significant adverse impact on groundwater recharge capacity and wildlife if mining activity resumes.Citizens and students protested outside Haryana Bhawan in Delhi on Wednesday against the state government’s plan. The protesters also submitted a letter addressed to chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar that stated, “Haryana has the lowest forest cover in India, just 3.62%. Most of this is concentrated in the Aravalli hills in south Haryana and some in the Shivaliks in the north. Aravallis in Haryana have been under huge attack from illegal felling of trees and encroachment… Legalising mining in the Aravallis will lead to severe environmental impacts threatening the survival of millions of people living in Gurugram, Faridabad, Delhi-NCR as well as the wildlife that call these forests home.” “The Supreme Court had banned mining in the Aravallis these last few years. Until now, mining was going on illegally in Haryana. Legalising mining threatens the mere existence of these historic and environmentally vital hill ranges. Aravallis with their natural cracks and fissures have the potential to put 2 million litres of water per hectare in the ground every year,” a statement by the protesters said. Anil Grover, the additional advocate general of Haryana, said that large-scale unemployment in Haryana caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and high cost of procurement of raw material for construction have necessitated the state government to request the Supreme Court to allow mining in Faridabad. “In 2011, the Supreme Court discussed the aspect of a rehabilitation plan with the Attorney General of India who had then submitted that the ministry of environment and forest (MoEF) can convene an urgent meeting of all parties and plans would be considered. Thereafter, in 2013, the rehabilitation and reclaiming plan was submitted through the then assistant inspector general of forests, MoEF. We have requested the apex court to approve this plan and allow us to conduct mining following environmental and all other necessary clearances,” said Grover. In 2009, the SC imposed a blanket ban on all mining of major and minor minerals in the eco-sensitive Aravalli hills in Faridabad, Gurugram and Mewat. The court then said, “The actual mining operation in the 600 ha of land in Faridabad shall commence on submission of the rehabilitation and reclamation plan by the state and its approval by this Court. It shall be done at the earliest and preferably within a period of six months.” In October last year, the state government appealed to the SC to allow the resumption of mining in the Aravallis of Gurugram and Faridabad. A hearing in the matter is scheduled for Thursday.Neelam Ahluwalia of the Aravalli Bachao Citizens Movement, who led the protest on Thursday, said, “We citizens demand that mining in the Aravallis should not be legalised. The state government should withdraw the regressive Punjab Land Preservation Act Amendment Bill of 2019, remove illegal encroachments from the Aravallis and grant forest status to 50,000 acres of Aravallis which have no legal protection...”Speaking on the issues, RK Chauhan, joint director of the department of environment, said, “We have not received any update in this matter so far… Our role starts when mining is approved for a particular area and environmental clearances are to be given.” Officials of the Mines and Geology department of Haryana declined to comment as the matter is sub judice. Chetan Aggarwal, a city-based environmentalist, said, “In the past 11 years, since mining was banned in Haryana, forests have regrown and wildlife numbers have also increased in the area. A report by the Wildlife Institute of India from 2017 also shows improvement in the presence of wildlife. If mining is started again, the whole ecology will be impacted. Additionally, the forests of Faridabad have already faced mining more than its carrying capacity in the past.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/environmentalists-protest-against-mining-in-aravallis-at-haryana-bhawan-ahead-of-sc-hearing-101614794553328.html
03-03-2021||Gurugram||Police to auction Sube Singh’s properties after court lifts stay||After a local court on Tuesday vacated the stay on plots seized from Sube Singh, a suspected gangster wanted by the police for multiple criminal cases, police officials said they will go ahead with their plan to auction the properties, estimated to be worth ₹6 crore. Singh is wanted in more than a dozen cases of murder, attempt to murder and extortion in Gurugram and Rewari. The police departments of the two districts have announced rewards amounting to ₹4 lakh for information leading to Singh’s arrest. He was declared a proclaimed offender by a district court in April 2018. His wife, who was a sarpanch, is also believed to be on the run for the past two years, the police said. Singh’s mother has been fighting the case in court.Singh’s properties comprise of two plots, one of 1.3 acres in Bar Gujjar village near Manesar and another of 0.8 acres in Manesar industrial area, the police said. In 2019, the district administration tried to auction the properties twice with an aim to weaken the financial base of the gangster, who is allegedly on the run. However, no one showed up to buy the land at that time. The police said they would now restart the auction process. Gurugram police seized the property of Singh in January 2019. Police commissioner KK Rao said that he got a police post constructed on one of the plots the same year. “The police announced an auction of two properties of a wanted gangster, but before it could be sold, the family members got a stay from a local court in March 2019. He was a close aide of Kaushal (a Gurugram gangster) but due to financial issues, they parted ways and started independent operations. It is the first of its kind initiative to curb the financial muscle of criminals in the district,” he said. The police said that while one of the plots was Singh’s ancestral property and was used for farming, the other one was purchased three to four years ago. Rao said the entire auction process will be carried out under police surveillance and they will ensure that buyers are not targeted or harmed by the gangsters. “We wrote to the tehsildar on Wednesday to start the process and to place an advertisement for the same. The auction will be announced for the next week,” said Hitesh Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (Manesar). Yadav said that despite the properties being attached by the police in February 2019, the auction failed and a stay order followed. An auction was planned twice, at Bar Gujjar village and Manesar, but no interested buyer showed up. “It has already happened twice as people wait and watch for the reaction from the gangster’s family members. It seemed that people were scared to even come to witness the auction process. This time, we are inviting more people through tenders,” said Yadav. The police have prepared a list of more than 50 gangsters whose properties will be attached in court this year. A team of revenue officials has submitted a list of verified properties of the gangsters whose assets are to be attached. The police said the move is aimed at diminishing the financial muscle of criminals across the district. The police, in 2019, announced the decision to seize ill-gotten properties of criminals and auction the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/police-to-auction-sube-singh-s-properties-after-court-lifts-stay-101614794552758.html
03-03-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Murder suspect arrested after three days of crime||Greater Noida: Police on Wednesday arrested a 25-year-old murder suspect who was on the run since Sunday after allegedly attacking his 30-year-old friend and a security guard with bricks in a factory. The security guard died while undergoing treatment in a hospital the next day, police said. The suspect was identified as Shishupal, a native of Kasganj in Uttar Pradesh. He was living in a rented accommodation in Greater Noida West, police said.Ajay Kumar, station house officer of Surajpur police station, said that the suspect had visited his friend Hemant’s factory in Site C on Sunday. “Shishupal had borrowed ₹6.5 lakh from Hemant, but he was not returning the money. In the evening, the two persons consumed liquor and started quarrelling over the issue. The security guard at the factory, Sahdev, 35, intervened and tried to pacify them. But Shishupal lost cool and he picked up bricks and attacked them,” Kumar said. The two persons were critically injured in the head while the suspect fled the spot, police said.The police initially had no clue about the attacker. On Monday, the security guard succumbed to injuries while Hemant survived. Hemant informed police that it was Shishupal who had attacked him and Sahdev.The SHO said that the police received information about the suspect’s movement near Ghanta Chowk in Greater Noida West on Wednesday. “A police team reached the spot and arrested him. He was hiding in a high-rise society in Greater Noida West,” he said. Police said they have also recovered suspect’s blood-stained shirt. A case was registered against the suspect under Section 307 (attempt to murder) which was updated to Section 302 (murder) of IPC at Surajpur police station, police said.The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-murder-suspect-arrested-after-three-days-of-crime-101614794312795.html
03-03-2021||Noida||Greater Noida begins survey to identify eligible people for affordable housing scheme||GREATER NOIDA: The Greater Noida authority has started a survey to identify people eligible for the Centre’s affordable housing scheme. The authority will build 10,000 housing units meant for economically weaker section (EWS) in the city, officials said.Once eligible people are identified, the authority will rope in private developers for the project, the officials said. To make the project economically viable, the authority will allow the selected developers to use 10% of the total housing project for commercial purposes, the officials said. However, work on the project will start only after the adequate number of applicants will apply for the scheme. For the survey, the authority has invited applications from interested people via advertisements till March 17, along with ₹5,000 demand draft to be submitted with the form.“The authority will get the verification of all applications done by a government agency that will verify if the applicant belongs to EWS category or not. Then we will decide the further action on the project to be launched on public-private partnership,” said Santosh Kumar, office on special duty, Greater Noida authority.The authority will offer additional floor area ratio (FAR) in order to construct more units (other than EWS flats) so that the developer can earn revenue and deliver the affordable houses, said the officials.Under the scheme, the central government offers ₹1.5 lakh fund for one unit having a covered area of 30 square metres while the state government gives ₹1 lakh. The remaining expenditure will be borne by the developer or a group of developers, the officials said.The authority has decided to allot land in sectors 1, 2 and 3 in Greater Noida West. Though a developer will get to build additional units in a housing project to make profit, the EWS units should be at least 35% in the project, said the officials.The authority will give an opportunity to small developers, who can take up three, five and ten hectares to develop such units. Small developers can also form a consortium for the project, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-begins-survey-to-identify-eligible-people-for-affordable-housing-scheme-101614794253495.html
03-03-2021||Noida||GDA plans e-bike project for local commute in Indirapuram and Raj Nagar Extension||Despite two failed attempts, the Ghaziabad Development Authority is not ready to let go of its project to ply e-bikes in the city to improve last mile connectivity and reduce traffic congestion.In December last year and this January, the authority invited private players to bid for the chance to develop infrastructure and ply 200 e-bikes in Indirapuram and Raj Nagar Extension. But none turned up. Officials say this may be because the two areas, although well-planned, were heavily congested and businesses may have felt it would not be profitable.“We now plan to float it again and rope in e-bikes to run from different destinations in the two localities. Under the plan, residents can hire e-bikes on an hourly basis. This will benefit the environment and residents who have to travel short distances,” said VN Singh, chief engineer of GDA. “We may offer land for the purpose of developing stations and will also deploy a profit-sharing model.”He said that residents can pick up an e-bike from their nearest centre and travel to their intended destination like markets, banks and other local facilities and leave the e-bike at the designated place. The city today heavily depends on auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws and personal vehicles for travel within city limits. “The authority must take up the project aggressively as it will help reduce carbon footprints and ease local commuting. Once the pilot project gains momentum, the number of e-bikes should be increased and project should be taken up for other localities as well,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist. “Even the bicycle culture is growing fast in European countries and it should also be promoted in the city. We already have cycle tracks developed in different localities and also in Indirapuram and these should be properly maintained.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gda-plans-e-bike-project-for-local-commute-in-indirapuram-and-raj-nagar-extension-101614794252784.html
03-03-2021||Noida||31 dilapidated government school buildings demolished in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad basic education department, with the help of the public works department (PWD), has completed the demolition of 31 dilapidated government school buildings in the district, officials said on Wednesday. The basic education department identified 33 such buildings in the past nearly two months.The department has further identified 125 small structures in various schools which are to be assessed for structural safety, the officials said. The directions for the identification of dilapidated school buildings were given by the UP government days after a roof collapse incident at a cremation ground in Muradnagar on January 3 when 24 people were killed. “Taking up the seriousness of the issue, we came across 33 different buildings which were in as many schools, but these were old buildings and not used to hold classes. At all the 33 locations, new buildings were constructed but the old ones had also stood. So, with the help of assessment made by the PWD engineers, we got 31 such buildings demolished and also auctioned the debris,” said BB Chaudhary, basic education officer, Ghaziabad. He said that two remaining structures will also be assessed by the PWD and action will follow. The district at present has 451 government schools under the basic education department with enrolment of about 85,000 students. Of late, a few videos and photographs of old structures in some of the schools in Loni and other areas went viral over social media. “Upon this, we received further directions to inquire the issue. Thereafter, we came to know that the videos and pictures showed the old buildings but not the new ones which got constructed. In furtherance to this, we have also identified 125 small structures such as toilets, storerooms, kitchen shed and even extra classrooms. The PWD officials have been asked to assess the condition of these structures and advise suitable action,” Chaudhary said. The officials of PWD said that their teams helped out the basic education department in review of old buildings and the rest of the structures will also be taken up. “We surveyed the old buildings on the basis of site inspections where conditions like breaking of plaster, damage to reinforcements, seepage of water and peeling of surface plaster, among others, were checked up. Thereafter, the old buildings surveyed by our teams were recommended for demolition,” said Manish Verma, executive engineer of state PWD. The incident at Muradnagar had happened at Ukhlarsi cremation ground where a contractor was hired by the Muradnagar Nagar Palika for construction of sheds but one of the main shed collapsed on January 3, leading to the death of 24 persons who had come to attend a funeral.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/31-dilapidated-government-school-buildings-demolished-in-ghaziabad-101614794193217.html
03-03-2021||Noida||Noida traffic police to paint unique numbers on auto-rickshaws for better tracking||From Thursday, the Noida traffic police will begin registering auto-rickshaws for colour codes that will help show its area of operation. Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police, (traffic) Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the district had three zones for auto-rickshaws, Noida, Kasna, and Dadri. An auto-rickshaw registered in Noida, for example, is permitted to ply only within a 16-km radius there. But this rule is frequently breached, he said. “We will provide the auto-rickshaws with a unique serial number that will be painted on the rear of the vehicle in red, green and yellow paints for the regions. This way they can be easily identified, will ensure discipline and also commuters’ safety,” he said. The colour for each region was yet to be decided.Traffic police said when auto-rickshaws breach their limits, it will lead to overcrowding on the roads in these zones.The registration drive will be conducted at Noida Sector 37 and Pari Chowk. Police said that they will verify the credentials of vehicle, its driver and its owner and only then paint the number.“This way we can easily trace the vehicle if a crime takes place in an auto-rickshaw or a commuter forget their valuables in the vehicle,” Saha said.Last week, a 30-year-old Gautam Budh Nagar resident was allegedly raped while she was on her way back from work in Ghaziabad. She had boarded an auto-rickshaw from Lal Kuan, which allegedly drove her to a secluded spot in Hapur instead. Police arrested three suspects in the case.There are around 18,000 autos in Gautam Budh Nagar that ply in Noida, Greater Noida, Dadri, Kasna and Jewar area. Besides, there are also auto-rickshaws permitted to ply in the national capital region (NCR), which police said, will not be included in the colour code scheme.Chaudhury Om Prakash, president Noida Auto Union, said that they were not informed of the exercise. “We support the colour coding exercise, but not the 16-km limitation. A person will need to hire two autos to travel from Noida to Greater Noida and vice versa if this comes into effect. This does not appear practical. Delhi is bigger than Noida/Gautam Budh Nagar but it has a single permit for autos. We also demand a single permit in G B Nagar,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-traffic-police-to-paint-unique-numbers-on-auto-rickshaws-for-better-tracking-101614794192785.html
03-03-2021||Noida||Supertech to raise ₹2,300 crore to deliver 7,000 flats||Realty firm Supertech Limited on Wednesday said it will sell a cumulative 125 acres to raise ₹2,300 crore required to complete at least 7,000 delayed flats this year.The company said it struggled to raise funds with banks not keen on funding the real estate sector.The 125 acres is not a single plot, but several plots spread across Greater Noida, Yamuna Express way, Ghaziabad, Meerut and Rudrarup in Uttar Pradesh, and Gurugram in Haryana. The company said it will carve out smaller residential plots and sell them.“There has been much demand among homebuyers for plots. We hope to raise ₹2,300 crore in selling the land that we have. We will repay ₹1,000 crore loan from banks, clear the ₹300 crore dues with the Greater Noida Authority and use the remaining ₹1,000 crore to finish 7,000 residential units,” said RK Arora, chairman of Supertech Limited.The company has 21 acres in Greater Noida, 19 acres in Yamuna Expressway, six acres in Ghaziabad, around 40 acres in Gurugram and the rest in Meerut and Rudrapur.“We had reserved these lands to be used in future for group housing purposes. But we will carve out plots in view of rising need for the plotted development. We will develop roads, drains, parks and other basic facilities at earliest in areas, where we will offer plots to buyers,” said Arora.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/supertech-to-raise-2-300-crore-to-deliver-7-000-flats-101614794132761.html
03-03-2021||Noida||Noida authority to hold camps for registering flats||In three months, the Noida Authority will hold camps in housing societies to help homeowners register flats that had not been transferred from realtors.It directed realtors to ensure all documents were ready from their end.In Noida, all properties, be it a flat or a plot, are leased for 90 years. The flat is transferred under a tripartite lease-deed between the realtor, buyer and the Noida Authority.According to the authority’s, there are around 20,000 occupied units without the lease-deed. The Uttar Pradesh government on March 1 directed the Noida Authority to execute the lease-deed. The delay had already cost the exchequer, and homeowners who had been living in the units for at least five years did not have title documents.“The authority has directed the realtors to set up the camps at their respective premises. We will provide all support in this regard,” said Rajesh Kumar officer on special duty of the Noida authority.Homeowners will need to ready stamp papers, allotment letter and their Aadhar number.On Wednesday, the authority’s chief executive officer (CEO) Ritu Maheshwari met with officials of eight prominent developers. She asked them to prepare for the camps and also directed them to clear all dues owed to the authority to become eligible to execute the lease-deed.But the confederation of real estate developers association of India (Credai) said the onus was on the authority in this regard.“Developers cannot clear the dues until the Noida authority implements the Supreme Court order that directed it to charge only 8.5% interest on dues. That has not happened so far,” said Prashant Tiwari president of Western UP chapter of Credai and promoter of Prateek Group who had met Maheshwari in the meeting.The Noida authority has appealed in the Supreme Court against its order and the hearing is scheduled for June 6Then there is the issue of stamp fee. The authority, during the meeting, allowed developers to execute a sub-lease if they were not able to clear the dues to it in one go. “We are ready to execute the sub-lease,” said Amit Kumar, executive director of AIMS Max Gardenial Developers Private Limited, who was also part of the meeting with Maheshwari. “But the homeowners do not want to execute it to evade the stamp fee (which is 7% the sale amount). We have requested the authority to issue notices to homeowners so that they come forward to execute the deed.“The authority and the UP government have tried to get the sub-lease deed done in the past too. But the developers do not pay the financial dues delaying the execution of the flats and buyers continue to suffer,” said Abhishek Kumar president of Noida Extension flat owners’ welfare association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-to-hold-camps-for-registering-flats-101614794012772.html
03-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai's CSMT becomes Maharashtra's first green station||Mumbai's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), has become the first railway station in Maharashtra to be awarded the gold certification as per the Confederation of Indian Industry’s Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) ratings.With this, CSMT has become the first railway station across Maharashtra and the western division to receive Green Railway Station Certication.The Environment Directorate of Indian Railways with the support of the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) has developed the Green Railway Stations rating system.Union railway minister Piyush Goyal on Wednesday tweeted,"Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus in Maharashtra is awarded Gold Certification by Indian Green Building Council."The key features of the railway station now includes:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-csmt-becomes-maharashtra-s-first-green-station-101614793410838.html
03-03-2021||Noida||Mercury on rise in Noida, air quality improves||Noida: The air quality of Ghaziabad and Greater Noida on Wednesday improved to ‘moderate’ levels for the first time in the past 24 days, while that of Noida continued to be under the ‘moderate’ category for the third day in row, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). However, Noida saw a rise of three degrees Celsius (°C) in the maximum temperature which settled at 30.8°C on Wednesday against 27.8 °C a day earlier. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the day temperature was 4°C above the season’s average. The minimum temperature for the city was almost similar at 17.9°C against 17.1°C on Tuesday. According to weather analysts, proper ventilation due to the rise in mercury and good wind speed helped in dispersion of the pollutants from the region.According to IMD, the mercury may slightly rise further in the next few days but will oscillate around 14°C as minimum and 30-32°C as maximum for Safdarjung, Delhi, which is also average for NCR. For NCR, as per reading at Safdarjung station, the minimum temperature was recorded at 13.2 degrees Celsius, two degrees higher than the season’s average and the maximum at 30.8 degrees Celsius, four degrees above the season’s average.“The mercury is likely to rise for the next few days until March 7 when the region may see light rains. The wind speed will remain moderate and north-westerly,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.Meanwhile, the air quality of Ghaziabad and Greater Noida improved and entered ‘moderate’ zone after oscillating in-between ‘poor’ to ‘severe’ category since February 7. “The wind speed will remain good though may drop slightly on March 5 and 6 due to an approaching western disturbance. The ventilation will be good,” said Srivastava.According to CPCB, the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Wednesday was 168 against 153 a day earlier, both under ‘moderate’ category. The AQI of Greater Noida improved to 189 against 218 a day earlier, while Ghaziabad recorded an AQI of 198 against 218 a day earlier. An AQI up to 100 is considered ‘good’, between 101 and 200 is ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the air quality is likely to oscillate between ‘satisfactory’ and lower end of ‘poor’.“Surface winds are high but forecasted to slow down by tomorrow. Although day is becoming warmer, AQI is forecasted to marginally deteriorate towards the high end of moderate to lower end of the poor category by tomorrow. But AQI will not stay in poor for a longer time and likely to marginally improve thereafter and forecasted to oscillate between poor and moderate category on March 5 and 6,” said a SAFAR statement on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/mercury-on-rise-in-noida-air-quality-improves-101614793773453.html
03-03-2021||Noida||Three of gang stealing vehicles nabbed, four cars recovered||Noida: A wanted criminal with a bounty of ₹25,000 on him was among three members of a gang nabbed by police on Tuesday night for allegedly stealing cars in the national capital region (NCR). Four stolen vehicles, including a Maruti Brezza and two Honda City cars, were recovered from them, police said.The prime suspect was identified as Wahid Hasan, a Meerut native who had been involved in vehicle thefts since 2005. According to police officials, he is often referred to as ‘doctor’ for his expertise in vehicle thefts. The other suspects were identified as Ankur, who would provide with fake number plates, and Shoaib, who provided the gang with pre-processed SIM cards.The officials said that the three were nabbed from near a liquor shop in Morna, Sector 35.“Wahid had a bounty of ₹25,000 on him announced by Sector 24 police station. He is also wanted by the Delhi Police in at least seven cases. He has more than 50 cases registered against him in Delhi-NCR,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.The officials said that Wahid’s phone number is registered in Saudi Arabia and the gang used internet calling features to avoid getting traced. “He has houses at eight different locations in six districts of Uttar Pradesh and stayed at different places daily. For the first 3-4 years, he stole the cars himself but later trained other members of the gang who stole the vehicles for him. They used to target parked sedans and high-end vehicles. The vehicles were sold to specific people,” said a senior police official.He also said that Wahid kept multiple lawyers on retainership in various districts to handle his legal matters and spent more than ₹1 lakh on advocates per month for this purpose.Police have identified at least four other people associated with the gang, one of whom sold the vehicles outside Uttar Pradesh in states like Rajasthan, Haryana and Bihar. A search is on for the other members of the gang, said police.Ankur ran a shop in Modinagar to make number plates which he provided to the gang, said police. Apart from the four stolen cars, some weapons, several electronic keys, 15 number plates, electronic machines to unlock cars, 29 various car keys, and 34 SIM cards, among others were recovered from the suspects. The trio was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-of-gang-stealing-vehicles-nabbed-four-cars-recovered-101614793772752.html
03-03-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad aims 5,000 daily Covid-19 vaccination to achieve March target||The Ghaziabad district health department said they will vaccinate 5,000 people at government and private centres a day to meet the month’s target of 93,480 vaccinations for phase-3 first-time beneficiaries.“We have identified 25 government health care facilities, including district hospitals, community health centres (CHC) and urban primary health centres (UPHC). The two district hospitals at Sanjay Nagar and Women Hospital have been asked to vaccinate 240 beneficiaries each-a-day, while the CHCs have been asked to cater to 300 each. The UPHC have been asked to vaccinate 200 each while the rest of the government facilities will take up vaccination of 100 beneficiaries each in a day,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.Under phase-3 are people over the age of 60 or those with co-morbidities and 45 years old, as per the Uttar Pradesh government’s programme schedule. The other two phases were health care workers and front line workers, which includes police, paramilitary personnel and district officials. Phase-3, or last phase, will begin on March 4.The Uttar Pradesh government had given each district a target for the month. For Ghaziabad, it was around 25% of the total listed beneficiaries under phase-3.Dr Gupta said that, till Wednesday, 16 private hospitals had come forward to buy the vaccine from the government and more were likely to enrol in the coming days. Overall, 29 of the 33 private hospitals had agreed to participate in the vaccination drive.As per government directions, private hospitals will buy the vaccine from the health department in multiples of 100 doses at a cost of ₹150 for each dose. They will be allowed to charge ₹250 per dose from beneficiaries.“Two private hospitals are likely to vaccinate 300 beneficiaries each daily, while one Vaishali hospital will target 400. The rest will vaccinate 100 each. With this schedule, we will be able to take up vaccination of about 5000 beneficiaries each per day and will be able to achieve the monthly target,” Dr Gupta said.Officials with the health department said that the government told them to meet the target and not exceed it.The officials said that the healthcare workers and the frontline workers who will have their second dose due can come to any of the government centres for free of cost vaccination or can go to private hospitals in case they wish to get paid vaccine.As per directions by the UP government, the district hospitals will operate for six days a week while the other government facilities will operate on Monday, Thursday and Friday. The private hospitals are directed to take vaccination on a minimum of four days in a week.As per district administration figures, of the 23,754 health care workers scheduled to get their first shot of the Covid-19 vaccination till February 25, around 75% turned up since January 16. From February 15, the second dose phase began for them. Till February 26, their turnout had been 87% (10421 of 11964).Of the 18,857 front line workers who were supposed to get their first shot, 10,236 had turned up till February 25. Their second dose phase was yet to begin.The phase-3 beneficiaries were up to a much better start with all 300 beneficiaries getting their first shot on March 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-aims-5-000-daily-covid-19-vaccination-to-achieve-march-target-101614793712742.html
03-03-2021||Pune||Residents demand restrictions on heavy vehicles inside Narhe||The death of the 19-year-old nursing student girl has shocked the residents of Narhe and surrounding areas and demand has been made to ban for ban heavy vehicles on residential roads by local residents. On March 1, a student was crushed under the water tanker in Narhe near Abhinav College Road. The victim is identified as Sakshi Appa Bate (19), a resident of Dhayari. Bate’s friend Ragini Balaji Kankulee (19) who was riding with her suffered minor injuries. “From the last 10 years, the movement of heavy vehicles has increased inside the Narhe area as newly developed residential housing societies and educational institutes have come up here. Daily around hundreds of heavily loaded trucks with construction material and water tankers pass through the narrow roads with considerable speed. There have been several past incidents in which people have died and seriously injured. So now our demand is that some strict implementations should be imposed like restricting heavy vehicles during daytime just like other major roads in the city,” said Prakash Vanjare, a local resident and secretary of Bhushan Pride housing society. Currently, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, colleges and schools are closed in the Pune district, but before lockdown, there was a heavy movement of students across the Narhe area. There are more than 10 small and big educational institutes in this area and over 100 residential housing projects. Most of the students live in private hostels and Paying Guest (PG) facilities, while many snack centres and hotels have come up here to cater to the daily food need of students. Sushant Kute, ex-sarpanch and current member of Narhe gram panchayat said, “We are a developing area and earlier we had appointed security guards at main chowks and points on the road inside the Narhe village to monitor the traffic. Now, as our village is going under the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) jurisdiction things are changing, but that doesn’t mean heavy vehicles will be allowed to speed and kill innocent people on road. We will now hold a meeting of all our gram panchayat members, if from now onwards any heavy vehicle is found speeding on the road, first we will try to create awareness through a dialogue. And if it is found that the same person is committing the same mistake repeatedly, then a police FIR will be lodged against the driver as well as the owner of the vehicle.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/residents-demand-restrictions-on-heavy-vehicles-inside-narhe-101614793053248.html
03-03-2021||Pune||Demand to increase EBC hostels in the state||After colleges in the state reopened on February 15 after almost a year’s gap, students have started coming back to Pune, Mumbai and other major cities to resume offline studies. One of the major issues that students are facing is accommodation, for the students belonging to the economically backward class (EBC) category the state government has given only 11 hostels across the state. Surprisingly, way back in 1973, the then state education department had issued orders to provide hostel facilities to all the EBC students in the state. But until now no new hostels were built or extended by the state government for these students. “Today, thousands of students come to Pune and Mumbai for their education and studies and the majority of the students from rural areas are economically backward. They are from the farmers’ family and cannot afford the heavy fees of private hostels or the rent for a separate home. So, for such students, the state education department had issued a circular in 1973 for building hostels in which it is clearly stated that hostels should be provided with free lodging and boarding to the students,” said Amar Ekad, president of Cops students’ organisation, Maharashtra state. “Detailed information of how these hostels should be, the strength of students and the functioning are given in this order. But in the last so many years none of the educational officers worked on it and gave hostel facilities to EBC students. We are following up on this issue and repeatedly sent official letters to the state education department to start the process of building hostels across the state for EBC students.” he added. In the order issued by the state education department on July 3, 1973, it is stated, “A section for the warden, senior clerk, junior clerk, peon, maidservant, watchman, sweeper, cook, part-time visiting medical officer should be there at the hostel. An amount of ₹60,000 should be sanctioned per annum to per hostel.” Maharashtra director of higher and technical education, Dhanraj Mane said, “The demand raised by students has been forwarded to the higher officials at the education department and accordingly further action will be taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/demand-to-increase-ebc-hostels-in-the-state-101614793052685.html
03-03-2021||Pune||Admissions under RTE begin, registrations open until March 21st||The admissions under the Right to Education (RTE) have begun from Wednesday, according to the school education and sports department. Parents can now register under the RTE until March 21. According to the education department, there are 9,431 schools across Maharashtra with over 96,629 vacant seats in the state. For Pune district, 985 schools have registered under the RTE and there are 14,773 seats available for interested candidates. The education department has urged parents to take part in the admission process to ensure that each child gets a seat. Last year, due to the pandemic, many RTE seats remained vacant and so this year the education department has urged parents to fill the forms. As the process of registration started on Wednesday, parents who filled the form faced a few glitches. Mukund Kirdat, city-based education activist and member of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), said that parents faced technical errors while filling the preferences.“There were some technical glitches. A major issue was that of location. Especially, for Parents filling the form from Warje, they were shown the Aundh region. The education department has made the region in such a way that this has caused inconvenience to many parents. Also, some schools in rural parts are still with the Zilla Parishad (ZP) so the parents are not able to locate these schools on the map while giving their preference,” said Kirdat. While talking about the fewer number of seats under the RTE in Pune district, Kirdat highlighted that each year the number of vacant seats should increase, but the picture is different.“It is because many schools do not register with the education department. The department should declare the names of those who did not register with them. Also, there are a lot of loopholes that schools exploit. The education department should take stern action against these schools,” said Kirdat. Dinkar Temkar, in-charge of RTE Maharashtra said that on day 1, around 12,000 parents have registered under the RTE. “There have been no grievances as of yet where parents have struggled to fill the forms. The vacant seats are less this time as last time also the seats were less. There are fewer admissions at English medium schools already and so there are fewer vacancies this time as well,” said Temkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/admissions-under-rte-begin-registrations-open-until-march-21st-101614792993873.html
03-03-2021||Pune||Bandu Andekar in police custody in attempted murder case||Bandu Andekar, a local gangster in Pune was remanded to the custody of Pune police on Wednesday along with his aides in a case of attempted murder of a 21-year-old and his friends who had a rivalry with Andekar’s gang members, according to the police. The other arrested man was identified as Vrushabh Andekar, a relative of the gangster, and the two have been remanded to police custody until March 6 by a local court, according to police inspector (crime) Harshvardhan Gade of Khadak police station. “The attack on the complainant was ordered by Andekar. We have arrested two so far. We are looking for the others,” said PI Gade. The incident allegedly happened on the night of February 21 when Andekar’s aides allegedly chased the complainant Onkar Kudale (21), a resident of Dhankawadi area of Pune, and one of his friends over a long-standing rivalry that Kudale had with Andekar’s gang members. One of Kudale’s friends has spent time in jail for the attempted murder of Andekar’s gang members, according to his complaint. The rivalry has also resulted in a firing incident in Kondhwa. On the night of February 21, as the complainant and his friend were leaving from his parents’ house in Bamboo Ali in the Ganeshpeth area, Vrushabh Andekar, a relative of Bandu Andekar, arrived there along with Suraj Ashok Vadu, Swaraj Vadekar, Aditya Ukrande and five to six unidentified people. The group attacked the complainant and his friend with sharp weapons in hand and chased them. The two then found a stack of bamboos and hit behind it while their attackers swung their weapons in the air and terrorised the people in the area where the two were hiding. The complainant and his friend were allegedly scared of registering a complaint but eventually lodged one on Tuesday and a case was registered. A case under Section 307, 143, 147, 148, 149, 506(2), 109, 507 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 37(1) with135 of the Maharashtra Police Act and Section 7 of the Criminal Law Amendment Act was registered at Khadak police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bandu-andekar-in-police-custody-in-attempted-murder-case-101614792993343.html
03-03-2021||Pune||Fake toll racket: Seven arrested for issuing fake receipts, siphoning crores||Five contractors were among 11 toll plaza workers booked by Pune rural police for printing fake toll plaza receipts and siphoning money to the tune of ₹3 crore over the past few months, according to Abhinav Deshmukh, superintendent of Pune rural police. He was speaking about the arrest of 7 of the 11 accused in the case on Wednesday. The arrested men were identified as Suresh Prakash Gangawane (25), Akshay Tanaji Sanas (22), Shubham Sitaram Dolare (19), Sai Ladurao Sutar (25), Ajay Kashinath Chavan (19), Sanket Jaiwant Gaikwad (22), and Amol Dhanaji Konde (36), according to the police. They have been remanded to police custody while the police are looking for other accused. Among the arrested, Konde is a contractor while the others are employees at a lower level. Along with Konde, the four other contractors were identified as Vikas Anna Shinde, Manoj alias Dada Dalvi, Satish Margaje, Hemant Bathe, according to SP Deshmukh. The method of cheating was detected on two toll plazas - Khed Shivapur and Anewadi. While an overall audit report of Anewadi toll plaza is awaited, an audited transaction detail report for February 24 at Khed Shivapur toll plaza revealed that 2,000 fake receipts for a total of ₹3, 80,000 toll amount were issued on that day alone. The police therefore suspect that the siphoning began in the last week of December 2020 and so far, toll receipts worth ₹2,28,00,000 have been issued at Khed Shivapur toll plaza. “They used a laptop and normal printer to print these receipts. The set up was probably at the toll plazas. A daily audit is also done on these tolls. We got complaints from drivers that the receipts issued every time they pass are varying in size and font and other specifications. So, we started investigation in it. We are awaiting an audit report from Anewadi,” said SP Deshmukh. A case under Section 420, 467, 468, 471, 408, and 34 of Indian Penal Code is registered at Rajgad police station of Pune rural police. More accused maybe included in the case at a later stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fake-toll-racket-seven-arrested-for-issuing-fake-receipts-siphoning-crores-101614792992732.html
03-03-2021||Pune||Nilesh Ghaywal detained, Pune rural police may re-open cases in which he was acquitted||The Pune rural police are planning to appeal for reopening of at least two cases in which Nilesh Bansilal Ghaywal (44) was acquitted, according to Pune rural police superintendent Abhinav Deshmukh. A recommendation for preventive action against Ghaywal was made to the district collector of Pune and was later approved, according to a statement issued by the rural police. SP Deshmukh was speaking during a press conference called to announce the detention of the gangster from Sant Dnyaneshwar colony in Shastrinagar area of Kothrud, Pune. “We are looking to see if the cases against him can be reopened if new evidence comes forth. We are looking into grounds for appeal if we find the evidence,” said SP Deshmukh. Ghaywal, who was detained under the Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities (MPDA) Act, was sent into detention at the Yerawada central jail. He was externed from Pune in December 2020 and was booked in at least 12 cases of which he was acquitted in eight cases, according to Pune rural police. Ghaywal is a known rival of Gajanan Marne, another gangster from Kothurd area who was recently released from Taloja jail after being acquitted in two murder cases registered against him in November 2014 after two aides of Ghaywal were killed in Pune. A gang war had ensued in the city at the time. The two committed organised crimes and have been booked in several cases between 2000 and 2003. After their falling out, two rival gangs were formed and with building tension, Marne had tried to kill Ghaywal in 2009, according to the police. Ghaywal is booked in various types of cases like murder, attempted murder, dacoit, extortion by kidnapping and is facing action under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA). He was lodged in Yerawada central jail between 2017 and 2020 and was externed from Pune within months after his release. Based on guidelines issued by Manoj Lohiya, special inspector general of Kolhapur range of Maharashtra Police, SP Deshmukh has externed 74 people from 17 gangs in order to prevent a rise in the number of people involved in gangs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nilesh-ghaywal-detained-pune-rural-police-may-re-open-cases-in-which-he-was-acquitted-101614792933978.html
03-03-2021||Pune||Open inquiry into Jal Yukta Shivar receives poor response from complainants||The four-member panel set up by Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government during December last year to probe alleged irregularities in Jal Yukta Shivar scheme has received only four complaints from Pune, prompting BJP to claim that inquiry is driven by politics. During the open inquiry session in Pune on Tuesday, only four complaints were presented before the panel, which has now decided to hold another round of hearing on March 5. The Pune district had witnessed over 22,500 small and medium works related to water conservation under Jal Yukta Shivar. The panel received complaints pertaining to inferior work or faulty design as well as the difference between work proposed on paper and the one carried out on the ground. Balasaheb Chaudhary who had collectively filed multiple complaints from Purandar tehsil said that many complaints were about irregularities in the works such as the proposed size of bundhara (channel) differing with actual size on the ground. There were also complaints about the faulty construction of bundhara. Instead of getting stored into it, water slipped from the bundhara. Anil Shaymrao Kadam, who raised complaints related to work from Bhor and Velhe tehsil alleged that most expenses were made on making Continuous Contour Trenches (CCT) while the quality of the work was compromised. He said most parts of bundharas were broken, while another complaint was about improper outlets disproportionate to the storage capacity. BJP claimed that the MVA government has been exposed after ordering an inquiry with a political motive. “The government ordered probe for good work keeping in mind the vendetta. The open inquiry has exposed the government as only four complaints were received,” said BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye. Jal Yukta Shivar was a flagship project by the previous Devendra Fadnavis regime which spent ₹9,634 crore to ensure water conservation in various districts of Maharashtra. During the last days of the government, there were allegations of irregularities in various districts including Pune’s Purandar. Following the adverse observations made by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) in its report pointing at some irregularities, the government set up a four-member committee chaired by former additional secretary Vijay Kumar to conduct an open inquiry into the alleged irregularities. Vijay Kumar said, “The complainants wanted some time to bring evidence. I will give the complainants a chance to produce the evidence.” When asked about the overall response across the state, Vijay Kumar said, “This is something that is in the process. I am not interested in going into details as of now. After I get satisfactory details, I will speak again.” According to district agriculture superintendent Dnyaneshwar Bote, some complainants claimed that they did not get enough time to get proper information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/open-inquiry-into-jal-yukta-shivar-receives-poor-response-from-complainants-101614792932749.html
03-03-2021||Pune||Two fire incidents reported in Pune within 12 hours, no casualties||Two fire incidents were recorded from Pune in one day within hours of each other on Wednesday. While one was reported in the early morning hours from central Pune, one was reported roughly 12 hours after it from the southern part of the city. In the Rasta peth area of Pune, a fire broke out near Madrasi Ganapati temple around 3 am on Tuesday. While there were no casualties reported, three houses, a couple of two-wheelers, and a car were gutted in the fire. The fire department rushed six fire tenders to the spot and doused the fire after an hour-long operation. In another incident reported from Bibvewadi in Pune, a fire was reported from a factory of decoration material production. The fire department rushed six fire tenders on this spot as well. The fire officials are checking if there were any workers inside the factory during the incident. “So far we do not have reports of any casualties that were reported from either of the incidents,” said an official of the fire department control room. A huge smoke billowed from the factory, as per the visuals, possibly due to the plastic material that was in the factory for making decoration material, according to another officer of the control room.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-fire-incidents-reported-in-pune-within-12-hours-no-casualties-101614792933324.html
03-03-2021||Pune||PMC: 578 students dropped out of school in a year||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has found that in the last one year, 578 students from PMC have dropped out of school. The number goes as high as 4,279 for the entire Pune district as revealed by the Zilla Parishad (ZP) education department.Suresh Jagtap, additional commissioner with the PMC said that there are 578 students as of now who were identified from five areas in the city.“The survey was done at Aundh, Hadapsar, Pune city, Bibwewadi and Yerwada. The school’s teachers have conducted the survey in these areas. Some of the areas where the Covid cases are high, the teachers have not visited there yet. More areas will be surveyed in the coming days to estimate the number of students who have dropped out of school,” said Jagtap.The complete survey will be finished by March 10.“After the survey, as per the directives of the state government, we will try to include these students back in formal education,” said Jagtap.Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO), said that over 4,279 students were identified by the department who were out of schools due to various reasons.“There are a few students who didn’t attend school full time. We are on this campaign to identify students from the last one month. Our teachers and anganwadi workers have visited every family in the area to get them to go to schools. We were focusing on child labour and areas like brick lanes and other places. The state government has taken up this program state wise,” said Prasad.He further added that the ZP is doing a resurvey of some places wherein some students have not been tracked.“We are visiting dhabas where they are chances to find more children who can be involved in child labour. We have identified such hotspots. We have enrolled most of the students who were out of school. There are some students who are enrolled anywhere in anganwadi or preschool. We are also tracking them and counselling the parents,” said Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-578-students-dropped-out-of-school-in-a-year-101614792872702.html
03-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 240 new Covid-19 cases and 3 deaths, infection tally nears 640,000||Delhi on Wednesday recorded 240 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a day after 217 new infections were detected in the city, taking its infection tally to 639,921, according to the latest health bulletin issued by the Delhi government. This is the second time in two days that there has been a spike of over 200 new cases in Delhi, after 197 and 175 infections were recorded on February 28 and March 1 respectively.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThere were 196 fresh recoveries from the viral disease in the capital city, taking total recoveries to 627,423 or 98.04% of the infection tally, the bulletin showed. The virus claimed three more lives, as the death toll rose to 10,914 or 1.70% of total cases, according to the bulletin. On Tuesday, there was no death in Delhi due to Covid-19.Active cases, meanwhile, reached 1,584, up from 1,543 a day ago, and are 0.24% of the overall tally. The capital’s latest positive cases were from 68,831 samples tested for coronavirus, a positivity rate of nearly 35%; the 175 infections recorded on Monday were from 39,733 tests or a positivity rate of 0.44%, the highest here since January 15.Also Read | Test positivity rate highest in 45 days; Delhi adds 175 Covid-19 casesThe bulletin puts total tests for coronavirus in Delhi at 12,555,887, including those from Wednesday, when, it showed, 44,886 RT-PCR and 23,945 rapid antigen tests were conducted.In the last 10 days, beginning Feb 22, and including latest figures, Delhi has recorded 200 or more daily Covid-19 cases on six days, between Feb 24-27 and then on March 2 and 3. On Feb 22, 23 and 28, and March 1, there were less than 200 new infections, including 128 and 145 on the former two days, respectively. The number of daily deaths has been below five throughout this period.Also Read | Average 200 daily new Covid-19 cases in Delhi amid spike in Maharashtra, KeralaDelhi has managed to avoid the resurgence in the pandemic that the state of Maharashtra has witnessed. The western state, whose tally of nearly 2.18 million cases is the highest in the country by a long way, saw 9,855 new infections and 42 related deaths on Wednesday. Its death toll is at 52,280.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-240-new-covid-19-cases-and-3-deaths-infection-tally-nears-640000-101614791041196.html
03-03-2021||Delhi||After losing lone seat, BJP downplays performance in Delhi local body polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party which on Wednesday said that the outcome after the Gujarat local body polls is a manifestation that farmers have voted for reforms brought in by the Union government by way of implementing the new farm laws downplayed the party‘s performance in the Delhi local body elections where it failed to retain its lone seat.In the by-elections to the Municipal Corporation of Delhi, the Aam Aadmi Party won four of the five seats. It also won the Shalimar Bagh North constituency which was earlier held by the BJP.Though Delhi unit president Adesh Gupta said the party will introspect and work to remove the shortcomings, the central leadership declined to comment on the party’s dismal performance.Union minister Prakash Javadekar, who referred to the BJP’s performance in Gujarat as an illustration of people’s faith in the BJP-led NDA government, declined to comment on the Delhi performance.Referring to Gujarat he said, “It is a feat for any political party to remain in power for so long. The Congress has been wiped out.”The BJP won a clear majority in all 31 districts of the Panchayat as well as 196 out of 231 taluka panchayats and 70 out of 81 municipalities. “These results mean that people voted for development and that farmers are with the reforms,” he said.Referring to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi‘s speech in Assam he said, “He had tried to defame Gujarat and targeted Gujarati traders (for low wages of tea workers in the state)...People rejected his negative campaign.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-losing-lone-seat-bjp-downplays-performance-in-delhi-local-body-polls-101614789887933.html
03-03-2021||Delhi||Court reunites man with his two dogs, says ‘unjustified to deprive of companionship’||A Delhi court has handed back the custody of two golden retriever dogs to their owner saying it would be “unjustified to deprive him of the companionship and custody of his pets”, which were taken away by an NGO and the city police alleging that the animals were being mistreated by their owner.Additional sessions judge Anil Antil passed the order after taking note of a police report about the maintenance of the dogs, Luv and Kush, at their owner’s place on Feroz Shah Road, and their veterinary doctor’s opinion.The judge, however, directed the dogs’ owner and businessman Anand Kumar Mohatta to produce both canines before the court and the police as and when required during the ongoing proceedings. The court passed the directions on a revision petition by Mohatta, against an order of a magisterial court refusing the owner the custody of the dogs. The dogs were taken away on January 30 by the NGO People for Animals, which accused Mohatta of animal cruelty.The NGO said at the time of inspection, the dogs were found to be suffering from high fever with swollen eyes, and later on, after a thorough examination by a veterinary doctor, both pets were found to be suffering from Parvo virus. The NGO claimed that the dogs were left unattended for a long time and their well-being was not being taken care of by Mohatta. The allegations were refuted by Mohatta who said he was taking proper care of both pets and was administering them due medication after regular visits to the veterinarian.Mohatta’s advocate said the dogs were administered the vaccinations as per the standards prescribed.In the status reply filed by the Delhi Police, the court also noted that the premises from where the dogs were taken had a separate 400 square feet room for the pets.Mohatta had also employed a servant to look after both the dogs, the court notedThe court also took note of the ownership certificate, vaccination certificate and medical certificate of the dogs. The vet endorsed the submissions made by advocate Rana and medical documents produced on record regarding the administration of vaccine for Parvo virus, which the pets were found to be suffering from.“In these facts and circumstances and taking note of the medical record, it would be unjustified to deprive the revisionist (Mohatta) of companionship and custody of his pets and therefore, in my considered opinion, in the interest of justice, the custody of the two pets, namely Luv and Kush, be handed over to revisionist,” the judge said in the order passed on February 25.Both pets were released on a bond of ₹40,000 each.The court asked Mohatta to file the specific report about their health and medical status report issued by their veterinary doctor twice in a month before the court, which is conducting the proceedings for alleged cruelty until the case is disposed of..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/court-reunites-man-with-his-two-dogs-says-unjustified-to-deprive-of-companionship-101614789752578.html
03-03-2021||Other||PMC open to Rs900 crore loan to ensure cancer hospital built before civic polls||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation is planning to ensure it builds and hosts a cancer hospital, much like the cancer treatment centre the Tata Trust runs in Mumbai. Global healthcare provider, VAMED, has shown an interest in being involved in the project. Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “We already had a dialogue with VAMED and have written communication with them. We will either carry an expression of interest, or take a Rs900 crore loan to erect the cancer and urology hospital.” Rasne added, “This cancer hospital will be our flagship programme and will definitely be launched before the upcoming municipal elections. As per my estimate, by coming August, the project will be streamlined.” A top PMC official on condition of anonymity said, “PMC has identified land for the proposed hospital either at Baner or Warje. The plot will be at least 10,000 square feet. Either PMC will call for an expression of interest and ask the concerned organisation to give a proposal, or then the PMC prefers a soft loan for this project.” VAMED is a global provider for hospitals and other facilities in the healthcare sector. The VAMED portfolio ranges from project development, planning and turnkey construction, to total facility management of healthcare facilities. With its range of services, VAMED covers all areas of healthcare, from prevention and wellness, to acute care, rehabilitation and nursing. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party plans to name the hospital after social reformer Nanaji Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-open-to-rs900-crore-loan-to-ensure-cancer-hospital-built-before-civic-polls-101614787052562.html
03-03-2021||Other||1,696 new Covid-19 cases in Pune district on Wednesday||PUNE Pune district, on Wednesday, reported 1,696 new Covid-19 cases, as per the state health department. This takes the district’s progressive count to 4,13,000, of which 3,89,000 have recovered and 16,491 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals, or in home isolation. The death toll stands at 8,119, with four new deaths due to the infection reported in the district on Wednesday. Pune city reported 857 new cases which took its count to 2,11,256. One death reported on Wednesday put the death toll at 4,579. PCMC reported 461 new cases which took its count to 1,03,237, with one death reported on Wednesday, putting the death toll at 1,334. Pune rural reported 378 new cases which took the count to 99,129. Two new deaths reported on Wednesday put the death toll at 2,157. Also, 6,559 patients were discharged on Wednesday, which took the discharged count to 20,43,000. The recovery rate in the state is 93.77%. Also, 9,855 new cases were reported in the state on Wednesday, which took the progressive count to 21,79,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1696-new-covid-19-cases-in-pune-district-on-wednesday-101614786452377.html
03-03-2021||Other||PMC waits on govt clearance for proposed list of 13 non-empanelled pvt hospitals as vaccination centres||UNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has proposed a list of 13 non-empanelled private hospitals, each with a capacity of at least 200 beds, to carry out Covid vaccination, if the central government permits the same. While Mumbai has already begun vaccination at 29 such hospitals, Pune, with the highest active cases in the state, is yet to get an approval for the proposal, sent on Wednesday. These private hospitals are not empanelled with the PMJAY, CGHS or the State Health Insurance (MPJAY), but have shown a willingness to be a part of the vaccination drive, after being duly assessed by the local authorities. Prior to kick-starting phase two of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive, the central government had said that only those private hospitals which are empanelled with the government schemes would be able to vaccinate eligible beneficiaries - senior citizens and those aged between 45-59 with specified comorbidities; at a cost of ₹250 per dose.However, to counter the rush, the civic body has sent a proposal of more hospitals to be vaccination sites. Additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “We have sent a proposal of 13 non-empanelled private hospitals who have shown a willingness to vaccinate beneficiaries and have more than 200 beds. Hopefully, we will get a response by Thursday morning. We have also received applications from 24 more such hospitals which have about 199-100 beds. After discussion with the government we will send forward the proposal. We will also increase timings at Naidu hospital from 9 am to 10 pm now, as we have seen a huge response from beneficiaries.”On Wednesday, PMC increased its vaccination sites from eight to 31, which also included three empanelled hospitals - Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital, Aundh Institute of Medical Science, and Inlaks and Budhrani hospital, Koregaon park. Agarwal said, “On March 1 we had four locations, on March 2, eight locations and then on March 3, we now have 31 locations. We will increase vaccination sites to more than 100 in the coming days. I request all eligible beneficiaries to register online and come as per appointment.”On Wednesday, of the 2,700 target beneficiaries, 2,504 got the vaccine, which is a 93% success rate. Of these 2,504 beneficiaries, 1,378 senior citizens, and 148, aged between 45-59 years, with co-morbidities got the Covid-19 vaccine. Until Wednesday, totally, 1,38,869 beneficiaries have got the vaccine, of which 79,497 healthcare workers got their first dose and 15,451 got their second dose.A total of 39,668 frontline workers; 166 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 with comorbidities, and 4,087 senior citizens have been vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-waits-on-govt-clearance-for-proposed-list-of-13-non-empanelled-pvt-hospitals-as-vaccination-centres-101614785192411.html
03-03-2021||Jaipur||BJP leader apologises to Speaker for member's behaviour in Rajasthan Assembly||BJP legislators on Wednesday participated in proceedings of the Rajasthan Assembly after Deputy Leader of Opposition apologised for the behaviour of former minister Vasudev Devnani. Devnani had entered the well of the House on Monday, raising the issue of ABVP workers being allegedly beaten up during a dharna in Jaipur following which Speaker CP Joshi had passed a resolution to bar him from House proceedings for the day and further until he apologises for his behaviour. As soon as the House resumed, Deputy Leader of Opposition Rajendra Rathore said, "We apologise if the Chair was hurt. We want the House to function. Devnani entered the well in anger, which was not right. If the Chair will not protect us then where will we go."Speaker Joshi said the behaviour of Devnani was wrong. He was raising issue when the Chair was giving ruling. This sets a wrong tradition and senior legislators should have objected to such behaviour. Following this, the Question Hour resumed. On Monday, BJP members had boycotted the House proceedings after the Speaker had passed a resolution to bar Devnani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/bjp-leader-apologises-to-speaker-for-member-s-behaviour-in-rajasthan-assembly-101614782597704.html
03-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports fresh spike of 9,855 Covid-19 cases, highest in over 4 months||With 9,855 new cases in the last 24 hours, Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally went up to 2,179,185 on Wednesday, according to figures released by the state health department. This is the highest single-day jump since October 17 last year. Of the total new cases, 1,121 came from Mumbai. The western state’s positivity rate has climbed to 13.2 per cent.The toll from the viral disease has gone up to 52,280 with 42 deaths reported since Tuesday, pushing the state’s cases fatality rate to 2.40 per cent. Of these, 11,487 people died of the coronavirus disease in Mumbai. Maharashtra has reported a total of 2,043,349 recoveries from the infection and the state’s recovery rate stands at 93.77 per cent.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here As many as 857 new cases were detected in Pune municipal limits, taking the tally to 2,11,256 while in Nagpur, Nashik, Aurangabad and Amravati municipal corporation areas 924, 593, 449 and 483 new Covid-19 cases were reported respectively.According to Maharashtra health ministry’s dashboard, a total of 3,60,500 people are in home quarantine while 3,701 are undergoing institutional quarantine in the state.As cases in Maharashtra are rising by the day, several other states have made it mandatory for travellers from there to carry a negative Covid-19 report. The state authorities have also ordered a lockdown in districts contributing to record numbers. While Amravati is under a complete lockdown, night curfew or weekend lockdown has been imposed in some other districts.Earlier in the day, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) announced that Maharashtrians coming from Brazil will have to mandatorily undergo seven days of quarantine, irrespective of whether they have a Covid-19 negative report or not. On testing negative, passengers will be allowed to go home and stay in home quarantine. However, if they test Covid-19 positive after seven days, they will be admitted at GT Hospital or at three listed private hospitals in Mumbai.Till now passengers coming from the United Kingdom, Europe, South Africa and Middle East were following this directive.As cases in the state began to witness an upward trend since last month, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had warned of another lockdown if people fail to abide by Covid-19 norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/with-9-855-new-cases-of-covid-19-maharashtra-records-another-surge-daily-caseload-rises-in-mumbai-to-1121-101614784018380.html
03-03-2021||Mumbai||BMC orders mandatory 7-day institutional quarantine for travellers from Brazil||The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) announced on Wednesday that passengers arriving at the Mumbai international airport from Brazil would have to undergo a compulsory seven-day institutional (hotel) quarantine even if their pre-boarding Covid certificates were negative. This will apply only on passengers belonging to Maharashtra.The rule will also apply to those Maharashtrians who are transiting via flights originating in Brazil, according to the BMC circular.The designated hotels have been asked to follow SOPs of quarantine guidelines. The travellers would not be allowed to venture outside the hotel premises and necessary precautions would be taken within as well.Passengers from other states who might be taking connecting flights after arrival in Mumbai will be allowed to board their planes only if their RT-PCR test report comes negative at the airport testing. The information regarding such passengers will be sent to the respective states.The seven-day quarantine measure is currently being followed for passengers coming from the UK, South Africa and Middle East.If a passenger tests positive or is symptomatic on arrival or after the test on the last day of quarantine, they would be shifted to the isolation facility at the Seven Hills Hospital if they were travelling from the UK.Those travelling from the Middle East, South Africa or Brazil would be shifted to the GT Hospital or designated private hospitals (Bombay, Raheja, Hinduja and Reliance hospitals) as per their choice.If the travellers test negative on day seven, they would be discharged from institutional quarantine and be sent for another seven days of mandatory home quarantine with the stamp and undertaking that they would abide by home quarantine rules and be followed up by the Medical Officers of Health (MOsH) team regularly during that period. The contacts of those who test positive during home quarantine would be followed up and isolated as per previous guidelines.The institutional quarantine measures, however, are to be exempted for embassy officials.The BMC order also read that as per the previous circulars (dated December 21, 2020 and December 27, 2020) all passengers that arrived from the Middle East, UK, and South Africa were being kept under surveillance and tested on day seven and as per the Guidelines for International Arrivals dated February 17, 2021, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had included Brazil in the list of countries under quarantine rules over fears of the coronavirus variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-announces-mandatory-7-day-institutional-quarantine-for-travelers-from-brazil-101614782296661.html
03-03-2021||Other||Crowding at hospitals raises risk of infection for vaccine beneficiaries||PUNE For the past two days, eligible beneficiaries under phase two of the Covid vaccination drive have recalled horrors of having to wait for hours to get the jab. Social distancing has gone for a toss in government hospitals.Beneficiaries crowd the hospitals to get the jab and some senior citizens have gone three days without getting vaccinated yet.The administration is now appealing to citizens to avoid crowding the Covid vaccination sites, many of which are hospitals with Covid-19 patients, adding to the risk of infection. Siddharth Shirole, BJP MLA from Pune’s Shivajinagar constituency said, “I request all Punekars to be patient and not to approach vaccination centres without a scheduled appointment slot. Crowding of senior citizens & at-risk patients at the centres is counterproductive & is creating a high-infection zone. I also understand that there are several errors in listing addresses of the centres, including incorrect pin codes & incomplete locations. It will be updated & rectified soon.” Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “The technical glitches are not from our end and we are working on it. We would not like to encourage more walk-in vaccinations, as it would be better for crowd management and also for people’s own safety that they register first, get an appointment, and then come to the hospital. We are increasing the sites just for this reason.”While vaccination went on smoothly at some centres, including Naidu hospital, Sassoon hospital, Sutar hospital and the Janata Vasahat clinic, other centres still saw technical glitches. For example, at the Bhangire hospital run by the PMC, registrations are being accepted but vaccinations have not yet started. Senior citizens are especially finding it difficult to get registered on the CoWin app. Madhukar Joshi, a senior citizen from Katraj, said, “When I entered my Aadhar details to register my name, it did not happen. When I put in the PAN details, it showed that the beneficiary was already registered.”Dhairyasheel Vandekar visited PMC’s Naidu hospital and had a pleasant experience. He said, “The doctors and staff were extremely courteous and attentive and made the experience very pleasant. With all the challenges, PMC is doing a good job vaccinating the citizens. I got the jab through advance registration, but it was not easy. I was continuously trying for two days with all the hospitals on the website and was lucky to get a slot for Wednesday afternoon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/crowding-at-hospitals-raises-risk-of-infection-for-vaccine-beneficiaries-101614782792469.html
03-03-2021||Other||PCB to attach properties of tax defaulters from March 5||PUNE The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has released a list of names of property tax defaulters asking for arrears to be paid at the earliest, failing which, the board will not hesitate to attach the properties. The total property tax expected to be recovered from the 250 defaulters is Rs19 crore, plus ₹3 crore in outstanding arrears.The PCB expects to earn Rs40 crore from 12,200 properties situated across the Cantonment area, and has recovered only Rs18 crore till date. The names of several prominent organisations, real estate developers and business establishments, figure in the list of defaulters.PCB chief executive officer (CEO), Amit Kumar, said, “We have released the names and addresses of the property tax defaulters and directed them to immediately pay their property tax dues to the Cantonment board. Property tax arrears are for different periods and have been assessed by our officials. Strict action will be taken if the arrears are not paid by the concerned parties. We will begin the process to attach properties from March 5.” Former PCB president Vinod Mathurawala, said, “Tax defaulters must pay up their dues, even in instalments, as is the mandatory procedure. The PCB is already suffering from a shortage of funds and citizens must pay up in the larger interests of the Cantonment area.” The cash-strapped PCB is facing a severe shortage of revenue generation from three categories, comprising property tax, vehicle entry tax (VET) and pay-and-park scheme.The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) reported a loss of ₹11.52 crore in revenue during the lockdown of 2020.PCB generated a revenue shortfall of ₹5 crore in its VET collection from April to June, 2020. Development projects estimated to be worth ₹200 crore have been hit hard, as the PCB has not received its share of goods and service tax (GST) funds from the state government, since July 2017.Crisis warningOn September 7, 2019, the then PCB president Major General Navneet Kumar, General-Officer-Commanding (GOC), south Maharashtra and Goa sub-area, addressed a press conference at Southern Command HQ and said that the board was going through a financial crisis which had taken a heavy toll on developmental projects.According to him, the crisis has been further aggravated by the non-payment of ₹150 crore by the state government to PCB as local body tax arrears, ever since the revised goods and services tax (GST) became operational in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pcb-to-attach-properties-of-tax-defaulters-from-march-5-101614780512181.html
03-03-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka launches engineering research and development policy||The Karnataka government on Tuesday launched the ‘Karnataka Engineering Research & Development (Engineering R&D) Policy 2021’ as a measure to leverage the sector’s potential, create jobs and improve the state’s contribution in the space through strategic interventions and bridging the gap between academia and industry. Bengaluru accounts for 34% of all the multinational corporations (MNC) in the country and nearly 50% of the fortune 500 companies have a presence in India’s IT capital.“The ER&D sector in the country is the fastest growing industry with a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 12.8%. Meanwhile, the global Engineering Research and Development industry is expected to reach spending of $2 trillion by 2025. Considering this scenario, this policy aims to prepare the state to make use of the future opportunities emanating from this sector,” said CN Ashwatha Narayana, Karnataka’s deputy chief minister and in-charge of IT/BT, science and technology portfolios.The launch of the policy comes at a time when the BS Yediyurappa-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government has been unable to announce any mass-based schemes in the state due to the severe fund-crunch on account of revenue shortfalls from the Centre. The new policy envisages creation of an additional 50,000 jobs.“(The) Government of Karnataka seeks to integrate the state’s Engineering R&D ecosystem and further strengthen its overall value proposition, to champion India’s Engineering R&D growth trajectory.” according to the policy document.Kris Gopalakrishnan, co-founder of Infosys and chairman of Karnataka’s vision group on IT, said that Karnataka’s journey in research and development began in the early 1980s when Texas Instruments set up an office in what would eventually become India’s IT capital. “This is what started the IT revolution, R&D, remote software development,” he said.Around 1.6 lakh students were allotted engineering ranks in Karnataka, according to government data. There are at least 222 engineering colleges in the state, including 1,176 private institutions, 265 polytechnics and 12 junior technical schools, according to government data.But a significant number of students are not employable due to several reasons, including ineffective communication and technical skills, access to large companies. Gopalakrishnan said that such a policy would help bridge the gap between engineering talent and the industry.The policy will also support industrial application of academic research, spend ₹10,000 per student on training and certification as provide grants to universities to set up laboratories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-launches-engineering-research-and-development-policy-101614779186648.html
03-03-2021||Bangalore||51% vaccination on Day 2, technical glitches persist in Bengaluru||The second day of Covid-19 vaccination for senior citizens and those aged above 45 with comorbidities, on Tuesday, was marred by technical glitches on the CoWIN portal. According to data released by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), 2,153 senior citizens and comorbid patients were administered the vaccine. With the BBMP keeping 4,200 shots as the target, 51 % of the targeted vaccine shots were administered, as compared to Monday’s 22 %.Meanwhile, 9,197 senior citizens and comorbid patients were administered the vaccine across the state.In some hospitals in the city, the Co-WIN portal did not work on Tuesday morning.“The slow server speed at several locations slowed down the vaccination process in many centres,” said a senior BBMP official.Even those who wanted to register for the vaccine faced problems with the portal. Several complaints were raised about the server being down while users trying to register. “Whenever we tried to access the portal, it showed the server was down. Another person known to me, said that even though she was able to access the portal, there were no time or date slots available in the hospital,” said Sanjiv Patil, a 68-year-old resident of Indira Nagar in east Bengaluru.In some cases, people were able to register for the vaccination but did not get a confirmation for the same, a BBMP official added. He added that due to glitches in the portal, many who registered online could not get the vaccine as their details did not appear in the BBMP’s list.BBMP commissioner N Manjunath Prasad told Hindustan Times that a meeting was held with the health department over these issues. “In the morning meeting, we told them about the glitches we are facing, and they have promised to take it up with the government and get it rectified. But even today (Tuesday), these glitches continue,” he said.According to reports on social media, some temples, a government school and Bangalore One Centre were listed as vaccination centres even though BBMP has not designated any such places.Following the vaccination drive on Monday, BBMP had listed out a number of problems in the portal such as list of beneficiaries not being visible in vaccinator module, vaccinators unable to record a list of beneficiaries administered the dose, scheduling vaccination sessions creating confusion, among other technical problems with Co-WIN portal.Karnataka Governor Vajubhai Vala, state minister K S Eshwarappa and Wipro founder chairman Azim Premji were among those who received the vaccine in the state on day two of the inoculation drive on Tuesday.There were no instances of adverse event following immunisation (AEFI), the health department said in a release.Governor Vala received the vaccine shot at the K C General Hospital at Malleswaram.A press communique issued by the Raj Bhavan said Vala appealed to all eligible people to take the vaccine and make the country Covid-19 free.He also lauded the doctors and scientists who worked in a short time to fight against the virus.Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister Eshwarappa took the vaccine at Shivamogga Ayurveda College and later posted a photograph on his Twitter handle.Wipro founder Azim Premji took the shot at Narayana Health City, according the hospital sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/51-vaccination-on-day-2-technical-glitches-persist-in-bengaluru-101614778852920.html
03-03-2021||Bangalore||Once a source of drinking water, Bengaluru river now filled with froth, stench||A river that once provided drinking water for villages outside Bengaluru city is now often mistaken for a sewage drain. The water is now unfit for drinking and the unchecked flow of industrial pollutants and domestic sewage and tons of plastic dumped in the river has made it difficult for the people to approach the river because of the froth and stench.The 57-km-long Vrishabhavathi river used to be a picnic spot in the late 1960s. Thanks to the pollution, the only river that originates from Bengaluru city now has an alternative name – the Kengeri Mori (Gutter of Kengeri).Experts say the decay of the river has an impact on Bengaluru’s ecosystem that goes beyond the froth and stench it generates; it could affect the quality of groundwater in the areas that it passes through. Farmers in the outskirts of the city use this water for the cultivation of vegetables that end up on the dining tables of the city’s residents.The degradation of the river began around 50 years ago when industrial areas began cropping up along the catchment areas of the river – in Peenya, Yeshwanthpura, Kumbalagou and so on. Over the years, industrial effluents polluted the river but in recent times, the big pollutant has been domestic sewage.“In terms of volume, domestic sewage contributes to the bulk of the pollution. Most households in Bengaluru don’t connect their sewage to the lines provided by the civic authorities. These (sewage) lines are meant to take the domestic affluents to a treatment centre. But the people connect their sewage to stormwater drains, which eventually take it to the river,” said Dr Sharachchandra Lele, a distinguished fellow at the Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment.Lele, however, added that industrial pollutants too pose a serious problem because most of the effluents let into the river are not biodegradable.The pollution has changed the nature of the river as well. In the early days, Vrishabhavathi was a seasonal river, flowing only during the monsoons.“Now it has been a perennial river, just that the main water body in the river is Bangalore’s sewage. At least for 6-9 months, what flows in the river is primarily sewage and it is around 500-600 million litres per day,” Lele added.Has there been any plan to revive this river? Experts say no. “It has to be a sustained, systemic effort if we have to revive the river and it could take a long time. The sewage entering the river should be diverted to sewage treatment plants. Industrial effluents will have to be collected and treated at effluent treatment plans and groundwater tables will have to be brought up so that groundwater flows into the river. This will take 5-7 years. Sadly, no such long-term plans have been proposed by anyone,” S Vishwanath, a city-based water conservationist, said.A senior official at the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB), who didn’t want to be named, pinned the blame on Bengaluru residents.“We have sewage treatment plans in the city, but the problem is that we don’t get sewage from the households to treat it. In most areas in Bengaluru, the sewage is directly dumped into the stormwater drains, which are meant to collect excessive rainwater. We are taking action, but how much we do?” said the official. The Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) said it has booked more than 500 apartment complexes in the city for letting sewage into the stormwater drains.An official said that the board had recommended to the BWSSB and Bangalore Electricity Supply Company to cut power and water supply to these apartments.While the blame game over the condition of the river continues, the effluents let into the river are slowly making their way back to the city.“The baby corn, other vegetables, fodder and the milk from the cattle from the villages downstream come into the city. If the quality of water the cattle drink and the water that is used for cultivation is bad it could certainly affect the city-dwellers directly,” Lele added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/once-a-source-of-drinking-water-bengaluru-river-now-filled-with-froth-stench-101614778435072.html
03-03-2021||Delhi||Department of Telecom brings down 140 illegal mobile signal boosters in Delhi||The wireless technology monitoring group of the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) has brought down 140 illegal mobile signal boosters during a week-long raid in the national capital.The raids were conducted between February 18 and 24 in several parts of Delhi, including Connaught Place, Hauz Khas and Nehru Place."We have conducted awareness campaigns with which people are made aware, not to use illegal mobile signal boosters."During the campaign, people voluntarily surrendered and removed 140 mobile signal boosters and reported about improvement in network connectivity in their areas," DoT Wireless Monitoring Organisation Engineer Incharge Devendra Kumar Rai told PTI.He added that inspection drives and public awareness campaigns were initiated in 2018 under the supervision of R K Saxena, WMO director and head of department, and in 2020, around 400 illegal mobile signal boosters were removed."Under the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, and the Indian Wireless Telegraphy Act, 1943, use of such wideband signal boosters is illegal as these causes radio frequency interference into the licensed wireless networks of various telecom service providers and so the wireless users operating under their licensed network," Rai said.According to industry estimates, there were around 3,000 illegal mobile signal boosters installed in Delhi that were leading to call drops and other network issues.Telecom operators have frequently raised the issue before DoT to bring down illegal mobile signal boosters as they adversely impact the quality of service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/department-of-telecom-brings-down-140-illegal-mobile-signal-boosters-in-delhi-101614777839207.html
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt issues new guidelines for purchasing books for school libraries||Punjab School Education Department on Wednesday issued instructions to constitute committees at school level to procure books for libraries recommended by the expert committee.According to a spokesperson of the department, with the aim of purchasing books for libraries, a high level committee of eminent writers was formed under the leadership of Dr Atamjit Singh. Based on the recommendations made by this committee, new guidelines have been issued to the schools.As part of the series of initiatives that are being taken by the state government to impart vocational education to the students in the government schools, Punjab Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla on Tuesday said that an amount of ₹23.65 crores has been released for setting up the skill labs in 379 government schools.According to press statement from the Punjab government, divulging the details, the Education Minister had said that under the National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF), nine trades of vocational education are being imparted in the government schools of Punjab. He said that these trades include Security, Retail, Apparel, Construction, IT, Beauty and Wellness, Physical Education, Healthcare, Travel and Tourism.He had said that with the establishment of these labs in 379 schools under NSQF, it will become easier for the students to do practical work on these vocational subjects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-issues-new-guidelines-for-purchasing-books-for-school-libraries-101614777913823.html
03-03-2021||Other||42 micro-containment zones in Pune city; most in Hadapsar||PUNE As Pune has witnessed a rise in Covid cases, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has declared 42 micro-containment zones in ten ward offices in the city.As of March 2, Pune city’s progressive count stands at 2,10,399 cases and the death toll at 4,578.Many housing societies have come under micro-containment zones where more than 20 Covid positive cases were found. If a single building records more than five cases, they too have been declared as micro-containment zones.Hadapsar area has the highest (7) micro-containment zones, followed by Bhavani peth (5), Bibvewadi (5), Dhankawadi (5), Shivajinagar (4), Sinhagad road (4), Warje, Karvenagar (4), Wanowrie (3), Ahmednagar road (3) and Kondhwa (2).Vikram Kumar, Pune municipal commissioner, has empowered the regional ward offices to declare containment zones and impose restrictions in the area to curb the spread of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid infection.PMC had freed the entire city of containment zones from January this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/42-micro-containment-zones-in-pune-city-most-in-hadapsar-101614776431958.html
03-03-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Rahul, Priyanka slam state govt over law and order situation||Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra hit out at the Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday over the law and order situation in the state."Under the BJP rule, Uttar Pradesh is becoming worse day by day. Such disorder in law and order spares none -- it is a curse for every community,” Rahaul Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi with the hashtags #Hathras #Bulandshahr.He also tagged a photo of the funeral procession of a 50-year-old man who was allegedly shot dead in Hathras district by a person out on bail in a case of molesting the victim's daughter.Priyanka Gandhi alleged one family or the other can be heard "screaming for justice" every day in Uttar Pradesh, contrary to Yogi Adityanath government's “propaganda”.Their attacks on the BJP dispensation came in the backdrop of the Hathras shooting as well as an incident in Bulandshahr where the body of a 12-year-old girl was exhumed from a pit days after she went missing."The father of a girl who did not take back a case of molestation was murdered in Hathras. The body of a girl, who had been missing for several days in Bulandshahr, was found buried in a house," Priyanka said in a tweet in Hindi."Contrary to the UP government's false propaganda on crime, every day one family or the other is screaming for justice," she said.Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi and other Congress leaders have been attacking the Adityanath government over law and order situation in the state, alleging that criminal activities were on the rise, a claim denied by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-rahul-priyanka-slam-state-govt-over-law-and-order-situation-101614774638301.html
03-03-2021||Other||Rear Admiral Sanjay Vatsayan takes charge as deputy commandant and chief instructor, NDA||PUNE Rear Admiral Sanjay Vatsayan has taken charge as deputy commandant and chief instructor of the National Defence Academy (NDA) in Pune on Monday.Admiral Vatsayan is an alumnus of NDA (1986); Defence Services Staff College, Wellington; Naval War College, Mumbai; and National Defence College, New Delhi. He was commissioned into the Indian Navy on January 1, 1988, and specialised in gunnery and missile systems in 1994.He has done specialist tenures on frontline ships of the Indian Navy, including as part of the commissioning crew of the guided missile destroyer and INS Mysore. He has also served as executive officer of INS Mysore. His command assignments include a Coast Guard IPV, missile vessels INS Vibhuti and INS Nashak, missile Corvette INS Kuthar and guided missile frigate INS Sahyadri (commissioning crew).His important staff assignments include joint director of personnel; director of personnel (policy); director Naval Plans (perspective planning); principal director Naval Plans; assistant chief of Naval Staff (policy and plans) at Integrated Headquarters, Ministry of Defence; and Flag Officer Commanding, Eastern Fleet, Vishakhapatnam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rear-admiral-sanjay-vatsayan-takes-charge-as-deputy-commandant-and-chief-instructor-nda-101614774031891.html
03-03-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru: Toyota workers' union to go on hunger strike for 14 days||The workers’ union of Japanese car-maker Toyota Kirloskar Motors (TKM) on Wednesday said that they will serve a fresh strike notice to the company to fulfil at least six of their demands.“According to rules, we will serve a strike notice and give the company 14 days’ time to fulfil our demands. We will carry out a relay hunger strike for the duration of these 14 days and if the company does not fulfil our demands, we will go in for a full-blown strike,” Gangadhar, an office bearer of the workers’ union, told Hindustan Times.The development come a day after TKM, in a statement, claimed that the workers had withdrawn the strike after nearly four months.The demands include payment of full wages for the lockout period from November 10, 2020 to March 1, 2021, negotiation on workload dispute with the union, withdrawal of dismissal orders, charge sheets, memos issued during the lockout period, restoration of five-day work weeks and discontinuation of contract labour from production jobs.Also Read | Toyota unseats Volkswagen to become the world’s top-selling automakerThe union also released a statement on Wednesday, stating that they would return to their shifts for the next two weeks (until their strike notice comes into effect) since the management has issued a clarification that they will not seek an undertaking from the workers.“Since the workers and union were firm on not giving any undertaking and since the management issued a notice that workers report for duty without undertaking, the union has advised its members to report for duty as it was a moral victory for the union,” the union said in a statement.TKM has been in and out of labour-related problems ever since the suspension of a workers’ union office bearer in November last year.TKM first announced a lockout on November 10 and lifted restrictions nine days later (November 19) after reconciliation meetings with the Karnataka labour department. However, the company reimposed the lockout on November 23, citing unsafe and volatile environment at the company’s plant in Bidadi, just outside Bengaluru.TKM again lifted the lockout on January 12 but insisted on workers signing an undertaking of safety and productivity, which became the bone of contention between the two sides.The union maintained that the government had not mandated the signing of any undertaking.TKM, in a statement on Tuesday, said that some members of the union had submitted an undertaking to the labour department and added that the company would not insist on any individual undertaking.“(The) executive committee of the union had never decided to give any kind of undertaking, much less to any labour authority, nor had it authorised any office bearers to give any kind of undertaking. This was manufactured by the management to save its face,” the union said in its statement.The lockout had triggered a political battle as the Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) used the incident to target the anti-labour stand of the BSYediyurappa-led government in Karnataka.The union has demanded the reinstatement of 66 of its members who have since been suspended or dismissed from the company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-toyota-union-to-go-on-strike-again-101614771572452.html
03-03-2021||Mumbai||I-T raids on Anurag Kashyap, Taapsee Pannu bid to curb voices of dissent: NCP||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Wednesday said the Income Tax raids against Bollywood figures Anurag Kashyap and Taapsee Pannu are an attempt to suppress the voices of those who speak against the Narendra Modi-led government."Central agencies like ED, CBI, and Income Tax are being used to target those who take an anti-government stand and speak against the policies of the regime," the minister told reporters outside Vidhan Bhavan in south Mumbai."The premises of Anurag Kashyap and Pannu have been raided. Both were raising their voices against the Modi government."This action has been carried out to suppress their voices," said Malik, who is also the chief spokesperson of Sharad Pawar-led NCP.The Income Tax Department on Wednesday raided premises linked to the filmmakers, including Anurag Kashyap, who launched the now dissolved production house Phantom Films, Reliance Entertainment group CEO Shibhashish Sarkar and Bollywood actor Taapsee Pannu, officials said.The searches were being carried out in over 30 locations in Mumbai and Pune, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/it-raids-on-anurag-kashyap-taapsee-pannu-bid-to-curb-voices-of-dissent-ncp-101614770020137.html
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Tibetan govt-in-exile on alert after Covid-19 outbreak at Gyuto monastery||After the Covid-19 outbreak at Gyuto Tantric Monastery in Sidhbari near Dharamshala, the Kangra district administration on Wednesday asked the Tibetan government-in-exile to ensure its institutions follow the protocol. “We have asked the government-in-exile to advise its institutions and Tibetan population to follow the Covid-19 protocol so that any such outbreak can be averted,” said Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati. Outbreak after Tibetan New Year festivities Since last week, 160 monks at Gyuto monastery have tested positive for Covid-19. Prajapati said investigation into the Gyuto monastery cluster suggests that the outbreak started after Losar, the Tibetan New Year, festivities on February 14. Fifteen monks, comprising 13 from Karnataka and two from Delhi, were at the monastery from February 16 to 19. The index case in the monastery was reported on February 23 during random sampling. Since then, 330 samples have been tested of which 160 have tested positive. Two patients have been shifted to Fortis Hospital in Kangra and one to Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda, while the others, who are mostly asymptomatic, have been isolated at the monastery. Monks from other states test negative What has left the health authorities perplexed is the fact that the monks who came from outside Himachal Pradesh have tested negative for coronavirus. “We aren’t sure about the origin of the outbreak as those who came from Karnataka and Delhi have tested negative,” said Prajapati. He said the test report of 26 monks advised repeat sample were awaited. The sample report of monastery head Kelsang Gyatso was also awaited. Palden Dhondup, the secretary of health, Central Tibetan Administration, said the department with Delek Hospitals was taking all measures to deal with the situation. He said the situation was a concern but hoped the situation would become normal in a fortnight. Inaugurated in 1996 by the Dalai Lama, Gyuto Tantric Monastery is an important institution of the Geluk School of Tibetan Buddhism, where monks study Tantric Buddhism. The monastery was home to the 17th Karmapa, Ogyen Trinley Dorje, since 2000, after he fled Tibet, to May 2017 when he moved to US and finally acquired citizenship of Dominica, a Caribbean island country, in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tibetan-govt-in-exile-on-alert-after-covid-19-outbreak-at-gyuto-monastery-101614769412464.html
03-03-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Relative rapes minor in Mussoorie, arrested||A relative allegedly raped a seven-year-old girl at a construction site in Mussoorie, said police circle officer Pallavi Tyagi. She added the relative, who is 32, has been arrested.“After the medical examination of the girl, the sexual assault was confirmed and he [the relative] has been sent to jail after being presented in a court at Dehradun,” said Tyagi.The girl’s parents reported the assault after they found she was bleeding after suffering injuries. She was rushed to a community hospital and later referred to Dehradun.Also Read | Greater Noida: Serial rape suspect arrested after encounterThis is the latest in a spate of sexual assaults involving minors in Uttarakhand. In January, police arrested a 20-year-old man for allegedly raping his 7-year-old cousin in Uddham Singh Nagar district. In December, a 5-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her 14-year-old neighbour in Haridwar. In the second week of January, a 26-year-old man was booked for allegedly raping an 11-year-old girl after she gave birth to a stillborn baby in Uddham Singh Nagar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-relative-rapes-minor-in-mussoorie-arrested-101614768572351.html
03-03-2021||Other||Tamil Nadu: Man arrested for burning his 5-year-old son alive||The Tamil Nadu police have arrested a 30-year-old unemployed man in Tiruvarur district for allegedly burning alive his five-year-old son. The boy died of 95% burn injuries at a hospital on Tuesday, said inspector T Natarajan. The man’s wife reported that he set alight their son on February 27 when he was drunk, said Natarajan. “He [the man] is unemployed and it is his wife who supports the family by working as a coolie.” The couple, who have another son as well, had a fight when in a fit of rage, he set the boy afire.Also Read | Delhi riots case: A hundred suspicions not proof, says courtNatarajan denied media reports that superstition had prompted the man to kill his son. “Local media have said so but our investigation did not find that. He was inebriated and committed the crime in a fit of rage.”Opposition Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam M K Stalin took to social media seeking immediate action. He said it was “shocking and painful” that a father burnt his son to death “as an astrologer told him he might be endangered by his son in the future”. Such “human sacrifices” should no longer be tolerated, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tamil-nadu-man-arrested-for-burning-his-5-year-old-son-alive-101614768032544.html
03-03-2021||Mumbai||Girls allegedly stripped, forced to dance by cops; Maharashtra govt orders probe||The Maharashtra government has formed a four-member high-level committee to conduct a probe into an incident where girls were allegedly stripped and forced to dance by policemen at a hostel in Jalgaon, home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Wednesday.The minister made the announcement in the state Assembly after the issue was raised by opposition members.BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar targeted the Maharashtra government, suggesting it was not serious over the issue.According to media reports, some girls from a hostel in Jalgaon complained that people from outside and policemen were allowed to enter the facility on the pretext of a probe and some girls were forced to strip and dance.A video clip of the same has also surfaced."It is a very unfortunate incident. A four-member high-level committee of officials has been formed to conduct a probe into it..they have been asked to submit a report in two days. Action will be taken as per rules after the report is submitted," Deshmukh said.Before the minister made the announcement, Mungantiwar said the incident is very serious.He alleged the government was only taking note of such an incident and called for stricter action.Replying to him, Deshmukh said, "All information about the incident is being taken. The entire video recording and other documents are sought and statements are being recorded."Strict action will be taken as per rules after gathering all the information, he said.Objecting to it, Mungantiwar said the police already have all the information about the incident."...if the police machinery is not going to take information after spending ₹15,000 crore, why this government (is needed then)?" the BJP leader said.BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said there is a video clip (of the incident) and it would have been a different case had it been just a news report.The video clip of a girl being forced to dance after stripping her is a serious matter, he said."Our expectation is that you take immediate action sensitively," the leader of opposition said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/girls-stripped-forced-to-dance-by-police-maharashtra-govt-orders-probe-101614766698311.html
03-03-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan woman alleges police inaction in daughter’s abduction, dies by suicide||A woman in Rajasthan’s Jalore district died by suicide on Tuesday afternoon by setting herself on fire in protest against police inaction in the case of her 17-year-old minor daughter’s kidnapping. Soon after the incident, relatives of the woman and members of her community started a protest action against the police while refusing to accept her body for last rites.An inquiry led by additional superintendent of police, Jalore, has been initiated into allegations of police negligence in her daughter’s abduction case, said Shyam Singh, superintendent of police, Jalore. The girl was reported to have been kidnapped on February 23.Protestors, who are staging a dharna with the woman’s body outside the sub divisional officer’s office in Bhinmal, said they would not accept her body till the minor girl was rescued, the accused were arrested and action was taken against the station house officer of Ramsin police station, Girdhari Singh, who they accused of collusion with the alleged kidnappers.The relatives of the woman claimed she filed a complaint stating one Narpat Singh had kidnapped her minor girl from her home on February 23 with the help of some other persons. It stated that the family searched for the girl for two days before filing a police complaint against Narapat Singh on February 25.It was also alleged that the police did not lodge the case till February 27 and didn’t act even after, forcing the mother to set herself on fire in protest on Tuesday afternoon.Also Read: Rajasthan govt expects higher revenue from e-auction of liquor shopsJalore SP Shyam Singh denied any negligence by the police in the abduction case and said a separate inquiry by the additional superintendent of police was being done to ascertain the veracity of the allegations.He added that prime accused Narpat Singh had been detained in the case but the minor girl was still missing. He said he had information that the kidnappers were in Chennai and their mobile phones were switched off. Singh said that a police team had been sent to Chennai to rescue the girl and arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-woman-dies-by-suicide-alleges-police-inaction-in-daughter-s-abduction-101614764977183.html
03-03-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: About 2.5 lakh youth availed unemployment allowance since 2019||The Rajasthan government has paid ₹842.40 crore as unemployment allowance to 2,49,433 eligible youth under the Chief Minister Yuva Sambal Yojana since 2019.Out of the total number of eligible unemployed youth, 1,81,286 candidates belong to general and other backward class (OBC) category, 37,234 of SC and 30,913 of ST category respectively, the government said on Wednesday in a reply to an unstarred question raised by BJP legislator Satish Poonia in the House.After the commencement of the scheme from February 2019 till December 2020, 4,56,678 applications were received.In its reply, the government said the maximum limit of beneficiaries in a year is 1.60 lakh with the applications of 2,15,390 candidates still pending after being found correct during scrutiny.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-about-2-5-lakh-youth-availed-unemployment-allowance-since-2019-101614764463533.html
03-03-2021||Other||Toolkit case: Goa-based climate activist granted transit bail||The Bombay high court at Goa has granted transit anticipatory bail to Goa-based climate activist Shubham Kar Chaudhuri, who is associated with global climate action collective Extinction Rebellion. Chaudhuri, who is volunteering for Extinction Rebellion and is the South Asia liaison in charge of the organisation, had approached the Bombay high court in Goa fearing he would be arrested by the Delhi Police in connection with the toolkit case which saw the arrest of 21-year-old Bengaluru-based climate activist Disha Ravi as well as warrants for Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk, two other activists associated with Extinction Rebellion.Chaudhuri, 29, told the court that he has been falsely implicated and that he has no connection whatsoever to the offences alleged in the FIR by the Delhi Police. He said his name was embroiled in the case due to the fact that he was in contact with Jacob and Muluk who are also volunteers with Extinction Rebellion. Also Read | Toolkit case: Delhi court to hear Nikita Jacob’s anticipatory bail plea on March 9Chaudhuri also told the court that fellow activists Jacob and Muluk have already been granted transit anticipatory bail and that he too should be granted similar relief. “The apprehension of arrest is made out by the applicant. The reasons for apprehension of arrest are justified in the facts and circumstances set out. Therefore, the applicant is entitled for protection by way of transit bail to approach the competent authority to seek appropriate reliefs,” Justice MS Jawalkar said while granting bail to Chaudhuri to allow him to approach the courts in Delhi. Extinction Rebellion is a global collective of climate activists that calls itself “a decentralised, international and politically non-partisan movement using non-violent direct action and civil disobedience to persuade governments to act justly on the climate and ecological emergency”. Chaudhuri has been working in Goa since August 2020 and told the court he is an ardent environmentalist, actively involved in seeking ecologically sustainable solutions and proposing an environment-oriented approach towards policymaking. He said he has been working for the accreditation of khazan lands as a United Nations Agricultural Heritage Site besides volunteering with Extinction Rebellion.A “toolkit” is a document created to explain any issue. It also provides information on what one needs to do to address the issue. This might include information about petitions, details about protests and mass movements.The document was first publicised by Greta Thunberg, a Swedish climate activist, who has been vocal about her support to farmers agitating at Delhi border for over three months now.Earlier, the Delhi Police had also asked Google and some social media giants to provide information about email IDs, URLs and certain social media accounts related to the creators of the toolkit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/toolkit-case-goa-based-climate-activist-granted-transit-bail-101614763472112.html
03-03-2021||Bangalore||Kichcha Sudeepa: We don’t need to put Kannada film industry on the map, it has always been there||He rules Kannada film industry which has been churning out good content for years now, and with films such as Vikrant Rona and KGF 2, it is truly going global.However, ask Kichcha Sudeepa if it’s only now that his industry is getting it’s due, and he refuses.“By saying that, it is definitely humiliating other people of my industry, the seniors who have been working. For me, I don’t look at pan India. Kannada, or any other industry has survived only because of it’s seniors. They have done what they are supposed to do, in their eras, because of which the industry has survived and we are enjoying,” he reasons.The 47-year-old, who stepped into films 25 years ago, has had other industries calling too because of the stardom he enjoys, such as Eega in Tamil, and Dabangg 3 in Hindi. He feels that thinking the current crop of artistes has made film industries what they are is “arrogance”.“There are a couple of industries which were unable to grow to a certain level. Keeping that in mind, we should respect all seniors, who have worked so hard and brought it to the masses. That we are taking it anywhere else would be arrogance. I still think cinema is improving, everywhere globally. The way it tells stories has changed, perspectives have changed, and we are just incorporating whatever it is,” says Sudeepa.He cites the example of budgets too, which have been increasing.The actor continues, “We are stretching it a little more, sir. If earlier ₹10 were invested, we are going ahead with 30. Kannada has always been glory, I don’t think we need to put it on the map, it’s always been there. It’s just a matter of individual people getting on the map. That shouldn’t happen in the name of industry or language.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/kichcha-sudeepa-we-don-t-need-to-put-kannada-film-industry-on-the-map-it-has-always-been-there-101614763052377.html
03-03-2021||Delhi||People unhappy with them: Kejriwal on BJP’s performance in Delhi civic bypolls||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had failed to govern the municipal corporations in Delhi (MCD), even as he congratulated party workers and people for his party winning four out of five seats in the municipal bypolls.“I congratulate party workers for their hard work and the people of Delhi for the big win. The results show that people of Delhi trust the AAP’s model of good governance. In 2015 polls, we won 67 out of 70 seats. In 2020, we won 62 out of 70 seats. Now, we won four out of five seats in the municipal bypolls. It shows that people are happy with our work,” said Kejriwal, addressing a gathering at the AAP head office in central Delhi.Also Read | ‘People fed up with BJP’: Sisodia after AAP wins 4 out of 5 wards in MCD bypollsOn BJP’s performance, he added, “The BJP winning no seat in the bypoll reflects that people are extremely unhappy with its governance of the municipal bodies. There is corruption everywhere. Their constant rant about seeking funds from the Delhi government for operating the MCDs have upset people. The Delhi government has paid all its dues but the BJP leaders have spent it all. Now they cannot even pay salaries. Even the Delhi government gets very less from the Central government, but we chose to work harder on better governance instead of ranting about inadequate funds. People see [through] such things. We have improved hospitals, schools, subsidised power and water, and improved the condition of roads.”“People have also taken note of the BJP’s politics of violence – especially the way BJP workers stormed into the residence of deputy CM Manish Sisodia and Delhi Jal Board office. This is not why people had voted them to power in the municipal polls (in 2017). The bypoll results give an indication on how people would vote in the 2022 municipal polls in Delhi. I congratulate all the winning candidates and wish them luck for better work in their municipal wards,” said Kejriwal.Of the five wards that went to poll, AAP won four. They are: Rohini-C and Shalimar Bagh North under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation; and Trilokpuri East and Kalyanpuri under the East Corporation.Another ward in the East Corporation, Chauhan Banger, was won by the Congress. The BJP won no seats.The five seats fell vacant after four councillors won the assembly elections in 2020 and one died two years back. While four seats of the five seats were earlier held by AAP, the Shalimar Bagh seat was held by BJP. The bypolls were held last Sunday. While the AAP is in charge of the Delhi government, the BJP rules all three municipal bodies. Delhi goes to municipal polls in 2022.HT reached out to the BJP for a comment on its performance in the bypolls and this copy will be updated once the party responds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/people-unhappy-with-them-kejriwal-on-bjp-s-performance-in-delhi-municipal-bypolls-101614762692320.html
03-03-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka minister faces allegations of sexual exploitation||An activist has filed a police complaint in Bengaluru accusing Karnataka minister Ramesh Jarkiholi of sexually exploiting a woman. Dinesh Kalahalli, the activist, has released a video and screengrabs that purportedly show the minister with the woman to back up his allegation. Local news channels have also aired a phone conversation purportedly between Jarkiholi and the woman.“Since there are threats and an environment of fear, the victim is not filing the complaint. Her family approached me,” Kalahalli said.Deputy police commissioner (Bengaluru Central) said they would like to first speak to the woman and her relatives, but the activist has not given them any information regarding them. “We are trying to ascertain who they are and are trying to contact them.”Also Read | Who is stirring the caste cauldron in Karnataka?In his complaint, Kalahalli has alleged Jarkiholi exploited the woman after she approached him for some help with a short film.Ramesh Jarkiholi could not be reached for comment and texts to the minister went unanswered.His brother, Balachandra Jarkiholi, who is also a ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker, said the police should investigate the political forces behind the video. “If it is true, then will ask Ramesh to seek the state’s forgiveness and retire,” he added.Balachandra Jarkiholi said the woman has not complained. “Some random person has filed it and it is wrong. I have requested the CM [chief minister BS Yediyurappa] to give the case to the CBI [Central Bureau of Investigation] or COD [Corps of Detectives],” he said after meeting Yediyurappa.Ramesh Jarkiholi was among the lawmakers who defected from the Congress in 2019 and helped the BJP return to power in Karnataka.BJP leader and Union minister Pralhad Joshi on Tuesday said that he was not aware of the details of the case against Ramesh Jarkiholi but has seen media reports about it. “I will inquire about this incident and then react. An investigation is a must,” Joshi said. He said that if the incident is genuine, it is a matter of shame. “We should be clean and there is no compromise on this.”Ramesh Jarkiholi enjoys significant influence in Belagavi.Top leaders of the opposition Congress met at former chief minister Siddaramaiah’s residence to discuss the issue as the party workers took to the streets to protest against Ramesh Jarkiholi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-minister-faces-allegations-of-sexual-exploitation-101614761132180.html
03-03-2021||Other||Cleaner, more aware... but for the most part, life back to normal in Pune’s Covid hotspots||PUNE During the early days of the pandemic last year, when the rest of the city was relatively untouched by the coronavirus that causes the Covid-19 infection, Kashewadi slum in Bhavani peth had become a hotspot of infection.The virus, according to civic health department officials, entered the population here through a domestic help working at the home of a family that had just returned from abroad.The infection slowly took enveloped Kashewadi, a population of 11,000, and the slum was reporting 60 per cent of the overall number of cases in city in May and June last year. Gradually, Covid-19 to another slum on Tadiwala road, under the Dhole Patil road ward office, making it difficult for the civic machinery to control its spread, as both localities are congested.Residents also use public toilets, where social distancing norms were flouted. A year later, these two slums are reporting fewer cases, though many in these localities have returned to their pre-Covid lifestyle, which the experts say, is risky.For Kamal Ghadge, a resident of Kashewadi slum in Bhavani peth, nothing seems to have changed.Recalling her Covid-19 experience, one year later, Ghadge said, “We were completely scared when the Covid outbreak happened. None of our family members went out except to use the public toilets. A year later, I do not see much change in our slum and even in the surrounding area, except that cleanliness of roads and toilets has gotten better.” Bhavani peth is known for its wholesale stores as well. A majority of the residents have been living here for decades and are engaged in daily labour work. When the Covid graph went down, most bylanes were freed from being containment zones. As a result, people began crowding the small chowks. Public toilets too, have once again started seeing crowds, with people queuing up awaiting their turn.Mangesh Joseph Manuel, another resident of the area, said, “We live in a building under the Slum Rehabilitation Authority. During the peak, our building had multiple positive cases and some even died due to the infection. Even I tested positive during the lockdown, but we maintained home cleanliness and self-hygiene on a priority.” According to Manuel, the SRA buildings in Bhavani peth area are the dirtiest. “Garbage was found lying all over the parking and circulating areas of the buildings. Very few people were wearing face masks and some of them were openly spitting on the road,” says Manuel. When HT visited some public toilets at Kashewadi, it was clean, though people were crowding there to chit-chat outside.Vajir Shaikh, a resident going of the Kashewadi slum area said, “As we live in a slum area there are no separate toilets, so we are dependent on public toilets. When the lockdown started and Covid positive cases were on rise, the main reason of spread was common toilet usage. PMC workers are cleaning the toilets several times a day for the last one year. Now we don’t fear going to the toilet.” The situation is no different in the Tadiwala road slum area, with a population of 8,000. Surekha Kamble, a resident of the Tadiwala road slum area said, “We have now become used to these conditions. For few months there was a fear of getting infected which is now gone. PMC workers clean the roads, but since the population is so large, throughout the day garbage gathers on the corners of the roads. Mostly, we do not send our children outside to play. There is need to clean the roads twice a day.” While Tadiwala slum is close to the Pune railway station, both, local and migrant population live here. Many are engaged in daily wage work. Many from this slum also work as support staff at hospitals on the Dhole Patil road, like Ruby Hall clinic, Jehangir and even Sasoon Hospital.From May to July 2020, daily cases in Tadiwala slum were 20 to 30, though the tally has now come down to just two cases per day. Sachin Tamkhede, PMC assistant municipal commissioner and Bhavani Peth ward officer said, “It was a difficult year for us, as a major slum with a densely populated area comes under our ward office. All the necessary steps according to the Covid guidelines are being taken on daily basis, but creating public awareness and that sense of responsibility towards keeping our area clean is what we are working on. We still continue to clean public toilets five times a day, and to keep a watch on it, a mobile application has been developed through which “before” and “after” photos of the cleaning needs to be uploaded by that PMC staffer. We have tried our all possible efforts to bring down the death rate in our ward, especially in the slum areas from where it started.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cleaner-more-aware-but-for-the-most-part-life-back-to-normal-in-pune-s-covid-hotspots-101614759211282.html
03-03-2021||Dehradun||Man-eater leopard that killed 2 women shot dead in Uttarakhand's Pithoragarh||A man-eater leopard, which killed two women in Pithoragarh last month, has been shot dead by a hunter engaged by the Uttarakhand forest department, an official said."A eight-year-old leopard was declared man-eater on February 18, after it killed a woman in Kapri village in Kanalichhina block of the district. The leopard was shot dead by a forest department appointed hunter Rajeev Soloman in Kanalichhina block on Tuesday evening," said Naveen Chandra Pant, sub-divisional forest officer of Pithoragarh forest division."The leopard had injuries on its two legs, and it probably started attacking humans because they are easy prey. The carcass has been sent for post-mortem examination" he said.On February 28, the leopard killed a 70-year-woman Tulsi Devi in Suroli village of Pithoragarh district. The woman had gone missing in the day. Villagers later found her remains in the forest, 150 metres from the village.On February 18, the leopard killed 50-year-old Kalavati Devi in Kapri village. After this attack, furious locals demanded that the leopard be shot dead.Chief wildlife warden, through the invocation of Clause 11 (1) (a) of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, can declare any wild animal as a threat to human life and as such fit to be destroyed. The Act states that ‘chief wildlife warden of the state may, if he is satisfied that any wild animal specified in Schedule I has become dangerous to human life or is so disabled or diseased as to be beyond recovery, by order in writing and stating the reasons, therefore, permit any person to hunt such animal or cause such animal to be hunted’.Also Read: Police crackdown on villagers sparks pandemonium in Uttarakhand assemblyThe forest official said this was the third man-eater leopard to have been killed this year in the Kumaon region. On January 26, a 10-year-old leopard was killed by hunter Ramesh Chauhan. On February 5, a 9-year-old leopard was killed by hunter Harish Dhami in Pithoragarh district.The increasing man-leopard conflict in the state often leads to protests by villagers, especially if a child is killed in a leopard attack. In June 2018, angry villagers in Harinagari area of Bageshwar set a forest on fire after a leopard killed a seven-year-old boy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/maneater-leopard-that-killed-2-women-shot-dead-in-uttarakhand-s-pithoragarh-101614758620676.html
03-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM asked for Rathod's resignation to avoid chaos in assembly: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has alleged that the resignation of minister Sanjay Rathod was not forwarded to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari yet and said Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackery asked for his resignation to avoid chaos in the Budget session.Rathod is allegedly involved in the death case of 22-year-old girl Pooja Chavan.Leader of Opposition in Maharashtra Assembly and BJP leader Pravin Darekar said the BJP expect some more drama in a few days over Rathod's resignation."We believe that the Chief Minister has asked for his resignation just to avoid chaos in the budget session. We fear that his resignation will not be accepted once the session is over. So, he is still the forest minister of the state. We expect some more drama in a few days over Sanjay Rathod's resignation," he said.BJP MLA from Buldhana, Sanjay Kute said Rathod is still the Forest minister and enjoys all the privileges of being a minister."What I remember, the Chief Minister had announced about Sanjay Rathod's resignation in the press conference before the Budget session but the resignation is still not accepted and forwarded to the Governor, which means Sanjay Rathod is still Forest minister of the state and he can enjoy all the privileges of being a minister," Kute said.The BJP MLA said the Chief Minister still wants to keep Rathod in the cabinet as his resignation has not been sent to the Governor.He also alleged that the Chief Minister has still not allocated the forest department to any other minister as an additional charge, which makes his allegation more valid that Rathod is still forest minister of Maharashtra.On February 8, Chavan had allegedly jumped off a building in Pune to end her life. Hailing from Parli town in Beed, Chavan had gone to Pune for an English speaking course. A couple of days after her death, some of her audio clips went viral on social media which the opposition took up and pointed fingers at the Maharashtra Forest Minister Sanjay Rathod, demanding an investigation into the case.The BJP has alleged that Rathod is connected with the mysterious death of the woman in Pune. However, Rathod had denied all allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-asked-for-rathod-s-resignation-to-avoid-chaos-in-assembly-bjp-101614753397889.html
03-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt to make probe report on Mumbai power outage public||Post the massive power outage that brought Mumbai to a complete halt on October 12, 2020, the state and Centre constituted committees to investigate the reasons behind the incident. While none of the reports have been made public as yet, state energy minister Nitin Raut on Monday said that all the reports will be tabled in the ongoing budget session of the Maharashtra legislature, where he will discuss them. Reports of a Chinese cyber attack being the reason behind the power outage came to the fore on Monday. State home minister Anil Deshmukh also said that the state’s cyber police investigations indicated cyber sabotage by some foreign countries. However, the Central government refuted these reports on Tuesday, stating that the incident was the result of a human error. Union Power minister RK Singh said on Tuesday that the government not in possession of any evidence which could prove that the power outage was caused by a cyber attack by either China or Pakistan. “We don’t have evidence to say that the cyber attacks were carried out by China or Pakistan. Some people say that the group behind the attacks is Chinese but we don’t have evidence. China will definitely deny it,” Singh told ANI.Also Read | ‘Mumbai power outage due to human error, no proof of China’s role’: Union minTaking suo motu cognisance of the Mumbai power outage, the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) has ordered an enquiry by an independent committee. MERC stated that the committee needs to “verify and analyse the submissions of all parties, to find out the root cause of the incident, to examine the adequacy of protection systems/islanding system etc. and to verify the adequacy of responses of all concerned.” The committee also has to probe if the generation and distribution companies followed the protocol for restoration of power supply to the city. In a separate notification, MERC stated that the committee includes retired IAS officer Dr Sudhir Kumar Goel, the chairman, V Ramakrishnan, an ex member of the Central Electricity Authority, and Dr Faruk Kazi, the head of the electrical engineering department at the Veermara Jijabai Technical Institute. Goel said, “While we have submitted the report, we are not permitted to reveal any details.” Also Read | Calls for review of islanding system following October 12 Mumbai power outageThe Union power ministry had also constituted a committee under the Central Electricity Authority to check whether the grid failure was because of technical flaws or a manual error. The committee, chaired by the CEA chief engineer, also has to probe as to why Mumbai’s islanding system did not work. Apart from this, the state government also constituted a committee with members from the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd to probe the incident. The Maharashtra cyber police were also asked to look into the incident after Raut hinted at possible sabotage on October 13, 2020. Maharashtra inspector general of police (Cyber) Yashasvi Yadav, under whose supervision the investigation was conducted and the report prepared, said, “We have submitted the investigation report to the home minister and he has already outlined the four major findings, including introducing Trojan Horses into the server, unaccounted transferring of around 8GB of data from unidentified foreign servers, hacking attempts by blacklisted Internet protocol (IP) addresses, etc. We have explained the entire attack with proofs. Revealing more about the contents of the report would not be appropriate at this time.”Also Watch | ‘Yes, it’s possible’: Cyber security expert on China hand in Mumbai outageAshok Pendse, a power expert from Mumbai, said, “We will have to really see what the expert committees have to say the major reason behind the outage was. Until then, it does not seem right to say that the incident was due to a cyber attack.” (With inputs from Vijay Kumar Yadav)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-to-make-probe-report-on-mumbai-power-outage-public-101614755371923.html
03-03-2021||Other||Jharkhand: 14-year-old allegedly gangraped in Chaibasa; three arrested||Three persons were arrested late Tuesday evening on charges of gang-raping a 14-year-old girl in Jharkhand’s Dokatta village on the intervening night of Friday-Saturday and then abandoning her in Chaibasa late Saturday night, police said on Wednesday. Police found the girl in the bedroom of a locked staff quarters on a hospital’s premises after neighbours informed them of the matter. “The rape didn’t take place inside the quarters. The men gang-raped her in Dokatta village on Friday-Saturday night. She had gone there for the Maghe festival with her family. All the three men were arrested on Tuesday,” Dilip Xalxo, Chaibasa Sadar deputy superintendent of police (DSP), said on Wednesday. Also Read | Greater Noida: Serial rape suspect arrested after encounterChaibasa Sadar PS officer-in-charge (OC) Niranjan Tiwari said the girl knew the three men as she has relatives in the village and used to visit the place frequently. The men gang-raped her there and fled after abandoning her in Chaibasa. The girl somehow managed to reach to her sister’s locked quarter s and entered through the broken backdoor instead of returning home. We found her on Sunday,” Tiwari said. The arrested men have been sent to jail after being booked under Section 376 D of the Indian Penal Code and the POCSO Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jharkhand-14-year-old-allegedly-gangraped-in-chaibasa-three-arrested-101614754711943.html
03-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai power outage: Electricity regulator had raised questions on islanding system||Mumbai: Mumbai’s electricity regulator questioned the failure of the city’s decades’ old islanding system at its hearing held last year on the October 12 grid failure. It also pointed to a delay bringing the generating units on the bar during the outage.The regulator, in an order, said that the failure of the system, the delay, possible inadvertent tripping by the station operator at Kharghar substation, delay in load management/load disconnections, inadequate load trimming, etc., are some of the reasons for the outage stated by the stakeholders.“However, verification of individual submissions and root cause analysis by independent experts would be necessary to find out the exact reason for the incident. This analysis would also help to take appropriate (immediate and medium-term) remedial measures for ensuring that such an incident do not recur in future,” it said.The stakeholders called to the hearing on October 20 also questioned the grid failure and the delay in restoration of power supply by Tata Power.In its submission to the regulator on October 20, Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST) noted: “ Delayed restoration of power supply in Mumbai has caused immense hardship to BEST’s consumers in the critical Covid pandemic scenario. The prolonged power failure could have been avoided, had Mumbai system survived from outside grid disturbance after operationalisation of Mumbai Islanding scheme and if TPC (Tata Power Company Ltd) was able to bring its hydro/ thermal generation into service without delay. Hence, further review of Mumbai Islanding scheme considering load/generation balance is necessary.”“Mumbai Generating Companies, Transmission Licensees and MSLDC [Maharashtra State Load Despatch Centre] were aware of critical situation arising due to failure of 400 kV lines in the early morning of 12 October, 2020. Accordingly, a contingency plan should have been initiated to avoid any further grid disturbance,” it added. The BEST said the strengthening of Mumbai transmission is essential to remove the congestion in the system.“The occurrence severely affected the power supply to a large section of population of MMR [Mumbai Metropolitan Region]. Hence, occurrence was required to be taken cognisance of for ascertaining actions pertaining to dereliction of actions, if any, in operation and maintenance of lines, system security, failure of protection and to achieve intended islanding of critical load-generation balance for areas.”The regulator said it was appropriate to initiate a suo motu proceeding to find the primary reasons for the partial grid failure, response, and performance of licensees/generators and for identifying preventive measures. It issued a notice on October 17 asking MSLDC to submit a detailed report on the partial grid failure.Islanding system refers to the condition in which a generator provides electricity to a location even though electrical grid power is no longer available. Tata Power introduced the system in 1981. It is unique to the region and the only such system in the country.At the hearing, executives of Tata Power too suggested that the islanding system needs to “be relooked”.“We have all been historically dependent on the islanding scheme, but since the generation and incoming power ratio is changing, a change is required in the islanding scheme itself. With the central coordination and Western Regional Power Committee (WRPC), we have to completely relook at the islanding scheme in view of less embedded generation and more import of power,” Sanjay Banga, president, transmission and distribution, Tata Power, said in his representation to the regulator.The islanding system has an embedded power generation of 1,877 megawatts. Banga said earlier this was enough to meet the electricity demand of Mumbai. It also accounts for less than half the peak demand of Mumbai and adjoining areas. To meet the balance demand, power is imported from outside the islanding system.According to the regulator’s order, Tata Power said that its hydro units were picked up but the same could not be synchronised with the grid. The company added the rate of frequency decline was so high that before the breaker operation could complete, the frequency dropped significantly.Tata Power also noted that since 1997, there was no failure of the islanding system.“ Initial analysis of TPC suggests that islanding system works effectively in generation rich system. In past islanding events, the embedded generation was around 80 to 90% of the load. However, in the present event, almost 60% of power was from outside Mumbai and also almost 1000 MW availability was dropped at Kalwa Substation. TPC-G generation was picking up, but the system changes were so rapid in its transient state that Islanding System could not operate successfully,” it said.“Considering the fact that embedded generation capacity is reducing over time, Mumbai demand is increasing, and more and more power being received from outside Mumbai, review of existing Islanding System and review of frequency setting needs to be undertaken.” It added that the company has formed an internal committee to analyse the event and look into the technical issues in detail.The regulator also ordered that a high-level expert committee be formed to analyse the root cause of the tripping that led to the grid failure. It added the committee will have to submit its report within three months of the formation. “The high level committee had in January asked for the extension in submitting its final report,” a power ministry official said.According to MSLDC, there was inadvertent tripping by a station operator at the Kharghar substation, which resulted in the outage. “There was considerable delay in bringing TPC-G Unit 5 and Unit 7 on bar. Also, Hydro Generating Units that are expected to come on bar in short time, but same were also synchronised with the grid with considerable delay.”The regulator noted: “It is necessary to find out as to what happened at individual stakeholder level and what needs to be done in future at individual stakeholder level and collectively at systems level to avoid recurrence of such event.”It added in the past when similar incidents occurred, studies were undertaken through expert committees to find out the primary reason for the grid disturbances. Based on their recommendations, glaring difficulties were rectified. “However, the long-term plans for infrastructure augmentation/development seem not to have materialised in toto as was expected. Accordingly, it is necessary to examine as to whether the delay in implementation of recommendations/suggestions of the Committees had any bearing on the partial grid failure of MMR that occurred on 12 October, 2020.”The outage was back in the spotlight after American cyber intelligence company Recorded Future said it had uncovered a suspected China-linked cyber operation that was focussed on India’s electricity grid and other critical infrastructure. While the company did not link the Mumbai incident to the operation it discovered, it did not rule it out either.According to Recorded Future, RedEcho deployed malware known as ShadowPad, which has been previously linked to Chinese cyber soldiers. ShadowPad has the ability to hand over systems controls to malicious hackers, who can then make potentially catastrophic to sensitive industrial systems.Chinese government-linked attackers possibly gained access to computer networks part of India’s power infrastructure, the American firm said, citing technical clues that federal power ministry officials separately said had been on their radar, fuelling speculation that a blackout in Mumbai last year may have been the result of sabotage.Hours after the disclosure, the Union power ministry said it had received inputs from Indian agencies—first in November and then again in February this year—about the threat of infection from ShadowPad, prompting remedial measures to be taken.On Tuesday, Union power minister RK Singh said the power outage in Mumbai in October was caused by “human error”, not a cyber-attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/calls-for-review-of-islanding-system-following-october-12-mumbai-power-outage-101614754592878.html
03-03-2021||Other||Sutradhara’s tales: Pune gets its first names... royal patronages recognise sacred headquarters||Those of you who have read Sherlock Holmes would know the name of the unusual Diogenes club for recluses and private people, of which Sherlock’s brother, Mycroft was a member. Such eccentric clubs are not figment of someone’s imagination, but exist even around us. You must have heard of the laughter club where people laugh their hearts out for better health, or the left-handers’ association.I am a member of one such seemingly bizarre, but fascinating society called, Place Name Society of India. Society members study and analyse various identities and meanings which can be derived from the name of particular place. The name of a place is central to its cultural identity. It often carries meaning which provides rationale for adoption and continuity of a particular name. In this column, we have traced the origin of Pune’s settlement through the ages, and arrive at a settlement which had an urban character.Dr M R Kantak, senior historian, associates Pune with Punnala/Punnata from the ancient Roman text of Ptolemy’s “Geography”, in an article in the book “Shahar Pune”. However, except for similar sounding names, we do not have direct evidence to connect the name to Pune. Other scholars have claimed that “Punnala/Punnata” resemble some ancient towns in south India. So, the speculation of it being Pune cannot be fully substantiated.An interesting connection is found at the famous Buddhist site of Sanchi, informing us of a donation from Pune. The name in Brahmi script is mentioned as “Punyavardhana” and the late Dr Harihar Thosar claims it to be our very own Pune. By virtue of it being on the confluence of the rivers Mutha and Mula, proximity to the Indo-Roman trade route and Buddhist activity, Pune always seem to be identified as Punya Kshetra, a sacred place. The discovery of Satavahana period artifacts from Pune strengthens this claim to the original name of Pune. The clenching evidence comes much later during the eighth century CE when various clans of kings named Rashtrakutas ruled this country. On a new moon day of Ashwin month in year 758 CE, on the occasion of a solar eclipse, Krishna Raja I, the Rashtrakuta king donated land to a Brahmin called Pugadibhatta. The donated village was “Bopkhelugram” (modern Bhopkhel suburb on Alandi road). The copperplate mentions the boundary of this village surrounded by “Kalas” village on the east (suburb Kalas by the same name), river “Muila” on the south (river Mula), “Darpapudika” to the west (Dapodi of the present day) and “Bhesuri” (Bhosari suburb) on the north. The names of the areas could have been Sanskriticised to fit the prose in the order of things.The copperplate describes all the above references to be belonging to the administrative unit of Pune, aka “Punya – vishaya”. Vishay roughly encompasses around several hundred villages in those days and is used to denote the central headquarters, in this case “Punya” for Pune. Thus, it is the first time we are able to put a face and name to the silent entity, Pune.Shortly after this, on March 23, 768 CE, another piece of land is granted on the occasion of the new moon, by the same king, Kishna Raja I. It was donated to the Brahmins belonging to “Karad Vishaya”. The village of Kumarigram (Koregaon Bhima), along with other villages such Bhamropara (Bhowrapur), Aralva (Urali), (Sindugram (Sinadon) and Turudee (Tadavale) were donated. These villages were made free from all oppression through taxes and the records mention that the order should be respected by future kings from any linage. It also mentions surrounding villages such as Khamgaon, Bori, Dalimb, Theur, and Alandi (Chorachi) on the boundaries and river Muila (Mula).Pune is referred slightly in different manner as “Punak- vishaya”, again a headquarter. It could be derived from the older form “Punnaka”.Another incomplete copper plate in Rajwade Sanshodhan Mandal, Dhule’s collection, belonging to Sind king Mahasamant Adityavarman, records a grant to Navashiv, a Brahmin from Madhya Pradesh. On this copper plate, dated March 6, 965 CE, the Kinhika village (Kinhai to the north west of Pune) on the banks of river Indra (Indrayani) is donated. This village falls under the settlement and administrative unit of Ramtirthika, which according to Dr Manjiri Bhalerao, can be identified on the banks of river Ram in Pune.Rashtrakuta rule was followed by their feudatories, the Shilahara kings, who rose to power in subsequent centuries. The Janjira copperplate of the Shilahara dynasty king, Aparajita, dated to August 20, 993, mentions the conquest of Punaka vishaya, i.e. Pune, as an important career achievement. Shilahara king Aparajita ruled from his capital in Thane and Pune was part of his territory. The copper plate mentions Kramavid Brahmin, Kolama, from Karad as the donee who was gifted certain villages to perform religious rites related to solar eclipse One finds another mention of the same Brahmin in the second set of Janjira copper plates. We get to know that the donee originally hailed from town of Khetaka (modern Rajgurunagar), part of Punaka country (Pune).These scattered records finally break their silence and inform us that between eighth and the 10th centuries, various suburbs on the western and eastern side of Pune were independent villages falling under the imperial rule of sacred headquarters rightly known as “Punya vishaya”!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sutradharas-tales-pune-gets-its-first-names-royal-patronages-recognise-sacred-headquarters-101614754591138.html
03-03-2021||Mumbai||Hard knocks and tough lessons: How Mumbai’s health infra coped with Covid||Sunita Patil, a 33-year-old woman with a severe kidney ailment arrived at Mumbai’s King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital shortly after noon on April 10, 2020. She had a 101-degree fever and needed dialysis. Two of the three Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)-run Covid-designated hospitals with dialysis centres were out of beds. Patil and her husband, Sudhir, were forced to spend the day outside KEM, the city’s largest public hospital managed by BMC, before she could be admitted, tested for Covid, and then treated. It was only around 2 am the following day that Patil was admitted. Her treatment began on a stretcher because no bed was available.“The whole ward was full. Not a single bed was vacant. There were patients lying on the floor. I was on a stretcher, and I did not even have a bedsheet to cover myself. I was scared and I felt alone. My husband was not allowed inside the Covid ward,” Patil, who spent two weeks in the hospital, said. “I still have nightmares about that night.”Maharashtra recorded its first set of Covid-19 cases on March 9 when a Pune-bound couple landed in Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji International airport from Dubai. The couple took a taxi from the airport to Pune, where they were tested. The taxi driver and the couple’s daughter also tested positive for the virus.Also Read | Maharashtra’s daily Covid-19 cases remain below 8,000 for second straight dayExactly a month later, around the time Patil went to the hospital, Mumbai had 1182 active cases. But the city had only 200 Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds and 50 ventilators in the six Covid-designated public hospitals for the more serious patients who required hospitalisation. Mumbai had the highest number of cases among all major Indian cities.Things were only about to get worse.Mumbai has a population of more than 20 million people. Of them, 12 million live in slums, where the population density and lack of sanitation facilities — a neighbourhood comprising close to 200 families usually share one toilet complex — meant that conditions were for any pandemic to spread. Dharavi, the country’s largest slum, is home to 650,000 people in a 2.4-km sq area. Its population density is 10 times that of Manhattan in New York City, where the pandemic had created havoc through March.The comparison between Mumbai and New York was inevitable. Around the time that Patil went to KEM hospital, New York had more confirmed cases than any country outside the US. Nearly half of the cases in the US were in New York. Dozens of people were dying every day. The hospitals were simply unable to cope in New York. This was feared to become Mumbai’s fate too. By May 21, the number of cases in Mumbai surpassed the caseload of 158 countries, including the UAE, Indonesia and Ireland.“Mumbai is not like other cities. It has unique geographical and sociological characteristics. It is home to the largest slum, Dharavi, which acts as a ticking bomb in any epidemic outbreak. So, when the first case was reported in India in January, the civic body should have been more cautious and started testing all domestic and international passengers. But it was not done until mid-March,” said Dr Abhijit More, the co-convenor of Jan Arogya Abhiyaan, a non-governmental organisation.Also Read | With 14,989 fresh Covid-19 infections, India’s active cases surge past 170,000That was not the only thing Mumbai was unprepared for.By April, Mumbai’s positivity rate (the percentage of people whose test results returned positive for the coronavirus among the total number) was 8%. It shot up to 18% in May and 21.2% in July. Even with BMC’s decision to use 80% of the beds of all private hospitals in the city, there was one isolation bed per 5,246 residents.Soon, people began to be sent away from hospitals for the lack of beds. On May 1, a family from Chembur visited five hospitals to get a 62-year-old woman admitted but could not. Four days later, the woman succumbed to the infection without treatment. “I had never felt so helpless as I did when I could not save my mother. I was ready to put in all my savings, but no hospital was ready to admit and treat her,” said her daughter.On May 13, a 35-year-old bank loan agent took a test to confirm whether his symptoms were Covid-related. His results returned positive two days later. Following this, four different hospitals turned him away for lack of ICU beds, though his condition was steadily deteriorating. Finally, he was admitted to a hospital in Jogeshwari, but died a night later. “If he got treatment on time, I could have saved him,” his brother said.Reports of infected patients sharing beds in BYL Nair, Dr RN Cooper and Lokmanya Tilak General (Sion) hospitals emerged, and videos of patients lying close to bodies wrapped in black polythene bags in Covid-19 hospital wards began to circulate on social media. By mid-June, half the state’s death toll was being recorded from Mumbai. All 11 electric crematoria in the city worked overtime as grief-stricken families formed serpentine queues, often waiting for seven to 10 hours to lay their loved ones to rest.Pandemic centralMumbai is no stranger to pandemics and its authorities have faced a steep learning curve each time. In fact, much of the city as we know it today is a result of a planning body that was created in the wake of the bubonic plague which first hit the city in 1896. The following year, the city’s first and only infectious diseases hospital — now called Kasturba hospital — was set up. By 1918, the plague epidemic claimed 160,000 lives in the city alone. The same year, the Influenza epidemic hit the city claiming several thousand more lives over the course of two years. But when the Covid-19 pandemic hit Mumbai in March 2020, Kasturba hospital had only 150 beds (including ICU beds) where suspected and confirmed infected patients could be quarantined.The problem facing the health infrastructure was two-fold: a severe shortage of beds and ventilators across primary, secondary and tertiary hospitals; two, doctors, nurses and other health care providers falling prey to Covid-19, which meant that the already immense strain on health centres was getting worse.The state appointed a nine-member task force, comprising doctors, to guide policy decisions. One of the first recommendations it made was to ask the BMC to consider taking over all hospitals in the city, and reserve around 70% of it for Covid-19 patients. This advice eventually came in handy, as the BMC began to direct officials to acquire beds as well as ICU wards from private nursing homes and smaller hospitals spread across all 24 wards of the city, as cases began to rocket.By May, the BMC had acquired an additional 2,400 beds in this way. But it would still prove to be not nearly enough.Within a month of the outbreak, more than 100 medical staffers from nine major private hospitals including Jaslok, Saifee, Breach Candy, Nanavati and Hinduja (Khar) tested positive for the virus, leading to a partial shutdown of their emergency and OPD wards. By mid-July, more than 1,000 doctors and nurses had already contracted the infection in the city.To avoid getting infected, doctors would work entire shifts in PPE kits, dehydration, and menstrual cycle notwithstanding. “When the pandemic started, we were given cheap quality donated PPEs which were not even safe to use. Due to fear, we stopped visiting our families and were quarantined in lodges and hotels,” said a resident doctor from KEM.According to the Indian Medical Association, more than 40 private practitioners have succumbed to the infection.Steep learning curve“Since the virus was new, we did not have any knowledge of its epidemiological characteristics. Therefore, just like the rest of the world, we had to learn through trial and error,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC.In April, BMC’s 24x7 disaster helpline number, 1916, began to field calls for Covid-related queries. Anyone seeking a bed in a hospital had to call this helpline to get registered and the bed, when available, would be allotted. Soon, volunteers were busy round the clock, fielding up to 4,000 calls a day on average. Over 22,000 calls were recorded till February 2021 and almost 60% of them were enquiries about hospital beds.It was only towards the end of May that volunteers could provide real-time information to the callers on the availability of beds in Covid-designated hospitals, when the BMC came out with a live dashboard. At the time, according to a press release by the municipal body, 96% of the city’s Covid ICU beds, 63% of the Oxygen support beds and 66% of the ventilators had already been used up.The BMC also came out with a standard operating procedure (SOP) in the second week of April to treat patients depending on the severity of the condition. The civic body opened Covid Care Centres (CCC-1 and 2) — the first for high-risk contacts of positive persons and the second for asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients — in makeshift facilities such as lodges, stadiums, schools, hotels and hostels. Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHC) were opened for symptomatic patients, moderately ill patients and some patients with comorbidities. Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH) were opened for patients showing prolonged symptoms of fever, cough, and breathlessness, senior citizens, as well as severely ill and critical patients who needed ICUs.Covid jumbo facilities were opened across the city in Mulund, Dahisar, Mahalaxmi, Race Course, Goregaon and Bandra Kurla Complex, which helped increase the bed capacity. The Mumbai Cricket Association temporarily handed over the possession of Wankhede Stadium for use by emergency staff of BMC and to quarantine Covid-19 positive but asymptomatic patients. So did the privately-run National Sports Club of India, which gave the BMC space within its complex to set up a Jumbo centre.In July, when Mumbai hit its peak, it had 16,859 beds in all dedicated Covid hospitals. By October, the city had nearly 70,000 beds across all CCC1 and 2 facilities, which also included seven jumbo Covid centres that could cumulatively handle 5,000 patients. As the number of cases began to flatten out, hospitals began to reduce the number of beds for Covid patients. In December, there were 13,898 beds in hospitals, and almost 80% of the CCC-1 beds were unoccupied.An aggressive trace, test and quarantine system was also put in place by the BMC. High-risk contacts of infected patients were made to stay in CCC-1, and those above 60 years with comorbidities were isolated. In May, a home isolation protocol came into place: if the symptoms did not warrant hospitalization, people were asked to stay home and isolate if possible.“Following the instructions of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), we started quarantining all asymptomatic and mild/moderate patients in their houses. In slums, we isolated the high-risk contacts like senior citizens and people with comorbidities in CCC-1,” said Daksha Shah, executive health officer, BMC.Till February 25, 2021, the city’s municipal body had traced over 4.5 million close contacts including 2 million high-risk, and 4.4 million people had been quarantined at home. The civic body also started door-to-door screening where people were checked for fever, cold, oxygen saturation levels and other Covid-19 symptoms.“Though the lockdown had impacted people’s lives adversely, it gave us breathing time to chalk out our plan. Good decision making and sincere implementation helped us stop the spread,” said Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner, G-North that covers Dharavi, Dadar and Mahim.Lessons learnt“The outbreak has got the civic body to realise the importance of having a robust health care system, one that is fully equipped and battle-ready. If Mumbai residents have to live with the virus and other similar deadly infections in today’s increasingly interconnected and interdependent world, they have to focus on filling up the cracks in the health infrastructure,” said Dr Avinash Supe, a member of the civic body’s death committee.It is almost a year since the outbreak of the pandemic that brought Mumbai to a standstill. The positivity rate came down to 10% in January. But in February, the daily cases have seen a sharp hike.New strains of the virus, first detected in the UK, South Africa and Brazil have also been seen in India, including in Maharashtra, and while there is no link found between the new strains and the rise in cases, it is clear that the pandemic is not over.“The battle against Sars-CoV-2 is far from over. After staying in the house for months, people have become fatigued. Their guards are down. Wedding ceremonies and family functions have become super spreader events. We need to tighten our grip and follow all precautionary measures,” Supe said.Spotlight has also fallen on the hard lessons that the municipal body — the richest in the country — has learnt in the past year. An analysis of BMC’s three-year budget shows that only 13% of its revenue is invested in the health sector which health experts have called “inadequate”.This year, the allocation for health care in BMC’s budget is ₹4,728.53 crore, of which a capital expenditure of ₹1,206.14 crore has been earmarked.“The BMC has proposed to improve the infrastructure of health care institutes, carry out major structural repairs at 29 hospitals, 287 health posts and/or dispensaries and 28 maternity homes for which ₹822 crore has been allocated,” said Iqbal Singh Chahal, BMC commissioner, while presenting this year’s budget.Also Read | Covid-19 vaccination drive turnout improving in MaharashtraA report by independent public-policy think tank IDFC pointed out the focus on expenditure has always been on secondary and tertiary care, rather than primary care. “While expenditure on hospitals was 74% of Mumbai’s health budget, only 26% was spent on dispensaries,” it read. Primary care centres offer the first line of defence; if they continue to remain ill-equipped and under-staffed, the effects are felt throughout the health care infrastructure, as the past year has shown.“We will be focusing on developing the 19 peripheral hospitals. Also, we have plans to construct a building inside Kasturba Hospital for patients with infectious diseases. We want to make both horizontal and vertical growth in the health sector,” Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC, said.A September 2020 report by Praja Foundation, an NGO working for accountable governance, also pointed out that the overall vacancy of medical personnel in civic medical institutions was 27% in 2015 which increased to 47% in 2019.“It is time for the civic body to introspect if they meet the required standards mentioned laid by the union health ministry. The pandemic has been an eye-opener,” said Nitai Mehta, founder and managing trustee, Praja Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hard-knocks-and-tough-lessons-how-mumbai-s-health-infra-coped-with-covid19-101614753091784.html
03-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi MCD election results 2021: AAP wins 4 seats, Congress bags Chauhan Banger||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) won four out of the five seats in the municipal bypolls in Delhi on Wednesday. The BJP, which is the ruling party in the three civic bodies for the past 14 years, didn’t win any seat while the Congress won one ward, Chauhan Banger, with a huge margin.AAP won Kalyanpuri, Trilokpuri East, Shalimar Bagh and Rohini-C wards. Delhi chief minister and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal said in a tweet, “People of Delhi have once again voted for good governance. I congratulate them on the results. People are tired of the BJP’s rule in the MCDs for 15 years. People are eager to bring the AAP to power in the MCDs.”Senior AAP leader and Delhi’s deputy CM Manish Sisodia said in a tweet: “Congratulations to AAP workers for the big win on four out of five MCD seats. People of Delhi are fed up with the BJP. In the municipal elections next year, people in Delhi will bring to power the AAP for its excellent governance model under Arvind Kejriwal.”While AAP is in charge of the Delhi government, the BJP rules the three municipal corporations in Delhi (MCD). Delhi goes to municipal polls next year.Though the outcome of the bypolls will not alter the composition of north and east corporations as BJP has a comfortable majority, it is a setback for the party as it couldn’t even retain its stronghold, Shalimar Bagh ward. The bypolls are seen as the precursor to municipal elections scheduled next year. Political parties admit that the result will set the tone for the upcoming elections.However, reacting to his party’s poor performance, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said, “Our workers worked very hard in these bypolls. We will analyse the result and see where we went wrong. We still have a lot of time to prepare for the municipal polls.”Also Read | AAP govt merges 13 institutes to create Delhi Skills & Entrepreneurship varsityThe five seats fell vacant after four councillors won the assembly elections in 2020 and one died two years back.The BJP stood second on all the four wards where the AAP won and the margin of victory was more than 2,700 votes. In Kalyanpuri, AAP defeated BJP by 7,043 votes. In Trilokpuri East, AAP’s Vijay Kumar defeated BJP’s Om Prakash by 4,986 votes. Congress candidate from Chauhan Banger, Zubair Ahmad, defeated former AAP MLA Mohd Ishrqa Khan by 10,642 votes, which is a huge margin in municipal bypolls. Ahmad, son of former five-time MLA and Congress veteran Mateen Ahmed, polled 14,302 votes while Khan got 7,259 votes.AAP won Chauhan Banger in 2017 municipal bypolls. AAP’s councillor Abdul Rehman won the assembly elections in 2020.In Shalimar Bagh, which BJP won in 2017, AAP’s Sunita Mishra defeated BJP’s Surabhi Jaju by 2,705 votes. The bypoll results is a big setback for BJP, which is hoping to win a fourth term in the corporations next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-mcd-election-results-2021-aap-wins-4-seats-congress-bags-chauhan-banger-101614752431816.html
03-03-2021||Other||Hyderabad: 29-year-old woman techie stabbed by alleged stalker; condition stable||A 29-year-old woman software engineer was stabbed by an alleged stalker in Hydershahkote on the outskirts of Hyderabad on Tuesday night, the police said. Police have arrested the man and the woman’s condition is stable. The accused, Salman Sharukh (29) from Haryana, is a hair stylist at a popular international brand salon. “The woman, who has been admitted to a private hospital at Langar Houz with stab injuries in the back and chest, is out of danger,” Madhapur deputy commissioner of Police M Venkateshwarlu said. The woman, who works with a reputed software company in Gachibowli area, was acquainted with the man for over two years and they lived in the same colony. Also Read | Two murders within 12 hours in Nallasopara near Mumbai“Her parents complained that Sharukh had been pressuring her to marry him. They said she had lodged a harassment complaint against him with the SHE Teams police last week. He must have held a grudge against her for that,” the police official said. On Tuesday night, Sharukh allegedly scaled the compound wall of the woman’s house and sneaked into her room. He attacked her with a knife which he had brought along with him. She raised an alarm and her family, with the help of neighbours, apprehended him. Narsingi police rushed to the spot and took the man into custody. “A case of attempt to murder has been registered and investigation is on,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hyderabad29yearold-woman-techie-stabbed-by-alleged-stalker-condition-stable-101614751171768.html
03-03-2021||Patna||Fake power theft case against innocent villager raised in Bihar House||A false case of power theft filed against Gautam Kumar, a native of Diggi village under Konch block of Gaya district, was raised in the Bihar legislative council on Tuesday by JD(U)’s Sanjiv Shyam Singh, who sought to know if the power department will act against the guilty at South Bihar Power Distribution Company Limited (SBPDCL), who implicated Kumar in the case.The JD(U) member said that a team of SBPDCL raided the house of one Ravindra Singh at Diggi village on January 13, but named Gautam Kumar in the case of power theft, presuming him to be the owner of the house. The SBPDL team also videographed the raid but let off the original house owner in the case.Energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav said that the FIR was lodged in the case on the statement of a local. “There is no hint of any conspiracy against Gautam Kumar on part of the officials,” clarified the minister. He, however, added that the Konch police station officials were asked to investigate the case and submit the report. “Fate of the case would be decided on the basis of the police investigation,” said the minister.Generally, a case of power theft is lodged under section 379 of the Indian penal code (IPC) along with other sections of the electricity act. It is non-bailable and the accused, if found guilty, is subject to jail term of up to three years.Talking to media persons later, MLC Singh said that Gautam Kumar was suffering while the police officials were showing no urgency to submit the inquiry report, as the case was not lodged by them.Telemedicine facility launched at 1700 health sub-centresBihar health minister Mangal Pandey on Tuesday informed the legislative council that the state health department launched telemedicine facility at 1700 health sub-centres across the state after its formal opening by chief minister Nitish Kumar on February 12.Also Read: Bihar relies on village chowkidars to resolve land disputes early, reduce crimeReplying to a starred question from JD(U) member Sanjiv Kumar Singh, Pandey said that the telemedicine centres were opened to provide healthcare facility to the people living in far-flung areas. Altogether 15 types of medicines have been made available to the health sub-centres for their free distribution among those requiring treatment. “So far, more than 4000 persons have been provided medical help through telemedicine facility,” said the minister.To a supplementary question, the minister said that the national health mission had provided fund to operate six mobile medical units in Darbhanga under the state programme implementation plan. “There is no immediate plan to launch mobile medical units in other districts, as there is no allocation for it as of now,” said Pandey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/fake-power-theft-case-against-innocent-villager-raised-in-bihar-house-101614748392112.html
03-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi MCD bypolls: Early trends show AAP leading in 4 seats, Cong in 1||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is leading on four out of five municipal seats in Delhi, as per the early trends on Wednesday. While just eight rounds of votes have been counted so far, the BJP, which is the ruling party in all three corporations, is trailing on four seats where AAP is leading and the Congress is leading on one seat.AAP has made gains in Shalimar Bagh, a BJP’s stronghold, and is leading on Kalyanpuri, Trilokpuri East and Rohini-C. In Chauhan Banger, which AAP won in 2017, the party is trailing as Congress’ Zubair Ahmad, son for five-time MLA Mateen Ahmad, is leading by 7,087 votes after the sixth round of counting. In Shalimar Bagh, which BJP won in 2017 elections, AAP’s Sunita Mishra is leading by 1,665 votes and BJP’s Surabhi Jaju, daughter-in-law of former area councillor, is on the second position.Also Read | AAP govt merges 13 institutes to create Delhi Skills & Entrepreneurship varsityThe wards where by-election have been held are: Rohini-C and Shalimar Bagh North under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, and Trilokpuri East, Kalyanpuri and Chauhan Banger under East Corporation. The five seats fell vacant after four councillors won the assembly elections in 2020 and one died two years back.In Trilokpuri, AAP candidate is leading by 3,658 votes after the fifth round of counting. In Kalyanpuri ward, AAP is ahead of BJP by 5,548 votes. In Rohini-C, AAP is ahead of BJP by 2,157 votes.Political parties admit that the outcome of the bypolls will set the tone for municipal elections scheduled early next year. The ongoing tussle between AAP, the ruling party in Delhi, and BJP, which has been ruling the three municipal corporations for the past 14 years, over municipal funding and financial mismanagement were the key issue in the bypolls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-mcd-bypolls-early-trends-show-aap-leading-in-4-seats-cong-in-1-101614748171558.html
03-03-2021||Delhi||MCD bypolls: AAP wins in 4 wards, Congress secures Chauhan Banger||The ruling Aam Aadmi Party bagged four seats in Municipal Corporations of Delhi (MCD) bypolls on Tuesday. Following the sweeping victory, the AAP convener and Delhi chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal took to Twitter congratulate on the win. "The people of Delhi once again voted in the name of work. Congratulations to everyone. The 15-year-old BJP's misrule in MCD has disturbed the people. People are now eager to form Aam Aadmi Party government in MCD also," he wrote on Twitter.Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia also congratulated the party workers on the micro-blogging site. "Congratulations to the Aam Aadmi Party workers on winning 4 out of 5 seats in the MCD by-election. In the municipal elections next year, people in Delhi will bring to power the AAP for its excellent governance model under Arvind Kejriwal," the AAP leader said.The AAP won Rohini-C (Ward No 32N), Trilokpuri (Ward No 02E), Kalyanpuri (Ward 008-E) and Shalimar Bagh North (Ward No 62N); whille Congress' Zubair Ahmad Chaudhary bagged Chauhan Banger by 10,642 votes. The counting began at around 8.30 in the morning and the final numbers were out before 11am.These by-elections were being closely watched by the observers as the results of these elections will be indicating the mood of the voters and are likely to have an impact on the big-ticket Delhi civic body elections, to be held in 2022.More than 50 per cent votes were cast in the by-polls for the five municipal wards held on February 28. In Kalyanpuri, the highest voting percentage was recorded. Shalimar Bagh recorded the lowest voting percentage.As per official figures, 59.19% votes were cast in Kalyanpuri, 55.95% in Trilokpuri, 55.60% in Chauhan Bangar.The fight at the five wards is between the AAP, Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress. All of them have expressed confidence that they will emerge victorious in the by-polls, being held under strict Covid-19 protocols.Out of the five wards, four were held by the AAP while Shalimar Bagh North had a BJP councillor. The by-polls were necessitated after sitting councillors contested the assembly polls last year and became MLAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mcd-by-polls-aap-gains-lead-in-four-wards-congress-leads-in-one-early-trends-show-101614746515799.html
03-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Teacher gets 5 years in jail for sexually harassing minor students||A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences court has sentenced a 29-year-old teacher to five years imprisonment for sexually harassing two students aged 11 and 9 in 2016.As per the prosecution, the case came to light when the two sisters told their parents that the teacher inappropriately touched and also kissed them and refused to go to the seminary or madrassa where the teacher taught them. The 11-year-old also told her mother that the teacher asked her to come to the seminary at night pretending that she was going to attend the nature’s call.Also Read | Greater Noida: Serial rape suspect arrested after encounterThe teacher was arrested in August 2016 and granted bail as the police failed to file a charge sheet within the stipulated 60 days. During the trial, the prosecution examined the two girls and their parents to prove the case against the teacher. The court convicted the teacher on the basis of the testimony of the girls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-teacher-gets-5-years-in-jail-for-sexually-harassing-minor-students-101614744931396.html
03-03-2021||Patna||Bihar relies on village chowkidars to resolve land disputes early, reduce crime||To get information of land disputes from far-flung villages that often lead to serious crimes, the Bihar government will now use village chowkidars. The department of revenue and land reforms has asked the chowkidars to provide weekly information on land disputes, enabling the concerned circle officer (CO) and station house officer (SHO) to take the necessary preventive measures to resolve the cases early, officials said on Tuesday.It is assumed that the village chowkidars have all the information on land disputes in their respective villages. The department has also deputed IPS officer, Chandrashekhar Vidyarthi, to review the weekly land dispute meetings organised by the COs and SHOs every Saturdays and suggest corrective measures.Last year, the department asked all the CO and SHOs to hold weekly meetings on Saturdays to resolve land disputes. Besides, chief minister Nitish Kumar on December 8, 2020, in a review meeting held by the department of revenue and land reforms, emphasised on the importance of village chowkidars in getting timely information on land disputes.According to the National Crime Bureau Record (NCRB), in Bihar in 2019, there were 3,707 crime incidents related to land and property disputes, while the number of people killed were 5,227, or 3.1% per lakh.A department official said despite the government orders some COs were not uploading the information from weekly meetings on the official website.“According to the IT cell of the department, till March 1, 2021, out of total 534 circles in Bihar, 182 COs had not provided information to the department for weekly review of each circle. In Patna alone, out of 23 circles, 11 COs had not provided information to the department,” he said.Also Read: Darbhanga airport crosses 1 lakh passenger milestone within 4 monthsRevenue and land reforms additional chief secretary Vivek Kumar Singh again asked the COs and SHOs on Tuesday to hold weekly meetings and upload the proceedings in a prescribed format on the department’s website.Last year, the government asked the COs and SHOs to hold joint meetings and accept written complaints of land disputes. The government had also asked the district magistrates and superintendents of police to maintain a list of land disputes and their disposal in their offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-relies-on-village-chowkidars-to-resolve-land-disputes-early-reduce-crime-101614744564551.html
03-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive to cover 2.14 million: Key points||Roughly 2.14 million people in Delhi need to be covered as part of the ongoing drive to give coronavirus vaccines to the most vulnerable sections of the general public, authorities in the Capital estimate. Here is all you need to know about the projection:• The number is roughly half the 4.2 million previously estimated when authorities believed the age criteria would be lower at 50 and above, and more pre-existing illnesses would be included in the list of conditions to qualify a person to get shots in this phase.• Instead, the drive now covers those above 60 and identifies a list of 20 specific comorbid conditions that will allow anyone above the age of 45 to get doses.• The final numbers will depend on the number of registrations that happen. • For the third category of people being vaccinated, the new Co-WIN portal depends on self-registration or bulk registrations. • The final number will depend on how many people come forward, get registered, and vaccinated.• The first dose for the beneficiary group in Delhi comprising people aged over 60 and those in the age group of 45-59 with any of the 20 comorbid conditions is expected to be covered in two to three months.• According to estimates for Delhi, there are 1.22 million people between the ages of 60 and 69, 0.67 million between the ages of 70 and 79, and 0.23 million over the age of 80 years, who are currently included on the priority list.• Additionally, the number of people eligible, because they have one of the 20 medical conditions that put them at higher risk if they have Covid-19, is expected to be around 22,000. • On average, Delhi has been carrying out 19,236 vaccinations daily over the last week. As of Tuesday, the city has 308 centres, each of which can give doses to 100 people a day. • The government is planning to add 100 more, raising the daily capacity to over 40,000, a second district official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-ongoing-covid-19-vaccination-drive-to-cover-2-14-million-key-points-101614744151471.html
03-03-2021||Patna||Darbhanga airport crosses 1 lakh passenger milestone within 4 months||After handling roughly 650 flights and around 1.10 lakh fliers in nearly four months after its inauguration, Darbhanga airport is proving to be a big success story of Centre's regional connectivity scheme (RCS-UDAN).35,888 passengers used Darbhanga airport in February to travel on 214 flights. In January, despite frequent flight cancellations due to foggy weather, 20,420 passengers travelled on 132 flights. In December, the airport handled 158 flights and 26,318 passengers. Flight operations under RCS-UDAN scheme was launched in Darbhanga on November 8 last year.Airport director Biplab Kumar Mondal said the Airport Authority of India was making all efforts for smooth and comfortable travel despite limited space at civil enclave at Darbhanga airport, which is also an Indian Air Force base. He said a plan is being made for the construction of a permanent civil enclave after land acquisition is done for the purpose."We have to be more inventive in utilising existing facilities to ensure a convenient journey amid rising numbers of passengers,” Mondal added.Recently, at the civil aviation consultative committee meeting, minister Hardeep Singh Puri said Darbhanga airport was one of most successful examples under the RCS scheme.Spicejet, the lone airline with a license to fly from Darbhanga under UDAN, has again opened booking for Ahmedabad after having discontinued the direct Darbhanga-Ahmedabad flight on February 15. The airline officials, however, declined to confirm the resumption of the flight. However, it is confirmed that the airline is starting the second daily flight to Mumbai from March 10.Also Read:Hotter summer forecast for Bihar with maximum temperatures rising in March-MayThe launch of flights on Hyderabad and Pune routes from Darbhanga continues to be in limbo for want of necessary clearances. At present, the airport is connected to Delhi (2 flights), Mumbai and Bengaluru- one flight each daily.According to a senior airport official, who didn’t want to be named, IndiGo airline has completed spade work for launching flight operations from Darbhanga and was awaiting clearance and it was unlikely for it to start flight operations in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/darbhanga-airport-crosses-1-lakh-passenger-milestone-within-4-months-101614742697585.html
03-03-2021||Patna||Hotter summer forecast for Bihar with maximum temperatures rising in March-May||Bihar is likely to experience a hotter summer with maximum and minimum temperatures hovering above the season’s normal, warned officials of India Meteorological Department (IMD) while presenting the seasonal weather outlook on Tuesday.Based on the initial conditions in February, there is 60% probability of a rise in maximum temperatures by an average of 0.38°C and 0.12°C in minimum temperatures in Bihar during March to May.According to Patna Meteorological Centre (PMC), maximum temperature in the state hovered between 30°C to 33°C across the state on Tuesday while the minimum temperature ranged between 17°C to 18°C.As per the daily weather bulletin, Bhagalpur remained the hottest city in the state with the maximum temperature reaching 34°C, two notches above the normal. Patna recorded a maximum temperature of 33.2°C, Gaya 32.6°C, Buxar 33.3°C, Jamui 32.6°C and Sabour 32.2°C.Weatherman at PMC said that there will be no respite from soaring heat as there is no change in temperature likely till March 15.SK Patel, meteorologist at PMC, said, “As per the extended range model output, the maximum temperature in the state is likely to hover around 32°C to 34°C, which is 2°C to 4°C above the normal for the season. Similarly, the minimum temperature is also likely to range between 14°C to 16°C, around 2°C higher than the season’s normal. There may be some respite from high temperatures with thunderstorm activities.”MeT officials said the westerly winds are likely to bring minimum temperature down by one or two degrees in the coming 48 hours followed by a rise in temperature after March 5.About sudden increase in February’s temperature, the MeT centre said as per the analysis of realized temperature pattern, the recently concluded month of February was warmer than last February. Bhagalpur and Rohtas remained the warmest places in the state with mean maximum temperature of 28°C.The MeT centre attributed the absence of western disturbances over the region for warmer temperatures during February.Also Read: Cong MLA gives 48-hr time to catch nephew’s killers; kin blame security removalIn an effort to ensure the availability of proper drinking water in Patna, the district magistrate, Chandrashekar Singh flagged off e-rickshaw and pickup vans for mending hand pumps in each panchayat.“Altogether 44 vehicles have been flagged off for carrying out repair work of hand pumps. We have identified around 800 non-functional hand pumps across the district during a recent survey,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/hotter-summer-forecast-with-bihar-with-maximum-temperatures-rising-in-marchmay-101614740442338.html
03-03-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi’s multiple border points remain closed||Several of Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh (UP) remained closed for passenger movement on Wednesday because of the ongoing farmers’ protest against the Centre’s three new farm laws.On Tuesday morning, the Delhi Police briefly opened the Ghazipur border for traffic. However, the route was closed again towards afternoon. For those coming to Delhi from Uttar Pradesh, Ghazipur border has been closed. The traffic police advised them to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni and Apsara borders. They can also take the Chilla border route.Also Read | Toolkit case: Court to hear Nikita Jacob’s anticipatory bail plea on March 9The entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Saboli and Mangesh continue to remain closed.The traffic police have advised commuters to take alternate routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK Road.Commuters can choose other border routes such as the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches between the Delhi and Haryana.Farmers have been protesting at different borders of the national Capital since November last year, against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-s-multiple-border-points-remain-closed-101614740911205.html
03-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Air quality improves, temperature could rise again from tomorrow||Delhi’s air quality on Wednesday improved and stayed in the “moderate” category, with the average hourly air quality index (AQI) recording 169, at 7am. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed that on Tuesday the overall AQI level in Delhi was 175, also in the “moderate” category. India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said that the improvement in air quality was a result of increased wind speeds and ventilation levels. However, the forecast said that from Thursday there is a possibility of slight deterioration. Also Read | Study: Sharp rise in extreme weather events in last 50 yearsMeanwhile, the temperature on Tuesday also showed a marginal decline. The maximum temperature was recorded at 28.8 degrees Celsius. Met department officials said that from March 7 the temperature will rise again and touch 33 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-air-quality-improves-temperature-could-rise-again-from-tomorrow-101614739892018.html
03-03-2021||Delhi||Snatching Delhi’s main gateway crime: Data||Unemployed, illiterate, school drop-outs, arrested for the first time – these are common threads that connect almost every person arrested for snatching in Delhi since 2018, highlighting how one of the most serious concerns on the streets of the national capital is also its biggest gateway crime.An HT analysis of the profile of snatchers arrested in Delhi between 2018 and 2020 shows that more than 90% of those arrested were caught for the first time, and did not have any criminal record until then. Police registered them as “first-time offenders”.Of the 6,496 people arrested in 2020, at least 5,977 (92.98%) were first-time offenders. In 2019, of the 5,243 arrested, this number was 4,806 (91.66%), and in 2018, 5,167 out of the 5,346 people (96.66%) arrested for snatching had no past record.Snatching has come sharply under the spotlight after a woman was last week stabbed to death in north Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar even as she held her two-year-old daughter in her arms while trying to defend herself against snatchers. The two men arrested for the crime — Fardeen,19, and Aqibul, 22 — were unemployed, school drop-outs, and like the majority of Delhi’s snatchers, had never been arrested before.“This is what makes snatching so difficult to control. Any person on the road could be a snatcher in Delhi — he need not be a hardcore criminal. Numerous cases of first-timers indulging in this crime shows how this is the first offence that one commits before entering the world of crime,” said a senior police officer who asked not to be named.It was a view that several other present and former cops agreed with.Citing an example of how several young men who turn to crime because of trying circumstances start by becoming snatchers, the officer cited above said at least 100 people arrested last year said that they had turned to snatching after losing their jobs during the Covid-19 pandemic. “The situation is that a person loses his job and finds snatching as the second-best option to make a living. In October, we arrested a man named Mohsin, who worked in a shoe store but lost his job during the lockdown. He then got in touch with his two friends and tried to snatch a man’s phone outside Red Fort. The examples are too many. There are no records of such persons,” a second officer said. Explaining the difficulties in keeping track of such people, a third senior officer said: “It is easier to keep tabs on hardcore criminals and their gangs. Their activities and areas of operation are known; we can place informers. But many young men who are snatchers manage to slip through the net because they don’t have a record. It takes a concerted effort to bring down snatching cases.”Though snatching cases in Delhi rose in 2020 as compared to 2019 — 7965 as compared to 6266 — the third officer said that distress calls to the Police Control Room number, 112, was a better indicator of mapping the crime. The calls are a part of the record and cannot be removed from the log. According to police’s crime data, in 2020 there were 24,746 snatching calls, compared to 56,937 in 2019. However, the calls do not mean number of incidents, as the same victim could have made multiple calls; and victims sometimes refer to “theft” as “snatching”. The difference between the two, in police parlance, is that there is use of force in snatching.Further analysis of police data shows that of the snatchers arrested in 2020, almost 43.71% (2,840) were illiterate or school drop-outs (did not clear Class 5). In fact, only 10 of the arrested had graduate degrees.The data also showed that a cell phone was the most common item snatched — in at least 71% (5,655) of the cases — followed by gold jewellery such as necklace and bracelet in at least 15% cases (1,195) and a handbag or cash in at least 8% of the cases (638).EASY MONEYAdvocate LN RAO, who worked in Delhi Police for over three decades and retired as a deputy commissioner of police of the Special Cell, said snatching has become rampant because it’s relatively easy and offers instant returns.“Disposing of a snatched cell phone or a piece of gold jewellery is not a problem. An unemployed person vulnerable towards crime has realised that there is no dearth of buyers for such stolen items. It may be difficult to dispose a stolen car but this is not the case with cell phones or gold jewellery. With prices of cell phones and gold increasing regularly, the unemployed person, who has stolen those items, gets a good return,” he said.Rao said that a cell phone, which costs ₹30,000 could be sold at half its price, and a gold jewellery once stolen could be melted within minutes, removing all evidence of the crime.Another expert, Vikram Singh, who was a former director-general of the Uttar Pradesh police, said, “Incidents happening in many parts of the city show that the snatchers do not fear the police in Delhi. Police must hit back. I mean, hit hard. If snatchers are striking in different parts of the city, it means police are unable to create fear in the minds of the snatchers. Snatchers should know that if they indulge in any trick, the police will make them pay. Police should work towards that.”Delhi’s deputy commissioner of police of the crime branch, Chinmoy Biswal, who is also the police spokesperson, said, “ Our cases show that many juveniles are indulging in snatching. We cannot maintain their record. Many times, when they are caught, we find that they have a history of such crimes but there is no such record. Maintaining surveillance then becomes difficult. There are many first-time offenders too. Though it is not part of core policing, every year we identify youths, who could deviate towards crime if given an opportunity. As part of our YUVA programme, we helped thousands of such youths find jobs so that they can be weaned away from the wrong path. At times, there are some incidents but we have launched a massive crack down on snatching and all other crimes.The numbers of snatching calls have reducedwhile the number of arrested persons has increased.”LAWS NOT STRINGENTFormer additional commissioner of police, Ashok Chand, said the current laws were too lenient towards a heinous crime that can even lead to serious injuries or deaths. “The law has to be made stricter. Those vulnerable towards crime may be indulging in snatching because they know that they will get bail easily. Amending the law like the one in Haryana will put some rein on the snatchers.”In Delhi, there is no specific law related to snatching. Police arrest and book snatchers under Sections 379 (theft) and 356 (criminal force during theft). The maximum punishment, if convicted under the two sections, is three years. In contrast, Haryana has amended the laws and now book snatchers under Section 379A (snatching without use of force) and 379 B (with use of force). If a person is booked under these two sections, the maximum punishment is 10 years and 15 years respectively.LN Rao agreed that snatching cases will decrease if there is fear of the law.“It will go down the day a snatcher realises that the offence is non-bailable, that he can end up spending more than 10 years if caught. Until then, such would-be criminals will find snatching as an easy route,” said Rao.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/snatching-city-s-main-gateway-crime-data-101614739207489.html
03-03-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Razia Sultan’s local chai stall||A rickey table. A rickety bench. A kettle and a boiling pan. Rusks and biscuits stacked up in a small room behind.An old doorway across the lane. A historic tomb just around the turning.And tea trays, or chhikas, hanging on the wall—looking a bit like 3-D hashtags.This is Old Delhi’s most atmospheric chai stall, one wants to declare, though that would be unfair to other equally lovely chai shacks, not just in the historic Walled City but across the National Capital Region.And yet, it can safely be said that you ought to drop by this chai establishment. Even though it seems very improvised, as if it had been rustled out hurriedly just this morning, which actually isn’t far off the mark. In a part of the city where everything seems aged, it is just two years old. “Earlier my stall was in a different place,” says owner Abdul Majid, his face dappled with tranquillity. This morning it’s uncomfortably warm and the friendly man is cooking up another round of his chai, with a few customers sitting about him—one is perched on a scooter, some are staring meditatively towards the chipped kettle, and others are distracted by their mobile phones.What they all ought to do, really, is just look about themselves, and inhale the place’s intensely beautiful ambiance. Remains of a derelict mansion with a beautiful door overlook a lively crowd of locals—who are chattering, cursing and laughing with each other. A multitude of cats appear at regular intervals, almost instantly disappearing into the alley’s hidden corners and holes. Now a row of labourers go past the chai shop, carrying huge sacks of cement on their back.The stall is tucked atop the hill of Bulbuli Khana neighbourhood and in fact, a few steps ahead, the alley ends into the grave of Razia Sultan, the only woman ruler of the Delhi Sultanate. The shop’s most beautiful aspect is undoubtedly the blue colour of the wall, on which the aforementioned chhikas are hung. It’s a shade so ethereal, so fragile that you fear a man’s raised voice or too bright a daylight might erase it forever. A green tarpaulin hangs over the stall for shade. The establishment stands right under an old building, which, a passerby says, is about 200 years old.Despite its makeshift character and its young age, the tea stall appears to have taken roots firmly into the rhythms of this neighbourhood. One would imagine that chai has always been on the boil on this spot. But at night, not long after 9, the stall closes. All you then see is the bare table, with the street corner looking like as if Abdul Majid’s chai stall never existed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-razia-sultan-s-local-chai-stall-101614731687691.html
03-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots case: A hundred suspicions not proof, says court||“From a hundred rabbits you can’t make a horse, a hundred suspicion don’t make a proof”, a Delhi court quoted from Russian classic Fyodor Dostoyevsky’s Crime and Punishment, while exonerating two persons from the charge of attempt to murder in a north-east Delhi riots case.Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat questioned the police’s case as to how the offence of attempt to murder can be made out against accused Imran and Babu, when the victim himself is absent from the police investigation and has never been seen by the police.The duo was arrested for allegedly shooting and injuring a man named Rahul during the riots in Welcome area on February 25, 2020.“The gunshot injury is stated to be caused to Rahul but where is he? His statement is not on record... So by the time, police arrived at the hospital, the alleged victim Rahul had vanished. It is not as if Rahul gave any initial statement and then vanished. The state is categorical in saying that the police never saw Rahul. That being the case, who is going to say who shot whom and by whom and where? The alleged victim has never been seen by the police. He has never given any statement about any gunshot injury or about any mob/rioters. So how is Section 307 IPC made out against the accused persons when the victim is absent from even the police investigation? How is the gunshot injury established? There is no murmur of that,” the judge said.Rawat also said the charges under the Arms Act are also “superfluous” as no case was made out under those sections. “With the case of the prosecution as it is, Section 307 IPC (attempt to murder) is out of bounds. With nothing in the charge sheet to dig in, no case under Section 307 IPC is made out and there is no ground for presuming that these two accused persons have committed the offence of attempt to murder as defined under Section 307 IPC,” the judge said.The court said presumption cannot be stretched to take the shape of proof.“(Fyodor) Dostoevsky in ‘Crime and Punishment’ says “From a hundred rabbits you can’t make a horse, a hundred suspicion don’t make a proof”. Thus, both the accused persons are discharged of the offences under Section 307 IPC & Arms Act,” he said in the order passed on March 1.He further said the police have, after long investigation, concluded that Rahul had given a wrong address and a wrong mobile phone number in his medico legal case (MLC).It said there was only one police witness, constable Pushkar, but even he did not make any direct or even tangential reference to the firing by rioters or gunshot injury caused to alleged victim Rahul.Rawat, however, said there was grounds for presuming that both the accused persons have committed the offences of unlawful assembly and rioting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-case-a-hundred-suspicions-not-proof-says-court-101614731131856.html
03-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: Court takes cognisance of sedition charges against 18||A Delhi court on Tuesday took cognisance of the offences of sedition, promoting enmity between religious groups and criminal conspiracy against 18 persons accused of allegedly orchestrating the north-east Delhi riots, saying that the requisite sanction under criminal procedure code has been received from the authorities.Under section 196 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), the investigating agency has to take prior sanction from the state government to prosecute any individual for sedition.Earlier, the court took cognizance of offences registered under stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), rioting, murder, unlawful assembly, disappearance of evidences, detailed in two separate charge sheets. But the court did not take cognizance of sedition charges for lack of proper sanction.At least 53 persons were killed and 581 injured in the riots last year, which was allegedly triggered by a clash between supporters of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and those opposing it. It later snowballed into a communal riot that raged between February 23 and 27.The special cell is probing the role of several prominent anti-CAA protesters in allegedly orchestrating the riots. The police have claimed that the riots were not spontaneous but planned by several persons, including student leaders.The arrested persons have denied the allegations and accused the police of launching a witch hunt against prominent anti-government faces.The main charge sheet was filed in September against Pinjra Tod members and JNU students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal, Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha and student activist Gulfisha Fatima, former Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan, Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, Meeran Haider and Shifa-Ur-Rehman, suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain, activist Khalid Saifi, Shadab Ahmed, Tasleem Ahmed, Salim Malik, Mohd Salim Khan and Athar Khan.In the first supplementary charge sheet, the police invoked same charges against Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam, and Faizan Khan.During the hearing, Umar Khalid told the court that no court had convicted him still one of the newspapers had carried photos of him along with other accused declaring them convicts for orchestrating the riots. He also said that media leaks are happening again and again and is putting the accused in a vulnerable position in the jail“No court has convicted me. Excerpts from the charge sheets have been published and it is happening again and again. It paints us at guilty and not accused and makes s us vulnerable in the jail,” Khalid said.Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat, while taking cognizance of the second supplementary charge sheet in the case, also cautioned the media to be careful and objective in its approach. “It is one thing to report generally about the charge-sheet but quite another to reproduce it as it is and thus, obviously, the question of leakage would arise. This is grossly unfair and unjustified and the court expects that it would not occur in future,” the court said.The court also rejected a plea by advocate Adit Pujari, Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, who demanded that a copy of the charge sheet should be supplied to him even before the cognizance is taken as it has already been leaked to the media.It also said that even though guidelines for reporting cannot be laid, but at least a disclaimer should be given whether it is the version of the police or the accused instead of portraying it as an order of the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-court-takes-cognisance-of-sedition-charges-against-18-101614730909524.html
03-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt okays ₹185 crore for child welfare, scholarship programme||The Delhi cabinet on Tuesday approved ₹185 crore for several child welfare schemes.In a statement issued later, the Delhi government said the funds have been allocated for scholarships to SC/ST/OBC communities, Ladli Scheme, aid and equipment for children with special needs and for augmentation of library infrastructure in Delhi government schools.“The cabinet approved ₹100 crore for the Ladli Scheme that would benefit school-going girls,” the statement said. The Ladli Scheme, implemented by the Department of Women and Child Development in 2008, aims at promoting education among girls, reducing their drop-out rate, and providing financial security to families of girl child.The cabinet has also decided to release ₹75.98 crore under different scholarship schemes for the benefit of SC/ST/OBC students. These scholarship schemes include pre-matric and post-matric scholarships, and merit scholarships for SC/ST/OBC/minority students from Class 1 to 12.To ensure education is accessible and inclusive, the Delhi Cabinet has also approved ₹2 crore for children with special needs and children with disabilities.”Under the Talent Promotion Scheme, money will be given to the inclusive education branch of the directorate of education so that government schools can acquire equipment/aids and support services for developing the talent of children with special needs,” the government said.The directorate of education has also been given approval by the cabinet to procure 4,178 steel almirahs, at a cost of ₹7.2 crore, in order to improve their library infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-okays-rs-185-crore-for-child-welfare-scholarship-programme-101614730507369.html
03-03-2021||Delhi||Private hospitals account for 74% of vaccines given on Day 2 of drive||With the Covid-19 vaccination drive being extended to senior citizens and those aged over 45 years with comorbidities, inoculation centres in private hospitals across Delhi are seeing more rush than government facilities. Private hospitals charge up to ₹250 per shot while the vaccines are administered for free at government sites.Of the 11,655 such persons who received the jab on Tuesday, 74% went to centres in private hospitals, according to government data. The government hospitals immunised 3,063 such persons on Tuesday.Officials said this could also be because a majority of vaccination sites in the national capital are in private hospitals — of the 308 vaccination sites in Delhi, 136 are in private hospitals while only 56 are in government hospitals.“Many elderly people choose to go to private hospitals because they think they will get better services there. They worry that queues would be longer in government hospitals, but that is not the case. The whole point of online registrations is to ensure that there aren’t too many people at any given site,” said a senior district official, requesting anonymity.Many senior citizens were seen gathered outside the vaccination centres in private hospitals even after 5pm.At Max Hospital in Saket, a group of senior citizens was seen banging on the doors of the vaccination centre, insisting that they be inoculated even though the hospital had closed the drive for the day.“We came here around 3pm but were told that due to the rush, our turn won’t come before 5pm. Now when we have returned at 5pm, they have closed the doors,” said Anita Kapur, 65, who had come from Noida to get the shot.An official at the hospital said the rush was unprecedented over the past two days. As many as 490 persons were vaccinated at the hospital on Tuesday.“We could have covered over 600 persons had the Co-WIN app been working properly. We had to manually enter the data of persons throughout the day since the server was down,” the official said.At Jasola’s Apollo Hospitals, 280 persons were vaccinated on Tuesday. Among them was Vinod Chawala, 74, who said he chose a private hospital because of the hassle-free process. “I had registered on the app on Monday and got an appointment for Tuesday. Besides, the vaccine charges are affordable. Had it been too expensive in private hospitals, I would have chosen a government facility to avail of a free shot,” he said.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageSome senior citizens said the government needs to create more awareness about the vaccine availability in public hospitals. “A major reason why people are choosing private hospitals is because they are not confident about the safety of the vaccine available in government facilities. They don’t know if vaccines at both sites are equally safe. The government needs to create more awareness about this; otherwise, beneficiaries will continue to throng private hospitals,” said Abha Sardana, 70, who took her first vaccine shot at Apollo Hospitals.In comparison, there were around 40 people waiting to get the shot outside the five vaccination sites at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at 4.30pm. All of them were in the waiting area, maintaining proper social distancing in the spacious area arranged for recipients on the eighth floor of the new OPD building.“There was some rush around midday. Even then, it just takes about 1 hour – including the 30-minute waiting time – for a person to get done with. When there is no rush, it takes barely 40 minutes. With the new OPD block, we are able to ensure that social distancing is maintained even during peak hours,” said a nursing orderly on duty at one of the sites, who did not want to be named.Around 100 elderly and comorbid persons were immunised at the five sites on Tuesday.Across the road, at Safdarjung Hospital, too, the vaccination site seemed relatively empty. Most of the persons were at the centre were either hospital or government employees.“We are getting more health-care and front-line workers in government hospitals because they do not want to pay for the jabs. Now that the drive for them is over, they are not given priority,” said a senior district official, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/private-hospitals-account-for-74-of-vaccines-given-on-day-2-of-drive-101614729650301.html
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Covid cases in Chandigarh jumped by 85% in last week of February||Recording a whopping 85% jump between the third and fourth week of February, Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh continue to show an upward trend.With the surge, the percentage of active cases in the last two weeks also reached 2%, which had dropped to 0.8% in early February.Though the level of testing has increased, it is disproportionate with the number of fresh cases, leading to doubling of the positivity rate.At a time when UT had reported around 130 cases, the testing levels were above 8,000. But now, when the number of cases has almost tripled, the testing numbers remain around 11,000 only.Despite the fact that the vaccination drive has opened up for civilians and the online registration system is starting to get a good response, the cases continue to surge.‘Best time to get jab’A senior official of the UT health department, not wishing to be named, said, “The vaccine has arrived at a time when the positivity rate is increasing and the infection spread is also widening. This is the best time to get the jab and we should inoculate as many people as possible.”The surge in cases, if continues, is also worrying as the majority of health workers in Chandigarh have not been inoculated. The coverage of persons who have received at least one shot of the vaccine remains below 50%.“The vaccine can generate protection in six weeks after both doses have been taken. So, if the cases continue to grow at this speed, we may see more infection cases in the coming months. It is worrisome because a lot of health workers have not been inoculated,” another official, wishing anonymity, said.Dr VK Nagpal, joint director, UT health department, said that the number of cases was largely increasing due to increased mobility and people not adhering to safety precautions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-cases-in-chandigarh-jumped-by-85-in-last-week-of-february-101614720570355.html
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||External developmental charges in Panchkula slashed||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday announced a one-third reduction in external development charges (EDC), licence fee for real estate developers, conversion charges and state infrastructure development charges (SIDC) for Panchkula district to ensure that the rates were at par with Mohali and Zirakpur.Addressing media persons here, Khattar said that the reduction was aimed at wooing real estate developers to invest in Panchkula district.“We can shape Panchkula the same way as Gurugram,” Khattar said.The EDC is levied on external development works like water supply, sewerage, drains, provisions of treatment and disposal of sewage, sullage and storm water, roads, electrical works, solid waste management and disposal, slaughterhouses, colleges, hospitals, stadium/sports complex, fire stations, grid sub-stations in a colony or area.The SIDC on the other hand is imposed in case of major highways, metro rail, big canals and such major infrastructure projects involving more than one urban estate.Khattar said the decision to bring down these charges at par with Mohali and Zirakpur had been taken to develop Panchkula as a smart city, a tourist destination and an education hub.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/external-developmental-charges-in-panchkula-slashed-101614719909703.html
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Journalist, realtor arrested for torturing man to usurp his Chandigarh house||Probing into the gruesome kidnapping and torture of a 48-year-old man, the only surviving heir of his family, the police on Tuesday arrested a journalist and a property dealer, who usurped his Sector-37 house and sold it illegally for ₹2.9 crore in March 2019.The journalist, Sanjeev Mahajan, who has been terminated by the leading Hindi newspaper that he worked for, and realtor Manish Gupta, pulled all stops with the help of the brother of a Chandigarh DSP, a bouncer, a liquor contractor and multiple property dealers to grab the 338 square yards house and sell it to Gupta’s brother Saurabh Gupta, said investigators.The ordeal of the victim, Rahul Mehta, started in April 2017 when he was illegally confined in his house, and forcibly made to transfer the general power of attorney (GPA) to the main accused’s accomplices, and later abandoned at a stud farm in Gujarat.Over the past years, he was shifted to various ashrams and is now being taken care of at a similar institution in Delhi.The legal action in the matter came now following an anonymous complaint at one of the single window enquiries managed by the Chandigarh Police.Among the multiple accused named in the FIR are Sanjeev; Manish; Saurabh; businessman Khalendra Singh Kadyan and liquor contractor Arvind Singla, to whom the GPA was transferred; Satpal Dagar, the brother of UT DSP Ram Gopal, and slain bouncer Surjit Singh. “A special investigation team (SIT) has been constituted, comprising ASP Shruti Arora, Sector 31 SHO police station Narinder Patial and Burail police post in-charge sub-inspector Om Prakash, to probe the case. No one will be spared,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh.“Names of other police officials have also cropped up and their role is being investigated,” he added.Victim tortured to transfer GPAAs per the preliminary inquiry, conducted by deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Devinder Kumar Sharma, Rahul was the sole heir of House Number 340 in Sector 37-A, since his parents and brother had died.Facing multiple health issues, Rahul was living alone in the house, when Sanjeev and Manish conspired to grab the property.“They confined him in a room of the house and tortured him for over a month. They got the GPA of the house transferred to Arvind and Khalinder, which authorised them to transfer the ownership of the property,” said assistant superintendent of police (ASP, South), Shruti Arora. Abandoned at stud farm in Gujarat Police investigations found out that between June-July 2017, Surjit dropped off Rahul at a stud farm, owned by one Abdul Karim, in Bhuj, Gujarat.According to Abdul, Surjit, who was shot dead in March 2020, had told him that Rahul was homeless and needed a place to stay. When Surjit did not return for a long time, Abdul sent Rahul to Manavjoth Ram Dev Seva Ashram in Bhuj.In March 2018, Rahul was taken to Kajrat Foundation in Maharashtra and from there, further to Apna Ghar Ashram in Bharatpur, Rajasthan, and its branch in New Delhi, where he is now lodged.Police said while Rahul was at Bharatpur, the accused sold the house to Saurabh in March 2019. “They executed a sale deed in favour of Saurabh by presenting a proxy of Rahul before the sub-registrar, Estate Office, Chandigarh,” the ASP added.All accused are facing charges under Sections 452 (house-trespass), 331 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt to extort confession, or to compel restoration of property), 365 (kidnapping), 386 (extortion), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 477 (fraudulent cancellation, destruction, etc., of will, authori¬ty to adopt, or valuable security) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. The arrested duo were produced before a court on Tuesday and sent to police custody till March 5.SOLITARY HEIR’S NIGHTMAREApril 2017: Accused confine Rahul Mehta, only heir of his family, in his 338 square yards house and illegally occupy the property. Torture him and forcibly ready GPA in favour of liquor contractor Arvind Singla and businessman Khalinder Singh KadianJune-July 2017: Abandon victim at a stud farm in Bhuj, GujaratMarch 2018-till date: Victim shifted to multiple institutions between Maharashtra, Rajasthan and New Delhi, where he is now living at an ashramMarch 1, 2019: Sale deed of the property prepared in the name of Sourabh Gupta, brother of realtor Manish Gupta, and house sold for ₹2.9 croreMarch 2, 2021: Journalist Sanjeev Mahajan and Manish arrested by the police following an anonymous tip.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/journalist-realtor-arrested-for-torturing-man-to-usurp-his-chandigarh-house-101614718649654.html
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Debate on guv’s address: Cong, SAD MLAs spar over farm laws||Chandigarh The legislators of the ruling Congress and the opposition — Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) — sparred over three central farm laws, during the debate on governor’s address on the second day of the budget session on Tuesday. They accused one another of doing little to help the farmers and playing into the hands of the Centre for personal interests. Congress legislator Kuljit Nagra said the farmer agitation has come under international gaze only because of the Amarinder-led Punjab government prepared the ground for the agitation. “When the farmers wanted to block rail tracks, the state government did not pressure them not to do so. When they took over toll-plazas, no action was taken because our government knew that these laws will prove death warrants for the farmers,” said Nagra. On SAD, the Congress MLA said Akalis did exactly the opposite as when the Centre promulgated the ordinances, the then Union minister, Harsimrat Kaur Badal, could not red-flag the BJP. “To date, the SAD couldn’t show anything to prove behanji’s (Harsimrat) dissent to the ordinances in the Union cabinet meeting. They all joined the agitation after entire Punjab rallied behind the farmers,” said Nagra, amid shouting by the Akali MLAs. The SAD leader in the House, Sharanjeet Singh Dhillon, objected to Nagra’s accusation against the party. “The reality was that our alliance partner BJP ended up being dishonest. When the laws were being framed, they kept on telling us that when these laws will be passed in Parliament, they will do whatever amendments are required. But they did not and ditched us,” said Dhillon, whose statement earned strong reactions from the Congress benches. Hayer targets Congress AAP legislator Meet Hayer, took point of order from the deputy speaker, and said the Congress should also reply on the accusation by the Centre that chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh was the member of the high-powered group that had backed the need for these farm laws. “SAD, BJP are equally responsible for the laws. But the Congress should also reply if Amarinder was not part of the meeting. Why your MPs did not storm the well of the House the day Union minister of state for agriculture had made a statement in the Parliament?” said Hayer. Nagra hit back by saying that the Centre has already disclosed proceedings of meetings of group of chief ministers and it’s before the public now. “Amarinder was never part of such meetings and the media has already reported it. The AAP member should read newspapers properly before initiating a debate,” Nagra said. Congress MLA Kushaldeep Dhillon accused the SAD of ruining the image of five-time chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, who had fought for farmer throughout his life. “Everybody knows that the SAD backed these laws for six months. In fact, the SAD leaders got so desperate to save the Union ministry of biba ji (Harsimrat) that they even pressured Parkash Singh Badal to upload a video in support of the laws,” said Dhillon. Majithia, Gill in verbal duelFormer minister and senior Speaker Rana Kanwarpal Singh leader Bikram Singh Majithia and Congress MLA from Patti Harminder Singh Gill entered into a verbal spat in the House when the latter alleged that former’s great-grandfather Sunder Singh Majthia had supported Mahant Narain Das during the Nankana Sahib massacre in 1921. Hitting back, Majithia alleged Gill had links with police officer Ajit Singh Sandhu, known for killing innocent Sikh youths in police encounters during militancy. Majitha also addressed Gill with some other remarks which were expunged by the speaker. Speaker Rana Kanwar Pal Singh has to repeatedly intervene to calm down both the members with requests to not get personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/debate-on-guv-s-address-cong-sad-mlas-spar-over-farm-laws-101614716492654.html
03-03-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s single-day Covid count breaches 100-mark after 83 days||In an alarming development, as many as 115 cases of Covid-19 were detected in the district in 24 hours, health officials said on Tuesday. It was after 83 days that the infections reached a three-digit figure. On December 6, the district had recorded 135 Covid-19 cases.With this, the district has also recorded its biggest single-day spike of the year, surpassing the 81 cases recorded on February 23. 1 student, 5 teachers among those infectedIn more bad news from schools, a student and five teachers tested positive for the virus. Those infected include a primary school student from Peeru Banda Colony in Salem Tabri, a teacher from Khalsa College Sudhar, a teacher from Government Primary School, Giaspura, a teacher from Sacred Heart Convent School, Samrala, a teacher from Government Senior Secondary Smart School, Payal, and another teacher from Devi Bhrava School in Salem Tabri. All six cases are the first in their respective schools.The district’s case tally has now reached 27,295, of which 25,635 have recovered while 1,030 have succumbed to the virus. The district currently has 630 active cases. 57% rise in vaccination among elderlyAs many as 1, 757 people received the Covid-19 vaccine on Tuesday. Of these, 619 were senior citizens who were part of the third phase of the district’s vaccination drive. On the second day of third phase, there was a 57% rise in vaccinations among elderly as compared to the first day when 353 had received the vaccine shots. Similarly, with 278 receiving the jabs, there was a 45% rise in vaccinations among persons aged between 45 and 59, having co-morbid conditions. On Monday, 126 persons of this age group were vaccinated.As many as 328 health workers and 149 frontline warriors also got the first jab while 383 healthcare workers received the second jab.According to district immunisation officer Dr Kiran Ahluwalia, none of the beneficiaries developed any adverse effect after receiving the jabs.She said that out of the 1, 757, as many as 1, 068 vaccines were administered at private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-single-day-covid-count-breaches-100-mark-after-83-days-101614716489566.html
03-03-2021||Other||Covid infections saw 75% jump in February||With 997 Covid cases in January and 1, 319 in February, Ludhiana saw a 75% jump in infections within a month, data released by the district health department shows.The Covid mortality rate, however, saw a dip with 36 fatalities in January and 29 in February. Of the total fatalities in January, as many as 26 were males and eight were females, while in February, 23 were males and six were females. The data also showed that of the total deaths in January, as many as 25 were from urban cities, three were from urban blocks, and eight were from rural areas.Similarly, out of the 29 deaths reported in February, 18 were from urban cities, two from urban block and nine from rural areas. The data further showed that the virus cases were more severe in those above the age of 60. “In January, 24 people who lost their lives were above the age of 60 while in February, 21 persons (38%) who died were above the age of 60,” said civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar. On the other hand, six persons less than the age of 50 died in January, while one death in this age group was reported in February. As many as 13 patients in the age bracket of 50 and 60 years died in two months. Of the total 65 fatalities in both months, 56 had at least one co-morbid condition, including hypertension, diabetes mellitus, chronic kidney disease, coronary artery disease. Only three patients died due to some other ailment. The report was compiled to find out the vulnerable group of patients and the measures that need to be taken to prevent more infections The civil surgeon said, “Early treatment is early cure. In majority of the fatalities, it was noticed that patients were rushed to the hospital in a serious condition and on being tested, they were found to be suffering from Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-infections-saw-75-jump-in-february-101614716129456.html
03-03-2021||Other||Barbs fly in HP House over suspension of 5 Cong MLAs||Himachal Pradesh assembly on Tuesday saw the members of ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and opposition Congress trading barbs over the suspension of five legislators, including leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri.Congress’ Nadaun MLA Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu raised a point of orders soon after the House assembled. He said if suspension is not revoked, the opposition will not allow the House to function. Sukhu said parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj and deputy speaker had pushed the opposition members, which led to provocation. “We are being held responsible without any fault of ours,” he said while asking to play the video clippings of the incident in Vidhan Sabha . He asked the speaker to give his ruling. Sukhu said the ruling party should have taken the opposition into confidence that the governor will cut short his address due to his poor health. Urban development and law minister Suresh Bhardwaj said it was the discretion of the governor whether to read the full address or not. He said the entire episode of the opening day and opposition’s protest has been recorded in CCTVs. He said opposition members attacked the governor’s ADC and further stopped him from coming out of his car. Saying that suspension of MLAs wasn’t something new, Bhardwaj said, “Many things are resolved through dialogue. The Congress should not twist the facts.”Senior Congress leader and Dalhousie MLA Asha Kumari drew the attention of the House towards how the Vidhan Sabha secretariat ‘broke the tradition’ and opposition members were not invited for tea with governor. The Speaker allowed deputy speaker Hansraj to speak in the house as he wanted to clarify his position on the incident, however the opposition did not allow him to speak, saying that he himself was guilty of manhandling. This led to sloganeering and counter sloganeering. Congress legislator Vikramaditya Singh walked towards the well and had sharp exchanges with deputy speaker, which flared up tempers of the ruling legislators. The opposition walked out and later returned to the House. CM Jai Ram Thakur, while rebutting the allegations of the opposition, said no one is above the law. He said the entire cabinet and the BJP MLAs had gone to Raj Bhavan to apologise to the governor. The entire episode was utterly shameful, but the opposition is not ashamed, he added. Calling the ‘manhandling’ unbearable and unpardonable, Jai Ram added that there could not be any other incident more embarrassing than this in the history of Himachal. He said the deputy speaker was being singled out inside and outside the House repeatedly. “He can’t be denied to speak. If he wants to say anything, it’s his right,” the CM said, while terming the objectionable remarks made against the deputy speaker unfortunate and intolerable. Later, amid the opposition din, Speaker Vipin Parmar announced the commencement of the question hour. Question Hour: ‘Defaulters owe ₹434 crore to power board’Defaulters owe a sum of ₹ 424.34 crore to the Himachal Pradesh electricity board as on January 31, 2021, said power minister Sukh Ram Chaudhary while responding to a question tabled in the House. In a written reply to the question raised by Dalhousie MLA, Chaudhary said ₹ 365.56 crore is due from the current consumers and ₹ 58.78 crore from the permanently disconnected consumers. Among the defaulters are 180 hoteliers, it was informed. Jai Ram presents ₹9,125-cr supplementary demandsJai Ram Thakur on Tuesday presented the supplementary demands for grant worth ₹9,125.12 crore in the House for the year 2020-21.Out of the total demands, ₹8,448 crore is under non-plan schemes, ₹280.84 crore under plan schemes and ₹ 396.11 crore under the centrally sponsored schemes.Jai Ram said under the non-plan expenditure, ₹7,999.57 crore has been provided for ways and means advance.“Relief was provided to every section of the society and now, the state is coming out of economic recession,” he added.He said major chunk of the grant under the plan schemes will go to health and family welfare department, World Bank-aided horticulture development project and to provide additional subsidy.Under centrally sponsored schemes, he said, supplementary demand is proposed for funding ongoing or new schemes.Prominent among these are Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojana, smart city mission, loan to credit co-operatives, social security pension, and World Bank-assisted project for skill strengthening for industrial programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/barbs-fly-in-hp-house-over-suspension-of-5-cong-mlas-101614715769461.html
03-03-2021||Other||Create extra seat for MBBS aspirant: HC to Dadra and Nagar Haveli administration||Observing that the Covid-19 pandemic had claimed a lot of doctors and the doctors’ pool needed to be replenished fast, the Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Dadra and Nagar Haveli administration to create an additional seat for a meritorious student who did not get an admission to MBBS course. The petitioner, who had scored 96 percentile (559 marks) in National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) approached HC after finding that another student, having scored as low as 219 marks in NEET, had got admission, while she was refused a seat because of lack of clear guidelines in the admission brochure about unfilled seats that were reverted through all-India quota (AIQ) to state quota. The student had claimed that rather than merit, the Union territory (UT) had given admissions during the mop-up round as per priority list based on domicile, which was unfair to her. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the petition filed by Silvassa resident Annu Sinsinwar, was informed by senior advocate Anil Anturkar that though the student had secured a high percentile, she was refused admission to the only medical college started in Silvassa in 2019. Anturkar submitted that though Sinsinwar was domiciled in UT of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and had completed her secondary education in Silvassa, she had pursued her higher secondary education (Class 11 and Class 12) in Rajasthan. He submitted that as a result of this, the student had been deemed ineligible for admission to MBBS course based on the first three priorities stipulated in the admission brochure for academic year 2020-21. It was also submitted that after the completion of the regular admission process, which included admission under AIQ, four seats had been reverted as they remained unfilled. As Sinsinwar had failed to get admission in AIQ through the reserved quota, she sought admission based on merit to the four reverted seats. However, as there was no prescribed mode to dispose of reverted seats in the admission brochure, UT had included the four seats in its quota and allotted it based on the three priorities. Anturkar argued that while it was expected that as per clause 5 (5) of Regulations on Graduate Medical Education, 1997, of the Medical Council of India the UT should have filled up the four seats solely on merit, but as they did not do so, the efforts of the student would be wasted. and hence the court should direct UT administration to accommodate her. Advocate Sunny Punamiya, for the four students who were allotted the reverted seats, submitted that they were not at fault and cancelling their admission would result in hardships, and hence the court should consider their interest too while passing orders. After hearing the submissions, the bench observed, “We may observe that the case in hand stands peculiarly and in such situation, interest of justice would imminently require that the petitioner be accommodated without disturbing the admissions of respondents. The court, in such a situation, would also take into consideration such equitable circumstances so as not to disturb the educational interest of the students.” In light of these observations, HC directed the authorities to admit Sinsinwar forthwith, by creating an additional seat in the first year of MBBS course, while keeping intact the admission of the fourth student. In a separate addendum to the judgment, the chief justice observed, “It is rather painful when a candidate scoring as low as 219 marks in NEET obtains an admission in MBBS course because of a quota for the Coast Guards – with which I have no qualm – whereas a candidate like the petitioner, scoring as high as 559 marks in the same qualifying examination, is left high and dry and suffers for no fault on her part compelling her to seek judicial intervention.” While observing that there was no explanation from the authorities as to why the admission brochure did not have guidelines for allotment of reverted seats, he noted, “The admission process suffers from a serious taint and if such tainted admission process is saved, the rule of merit would be compromised which, in turn, would frustrate the labour of meritorious students like the petitioner, apart from develop in them of a sense of aversion to the concept of qualifying examinations.” He concluded that as Covid-19 had taken away from the society a number of reputed doctors, the pool of doctors had to be replenished fast. “If meritorious students desirous of becoming doctors are not encouraged in such challenging times, it would amount to a grave disservice to the society,” said justice Datta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/create-extra-seat-for-mbbs-aspirant-hc-to-dadra-and-nagar-haveli-administration-101614715710365.html
03-03-2021||Other||Rift in J&K Cong: Group protests against Azad, another supports him||All is not well in the Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee as one faction has raised a banner of revolt against senior leader Ghulam Nabi Azad for praising the Prime Minister, while two other members — Gourav Chopra and Anil Kohli — on Tuesday extended support to the former Rajya Sabha MP. Led by JKPCC general secretary Shahnawaz Choudhary, party workers earlier in the day burnt Azad’s effigy and staged a protest against him outside the Jammu Press Club, while those from the Youth Congress and the NSUI sought his removal from the party.Choudhary accused Azad of weakening the Congress and acting at the behest of PM Narendra Modi.“While the Congress held him in high esteem, made him a member of the Rajya Sabha and chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, he heaped praise on the PM and forged friendship with the BJP,” he said.He regretted that Azad didn’t come to J&K for the district development council election campaigning, but was here for G-23 summit and praised PM Modi.However, few hours later, general secretary of the Jammu District Congress Committee (Urban) Kohli and JKPCC executive committee member Chopra staged another protest against Choudhary. “Shahnawaz Choudhary is the same person, who fought against party candidate Akram Choudhary as an independent candidate in the DDC polls and won. How could he be a member of the party?” asked Chopra. Kohli said, “This man has tried to malign the image of a leader like Azad, whose name is synonymous with the Congress in Jammu and Kashmir and in the country. We can never tolerate this insult of Azad sahib.” “Youth Congress leaders like Aijaz Choudhary and Jitender Singh Chib, along with Shahnawaz Choudhary, should be immediately shown the door. They are playing into the hands of the BJP and the RSS. They are trying to split the Congress,” Chopra claimed. JKPCC president Ghulam Ahmad Mir, meanwhile, said, “The Congress is a very big party and every individual analyses things as per his/her understanding. He is certainly general secretary of the JKPCC, but in democracy everyone has the right to express opinion or resentment.”It’s pertinent to mention here that a local English daily has quoted Mir as saying in Delhi that “what happened on February 27 (G-23 summit in Jammu) shouldn’t have happened. There was still some hope that Azad Sahib was speaking for J&K’s people, but he quashed all hopes on February 28 by praising the PM. I’m here for a routine meeting and haven’t spoken to the party high command about Azad sahib yet”. On Sunday, Azad had asked the audience to learn from PM Modi about how one remains grounded to his roots. Azad’s comments had come a day after G-23 leaders held a well-attended public rally here. On February 9, the PM had given an emotional farewell speech to Azad when the latter had retired from the Rajya Sabha. “I (will) not let you retire, I will continue taking your advice. My doors are always open for you,” Modi had said. Addressing a function of Gujjar community here on Sunday, Azad had said, “Our PM also says that he is from village and was nothing (non-entity) and that he washed utensils and sold tea. Politically, we may have serious differences and are opposed to him but he didn’t hide his true self. And, those who hide their true selves, they live in a bubble… in an imaginary world. People should be proud of their roots.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rift-in-j-k-cong-group-protests-against-azad-another-supports-him-101614715709295.html
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to reserve 75% jobs in private sector for locals||After sitting on it for close to four months, Haryana governor Satydeo Narain Arya on Tuesday gave assent to the bill providing 75% reservation in private sector to state job seekers who have a domicile certificate. The quota will apply for 10 years. The assembly had late last year passed the bill, a key poll promise made by the ruling alliance partner Jannayak Janta Party. “The governor today gave his assent to the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020, providing quota for local people in private sector jobs that offer a salary of less than ₹50,000 a month,” chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar told reporters here. A near-similar ordinance approved by the cabinet in July last was reserved by the governor for the consideration of the President. Though the ordinance was withdrawn by the cabinet in October last, the Union labour and employment ministry which examined the ordinance had advised the state government against enacting such a law. The state government though did no heed to the advice. Legal experts said the new law was in contravention of the Constitution and will not withstand judicial scrutiny. While tabling the bill in the assembly, the government modified its section 23, a provision which gave it an overriding effect over any other law, a broad provision having the potential to be repugnant to an Act of the Parliament. Section 23 in the bill was modified to provide overriding effect on any other state law. However, issues raised by the law and legislative secretary during the vetting of the proposed law still holds good, experts said. The clause providing for preference in jobs to the local candidates domiciled in Haryana, experts said, was in contravention of Article 14 of the Constitution pertaining to equality before the law and Article 19 (1)(g) which provides for protection of certain rights to practice any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade or business. The private sector job quota move was piloted by deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala’s JJP. The controversial piece of legislation did not find much support from the BJP quarters initially. In fact, CM Khattar had once sounded non-committal on the prospect of enacting such a law. Sources said since the BJP government at the Centre has a very different view on the matter, it was surprising how the governor assented to the bill. As per the statement of objects and reasons of the bill, giving preference to local candidates in low-paid jobs is socially, economically and environmentally desirable and any such preference would be in the interests of the general public. “The bill will provide tremendous benefits to the private employers directly or indirectly through qualified and trained local work force. Availability of suitable workforce locally would enhance the efficiency of Industry as the workforce is one of the major components for the development of any industrial organisation,’’ it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-reserve-75-jobs-in-private-sector-for-locals-101614715649472.html
03-03-2021||Other||Covid-19 vaccination drive turnout improving in Maharashtra||The second day of the Phase 3 of vaccination witnessed a huge turnout of the masses, with a total of 33,044 people were vaccinated on Tuesday. Of these, 12,299 were citizens above 60 years, while 3,812 were in the age group of 45-60 with comorbidities. Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director of medical education and research (DMER), said the number of vaccination centres and beneficiaries will increase in the coming days. “We are seeing a good response from the citizens. In the coming days, we will open additional centres, as well as increase the number of beneficiaries,” said Dr Lahane. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that there was lot of enthusiasm among the citizens to get themselves vaccinated. “Seeing the enthusiasm, we will open additional centres. I would like to appeal to the people that instead of walking- in, it would be better if they register online so that they can save time. In the coming days, online registration would be given preference,” said Kakani. Many of the vaccination centres witnessed serpentine queues of senior citizens, resulting in chaos. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) was able to control the situation but many complained of the lack of proper planning in executing the vaccination drive. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said the vaccination drive was a total chaos. “The three authorities — Centre, the state government and BMC — have failed to adequately plan and flawlessly execute something as important as vaccination in the middle of the pandemic. The entire process is a big mess, and technology, which was supposed to make life easier, is in fact making it difficult,” said AAP leader Preeti Sharma Menon. Till now, 1,266,108 beneficiaries have been administered vaccines in the state. Of these, 6,507 healthcare workers have received the second dose. On Tuesday, the state recorded 7,863 cases against 6,397 infections recorded on Monday. The tally now stands at 2,169,330. Authorities said the surge in cases is owing to the rise in tests. On Tuesday, 75,521 tests were conducted, against the 61,746 tests a day before. The total number of active cases in the state stood at 79,093, with Pune leading the list with 15,872 cases, followed by Nagpur (9,926) and Thane (8,366). After Mumbai recorded 849 new cases, its tally of active cases tal surged to 8,217. Amravati, which is under lockdown, saw a marginal dip of active cases to 6,491 from Monday’s 6,497. “We are witnessing a dip in cases in the rural parts of the state and this is indicative in the figures of Monday and Tuesday,” said Dr Lahane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-vaccination-drive-turnout-improving-in-maharashtra-101614715049279.html
03-03-2021||Mumbai||Centre nod for 29 more private hospitals from Mumbai to start vaccination||To speed up the third phase of the nation-wide mass immunization programme, the centre on Tuesday approved 29 private hospitals to inoculate senior citizens above 60 years and those above 45 years with co-morbidities. This list includes three private hospitals which the civic body had already selected on Sunday to start the vaccination programme on March 1. Among the 26 new names are most major hospitals—Hinduja, Lilavati, Jaslok, Kokilaben, Bombay, SL Raheja, Global, Nanavati, Saifee hospital.On Friday, the central government issued guidelines for the third phase of the mass immunization programme. As per the rules, only private hospitals empaneled under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana (MJPJAY) and Central Government Health Schemes (CGHS) were allowed to conduct their third phase in their premises. This disqualified all major private hospitals that come under the umbrella of charitable hospitals for the vaccination. Following which, Dr Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary, public health department, Maharashtra, requested the central government to allow private hospitals with more than 200 beds and multispeciality facilities with the infrastructure for vaccination. In response to this, the union health ministry changed the earlier guidelines and approved 29 such private hospitals who aren’t empanelled under the government health schemes. This includes the already three selected hospitals—Doshi Hindu Sabha, KJ Somaiya and SRCC Children’s Hospital who have been conducting the vaccination from March 1. “It is a victorious day for us. Private hospitals are an essential part of the medical healthcare structure. All major hospitals have over 2,000 healthcare staff who can help expedite the process. During the peak of the pandemic, private hospitals played a major role in providing treatment to infected patients. I am happy that the government finally considered that,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, in-charge of Covid beds in private hospitals. Just like the present rules, probable beneficiaries will be able to pre-register on the Co-WIN app for an appointment-based vaccination or directly walk-in for vaccination.“This will give a huge boost to mass immunization. As soon as the state government releases the government resolution, we will start the process,” said Dr V Ravishankar, chief operating officer, Lilavati Hospital, Bandra.At present, these will be given a daily target of 100 vaccination. But doctors say that to expedite the vaccination, they need to increase the target to 300. “It is a welcome move. With this gradually, they have to boost up their daily vaccination to around 300. The faster we can vaccinate people, the faster we can develop herd immunity, breaking the chain of infection,” said Dr Deepak Baid, president of Association of Medical Consultant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/centre-nod-for-29-more-private-hospitals-from-mumbai-to-start-vaccination-101614714688644.html
03-03-2021||Other||45-year-old dies minutes after receiving second Covid-19 shot in Maharashtra||A 45-year-old private healthcare worker died after receiving the second dose of Covid-19 vaccination on Tuesday at Bhiwandi. Sukhdev Kirdat, who worked as a private doctor’s driver fell unconscious 20 minutes after he was administered the dose at Bhagyanagar vaccination centre. He was rushed to Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital but was declared dead. The incident caused panic among the other beneficiaries who were waiting for their turn at the centre. The officials of Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) claimed that the cause of death can be ascertained only after the post-mortem report is acquired. BNCMC medical health officer KR Kharat said,” The beneficiary came at the centre for the second dose and was fine before the vaccine. Twenty minutes after the vaccination, he fell unconscious while waiting at the observation room. His body has been sent to JJ hospital for post mortem. Experts will be studying the case and then submitting a report on what caused the death. Our staff had checked all his past records and his current health status. When he took the first dose, he was completely fine.” Following the incident, senior health officials from Thane also visited the centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/45yearold-dies-minutes-after-receiving-second-covid-19-shot-in-maharashtra-101614714629198.html
03-03-2021||Other||Mumbai colleges forced to go back to online mode as Covid-19 cases surge||Weeks after colleges began taking small steps towards the gradual reopening of their campuses, the rising Covid-19 cases in Mumbai has again postponed their plans of physical classes. A handful of institutes who had recently started physical practical sessions or scheduled a combination of online and offline preliminary exams for their final-year batches have now called-off all physical sessions and are continuing lectures only online. Despite no clear directions from the government, some colleges had chosen to restart practical sessions for their final-year students. “Our students were worried about not understanding important practical concepts online. So with the consent of their parents, we had started allowing 15-20 students to our laboratories each day for practical sessions,” said Hemlata Bagla, principal KC College, Churchgate. She said that the college for now has planned practical classes in a way that students have to sit through four-five back-to-back lectures so they do not need to come back to the campus for a physical class anytime soon. However, the originally scheduled preliminary exams for their final-year students, starting on Wednesday, will now only be held in the online mode, added Bagla. A college in the suburbs had informed its students to start attending physical classes in batches of not more than 20-25, but the move has now been put on hold. “We had also received consent forms of parents, but the current situation does not permit us to take any chances with the health or safety of our staff and students. For the time being, we are holding back our plans for physical reopening of colleges and will instead continue online classes itself,” said the principal of the college. In the first week of February, state education minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant had announced that colleges can reopen with not more than 50% attendance on campus at any given point of time. The University of Mumbai (MU) then issued a circular, asking colleges to approach the local civic authority or the collector’s office before restarting physical classes in a phased manner. The circular also shared the Covid-19 safety guidelines prescribed by the University Grants Commission (UGC) to ensure the safety of staff and students. On February 12, however, after a meeting between officials from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and MU, the civic officials directed the varsity to postpone the reopening of colleges by a week until February 22. Since then, owing to rising Covid-19 cases in the city and state, the education minister or the local civic authorities have not given any clear directions to colleges or the university about the status of reopening of colleges, forcing more colleges to start preparing for the next exam session only in online mode. “Last time [winter 2020 exam session], we had very little time to prepare, and colleges were asked to put together question papers in multiple choice questions (MCQs) format. But this time, we will try to incorporate more descriptive type questions along with MCQs in the papers. Whatever the decision of the university or the state education department, colleges are preparing for exams already,” said Marie Fernandes, principal of St Andrew’s College, Bandra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-colleges-forced-to-go-back-to-online-mode-as-covid-19-cases-surge-101614714329637.html
03-03-2021||Other||5 political decisions that helped Mumbai cope with Covid-19||The city reported its first two infections the same day that the World Health Organization (WHO) declared the Covid-19 outbreak a global pandemic. On March 11, 2020, Maharashtra had detected 68 patients of the coronavirus disease. A year on, more than 2.16 million people have been infected in the state, and of those, 327,619 are in Mumbai. The state authorities soon realised that Mumbai needed special measures to control the spread of the disease. Even today, the seven-day average of cases is at the worst since the end of November, though it still remains significantly below the peak of the first wave. As we stand at this juncture, a look at how we got here.Stopping the trainsFor 84 days, starting March 23, 2020 — two days before the national lockdown began —the city came to a standstill. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced that local suburban train network would stop from March 22 midnight as part of the restrictions on movement due to the coronavirus pandemic. The following day, the Centre announced that local train services will be stopped in Mumbai. This was unprecedented, if anything; even after the July 11, 2006 train bombings which claimed 209 lives, local services resumed within hours.It was only in July 2020 that trains — almost half the pre-lockdown numbers — began to ply; only essential services workers were allowed to travel by them. Railway stations also maintained a single entry and exit point, and the Railway Protection Force and Government Railway Police personnel kept a check on who arrived.“I think it was the right decision, given how crowded local trains in Mumbai get, and how low the uptake of masks was then. There was also no background immunity and continuing the operation of trains would have the potential of being a super-spreader mechanism,” said Dr Lancelot Pinto, a Mumbai-based epidemiologist, who is a consultant pulmonologist at PD Hinduja National Hospital. Much of the rise in case numbers now is being attributed to the resumption of train services for the general public since February 1. Yet this call showed was that it was possible to implement what could have well been the toughest decision for Mumbai.As the locals and outstations trains were suspended, the migrant population in the city started taking road transport. Most migrants also attempted to go to their home states and town on foot. By March end, Maharashtra government directed district authorities to stop the migrants, shift them to temporary shelters, and provide food and medical assistance.Decentralising powerSeveral municipal officials, irrespective of rank, realised that swift decision-making was vital to curb the spread of the disease. But, in a city of over 20 million people, how was this to be achieved? To that end, the BMC set up its first control room in June. Such control rooms, or war rooms, were opened in all the 24 wards of the city. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani, who is in charge of the civic health department, said that this decentralisation of power was key in helping the administration fight Covid-19.“Financial and administration powers were delegated to ward offices, various [hospital] deans and facility operators for the procurement of material, creation of infrastructure, etc. We provided 15 ambulances in each ward at their disposal, we gave a dedicated medical team for immediate medical intervention,” Kakani pointed out.Each war room had a team of 10-12 civic employees and doctors who would work in shifts to help people get ambulances, offer details on hospital bed availability and help people with the next course of action in case they tested positive. “A typical day in a ward room started with receiving the Covid test results at 7.30 am. Doctors on the team would inform the patient and tell them if they needed to be treated in a hospital or if they could opt for home isolation provided certain conditions were fulfilled,” a BMC official said. “The Mumbai strategy that worked was decentralisation of power. Each ward became a mini-Mumbai and each ward officer became like a local municipal commissioner. Strategies were common and overall response improved. Whether it was public hospital or private, protocols were clear—oxygen, supportive care, and steroid, along with aggressive comorbidity care. That was the game changer for Mumbai,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, endocrinologist and member, Maharashtra’s Covid Task Force.Bringing the experts inThe Maharashtra government constituted a nine-member panel of experts in April to advise them on how to handle the epidemic. This meant that administrative officers received continuous scientific inputs to enable them to make decisions while dealing with the crisis. The team, led by Dr Sanjay Oak, who was the dean of civic-run King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, was asked to suggest ways to reduce the death toll, recommend a drug protocol in treating critically-ill Covid-19 patients, establish a management protocol for serious and critically-ill Covid-19 patients, and suggest the healthcare support needed in Covid-dedicated hospitals, among other things. Besides the Covid task force, the state government also formed similar teams in 34 districts of the state.Former Additional Chief Secretary of Maharashtra Chandra Iyengar, who also handled the health department during her service in 2009, lauded the government’s move on setting up such a group and giving them a free hand to chalk out the road ahead. “The priority that was laid down and the approach was good [to set up a treatment protocol]. Given the largeness of the problem, there was no confusion. They have been clear in the approach. The government respected the task force that it set up and almost gave this group of experts full freedom to work... The direction has been correct. Even today, there are cases but the death rate is in check. What is critical that lives should not be lost. Because there was clarity right down the line, with no two people giving two differing ideas that helped [the city],” Iyengar said.Easing strain on hospitalsMumbai faced a severe shortage of beds in the initial months of the pandemic, and as the caseload began to increase, patients began to be turned away from hospitals and many couldn’t receive adequate care on time. In the second week of April, the BMC came out with a standard operating procedure for treatment.It opened Covid Care Centres (CCC-1 and 2) — the first for high-risk contacts of positive persons and the second for asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients — in makeshift facilities; Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHC) for symptomatic patients, moderately-ill patients and some patients with co-morbidities; and Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH) for patients showing prolonged symptoms of fever, cough, and breathlessness, senior citizens, as well as severely ill and critical patients who needed ICUs. In April, the National Sports Club of India’s (NSCI) stadium dome in Worli was made into a 500-bed isolation facility and later upgraded to Mumbai’s first jumbo Covid facility. In all, the BMC created seven such jumbo facilities across the city, including Mulund, BKC and Goregaon. In July, when Mumbai hit its peak, it had a total of 16,859 beds all dedicated Covid hospitals, and by October, the city had nearly 70,000 beds across all CCC1 and 2 facilities, which also included seven jumbo Covid centres that could cumulatively handle 5,000 patients.“Initially beds [jumbo centres] were only for patients who tested positive. Then gradually beds were available for walk-ins, or for someone who was a suspected case. We ensured that all critical facilities were available such as ICU units, ventilators, and oxygen. Initially oxygen supply was cylinder-based. We turned to a pipeline system by connecting it to a turbo cylinder with capacity of 13,000 litres. It provided a major support as most patients did not require ventilators, and oxygen supply beds did the work. This helped us reduce the mortality rate,” said Kakani.Test, test, testThe one parameter that Mumbai has consistently scored the best on, compared to other Indian cities, has been testing: With a testing rate of 19,015 samples tested a day on average for the week ending February 25, 2020, it is the highest the city has ever done. In March last year, Maharashtra had only two reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing facilities: the National Institute of Virology, Pune and Kasturba Hospital, Byculla. Soon, the civic body added testing facilities at other civic and state-run hospitals.By mid-April, 10 private laboratories and diagnostic centres were added to the list of testing centres. “Our testing capacity was scaled up every few months. Today we have a capacity to test about 25,000 samples in a day, including RT-PCR and antigen test,” said Dr Daksha Shah, health officer, BMC. According to Kakani, Mumbai was the first to liberalise testing in the country. Initially, only people who have a prescription from a doctor could get tested for coronavirus, which changed after July 7. “We liberalised testing against the guidelines of ICMR as we wanted more people to get tested. From July 7, self-declaration by people was more than sufficient to get tested,” he said. Currently, there are 37 private laboratories and hospitals that are authorised to carry out RT-PCR and antigen tests. According to a civic health department official, the private laboratories alone boost Mumbai’s daily testing capacity by 90%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5-political-decisions-that-helped-mumbai-cope-with-covid19-101614714030807.html
03-03-2021||Mumbai||MMRDA seeks Bombay HC’s nod to start Metro work at disputed plot||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) on Tuesday approached the Bombay high court (HC) through an interim application, seeking lifting of the court’s stay on the October 1, 2020 order by the Mumbai suburban district collector, which permitted the transfer of 102 acres at Kanjurmarg to the authority for building a car shed and an interchange station for Metro lines 3, 4, 4A and 6.The Centre and the Maharashtra government have been locked in a tussle over ownership of the land earmarked by the state for constructing the car depot, which was earlier planned at Aarey Colony. Last year, the Centre had filed a petition in the HC, challenging the collector’s order and said the land belongs to its salt departmentOn December 16,2020, acting on three separate petitions, a division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni stayed the October 1, 2020 order. The bench had also restrained MMRDA from carrying any further work on the site. MMRDA’s contractor, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Limited, was testing soil at the site at the relevant time.Now, in its application, MMRDA has stated that as the public project is of importance and the work has already commenced, it was ready to give an undertaking that it would extend all benefits and compensation to which the owner and/or lessee would be entitled on acquisition of the said land under the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning (MRTP) Act. The application is expected to be heard next week. The interim application, while seeking lifting of the HC stay, said the state government had conducted a viability and sustainability assessment of the land at Kanjurmarg and found it suitable for the construction of the Metro car shed and interchange station. The application further stated that if the project was not allowed, three Metro lines, namely the Lokhandwala-Vikhroli, Kasarwadavali-Wadala and Colaba-Bandra-SEEPZ could not be commissioned and made available for public use. The application added that while the car shed at Kanjurmarg was aimed at saving environmental damage, which could be caused if the shed was constructed at Aarey, it would also optimise the operation of the Metro lines due to its unique geographical and locational advantage. While stressing on the possible loss to the public exchequer due to the delay if the development activities were not permitted, the application stated that disruption of development of the car shed, which also includes a casting yard would cost Rs2.5crore-3 crore a day. “The Metro car depot, which also includes a casting yard, is indispensable as regards to the functioning of any metro line. If such car shed is not allowed to be developed forthwith, metro lines 6, 4 and 3 cannot be made functional. Resultantly, a major portion of the metro project will be disrupted, leading to failure of the entire scheme of Mumbai Metro Rail project as envisaged for the city of Mumbai.” With regards to the title of the land, the MMRDA application stated that the dispute between the centre and state over ownership of the land could be resolved amicably as both recognised the need for the Metro project. The application also stated that the Centre had shown its willingness to give the said land to MMRDA. Addressing the claims of one Mahesh Garodia, who also challenged the collector’s order, the application stated, “No prejudice would be caused to Garodia in the event the MMRDA is permitted to utilise the land for the project in view of the undertaking given by MMRDA to give all benefits and compensation to which the owner and/or lessee would be entitled to an acquisition of the land.” In light of these submissions, the application sought the lifting of the stay on the car shed project. Two of the three petitions are filed by the Central government, seeking stay on the Metro car shed work at the salt pan land. By one of the petitions, the Centre has challenged October 1, 2020 order by the district collector, allotting 102 acres out of Survey No 275 (part) to MMRDA. On October 6, 2020, the collector handed over possession of the salt pan land to MMRDA, which in turn handed it over to Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Limited, which has been awarded the contract to construct the Metro car shed. Centre has claimed that entire salt pan lands in the belt, including the 102 acres, belongs to its salt department and has always been under administrative control of the deputy salt commissioner.By a separate petition, Centre has also challenged November 1, 2018, order of the Maharashtra revenue minister, upholding addition of names of the state government and some private parties in ownership column of the revenue record of several salt pan lands at Nahur, Mulund, KanjurMarg, Mandale, Malvani and Pahadi areas of Mumbai.The third petition was filed by Garodia. Garodia has claimed beneficial interest in vast tract of salt pan lands, including the 102-acres plot at Kanjurmarg, as a legal representative of the original lessee of the lands. He claimed that has filed a suit concerning the entire land leased to his predecessors and high court has passed interim orders in his favour. The suits are subsequently transferred to Bombay City Civil Court, which has confirmed the interim orders.Garodia’s counsel, senior advocate Shyam Mehta, had pointed out to court that till January 2020 the technical advisory committee of the state government had maintained that Kanjurmarg was not viable for construction of the metro car shed. They, therefore, changed the reservation of a suitable piece of land at Aarey Colony and spent over Rs200 crore for preparation at Aarey Colony.The 102-acre plot has become a bone of serious contention between Maharashtra government and the Centre. Ignoring steep opposition of environmental activists to vast tree cutting required for the car shed at Aarey Colony, when he was at the helm of affairs, BJP’s former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had decided to construct the car shed for Mumbai Metro-3 at Aarey Colony, .After the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, came to power in 2019, it responded positively to environmentalists and shifted the shed to Kanjurmarg, a location which the Fadnavis government had specifically rejected.The Uddhav Thackeray-led government then decided to construct an integrated metro car shed at Kanjurmarg, instead of constructing separate car sheds for these lines individually.The MMRDA, on its part, had highlighted that the stay on work at Kanjurmarg will entail additional expenditure for MMRDA of Rs2,328 crore on land acquisition and Rs1,600 crore as operational costs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mmrda-seeks-bombay-hc-s-nod-to-start-metro-work-at-disputed-plot-101614712536492.html
03-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Civic contractor dumps raw sewage in Bhandup salt lakes, green activist seeks action||An environmentalist, associated with a city-based NGO, on Monday, wrote to the civic authorities, including the collector (Mumbai suburban), the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) and the forest department’s mangrove cell, alleging unauthorised dumping of raw sewage into salt lakes in Bhandup, by a civic contractor.D Stalin, director of NGO Vanashakti, provided pictures and videos of the alleged violations, along with the GPS coordinates pinpointing at the location (along a service road in Nahur, East). He also highlighted the construction of a tarred road in the area, which is hindering the flow of intertidal water to nearby mangroves.The road has been constructed by a contractor to facilitate the installation of new sewer lines in the area, and that wastewater from existing sewers is being pumped out for the same purpose. This, despite, the site’s proximity to the nearby Bhandup sewage-treatment plant.Stalin’s letter (a copy of which is with Hindustan Times), said, “While the work is needed for better sewage collection and treatment, the method employed here, as seen in the video, is to pump the sewage into the intertidal salt lakes. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has a sewage treatment plant less than 2kms away. The sewage could have been easily transported by tankers.”“This act of pumping raw sewage into the salt lakes and polluting it is an offence. Please take action and direct the civic body to proceed in a proper non-polluting manner,” Stalin wrote, adding that these water bodies are fishing grounds for coastal communities and also provide wetland habitat for birds.“The BMC contractor informed that the salt department has permitted the work but that does not mean that environmental laws can be violated... all work must be done in a manner that does not block tidal water or threaten coastal water bodies,” Stalin’s letter goes on to state.P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner (projects), BMC, could not be contacted on Monday despite multiple attempts. Virender Tiwari, the additional principal chief conservator of forests, also did not respond to messages seeking comment on the issue. An official with the revenue department, however, on the condition of anonymity, confirmed that they have taken cognisance of some of these violations.“We have visited the site and noted dumping of debris in the salt lake, which has been tarred over to make an access road by the contractor. We permitted laying new sewer lines in Bhandup, but not to reclaim water bodies. We will seek a written undertaking from the BMC that the road will be removed once work is complete,” said the official, who did not directly comment on the dumping of raw sewage into the salt lake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaicivic-contractor-dumps-raw-sewage-in-bhandup-salt-lakes-green-activist-seeks-action-101614712529337.html
03-03-2021||Mumbai||Over 700 hospitals, nursing homes in Mumbai flouting fire safety norms: BMC audit||The fire audit conducted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has found lapses in fire safety norms in around 701 hospitals and nursing homes across Mumbai. The list includes 38 government and BMC-run hospitals, the state government told the state Assembly on Tuesday. The fire safety audit was conducted in the backdrop of the Bhandara fire that broke out in a government hospital in January, killing ten infants. In a written reply, the state urban development minister Eknath Shinde said the fire department of the BMC has conducted fire audits of 1,324 hospitals, nursing homes and maternity homes in the city and found lapses in fire safety measures in 663 hospitals. They have been served notices under the Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act, 2006,” he said.Around 38 hospitals being run by the state government and BMC in Mumbai have also been asked to remove anomalies after lapses in fire safety measures were found during the drive conducted by the civic body, he added.Shiv Sena legislator Sanjay Potnis and others have asked about the drive conducted in January to check lapses in hospitals in taking fire safety measures across Mumbai. He said that patients from across the state come to Mumbai for treatment and a drive conducted by the civic body found lapses in fire safety measures in the hospitals.Around ten infants died after the fire broke out at the Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) of Bhandara district hospital in the early hours of January 9. Taking cognizance of the incident, the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had ordered a thorough investigation and directed to find out why the infants could not be saved at the time of the fire. He also ordered fire and structural audits of all the government hospitals across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/over-700-hospitals-nursing-homes-in-mumbai-flouting-fire-safety-norms-bmc-audit-101614712353510.html
03-03-2021||Mumbai||Chaos persists at Mumbai vaccination centres||Day two of the third phase of Covid-19 vaccination in Mumbai saw chaotic scenes similar to the first day with experts and citizens fearing that the vaccination centres may become “superspreader venues”, where one person infected with the coronavirus transmits it to several other people.In Bhiwandi, a 45-year-old private health worker, Sukhdev Kirdat, died after receiving his second vaccine dose, officials said. He fell unconscious 20 minutes after he got the jab, after which he was rushed to another hospital and declared dead by the doctors. Officials from the Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) said the cause of death can be ascertained only after the post mortem report is acquired. “When he took the first dose he was completely fine, ” said KR Kharat, medical health officer, BNCMC, Meanwhile, technical glitches on the centralised CoWIN app, crowding due to inadequate seating arrangements turned vaccination centres into battlegrounds as senior citizens and those above 45 years of age with comorbidities jostled with each other just to get registered, said citizens. Civic officials criticised the Central government for a delay in issuing guidelines and not providing “breathing space”. However, on Tuesday, 6,863 citizens above the age of 60 and above 45 years with comorbidities got their vaccine shots, a 246% jump from the 1,982 vaccinated on Monday, official data stated.Also, on Tuesday, 25 centres, including three private ones, were activated, up from the eight on Monday. A total of 713 of the 6,863 were vaccinated at the three private centres.According to civic officials, by around 1pm, the CoWIN portal started functioning properly, post which crowds dwindled. Dr Neelam Andrade, dean, NESCO Covid Centre, said “The CoWIN portal had crashed or we can say it was taking time to load. But we are making all arrangements from our end to ensure no crowding. We also started manually registering those who had done so online and were scheduled appointments. The problem was with those who were walk-in beneficiaries. We cannot manually register them, considering they had not registered online nor can we register them on the spot as the portal had technical glitches.”Dr Andrade added, “We are making all possible arrangements, and Tuesday was much better than Monday. At the same time, citizens should also ensure they follow all Covid-19 norms.’On Tuesday, a video from the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) jumbo vaccination centre, showing crowding, was being circulated on social media. Even this was due to the portal having technical glitches. Dr Rajesh Dere, dean, BKC vaccination centre, said, “By afternoon, all the crowds were managed and the vaccination was streamlined. In the morning, there was little problem considering the portal had crashed and we also appealed to citizens to act responsibly.The BMC has maintained that it is following up with the Central government on fixing glitches on the portal, owing to which there was crowding at vaccination centres. A dean from a civic hospital said, “Lakhs or crores of citizens are logging in at the same time in the portal, owing to which there may be glitches, but until these glitches are resolved, the government should stop walk-in vaccination. Walk-ins add to the crowds at vaccination centres, leading to chaos.”Ruben Mascarenhas, an Andheri residentn said, “I had visited the NESCO jumbo centre on Tuesday to get my parents vaccinated, but had to return home without getting it done. The portal had crashed and there was total chaos and crowding.”Meanwhile, on Tuesday, Mumbai reported 849 new cases and two new deaths, taking the tally to 327,621 and toll to 11,481. The city’s recoveries’ tally stands at 307,052, followed by 8,217 active infections.(with inputs from Rupsa Chakraborty)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/chaos-persists-at-mumbai-vaccination-centres-101614712288523.html
03-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man blocks actor Ajay Devgn’s car over his stand on farm laws, held||Dindoshi police on Tuesday arrested a Punjab resident after he blocked the car of actor Ajay Devgn near Film City in Goregaon (East).According to the police, the actor’s bodyguard, in his complaint alleged that the man, a driver, blocked Devgn’s car and demanded know why the actor had not supported the farmers protest against the Centre’s farm laws.An officer added that the incident took place at 10.30am when Devgn was exiting Film City.Based on the complaint of the actor’s bodyguard, the police arrested the man identified as Rajdeep Ramesh Singh.“We have arrested Singh for threatening the actor and booked him under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. We are trying to ascertain why Singh was in Mumbai and what was his intention behind blocking the actor’s car,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaiman-blocks-actor-ajay-devgn-s-car-over-his-stand-on-farm-laws-held-101614712229083.html
03-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: AC trains soon on Western Railway’s slow corridor||After running air-conditioned (AC) local trains for the past three years, the Western Railway (WR) is now considering to introduce a similar service between Andheri and Virar, on its slow lines. The AC trains will be introduced by March-end, after the completion of the extension of platforms enabling them to accommodate 15 compartment local trains.Presently, the WR operates AC local trains only on its fast railway line corridor between Churchgate and Virar railway stations.“The work on the extension of the platforms is going on and is likely to be completed soon. All proposals are being studied,” said Alok Kansal, general manager, WR.The AC train was introduced in 2017 and was suspended in March 2020 due to the spread of coronavirus in the city. The train services resumed in October 2020 after the Maharashtra government eased lockdown restrictions. The footfall of AC passengers after the resumption of train services has been low.To extend the railway platform between Andheri and Virar several changes in the alignment of the tracks are being undertaken. The changes include rationalisation of inter-signal distance on the railway tracks and extension of platforms on the slow line to accommodate these trains.Earlier the zonal railway had proposed the operation of semi-AC trains between Andheri and Virar railway station. WR in 2009 introduced 15-compartment local trains on its railway network. The train has 25% more passenger-carrying capacity compared to 12-compartment trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-ac-trains-soon-on-western-railway-s-slow-corridor-101614712049130.html
03-03-2021||Other||Thane police start process to get gangster Ravi Pujari’s custody||The Thane police have started the procedure to take custody of gangster Ravi Pujari who has several extortions and attempt to murder cases registered against him with the Thane police commissionarate. Pujari was extradited to India in February but was taken to Karnataka, where he had the most cases registered against him. Karnataka court granted permission to the Mumbai Police to take him into custody in Gajalee Hotel firing case on October 22, 2016, in Vile Parle. Gangster Ravi Pujari was remanded to police custody till March 9 by the special court for Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) in the same case. Additional police commissioner, crime, S Yenpure said, “It may take months to get his custody for cases registered in Thane, as Mumbai has maximum cases registered against him. We are working on a procedure to take his custody.” There are more than 20 cases of extortion and attempt to murder against his gang and him in Thane jurisdiction. His gang was active till recently in Thane and have extorted money from several businessmen in the name of Pujari. In some cases, Pujari had called the victim and threatened with dire consequences. The cases are registered at different police stations in Thane including Mumbra, Kalyan and Ulhasnagar area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-police-start-process-to-get-gangster-ravi-pujari-s-custody-101614711929449.html
03-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai coastal road work in fast lane, 100m tunneling done||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) completed digging the first 100m for the coastal road tunnel. The work started from the Priyadarshini Park end on January 11 using a tunnel boring machine (TBM).According to BMC, the tunnelling work is expected to be completed by the end of 2022. It includes two tunnels, taking the total tunnelling to 4.14km. The TBM, named ‘Mawla’, is placed 20m under the ground and will pass through Malabar Hill going up to Girgaum Chowpatty.A BMC official said, “Once the TBM reaches chowpatty, it will again be placed in the opposite direction for digging the other side of the tunnel.”The coastal road project measuring around 10km between Princess Street flyover and Worli-end of Bandra-Worli sea link is expected to be ready by July 2023. The tunnelling work has been delayed, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, which initially delayed the delivery of the TBM from China. Also, the BMC had to tweak its plan to not use Chinese experts for the assembling of the TBM in the backdrop of border tensions between India and China.According to BMC officials, the coastal road will save 70% travel time and 30% fuel. Post-construction, motorists will be able to reach from Nariman Point to Worli within minutes. The coastal road project was originally planned between Nariman Point and Kandivli, claiming it will ease traffic for those travelling between north and south Mumbai. However, now there is a question whether there should be a coastal road or a sea link beyond Versova to connect to the suburbs. The state is yet to take a call on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-coastal-road-work-in-fast-lane-100m-tunneling-done-101614711809377.html
03-03-2021||Mumbai||₹1,030 crore Axis Bank loan fraud case: Peter Kerkar, 2 senior Cox and Kings executives arrested||The economic offences wing (EOW) of the Mumbai Police on Tuesday arrested Cox and Kings (CNK) promoter Ajay Ajit Peter Kerkar and two other senior executives of the firm, in connection with ₹1,030 crore Axis Bank loan fraud case. The special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Monday had granted their custody to EOW.EOW took Kerkar in custody from Arthur Road jail, whereas the two others, chief financial officer Anil Khandelwal and internal auditor of the tours and travel firm, Naresh Jain, we’re taken in custody from Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai.In the Axis Bank fraud case, the Cox and Kings promoter, its directors and others have been booked for payment default, cheating, forgery, criminal breach of trust, falsification of documents and criminal conspiracy, among other charges.Axis Bank vice-president Prakash Rao had filed a complaint at Cuffe Parade police station in November 2020. The case was later transferred to EOW for investigation.Nine people – Ajay Peter Kerkar (chief executive officer and group director of CNK); Urrshila Kerkar, Pessey Patel, ABM Good, Anil Khandelwal, Mahalinga Narayanan, Arup Sen, Manisha Amblapurkar and Nilu Singh – have been made accused in this case. “Axis Bank in their complaint said Cox and Kings had taken several loans from them and diverted the funds to suspicious bank accounts. Cox and Kingsand Ezeego jointly owe Axis Bank a total of ₹1,030 crore. They caused wrongful losses to the bank,” said a police officer who is part of the probe.The EOW is investigating six FIRs against Cox and Kings group for alleged frauds involving over ₹1,950 crore. Out of six FIRs complainants in four complaints are private sector banks. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) officers are also probing the irregularities of the company concerning the money laundering aspect, while EOW is looking into the criminal part. ED had arrested Peter Kerkar on November 26, 2020. He was later sent to judicial custody.Previously FIRs against Cox and Kings were registered based on complaints lodged by Kotak Mahindra Bank, IndusInd Bank, HDFC Bank and a private investment firm. The amount involved in the irregularities as per these give complaints are to the tune of around ₹1,950 crores.EOW officers said the travel company its promotors, directors, auditors and other accused conspired together and fraudulently availed loan from various banks. “Forged documents submitted to banks by Cox and Kings group to fraudulently obtain the loan. Later the loan money was diverted and used for other purposes,” said an officer.Peter Kerker has also filed two counter FIRs against some complainant banks and senior executives of his company for conspiring together and cheating the company. EOW is also probing these two complaints.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/1030-crore-axis-bank-loan-fraud-case-peter-kerkar-2-senior-cox-and-kings-executives-arrested-101614711689035.html
03-03-2021||Mumbai||Road dust main contributor to PM pollution in Mumbai: Study||The contribution of road dust to the city’s overall pollution load has more than doubled over the past decade, reveals the interim results from a source apportionment study conducted by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI). Select details from this study, which has not yet been finalised, were shared by Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) officials during an air pollution townhall organised by the state environment department on Tuesday.Road dust largely refers to solid particles generated during the handling and processing of road-building materials, such as gravel and concrete. Turbulence generated by passing traffic, particularly in areas with high traffic volume, or where road surface erosion and tyre wear are high, also generates and resuspends fugitive particles which become airborne. Preliminary findings from NEERI’s study indicate that such pollutants make up 71% of all particulate matter pollution in Mumbai.Of this, 45% comes from unpaved roads (which are more prone to erosion by wind) followed by paved surfaces, which contribute to 26% of the city’s dust load. Another 8% comes from particulate matter emissions traced to construction activities, and 3% to vehicles. The rest comes from industries, the domestic sector, aircraft, marine vessels, open eateries, bakeries, and crematoria.This marks a significant upswing in the presence of road dust over the last 10 years. An earlier source apportionment study released in 2010, (also by NEERI) had found that road dust makes up only 31% of Mumbai’s particulate matter concentration - with paved and unpaved roads contributing 12% and 18% respectively. This suggests a proportional increase in certain polluting activities, such as road laying, during the same time frame.NEERI’s earlier study had found, at the time, that paved and unpaved roads emitted over 7,924 tonnes of particulate matter into Mumbai’s atmosphere each year. The study had prioritised a 15% reduction in PM emissions from paved roads by the year 2017 and a 100 % reduction in emissions from unpaved roads by the same time.A subsequent analysis by Urban Emissions (an air pollution research and advocacy group) suggested that in 2018, “dust emissions from road re-suspension and construction activities” in Mumbai resulted in 7,050 tonnes of PM2.5 and 43,550 tonnes of PM10 emissions - a substantial increase. MPCB officials said they are taking steps to address these findings. “Road dust was earlier just a third of the total pollution load. This increase needs to be investigated. I have already written a letter to NEERI asking them to conduct a detailed audit for identifying areas where road dust resuspension is a problem. They will start by surveying about 20 locations,” said Dr Sudhir Shrivastava, chairman, MPCB, who did not specify these locations by name.Officials, including Dr VM Motghare, joint director (air quality), MPCB, and Dr Rakesh Kumar, director, NEERI, confirmed that these preliminary findings have been communicated to the Central Pollution Control Board by NEERI, but did not specify when. “The audit itself will start any day now. A list of areas is being prepared,” said Kumar, who also did not specify the areas by name.During his presentation as part of Tuesday’s webinar, Dr Motghare revealed that Mumbai’s air pollution action plan (for which funds were recently disbursed by the Centre), includes preparing a plan “for creation of green buffers along the traffic corridors” and “blacktopping of metaled roads including pavements of roads shoulders”, among others. A total of 364 green “traffic islands”, which will act as dust traps, have also been planned. Mechanical sweeping machines, meanwhile, are currently cleaning 253 kilometres of the city’s 2,000km wide road network every day.On the other hand, NEERI’s preliminary findings also show that emissions from certain sources have also decreased over the last decade. For example, bakeries in the city were found to contribute 3.5% of all particulate matter concentration last year (as opposed to nearly 6% in 2010. Similarly, emissions from landfill fires reduced from 11% to 3.7%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/road-dust-main-contributor-to-pm-pollution-in-mumbai-study-101614711329296.html
03-03-2021||Mumbai||Ajit Pawar: Will not disconnect power supply over bills for now||Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Tuesday declared there will be no disconnection of electricity supply for farmer and local residents who failed to pay their bills until the issue of non-payment of the outstanding bills was debated in the state Assembly. The opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which created a din in both the houses of state legislature over the issue, demanded an urgent debate on the matter, saying they were unhappy with the action by state-owned power companies. They threated to intensify the agitation if the government did not announce stopping the disconnection of power supply. “No power connections of agricultural pumps and domestic consumers will be disconnected until the issue of non-payment of outstanding bills is debated in the state assembly. The matter will be discussed in the lower House in a day or two,” Pawar said in the Assembly. The issue also led to adjournment of proceedings in the Council as the Opposition was not satisfied with the response from the treasury benches. After a brief adjournment, Pawar came to the Council and said, “The government is ready to discuss the pending electricity bill in the legislature. The power supply for agricultural pumps and consumers in the state will not be cut until the members of both the parties are satisfied after the discussion. A special meeting will be held to discuss the power arrears in the state.” Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said people are infuriated with the move as they were already facing an economic crisis and disconnection is nothing less than double whammy for them. “Lakhs of people have received disconnection notices by the power companies for non-payment of electricity dues. The disconnection drive is going on parallely. Farmers were badly affected due to coronavirus pandemic, lockdown and floods. There are consumers who have received inflated power bills up to ₹80 crore. The state energy minister (Nitin Raut) had declared a concession in power bills, instead of which the peopel have been gifted with the tariff hike,” Fadnavis said. “Shopkeepers could not open their shops owing to lockdown and now if you are asking them to pay the bills immediately, how are they going to manage? People are really annoyed with the move. The state government must stop the disconnection drive immediately,” he demanded. In the Upper House, leader of opposition Pravin Darekar said the power connections are cut to “forcibly” recover money from farmers and middle-class households. He demanded, “The government is not in a profit-making business, if they are in a loss, they should secure loans but forgo the pending bills of the people and stop disconnection immediately.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ajit-pawar-will-not-disconnect-power-supply-over-bills-for-now-101614710909745.html
03-03-2021||Mumbai||HC permits resumption of construction near Banganga Talav||The Bombay high court on Monday permitted the resumption of piling and construction activities undertaken by two developers adjacent to the Banganga Talav at Walkeshwar temple, Malabar Hill, after it was informed by the Director Archaeology and Museums that the allegations made by the petitioner trust were incorrect. The board of trustees had filed a petition alleging that the piling and construction work was contaminating the underground water flowing into the tank and hence the construction activity should be stopped, as it would affect the state protected grade I heritage structure. The court while lifting the stay directed the Director of Archaeology and Museums to depute an officer to be present on site when the construction work was on and to place a report of the same before the court in the next hearing on March 8. On February 22, a division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni while hearing the petition filed by The Board of Trustees of the Temples Charitable Institution and Funds of Gaud Saraswat Brahman Community which is responsible for the day-to-day activities of the temple and talav was informed by advocate Devendra Rajapurkar that the heritage structure was in imminent danger due to construction and piling work going on in the vicinity. On Monday, Rajapurkar informed the court that the survey was conducted whilst the work was stopped following the HC order the previous day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-permits-resumption-of-construction-near-banganga-talav-101614710908454.html
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura firing: Faridkot court denies pre-arrest bail to ex-Punjab DGP Saini||FaridkotThe Faridkot district and sessions court Tuesday dismissed the anticipatory bail application of former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini in the 2015 Kotkapura firing case.Seeking dismissal of the bail plea, public prosecutor Rajnish Goyal argued in the court that the accused is a high-rank official, so there are strong chances that he may attempt to influence the trail and witnesses. “Following previous conduct of Saini, he should be sent in custody for fair trail,” he said, adding that the sessions court has not granted pre-arrest bail to any accused named in the case in the past.Defence counsel Gurjeet Khadial argued that the SIT is relying upon 22 calls between Saini and subordinate officer, while there is no other evidence against him.However, district and sessions judge, Sumeet Malhotra dismissed Saini’s anticipatory bail application. On October 10, 2020, Saini was named as accused in Kotkapura police firing case. On January 18, the special investigation team (SIT), probing the 2015 police firing incidents, filed a supplementary chargesheet against Saini naming him as a conspirator in Kotkapura firing case. However, after filling of chargesheet, the court of judicial magistrate Ekta Uppal had summoned him to appear 18, following which he moved anticipatory bail application. After Saini failed to appear in the court, judicial magistrate issued fresh summons for March 26 against him in this case and also dismissed his application seeking exemption from appearance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kotkapura-firing-faridkot-court-denies-pre-arrest-bail-to-ex-punjab-dgp-saini-101614710848958.html
03-03-2021||Mumbai||Record corruption in the name of handling Covid in Maharashtra, alleges Fadnavis||Leader of opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis attacked Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government accusing it of large-scale corruption in handling the Covid-19 pandemic over last one year. The procurement made for thermometer, fans, bed sheets, dead body bags were made at much higher rates than the market prices and it should be probed by the state government, Fadnavis demanded in the Assembly. He also said that the former forest minister Sanjay Rathod should be booked, holding him responsible for the death of a Pune girl as there is enough evidence against him corroborating his involvement from the 12 audio clips went viral on social media, a suspected abortion in Yavatmal by using fake address, mobile and tower location among others. Fadnavis was speaking while participating in a debate on the Governor’s address in the state Assembly. “The state is patting itself on the back, saying they erected Covid centers in Mumbai in record time, but actually it is a case of corruption in record time. There was large-scale corruption in procurement of items to be used for setting up and operations of Covid centres. ₹6500 was paid per thermometer which costs ₹1200 in market, ₹8.5 lakh was paid for taking bed sheets on lease which can be bought by spending ₹2 lakh, ₹90,000 was paid for taking fans on rent for 90 days, though they could have purchased number of fans in the same amount,” Fadnavis alleged. Similarly, ₹4.5 lakh and ₹6.75 lakh were paid for taking chairs and wooden tables on rent, respectively. Body bags cost ₹6,719 per piece to the government when their market price is just ₹2,200, he added. The opposition leader said the information documentation on effective planning to control Covid-19 pandemic in future has been given to Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRTC). “It should have been done by the state health department or medical education department,” he remarked. He also cornered the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government over Shiv Sena leader and former forest minister Sanjay Rathod whose name surfaced in connection with suicide of a woman in Pune. “There is no action taken in the suicide case even after 20 days,” the leader of opposition said. “You will not be able to get sleep at night after all this,” he said pointing out at the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray who was sitting in front of him in the lower House. In the legislative council too, opposition leader Pravin Darekar rapped the Uddhav Thackeray led government for its failure on all fronts. “The state just wants to claim credit for Central schemes where it has played no role,” said Darekar. “The chief minister declared that there should be no religious, political or social gathering due to the surge in Covid-19 cases. As a head of state, we are all bound to obey his instructions. But his own minister (Rathod) held a big gathering at Pohradevi temple. His own ministers are flouting rules with impunity.”However the entire opposition staged a walk out when state transport minister Anil Parab indirectly remarked that Darekar was copying Devendra Fadnavis’s speech. Fadnavis also claimed the government hasn’t sent the resignation of Sanjay Rathod to Raj Bhavan yet. Fadnavis, during the discussion on Governor’s address in the Assembly, said, “The chief minister had said that he has not kept the resignation to frame it, but I don’t think it has been sent [to the Governor’s Office yet]; have not heard anything on it yet. He [CM Uddhav Thackeray] might have kept to frame it, then i don’t know.”A senior MVA minister, who is aware of the developments, confirmed that CMO till Tuesday evening hadn’t forwarded the resignation to Raj Bhavan. “It is the CM’s prerogative and he will decide when to do it, “ he said requesting anonymity.TWEET ROW Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday questioned the probe announced by state home minister Anil Deshmukh into the tweets by many Indian celebrities. “I would be proud if I had asked someone to tweet for my country. Let’s assume I asked them (celebrities) to tweet, what’s wrong in it? If there is propaganda against my country and if I had asked celebrities to stand for the country, is thisan offence? We aren’t afraid of your investigations. I am grateful you are holding an investigation for the tweets made for the country. This proves your “patriotism” (deshbhakti) and ours,” he remarked. “The preliminary inquiry by the police has revealed the involvement of BJP IT cell including 12 others. The police are investigating the matter further,” Deshmukh said in the state assembly. Maharashtra Congress’s general secretary Sachin Sawant said the BJP has confessed to have made the celebrities tweet in response to the tweets by international celebrities supporting farmer protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/record-corruption-in-the-name-of-handling-covid-in-maharashtra-alleges-fadnavis-101614710669051.html
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Behbal Kalan firing: HC grants anticipatory bail to Saini, Umranangal||The Punjab and Haryana high court has granted anticipatory bail to former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini and suspended inspector general of police (IGP) Paramraj Singh Umranangal in the 2015 Behbal Kalan firing case observing that their custodial interrogation is not required in view of challan already presented before a trial court.Allowing their pleas, the bench of justice Raj Mohan Singh observed that initially, an FIR was registered against Charanjit Singh, former SSP Moga, and in second supplementary challan, four more accused were nominated. It was only in third supplementary challan the two were nominated. The third supplementary challan has been presented against them without associating them with the probe. Hence, their custodial interrogation is not required, it added.The high court was dealing with pleas from Saini and Umranangal, filed last month after dismissal of the same by the sessions court. They were chargesheeted by the special investigation team (SIT) of Punjab Police on January 15, which led to their summoning by a trial court. The high court has now asked them to appear before a judicial magistrate on March 8 and directed that in the event of arrest, they be released on bail. The judgment was pronounced on Monday and detailed order released on Tuesday.The court observed that they were nominated as accused without making them to join the probe. The only notice received by Umranangal in the context of joining the probe was of February 7, 2019, and in the case of Saini on September 20, 2019. Both the notices were prior to their nomination as accused and even prior to recording of an approver’s statement.The court also took note of the fact that in second supplementary challan, it was stated that after completion of the investigation against the remaining accused, a challan would be presented and by that time, the duo had been already nominated as accused. It further observed that when second inquiry commission report was submitted in the Vidhan Sabha, action taken report was also submitted proposing to proceed against the two departmentally. However, the court did not make any further observation adding that the “appropriate court” would consider the issue. The court also refrained from commenting on allegations of mala fide probe against the state levelled by the two.Both are accused in the case registered on October 21, 2015, at the Bajakhana police station in Faridkot, a week after two protesters were killed allegedly in the police firing at Behbal Kalan in the aftermath of incidents of sacrilege reported at Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala. HC seeks response from govtMeanwhile the high court sought response from Punjab government on a plea filed by Saini seeking quashing of chargesheet filed by Punjab Police in the Behbal Kalan firing case. The state has been given time till March 19 to respond on the plea. The plea alleges “mala fide act” by the state adding that for five years, the probe did not find anything and suddenly now the name of Saini has cropped up in the investigations and he has been nominated as an accused in the FIR. “High court has issued notice of motion on the former DGP’s plea for March 19,” confirmed his counsel, Himmat Singh Deol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/behbal-kalan-firing-hc-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-saini-umranangal-101614710548929.html
03-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly zero hour: SAD seeks case against Capt, Jakhar for father-son suicide||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Tuesday demanded registration of a case against chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar and cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa in a debt-ridden father-son duo’s suicide in the state. Raising the farm debt issue during the zero hour of the state assembly on day two of the budget session, SAD MLA Bikram Singh Majithia said the farmer-son duo had committed suicide due to the failure of the state government to waive their farm loan. “In their suicide notes, the duo said their loan was from a cooperative society, but it was not waived by the state government, he said, showing copies of the suicide notes left behind by the father and son. The father-son duo of Mahadipur village of Hoshiarpur district had committed suicide last month by consuming poison to protest against the central government’s attitude on the farmers’ stir, besides blaming the Punjab government for not waiving their loan. The Akali legislator said the Congress government had promised to waive loans taken by farmers from banks, cooperative societies and financial institutions, but their loan was not written off. “The government as well as Congress should be held accountable for this,” he said. Accusing the Congress of cheating the farmers, he sought registration of case against the chief minister and Jakhar. He also sought a government job for one family member of the duo. Need to maintain decorum of House: Sandhu Kharar MLA Kanwar Sandhu stressed the need to maintain decorum of the House, drawing attention towards the slogan-shouting and protests by members during the governor’s speech on the opening day of the session. He said that copies of the governor’s address were torn, some members rode bicycles to travel to the state assembly and there were some other protests. “Is there no difference between what happens outside and inside the House? There should be decorum in the House. What are we trying to show?” said the suspended AAP legislator, pointing to newspaper headlines on Monday’s proceedings. Members from the treasury benches thumped their desks to appreciate his suggestion. Demand for probe into Mohali land deal Leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema also demanded a probe into the auction of 31 acres of prime land of a liquidated private firm, JCT, in Mohali (SAS Nagar) where the government had the first right. Calling it a scam, he said the land was sold to private companies for ₹92 crore whereas its market worth was roughly ₹400 crore. There was involvement of some officers and dealers in this transaction and the state government needed to look into the matter, he demanded, raising the controversial land deal. During the zero hour, SAD MLA Harinder Pal Singh Chandumajra drew the attention of the House towards the deepening financial crisis of Punjabi University, Patiala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-assembly-zero-hour-sad-seeks-case-against-capt-jakhar-for-father-son-suicide-101614710070894.html
03-03-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram school murder: Petition in HC challenges denial of prosecution sanction against 4 cops||The Haryana government’s decision to decline prosecution sanction against four police officials, accused of framing a bus conductor for the murder of a seven-year-old student, was challenged before the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday by the deceased boy’s father, who filed a petition in this regard. Sushil Tekriwal, counsel for deceased boy’s father, said the petition was filed to quash the order passed by state government declining the prosecution sanction against the four officials. “We filed a petition in order to challenge the state government’s decision to sanction prosecution against the officials.”Earlier in December last year, the Central Bureau of Investigation(CBI) had filed a supplementary charge sheet before a CBI court against four police officials, including the former ACP and SHO of Bhondsi police station and the investigation officer of the case, for falsely implicating the conductor of the school bus and accusing him of sexual assault and murder. Last month, a special CBI court on Panchkula had observed that the state government is “sleeping over” the CBI’s request for prosecution sanction like “Kumbhakarna”. The state government had declined the prosecution sanction saying that the officials made an error in investigation but there was no fault in their intention. Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary to government of Haryana, home department, passed an order on February 19, observing that there may be instances of not adopting the correct approach depending upon the circumstances of the case, but the intention of the investigation officer to conduct the investigation in the right perspective has to be seen. The intention and the ultimate objective of both the agencies were to focus on the main offence of the murder of a seven-year-old boy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-school-murder-petition-challenging-prosecution-sanction-against-police-officers-filed-101614708148244.html
