04-03-2021||Delhi||HC issues warrants against sanitation union office-bearers after they miss hearings||The Delhi high court on Thursday issued bailable warrants against the secretary and president of one of the unions of sanitation workers for evading the proceedings of the court, despite several communications, on a plea filed by the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) against the strike of sanitation workers.A bench of justice Vipin Sanghi and justice Rekha Palli also asked the members of the striking union to not put under siege the municipal corporation or throw garbage on the streets. This direction came after the judges were informed by advocate Manu Chaturvedi, standing counsel for the EDMC, that unions have sent a notice for resuming their strike, demanding salaries despite all salaries being cleared till January.The EDMC also sought action against “miscreants” who were “illegally waylaying garbage removal trucks, threatening drivers and dumping garbage openly on the roads and streets”.The court issued bailable warrants of ₹20,000 each against the president and secretary of MCD Swacchta Karamchari Union while noting that they have not joined the proceedings despite several communications to do so.“Even on the last date (of hearing), attempts were made to contact them, but they did not join the proceedings. It appears to us that they are seeking to evade these proceedings and that cannot be countenanced. Issue bailable warrants against the president and the secretaryof ₹20,000 each to be executed through the SHO,” the court said in its oral order.The bench, during the proceedings, told Mukesh Kumar, representing All Municipal Corporations Staff Union, that while the court is cognizant of the issues and has been passing orders to ensure timely disbursal of salaries to the workers of the municipal corporations, it cannot allow them to take law into their owns hands and spread “anarchy”.Questioning the actions of the striking union to hold under siege the civic body office and dump garbage on the streets, the court said this is not a solution and workers should behave responsibly as they are doing an important job. “We are cognizant about your problems and have been passing directions to release your salaries. But it is a very wrong thing to spread anarchy, gherao the office, dump garbage on the streets and obstruct the employees who are wanting to perform their official duties. We will not tolerate this,” the court said.“We have also made it clear to him (Kumar) that under no circumstances will this court tolerate any action which tantamounts to taking law into their hands like spreading garbage and preventing those people who are wanting to attend duty despite a strike,” the bench noted in its order.Kumar told the court that he has not received his salary for the past three months, even as the EDMC counsel claimed that the enumerations have been given till January. Advocate Suman Chauhan, appearing for the unions, told the court that even if the sanitation workers have been paid, the supervisor and some others have not been paid their salaries and pension. The strike by sanitation workers of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), which began on January 15 demanding the payments of salaries pending since December 2020, was called off on February 5, after the EDMC cleared all dues.However, the EDMC on Thursday told the court that they have again received a notice for resumption of the strike. The matter would be now heard on April 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-issues-warrants-against-sanitation-union-office-bearers-after-they-miss-hearings-101614882407304.html
04-03-2021||Pune||Students demand improvements in exam process after 2020 experience||Students affiliated to Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) in Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar districts are once again worried about the forthcoming first semester examination. After the fiasco in last year’s exam and results through the agency, students are now demanding to appoint an agency that is efficient enough to carry out the exam process smoothly. “The SPPU administration is not taking the right decisions at the right time due to which careers of thousands of students are affected. Every time during the examination period, students are facing problems and technical issues, right from the online application, fee payments, then while appearing for the exams and finally with the results. Thousands of students have suffered mentally and in academics as well in the last year’s exams. So, while giving the contract to any outside agency, the SPPU administration should check their ability and efficiency to conduct the exams in online and offline modes. If students face the problems once again in this exam, then we are going to do an aggressive protest against the SPPU administration,” said Kamlakar Shete, Pune city vice-president of the Yuvak Kranti Dal. Last year, from October 12, 2020, SPPU conducted its final year exams for 3,300 subjects for which 2.5 lakh students enrolled. From the first day onwards, both online and offline students faced a lot of issues while appearing for the exam and it even continued in the results. For the offline exams, 113 centres were identified where physical exams were conducted in Pune, Nashik, and Ahmednagar districts. These exams were 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) for a one-hour duration. Whereas now after the admissions for graduate and post-graduate courses, several students have reported facing technical issues, difficulties in filling up the application form and even during the online payment for first semester exams. Students have repeatedly complained about these issues to their concerned colleges and even the university examination department, however, no solution has been given. “Last year I faced several issues while appearing for the exams in online mode, in some of the subjects I was directly failed despite appearing for it. Then while getting the result also I had to fight to get revised results from the SPPU examination department. So now SPPU administration should be extra careful while conducting the first semester exams,” said Shantanu Bhosale, a final year commerce student. SPPU vice chancellor Nitin Karmalkar said, “We are working on appointing the agency for the first-semester examination and soon an appointment will be made which will efficiently work on conducting the online exams smoothly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/students-demand-improvements-in-exam-process-after-2020-experience-101614882285336.html
04-03-2021||Delhi||Boy watching earth mover at work dies after dug-up soil is accidentally dumped on him||A 14-year-old boy died after being buried under a heap of mud dumped by an earthmover working at a drain construction site near his home in outer Delhi’s Shahbad Dairy on Wednesday afternoon, the police said. Like several other curious onlookers, the boy too was watching the earthmover in action when the mishap took place, the police said. Rajeev Ranjan, deputy commissioner of police (outer north), said the earthmover driver fled the spot immediately after the mishap. “We have identified the driver and are making all efforts to arrest him,” said Ranjan. On Thursday, the family of the dead boy placed his body on the road outside Ambedkar Hospital and staged a protest. The boy, Vikram Das, lived with his parents and siblings in Shahbad Dairy. His father has been ill and out of work for the past many months. According to the police, the crane was hired by a private contractor to whom the drain construction work near the boy’s house was outsourced by a civic agency. It is learnt that the crane, during its operation, hit the boy, causing him to fall into the drain. According to the police, the crane then went on to dump the dug-up mud on him, completely burying him. Vikram’s father, Madhusudan Das, told a news outlet that the crane operator fled the scene immediately after the accident. “It took us 15 minutes to dig my son out. Had the crane operator been around to help, my son could have been quickly rescued and he would be alive right now,” he said. After being pulled out of the mud, Vikram was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead. The police have registered a case of causing death due to negligence at the Shahbad Dairy police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/boy-watching-earth-mover-at-work-dies-after-dug-up-soil-is-accidentally-dumped-on-him-101614882286084.html
04-03-2021||Pune||Corporators set up helpline centres for vaccination registration||In an effort to ease off pressure from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in registering citizens on the CoWin website, corporators have set up helpline centres in their respective wards. After the vaccination drive began for citizens, there has been a rush at centres but due to a lack of registration, some return back without taking a dose. Now, corporators have installed helping desks in their wards in different areas as well as in their own office to assist citizens. The PMC has begun vaccination in their 38 hospitals. there was a technical glitch on the CoWIN portal. Now, it has been cleared and it is working smoothly. As per the government order, citizens above 60 and those with co-morbidities above the age of 45 are eligible for Covid-19. However, citizens have to register on the CoWIN app. However, people are rushing to PMC’s vaccine centres without registration. Therefore, the PMC has made a provision for onsite registration. Now, corporators have come forward and installed help centres to assist people to register on the CoWIN app. Party workers have set up a laptop, printer to provide registration print receipt to citizens Prasanna Jagtap, local corporator of Sinhagad road areas of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said, “We are helping the PMC in assisting citizens to register on the CoWIN app. We are getting a good response. People are coming to our centre to register.” Manjusha Nagpure, BJP corporator said, “We have set up help centres. We clear their doubts and help them to register. Some people fail to register on the CoWIN app. So, our workers help them. We will take necessary documents from citizens and register their name. We also provide print outs to them to show in the vaccine centre.” She said, “At present, there are two vaccine centres in Sinhagad road area. We are demanding two more on public demand.” Rubal Agrawal, additional municipal commissioner of PMC said, “We have not given permission to any corporator to set up helpline centres. They can do that; it will help us.” Shewta Galande, local corporator of BJP in Wadgaonsheri area said, “In Vimannagar, there is no PMC primary health centre. Residents have to go to Wadgaonsheri and Shastrinagar area for vaccination. We have demanded to start a temporary vaccine centre in the Vimannagar area as there are a large number of senior citizens residing there.” “At present, we have set up a help line centre in our office to help people register and clear their doubts about vaccination,’’ she added. Dr Vaishali Jadhav, assistant medical officer of PMC said, “Each centre should have to vaccinate at least 100 people. We have decided to increase centres as per the public demand. But the vaccination should be given in the hospital only. There will be no temporary vaccination centre set up as per public demand. The Central government has given guidelines about the vaccination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/corporators-set-up-helpline-centres-for-vaccination-registration-101614882226472.html
04-03-2021||Pune||Political leaders back weekly markets by vendors in run-up to polls||In an effort to gain political mileage in the upcoming civic polls, local corporators and various political party leaders are organising unauthorised weekly markets in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits.The state government ordered in 2017 to start a weekly market in the local self-government jurisdiction, however, instead of the farmers the local vendors have taken over the system.The Maharashtra agriculture marketing board promoted weekly markets so that farmers could directly sell their produce to consumers and avoid exploitation by middlemen. But it has not worked out as per the government’s intention. Local vendors are exploiting consumers with help of local political party workers and sitting corporators in the name of the weekly market. The PMC allotted open land to start markets and the first market began in Model colony in 2017; Corporators took the initiative and started weekly markets. As per the government order, the state agriculture marketing board, the Agriculture Products Marketing Committee (APMC) and the PMC are required to provide permission to start the markets. However, very few corporators and organizers (farmers’ groups) took permission from both agencies. Unauthorized weekly markets were flourishing in the city areas before the Covid-19 pandemic but were stopped due to strict restrictions and lockdown. In the unlock process, unauthorized markets once again started rising in different parts of city areas and it has gone to more than 100 places as per PMC officials. According to PMC statistics, there are more than 100 such markets operating across the city with the help of local corporators and political party workers. All corporators put up banners and flexes in chowks and prominent places to catch the attention of residents. Madhav Jagtap, head of PMC anti-encroachment department said, “All weekly markets are unauthorised, I have given instructions to all ward level officials and concerned anti-encroachment officials to take action on such markets. The concept was unique, but it has been corrupted. We have received complaints from residents as well as some corporators that most of the weekly markets are unauthorized and organised at the footpath. Local vegetable vendors are sitting in the weekly market.” He further said, “On this issue, there is a meeting scheduled at the municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar’s office to discuss the issue.” Complaints of unauthorised markets As per PMC officials, farmers are no longer taking part in the weekly market. Local vegetable vendors sell agricultural produce and local political party workers and leaders charge a certain amount of fee from these vendors. They are using PMC open spaces and footpaths to organise these markets and make money. Amol Balwadkar, BJP corporator of Baner-Balewadi said, “In our area, there are only four official weekly markets that have taken permission from the APMC. However, there are around 20 markets operating in Baner, Balewadi and Bavdhan areas. Different political party workers and leaders have organised markets on footpaths and other open spaces without any permission. We have registered complaints to PMC officials about these unauthorised markets which are creating a nuisance to the public, pedestrians and spreading waste on the roadside.” Corporators claim PMC approval Arjun Jagtap, husband of BJP corporator Mukta Jagtap of Viman Nagar area said, “We organise weekly markets in Viman Nagar area. Farmers are selling their produce in the market and it is organised every Saturday. We have taken permission from PMC and it is organized near Symbiosis college premises.” Jyoti Gosavi, BJP local corporator of Hingne Khurd, Sun city Sinhagad road said, “We have started a weekly market in the Sun city area. We are getting a good response and PMC has given permission to conduct it.” New government order creates chaos As per 2017, the government had mentioned in the order that APMC should have to give permission to farmers’ group who approached them for permission. After verification, the APMC sent a letter mentioning the name of the group and areas to PMC to provide space to organise the weekly market. After the Covid-19 pandemic situation (November 2020), the state issued a new order and gave rights to the agriculture department to give permission to farmers’ groups. The letter of permission will be submitted to APMC which will give a recommendation letter to PMC to provide space to the weekly market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/political-leaders-back-weekly-markets-by-vendors-in-run-up-to-polls-101614882225853.html
04-03-2021||Pune||PMC fines 1,577 public places in 15 days for violating Covid norms||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has continued its drive of surprise inspections of public places to monitor Covid preventive norms compliances.The PMC officials have inspected 6,628 sites so far since Feb 17th and 2,264 of them were found to be violating Covid prevention norms. A total of 1,577 were levied a penalty in the last 15 days and ₹10,28,554 has been collected as fine from these violations.The PMC has also continued its drive to act against the citizens for not wearing masks. From Feb 17th to March 3rd, the PMC levied penalties against 2,835 citizens for not wearing masks in public places and in public transport. A total of ₹15,35,780 has been collected as fine from citizens for not wearing masks.“Our teams have been conducting surprise inspections and the actions have been taken against those who were found to be violating the norms. We are trying to maintain the surprise element in the inspections at the sites,” said Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner, PMC.Of the 1,577 public places which have been levied penalty 377 are restaurants. A total of 387 shopping malls and retail outlets have been fined. The PMC acted against 18 religious places for violating Covid norms, six cinema halls, and 33 gymkhanas/clubs nightclubs, and marriage halls have been fined for violating the norms and 907 other public places were found violating the rules. As the Covid cases are surging, the district collector has ordered authorities to conduct surprise inspections at marriage halls, multiplexes, theatres, schools, coaching classes, gardens, religious places, shopping malls, and restaurants, to act against Covid violations such as not wearing masks, not following social distancing and improper arrangements of sanitisation. Even though the action against Covid norm violators has been intensified, the number of cases in the city limits has not come down. According to the state health report, 857 Covid positive cases were reported on March 3rd, 2021.Box- Action by PMC against Covid violators in last 15 days Total sites inspected – 6,628 Total number of sites which were levied penalty- 1,577 Total fine collected from sites ₹10,28,554 Citizens fined for not wearing mask 2,835 Fine collected from citizens for not wearing mask Rs15,35,780||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-fines-1-577-public-places-in-15-days-for-violating-covid-norms-101614882225277.html
04-03-2021||Pune||Private hospitals account for 303 vaccines in four days||Since March 1st, private hospitals in Pune have vaccinated only 303 beneficiaries at 10 sites across the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits. Whereas the government facilities inoculated 3,897 beneficiaries at 36 sites on Thursday across the city on the fourth day of vaccination. From March 5, the vaccination sites in the city will also be increased to 60. Three hospitals which are run by PMC will now have vaccination drives until 10 pm. In the last four days of vaccination for the third phase, the percentage of beneficiaries has seen a rise. On March 1, the total beneficiaries inoculated were 72 per cent in Pune district, whereas on Thursday it was 99 per cent in Pune district for the first as well as second doses. Speaking about the less turnout at private hospitals, Dr Ashish Bharti, PMC health chief said that the private hospital sites were introduced on Thursday. “That is why the turnout was less. Gradually with more publicity, the number will rise at private hospitals,” said Dr Bharti. There has been a gradual increase in beneficiaries. Speaking about the necessity of getting vaccinated, Dr Kalapana Baliwant, assistant chief at Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department said that getting vaccinated is important to break the chain of transmission. “Most of the beneficiaries are getting the Covishield vaccine but many front-line workers still seem hesitant to take a jab as the numbers are low. However, getting vaccinated is important as it will break the chain of transmission and contain the pandemic,” said Dr Baliwant. She further added that for the third phase of vaccination, the vaccination centres have increased to 60 in the city. “At three PMC-run hospitals, we have extended the time for inoculation to 10 pm. So that high-risk patients can come take a jab at their convenience,” said Baliwant. There have been several issues with CoWin applications where mandatory registration must be done. Private hospitals have better infrastructure to inoculate the beneficiaries, noted Dr Baliwant. Dr Murlidhar Tambe, dean at BJGMC and Sassoon General Hospital (SGH) said that many senior citizens are getting jabs at the hospital. “Many citizens come to Sassoon to take a jab. There are many who want to inoculate here, we welcome them. We have full facilities to ensure the vaccination goes smoothly. Initially, vaccination should be given at government establishments to ensure that there is no misuse of the vaccinations,” said Tambe. However, due to technical glitches, the process of taking jabs is taking time. “There are several issues with the application. But we are working as much as we can to make the process easy and quick. However, for the server issues we are unable to inoculate more people. As there are several centres who try to feed the data at the same, there are technical issues that cannot be avoided at this moment,” said Tambe. Box Glitches continue on day 4 of vaccination. 73-year-old Kamala Thiruvengadam and her husband, 78-year-old NM Thiruvengadam came to Sassoon General Hospital (SGH) for their first dose of vaccination on Thursday at 9:30 am. However, they had to wait until 4:30 pm to get the jab. “We had come to the centre at 9:30 am and we had registered on our own. But after coming here, we had to take another slip and then wait in our line. Moreover, the server was down for three hours so the whole process took time,” said Kamala Thiruvengadam. 65-year-old Jayshree Panjikar visited SGH on Thursday for inoculation. She came to the hospital in the afternoon. “We had lunch and then came for the vaccination and we were inoculated exactly at 4:38 pm. We had to make a case paper at SGH which took time. But the whole system was very well maintained, and we are happy to take the jab,” said Panjikar. Panjikar visited SGH for the vaccine with one of her friends, 70-year-old Hair Nair. Both were happy to receive the jabs on Thursday. The Aundh district hospital also faced a similar problem with the inoculation drive. The vaccination drive was on the second floor of the building and senior citizens faced issues while reaching the centre. Box-- Total vaccination at sites. Data includes first and second dose vaccination from March 1 to March 4. *Date--Vaccination at Pune Rural--PMC--PCMC--Pune district (total) *March 1--87--119.5--42.08--72.86 *March 2--124--132--76--105 *March 3--104.22--86.5----92--93.8 *March 4-- 127--91--82--99 Source: Health Department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/private-hospitals-account-for-303-vaccines-in-four-days-101614882166070.html
04-03-2021||Other||Escape for survival, but no easy return to livelihoods||PUNE A daily gathering of workers under the flyover in Warje in the early months of 2021, is a sign that the construction industry is making an effort to revive itself. The lack of jobs coming their way was a sign of a struggle the industry faced during one of the most stringent lockdowns in the summer of 2020. Hundreds arrive at the “majdoor adda” (place to hire daily wage labourers), and live the story that started differently for most, but ended similarly for all labourers - with unemployment. If the lockdown prompted over 0.2 million migrant workers to leave the city, many returned within months, as the unlocking process began and various sectors including real estate and manufacturing started to return to normal. In October 2020, the estimate of the work force in the real estate sector in Pune was 75,500 workers, based on a number provided by Credai, a body representing real estate developers. Credai now estimates that 60% of the workforce has returned to construction sites with a count of 45,000 workers. According to a monthly survey for February released by MCCIA, number of employees working in micro, small, medium and large scale organisations in 100 firms in Pune district has moved up to 86%, while their production level has increased to 85%. Construction labourers formed a major portion of the lakhs of migrant labourers who were sent in special trains and privately organised buses from Pune with the help of the district administration and police. The families who lived in shanties of Gurunanak nagar atop a hill in Katraj were among those who experienced the turmoil of it all. They tried to leave in the dark of the day on foot, but were caught and sent back, forced to survive on rice plates amid a scarcity of water. There was no way of knowing when work would begin, the coffers of daily wage labourers were empty, and children cried constantly due to hunger. Almost a year later, in February 2021, the sight of cheer in the same locality filled the air, even as it has a shade of anxiety about another possible lockdown, after administration imposed restrictions in city. A visit to the labour camp in Katraj was a different experience in 2020 compared to February 2021. One-year-old Priyanka was oblivious to the financial and social stress her mother endured during the lockdown as their colony was situationally denied access to basic necessities like food, milk, and water. Malan Manik Jadhav (20), the baby’s mother, was happy to report in February that they were finally getting water to clean utensils and drink, but were struggling with food grains. “The situation has improved so much since the last time we met. So I feel afraid to even complain, but the food grains are running out. There is work now, but it is not as much as it used to be,” said Jadhav. The lockdown put multiple people out of employment - some were forced out of their chosen professions. A bouncer, a student of Science, a factory worker - all gathered in a space where they were left at the mercy of a labour contractor who failed to show up on more days than he did arrive. While all their life stories were wildly different from each other, essentially the problem remains the same: work has begun, but it is nearly not as much as it used to be. The Warje workers naka is a melting pot of hundreds of life stories. “I used to work as a bouncer after my graduation. I worked there for almost one year and then the lockdown happened. Work came to a complete standstill. A few months later when it began, the company started paying a laughable amount of salary or no salary at all. So I quit that job and now I come here looking for work,” said the bouncer, requesting anonymity. While the bouncer got the opportunity to complete his graduation with the funds that his road-side vegetable vendor parents could gather, there were others in the crowd who are not that fortunate. “My family is in Osmanabad and I come here for work which pursuing my second year in BSc from Latur University. I do not know what this past year would even mean academically. I know I cannot stop coming to work,” said Sachin Rathod (20), standing with his friends. After being asked questions about his education, the early morning furor was replaced by contemplation about his exam that is scheduled to commence on March 8, according to him. At a slight distance away from the young crowd stands Virappan Hanmant Manjulkar (53), a native of Bengaluru, who appeared distraught and cynical at the same time. He claims to have graduated from Raichur University with a BA in the 1980s. “My wife has been in the mental hospital for the past 14 years. We have daughter who is married. I do not know how the graduation helped me. I came here from Raichur looking for work and have been doing random jobs ever since,” said Manjulkar. According to Shailendra Pol, additional labour commissioner of Pune region, the department had taken every precaution to facilitate the return of workers during the last year. “We immediately started centres and released these phone numbers in the known labour circles and then the labourers started contacting us with their location and requirements. We collected the problems and connected them with local BDOs or the district collector’s office and tried to take care of their food and accommodation. The labour did not have any fund for such a huge operation. Therefore, NGOs were roped in and their help sustained the process. But at some point, most of them started moving on foot,” said Pol. “When the lockdown happened, Credai Pune collected ₹80 lakh and distributed food . When the government action started, the workers started leaving. I can guess that 40,000-45,000 workers have come back to the sites although this cannot be stated officially. We started a training course for workers from Solpaur, Kolhapur, Parbhani, for shuttering, carpentry, and mason work and promised a ₹10,000 payment, but surprisingly, not many came. We organised a competition among Credai Pune members to come up with ways to improve lives of these workers - major changes were made,” said Suhas Merchant, president of Credai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/escape-for-survival-but-no-easy-return-to-livelihoods-101614882165307.html
04-03-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad improves ‘ease of living’ ranking by 16 notches||Ghaziabad: Among 49 Indian cities with a population of more than a million, Ghaziabad has improved its ranking by 16 spots and emerged as the 30th best city in the Ease of Living Index 2020 (EoLI). The rankings were announced by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs on Thursday. Ghaziabad scored 54.31 EoLI points out of 100, while it scored 48.28 and secured 20th rank in ‘Municipal Performance Index’ (MPI) among the million-plus cities. The city ranked fourth in Uttar Pradesh after Lucknow, Varanasi and Kanpur, as per the EoLI. Officials of the Ghaziabad municipal corporation said that the city had stood at 46th spot in EoLI 2019 and 33rd in terms of MPI. “Our performance has improved this year. We have been able to do a lot of work in terms of solid waste management, cleanliness and improving the overall outlook of the city. We intend to improve on higher scale in the next competition. Our ranking was marginally below the three other cities of the state,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner. The MPI was launched as accompaniment to EoLI and it seeks to examine local government practice in municipalities across areas of services, finance, policy, technology and governance, the officials said. In the EoLI, Ghaziabad lagged behind in parameters related to ‘health’ in which the city scored 47.11 below the national average of 50.32 and ranked 39, ‘recreation’ with score of 0.39 below the national average of 11.68 and ranked 47 and ‘environment’ with score of 32.86 below the national average of 45.41 and ranked at 44. “The health-care facilities were scaled up in past one year during the pandemic. We got our first government testing laboratory and other equipment like ventilators and high flow nasal cannula. As a result, we were able to tackle Covid issues successfully,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. Officials of the Ghaziabad development authority said that more facilities and even new road projects will open up more vistas for recreational facilities. “The proposal of an international cricket stadium is still pending, and it will open up more facilities once the project goes through. We have lesser facilities in areas like Raj Nagar Extension and Loni. We will scale them up. We already have 100-acre city forest and another 10-acre city forest and two parks on theme of botanical garden are proposed at Madhuban Bapudham. A recreational facility at Bunkar Mart, spread over an area of 50,000 square metres, will also get complete this year,” said Asheesh Shivpuri, authority’s chief architect and town planner. He said that with commencement of proposed Regional Rapid Transit System project, besides opening up of Delhi-Meerut Expressway and Northern Peripheral Road, the city will see all-round development and more facilities in the next three years. The officials of the UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) said that the municipal corporation recently received Rs60 crore funds under the Fifteenth Finance Commission. “This entire fund is for air pollution abatement measures. The corporation is chalking out a plan to deal with the air pollution. This will be implemented before winter season this year and will bring a lot of improvement,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB.Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist, said, “The rising pollution is a major concern for the city as levels have remained high across the country on many days in winter for past couple of years. More groundwork and effective enforcement is needed to tackle pollution.” According to the Union urban development ministry, a total of 111 cities (62 cities with less than million population) participated in the exercise. The EoLI is an assessment tool that evaluates the quality of life and the impact of various initiatives for urban development. It provides a comprehensive understanding of city based on quality of life, economic ability of a city, and its sustainability and resilience. Overall, among Indian cities with a population of over a million, the ease of living is the highest in Bengaluru, while it is the lowest in Srinagar, according to the EoLI. In cities with population less than a million, Shimla was ranked the highest while Muzaffarpur in Bihar had the lowest score.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-improves-ease-of-living-ranking-by-16-notches-101614881865222.html
04-03-2021||Patna||No new Covid-19 cases at Bihar’s NMCH, classes stalled, exams put on hold||None of the 441 swab samples of students of the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), collected on Wednesday, tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday even as the institute suspended MBBS classes and put on hold internal examinations after 10 students tested positive for the virus between February 25 and March 3.However, a repeat test of five samples, which had tested positive a couple of days back, were again found to be positive, said Dr Sanjay Kumar, associate professor of the microbiology department.After the death of a 2016-batch final-year MBBS student at the NMCH, Shubhendu Shubham (23), who had contracted the virus, the state health department had advised the medical college to get real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT PCR) test of all medicos done. Shubham, who tested positive for the virus on February 25, died at his hometown Begusarai on March 1.“We have so far tested 541 samples for SARS CoV-2 between March 1 and 3 of which nine were positive. We tested 441 new samples on Wednesday, and all were found to be negative,” said Dr Kumar.The state health authorities have sent samples of those who tested positive to a virology laboratory in Bhubaneswar.“We are trying to ascertain if this is a new strain of the virus or similar to the one in Mumbai and Kerala. The samples, which tested positive, have been sent to Bhubaneswar for strain mapping,” said associate professor of medicine Dr Ajay Kumar Sinha, also the nodal officer for Covid-19 at NMCH.Doctors also suspect the medico who died may have contracted the virus from the nearby crowded market areas, where he, his batch mates said, had gone without wearing a mask.“All our classes and internal exams have been suspended till further notice. However, the first professional university examination of the Aryabhatta Knowledge University began on Thursday,” one of his batch mates said.NMCH principal Dr Hiralal Mahto said that as per order of principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit, all postgraduate and undergraduate classes had been suspended for a week. “We will have the exams after Holi festival when the students return from their hometown,” said Dr Mahto.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/no-new-covid-19-cases-at-bihar-s-nmch-classes-stalled-exams-put-on-hold-101614880835584.html
04-03-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s Covid cases cross 100-mark for second time in a week||Three persons died while 106 more cases of Covid-19 were reported in Ludhiana on Thursday. This is for the second time this week that the single-day count has crossed the 100-mark. Earlier on Tuesday, 115 of Covid cases were reported in the district. The district’s case tally has now risen to 27,473, of which 689 remain active. So far, 25,750 patients have recovered from the virus while 1,034 have succumbed.Thursday’s fatalities include a 55-year-old male from Janetpura village, a 66-year- old female from Darshan Nagar and a 78-year-old male from Machian Khurd.Those infected include 10 healthcare workers, a staff nurse at SPS Hospital and five teachers. The infected teachers are from Government High School, Chak Mafi Manupur in Khanna, Government Senior Secondary School in Gidderwindi Jagraon, Edusquare in Dugri, and Joseph Senior Secondary School, Dhandra Road.2, 074 more receive vaccine jabs As many as 2, 074 people received the Covid-19 vaccine on Thursday. Of these, 1, 092 were senior citizens (aged above 60) and 249 were those in the age group of 45 to 59, having co-morbidities.Apart from that 361 health workers and 81 frontline workers received the first dose of the vaccine while 271 healthcare workers and 19 frontline workers got the second jab.Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia, who is the nodal officer of vaccination in the district, said none of the beneficiaries developed any adverse effect following immunisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-covid-cases-cross-100-mark-for-second-time-in-a-week-101614881505978.html
04-03-2021||Noida||Air quality slips as wind speed drops in Noida, Ghaziabad||Noida: Pollution levels spiked in Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida on Thursday as wind speed dropped, slowing ventilation of pollutants, air quality monitoring agencies said.The air quality of Noida and Ghaziabad dropped to the ‘very poor’ category while Greater Noida fell to the ‘poor’ category on Thursday. The air quality of Noida had been oscillating between ‘poor’ and ‘severe’ category since February 07 and had improved to the “moderate” category on March 1. “Wind speed dropped in the region from over 15 kmph on Wednesday to eight-10 kmph on Thursday. The reason for the fall in wind speed is that the effect of the previous western disturbance is over now. A fresh western disturbance is expected over the weekend, which will likely lead to a rise in wind speed and light rains over the national Capital region,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD).According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the air quality index (AQI) is likely to improve by Friday afternoon. “Surface winds are low and forecasted to stay low for Thursday, and likely to pick up by Friday noon. The AQI is forecasted to marginally deteriorate; it may touch the ‘very poor’ category for the shorter period till Friday afternoon and sharply improve thereafter. ‘Poor’ to ‘moderate’ category AQI is forecasted for March 6 and 7,” said the SAFAR statement on Thursday.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the AQI of Noida on Thursday, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 302 against 168 a day earlier.The AQI of Greater Noida was 298 against 189 a day earlier. The air quality index of Ghaziabad was 332 against 198 a day earlier. An AQI level up to 100 is considered ‘good’, between 101 and 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is considered ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’.Meanwhile, the maximum temperature soared by two degrees in Noida while the minimum dropped. The higher maximum temperature resulted in a warm day. According to the IMD, the maximum and minimum temperatures for Noida on Thursday were recorded at 32.9 degrees Celsius and 13.8 degrees Celsius, respectively, against 17.9 degrees Celsius and 30.8 degrees Celsius a day earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/air-quality-slips-as-wind-speed-drops-in-noida-ghaziabad-101614881325260.html
04-03-2021||Noida||No plan to visit West Bengal before April 3, says Rakesh Tikait||Ghaziabad: Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Naresh Tikait on Thursday said that he will not be going to poll-bound West Bengal anytime soon as he has programs lined up till April 3 in states like Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttarakhand and Odisha. “There are programs and rallies lined up till April 3 and thereafter we will go to West Bengal. Ours is an issue of farmers and we have no issues with elections. But we will go there and tell people about the performance of the government,” he said adding that the ongoing farmers’ agitation has turned into a jan andolan.Tikait had said that some people will go to West Bengal on March 15-16.On Thursday, he termed the Parliament “nayi mandi” (new market), telling farmers that this is so because prices and laws for crops are decided at the Parliament. During his earlier rallies in Haryana and Rajasthan, he had urged farmers to go to Parliament along with their tractors. Farmers’ protest at different borders of Delhi will complete 100 days on March 6 but no talks have been held between the farm union leaders and the government since late January. Tikait has been trying to garner support from farmers in different neighbouring states like Haryana and Rajasthan, telling them that they should be ready with their tractors to go to Delhi. “It is so because farmers do not get a good price for their crops and their situation will be subdued till the government brings in a law on minimum support price (MSP). I told them that they should learn agitation at home and should learn how to break barricades. We said that a new mandi has been opened at the Parliament as it is the place where the rate of crops and laws for them are decided. Even the Prime Minister says that farmers can sell their crops anywhere in the country,” Tikait said.“So, farmers should keep five quintals of ration in their tractor-trolleys and proceed to Delhi. If anyone tries to stop them midway, they should purchase that person’s crop on MSP. Otherwise, the crop will surely be purchased on MSP at the nayi mandi. If anyone stops them midway, they should put up tents and stage protest. This agitation will continue, and farmers will win before they go away from here,” he added. Over the issue of stalemate in talks with the government, Tikait said that it could be possible that the government was trying to see the results of the assembly elections in five poll-bound states and probably the results of panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh. “It may be possible that they are trying to gauge the effect of agitation on election or not. Thereafter they may talk to us, but we don’t know much as the government is a big entity,” he added. Detailing jan andolan, he said that people are facing issues of rise in prices, hike in fuel and even prices of LPG cylinders.“People are getting affected, and this agitation has turned into a jan andolan. The day is not far when women will also step out due to price rise,” he added.The farmers at UP Gate have been camping at the site since November 28, 2020, demanding repeal of the three new farm laws and demanding a new law on MSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/no-plan-to-visit-west-bengal-before-april-3-says-rakesh-tikait-101614881265228.html
04-03-2021||Other||IIT Roorkee team starts study on flow of waste in Buddha Nullah||A team from IIT Roorkee, which has been roped in by Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board (PWSSB), started its study on the flow of waste in the Buddha Nullah on Thursday. Earlier, a group of industrialists led by Tarun Jain Bawa, president of Bahadurke Road Textile and Knitwear Association, said that the project will not bear any fruit as it is based on a report that 735 mld waste is being discharged into the nullah everyday. However, the actual figure is over 2,000 mld as per a study conducted by experts from Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College (GNDEC), he alleged.However, executive engineer of PSWWB, GP Singh, said, “The study has not been initiated due to the allegations levelled by the industry, but it is a routine process.” The team commenced the exercise from Jainpur village in Hambran Road and the process will continue for two days. As per information, the team will study both inflow and outflow of waste from the nullah at different points. Bawa demanded that the state government should conduct another study to check the flow of waste, otherwise a huge amount of funds will be wasted. He had also written to Prime MInister Narendra Modi’s office regarding the same. On January 12, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal had laid the foundation stone for the ₹650-crore project, to clean the Buddha Nullah. Authorities said that apart from upgrading the three existing STPs in Jamalpur, Bhattian and Balloke area, two new STPs at Jamalpur and Bhattiyan; two new effluent treatment plants for Tajpur Road and Haibowal dairy complex and interceptor line alongside the nullah will also come up under the project.Currently, the MC’s STPs are overburdened due to which the sewage is not being treated properly and untreated waste is polluting the buddha nullah, which further pollutes Sutlej river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iit-roorkee-team-starts-study-on-flow-of-waste-in-buddha-nullah-101614881205917.html
04-03-2021||Other||Woman’s charred body found on foot over bridge in Khanna||A 31-year-old woman’s charred body was found on a foot over bridge on National Highway 44, near Beeja, Khanna, on Thursday morning.Her scooter was found parked near the bridge. Police have also recovered a mobile phone from the spot, which had a video clip of the woman caught in flames. Cops are investigating to ascertain if the video was shot by the woman herself or someone else. “Though it appears that the woman had set herself on fire, we want to investigate thoroughly before jumping to conclusions,” said deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Khanna) Rajanparminder Singh. “We also found a can of petrol near the body,” he added.The body has been sent for post-mortem examination. The incident had taken place early in the morning. Some passersby had spotted the woman in flames and informed the police. By the time the cops reached the spot, the woman had already died. The police station is at least 150 metres away from the spot. The victim was identified as a resident of Bhatthal village of Payal tehsil. She is the third of seven siblings. Her father told the police that she had left home in the morning, stating that she was going to look for a job. Within hours, the family received a call from the police informing them that her charred body was found. Police had traced the family through her phone. The DSP said that the woman’s father stated that she had been under stress for the past few days due to unemployment. “The family does not suspect anyone’s role in the incident. Inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure have been initiated on the statement of her father,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/womans-charred-body-found-on-foot-over-bridge-in-khanna-101614881026489.html
04-03-2021||Noida||Around 60% of Greater Noida connected with sewage system, say officials||Noida: Around 60% of Greater Noida has been connected with the main sewage line of the city while manholes have been repaired as well to ensure zero blockages, local authority officials said.Narendra Bhooshan, the chief executive officer of the Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA), said: “We have also repaired manholes at different places to ensure they do not overflow. The rest of the sectors and villages will be connected with sewage systems soon,” he said.The authority in a press note said that there are around 10 lakh residents in different societies and villages in Greater Noida. “Besides residential, the city has also come up as an ideal business and industrial destination. In the next ten years, the population here will reach 25 lakh. GNIDA has been providing modern robotic services for cleaning sewage in urban and rural areas,” it said. The authority said it recently developed sewage networks in sectors Ecotech 6, Xu 2, Zu 3, Omicron 3, Mu 2 and Knowledge Park 2, while in rural areas, villages such as Ghodi Bacheda, Dabra, Emliya, Suthiyana Kulesra, among others, have been connected with the main sewage line.“Some manholes were dysfunctional. We got them repaired and connected them to the main sewage line to ensure there is no blockage or overflow,” Bhooshan said.The Authority also has an integrated control room where residents can call and file complaints regarding manhole blockage, overflow of water, etc. The control room can be reached on 8595810523 and 8595814470. Bhooshan said the complaints will be addressed within four hours. “If some major repair work is needed, the complainant will be informed accordingly,” he said.Local residents, meanwhile, claimed that manholes are still lying open in various areas, which they said leads to incidents such as animals falling in.Harinder Bhati, a resident of Sector Beta 1, said: “On February 23, a bovine fell into a manhole in Sector Gamma – 1. A few days ago, a dog fell into an open manhole. The authority needs to systematically fix the issue to avoid such incidents,” he said.Responding to this, authority officials, asking not to be named, said that at times manhole covers get stolen, which might lead to such incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/around-60-of-greater-noida-connected-with-sewage-system-say-officials-101614881025200.html
04-03-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Suspect in murder of two property dealers arrested||Police on Thursday arrested a 30-year-old man who was allegedly involved in the murder of two property dealers in Greater Noida West in September 2020. The suspect was identified as Om Veer, from Jhajjar in Haryana. He allegedly planned the murder. Dal Chand Sharma (32) and his friend 22-year-old Arun Tyagi were shot dead in a parked car at around 9.30 pm in Ajnara Le Garden Society. Two other friends of theirs were with them in the back seat. The assailants came up to the car and shot Sharma and Tyagi who were sitting in the front seats.Police had earlier arrested Mohit Vats and his uncle Suresh Sharma soon after the incident. They alleged that Vats had a grudge against Dal Chand Sharma and had hired the assailants and their accomplices. In October that year, two more suspects were arrested.On Thursday, Veer was arrested from Delhi.“He was involved in the conspiracy. He was brought to Greater Noida after completing the legal formalities in Delhi,” said Munish Chauhan, station house officer, Bisrakh police station. A court sent Veer to 14-day judicial custody.The alleged killers in the case, Tek Chand and Daya Chand, are absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-suspect-in-murder-of-two-property-dealers-arrested-101614880965726.html
04-03-2021||Noida||Covid-19: Noida inoculates 4K people in a day, highest ever||Over 4,000 people were inoculated against Covid-19 in Gautam Budh Nagar on Thursday, beating the previous highest of 3,082 on February 27.GB Nagar chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Deepak Ohri, said: “We inoculated 4,082 people out of the 5,000 we had targeted. The 14 government hospitals administered the shots at no cost to 1,826 people. The rest got their shots in 20 private facilities after paying ₹250 each.”He attributed the better turnout to walk-in registration facilities at several government and private centres. Among those who got the vaccination were also people who got their first shot. The second shot will be administered after 28 days, as per government guidelines.Dr Rakesh Gupta, the director of the government institute of medical sciences (GIMS), said that 329 people were inoculated there. “Out of it, 312 got their first dose. Adverse event following immunization (AEFI) was reported among two of these beneficiaries,” he said. The AEFI is any untoward medical occurrence which follows immunisation and reflects consequences for immunisation coverage and disease incidence.Among private hospitals, 170 people were vaccinated at Sharda hospital. Ajit Kumar, the joint registrar of Sharda institute of medical sciences, said that the walk-in registration resulted in better vaccination figures. “Except for five or six persons, the other beneficiaries got their registration done on the spot. Over half were senior citizens. The remaining were either 45-plus people with co-morbidities or doctors and paramedics who were not registered in the first list of health care workers, due to some technical reasons,” he said. In Kailash hospital, the vaccination was suspended over a technical glitch.GhaziabadIn Ghaziabad, 4,264 of 7,900 listed beneficiaries were vaccinated on Thursday. “Of them, 1838 were health care workers (HCWs) who received their second dose while the rest 2426 were phase-3 beneficiaries, 2,359 senior citizens and 67 with co-morbidities above 45 years of age,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad. He said that 1838 of the HCWs were from a target of 3557 who received their first vaccine dose on February 4. The officials said that the first batch of frontline workers will receive their second dose on Friday.Case countGB Nagar on Thursday recorded 13 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the district’s total positive tally to 25,568, according to the state health department’s 24-hr daily bulletin. The number of deaths in the district remained at 91, unchanged from January 5. The active cases in the district was 69.Ghaziabad recorded four new cases and its death toll remained unchanged from December 29, 2020, at 102. The total case count till date in the district was 26,768.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-noida-inoculates-4k-people-in-a-day-highest-ever-101614880965150.html
04-03-2021||Noida||Traders at Atta market want pink toilet in Sector 18||Noida: The traders’ body of the Atta market in Sector 18 has asked the Noida authority to build a ‘pink’ toilet in the area for the ease of female customers and shop owners.“We have a large number of women shoppers coming in everyday. Having access to a clean, hygienic washroom is one of the most basic requirements for them,” said Dr CB Jha, president of the Atta Market Traders Welfare Association.The requirement is also for a number of female shop owners in the area, he said. “The amenity is missing in Atta as well as in Sector 18. The Noida authority should soon take some action,” said Jha.The association has written a letter to the authority for the same. SC Mishra, senior project engineer (public health) of Noida authority, has forwarded the request to top officials of the authority. “They (traders) have been requesting for this for a while and it will greatly benefit women in the area,” wrote Mishra in his letter, a copy of which is with HT. In the letter, the senior project engineer has also said that a tentative space to build the toilet has also been identified. Despite repeated attempts, Mishra could not be reached for a comment on Thursday.Noida had got its first pink toilet at Sector 50 in August 2019. At present, the city has six such toilets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/traders-at-atta-market-want-pink-toilet-in-sector-18-101614880905128.html
04-03-2021||Noida||Stretch of Raj Nagar Extension to Indirapuram on Hindon elevated road opens||The Ghaziabad traffic police on Wednesday opened the 6-km stretch of the Raj Nagar Extension to Indirapuram carriageway on the Hindon elevated road. Another 5-km stretch of the road from Indirapuram to UP Gate remains shut.It was shut since November last year on the back of the farmers’ protest at UP Gate.The 10.3 km Hindon elevated road is a major link between Raj Nagar Extension and UP Gate with an estimated 40,000 to 45,000 vehicles using it every day on ordinary days. It linked Ghaziabad to Noida and offered a route to Delhi.After the route was shut, commuters were forced to use and congest routes via Mohan Nagar to reach CISF Road in Indirapuram from where they can travel to Noida below the Delhi Meerut Expressway. But, the opening did little to satisfy commuters.“It is certainly a relief, but then there is the 2-km stretch of the CISF Road to Delhi Meerut Expressway that remains dug up due to a pipeline project that had been going on for the last year,” said B K Pandey, a resident of Vaishali sector-5 who works in Ahimsa Khand, Indirapuram. “That road too needs to be fixed if we are to reduce the traffic problem.”As a result, moving to Delhi is still fraught with traffic snarls. The pipeline is a UP Jal Nigam project under a central government urban mission and is to carry treated water from three sewage treatment plants at Indirapuram to the Hindon river. The project was supposed to finish in July last year but was delayed due to the coronavirus induced lockdown. “The road relaying will go up to June or end of May. This is because the road was dug up to a depth of about 3.5 to 4 metres for laying big pipelines. At the base we have filled concrete and sand and a layer will come up soon which will at least make road motorable. However, the bitumen and blacktopping will take more time as we want to ensure that the filling settles down otherwise it may lead to breakage of the road,” said Amit Kumar, executive engineer from the UP Jal Nigam. “We have deployed our personnel to ensure smooth traffic on the road,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic). Kushwaha said that the inner lanes of the Delhi Meerut Expressway stretch will remain shut from Vijay Nagar to UP-Gate. The traffic moving from Vijay Nagar to UP-Gate is presently diverted to sector-62 in Noida while there is an underpass a couple of hundred metres ahead which can take commuters to Indirapuram. “We thought of this option but the highway lanes of the DME have been barricaded at sector-62, Noida. If we open the barricades, commuters travelling to Indirapuram and even those travelling to Delhi will get mixed up and will finally reach Indirapuram. So, barricading at sector-62 will remain as it will be difficult to differentiate commuters moving to Indirapuram and those trying to go to Delhi,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/stretch-of-raj-nagar-extension-to-indirapuram-on-hindon-elevated-road-opens-101614880845131.html
04-03-2021||Noida||Noida: 81 autos colour coded on first day of drive||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar traffic police on Thursday started registration of auto-rickshaws for colour codes aimed at easy tracking of their movement across the district. Officials said that they provided colour codes to 79 autos during the drive conducted at Noida Sector 37 and Pari Chowk. The drive will continue for the next 15 days, the officials said.Ashutosh Singh, Noida traffic inspector, said that 48 autos were registered and given codes in Sector 37 while 33 autos were registered at Pari Chowk on Thursday. There are three zones for autos in GB Nagar – Noida, Kasna and Dadri. An auto-rickshaw registered in Noida, for example, is permitted to ply only within a 16-km radius there, but this rule is frequently breached, the officials said. There are about 18,000 auto-rickshaws registered in the district. Besides, there are also nearly 2,000 autos permitted to ply in the national capital region (NCR).“The NCR autos are being colour coded with red, Noida autos blue, Kasna autos black and Dadri autos yellow. These colours are circular in shape while the codes are painted with white ink over them for better visibility,” Singh said. On Thursday, the traffic police made makeshift desks at the two locations for the drive. “The auto owner/driver is required to produce registration papers, fitness certificate, permit, driving licence, Aadhar card and vehicle owner’s photo,” Singh said. The traffic inspector said that the auto coding drive will continue for 15 days, after that they will launch an enforcement drive against uncoded autos. The traffic police will also digitalise the data for easy access.Manoj Pal, an auto driver residing in Noida Sector 45, said that he has been driving auto for seven years. “I came to know that the registration is mandatory to drive an auto in Noida. I produced relevant documents and was granted a code. I paid ₹40 to the painter as his remuneration. The entire process took almost an hour,” he said.Prashant Tiwari, assistant regional transport officer (enforcement), who also attended the drive, said that the exercise will play an important role in regulation of traffic. “It will regulate the traffic and will also ensure that only verified and genuine vehicles ply in Noida and Greater Noida. The data will also be used in case a crime takes place in a vehicle,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-81-autos-colour-coded-on-first-day-of-drive-101614880785119.html
04-03-2021||Noida||Police turn attention to eradicate human trafficking in GB Nagar||Noida: As at least two cases of human trafficking have emerged in the city in the last month, the Noida police said they are working on eliminating this evil in the district.On February 3, 12 spas located inside in a mall in Sector 18 were raided following which four men were arrested for allegedly running a prostitution ring from there, while four women from Nepal and north-east were rescued. In the second incident, a minor from Bihar who had been brought to Noida a few months ago with promise of a job and marriage, was rescued from a guest house-turned-brothel in Sector 12 on February 27 while seven persons were arrested. Separate cases of human trafficking were registered for the incidents.“For now they seem to be isolated incidents; Noida doesn’t seem to have organised gangs involved in human trafficking. However, we are monitoring the situation carefully and teams have been formed at the police station-level to look into these cases,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Rannvijay Singh.He said that most of their input is coming through tip-offs from informants which helped bust these operations.Gautam Budh Nagar has a specialised anti-human trafficking unit (AHTU) that receives less than ten inputs per month on average, said officials.“The Bihar incident in February-end seems to be a bit organised in nature. In light of this, our team has been instructed to remain on the lookout for such crimes through cyber platforms and social media. Our aim is to ensure that human trafficking doesn’t turn into an organised nexus in the district,” said DCP (women and child safety) Vrinda Shukla, who also heads the AHTU.She said that plans are underway to expand the team both in terms of infrastructure and manpower.“We are planning to start a separate, new office for the team and to include more women police personnel in it. Decoy customers will be used to infiltrate groups operating through the cyberspace,” said Shukla.Police officers also said that information is being gathered from suspects nabbed in the past to identify people who could be associated with human trafficking in Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/police-turn-attention-to-eradicate-human-trafficking-in-gb-nagar-101614880725715.html
04-03-2021||Noida||Noida has potential to be robotics capital of India: Amitabh Kant||NOIDA: Noida will soon emerge as the “robotics capital of India,” said Amitabh Kant, the chief executive officer of the Niti Aayog, said in the city on Wednesday. Kant, in town to inaugurate a robot manufacturing unit of Addverb Technologies in Sector 156, said that the country has reserved a berth for itself in the “sunrise sector” – sectors where innovation plays the most important role, like electronics, software and hardware technological solution.“It is really the best manifestation of the Make in India push that the country has an almost 75% share in export in the sunrise sector. Being a blend of software and hardware technologies, the field of robotics has a lot of potential to streamline processes across industries, right from retail to healthcare, from warehouse to supply chain. Having immense entrepreneurial potential and being adjacent to the national Capital, Noida may become the robotics’ capital of India,” he said.The 2.5-acre bot-valley inaugurated has a capacity to manufacture more than 50,000 robots per year of varied types and is equipped with the best-in-class machines. The company will use robots to manufacture robots, it said.Kant further said that technical advance is the need of an evolving world. “As technology is ever-evolving, there is always room for existing mechanics being replaced by newer tech. Time has come to focus on sectors such as robotics, drones, 5G, battery storage, solar manufacturing, satellites and genome sequencing, and to explore the huge latent potential in it,” Kant said.Emphasizing on the need to ensure quality Make in India products for the world, the Niti Aayog CEO said that quality control is the most important factor to compete with global commercial giants. “Indian entrepreneurs must never forget that Make in India is a ‘zero effect, zero defect’ product for the world. Robotics is a field of opportunities and it will always witness newer technological breakthroughs. It holds huge potential in streamlining the processes across industries right from retail to healthcare and from warehousing to supply chains. Being benchmark to global standards and the epitome of Atmanirbhar Bharat, I am sure that such projects will give a major push to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s mission of Make in India,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-has-potential-to-be-robotics-capital-of-india-amitabh-kant-101614880665146.html
04-03-2021||Gurugram||Nuh farmers to block Rewasan toll plaza on Saturday||Protesting farmers from Nuh on Thursday said that they would block the Rewasan toll plaza on Saturday along with farmers’ groups protesting at various borders of Delhi, who will occupy the Kundli–Manesar–Palwal (KMP) Expressway, to mark Day 100 of protests at Delhi borders. Ramzan Chaudhary, head of Jai Kisan Andolan’s Nuh unit, said that farmers from various protest sites are set to gather across stretches of the KMP Expressway and block it for five hours between 11am and 4pm.“The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha has given a call for blocking the KMP for five hours on Saturday. Farmers protesting at various points will reach the part of KMP that is closest to their protest site. We plan to block the Rewasan toll plaza in Nuh. Through this peaceful demonstration, we want to send out the message that the resolve of farmers is unshaken, and we will not give up till the three laws are rolled back,” said Chaudhary. Following the blockade of KMP on Saturday, a number of other programmes have been planned for the next week by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha as it attempts to scale up the agitation that has been ongoing since last year. Sanjay Madhav, member of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha —the umbrella body of farmer unions protesting at Delhi’s borders — and the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan, said that the ongoing agitation had taken a national flavour over the past few months and that people from diverse groups are identifying with the farmers’ cause. “To further engage different groups in the ongoing agitation, a new cycle of events for the month had been planned by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha. Besides blocking the KMP, we will be observing Mahila Kisan Diwas on March 8. On March 15, a campaign against privatisation will be launched in support of trade unions and a countrywide campaign seeking minimum support price for crops will be initiated this month,” said Madhav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/nuh-farmers-to-block-rewasan-toll-plaza-on-saturday-101614879226000.html
04-03-2021||Gurugram||Women leaders to lead farmers’ protests on March 8||Farmers protesting at the Shahjahanpur-Jaisinghpur Khera and Sunehra-Jurehra interstate Haryana-Rajasthan borders plan on marking International Women’s Day on March 8 by observing the day as Mahila Kisan Diwas. As part of the celebrations, women will lead the protest at both sites, farmer leaders said on Thursday.Sanjay Madhav, a member of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha — the umbrella body of farmer unions protesting at Delhi’s borders — and the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan, said that besides women who were already camping at the protest site, women farmers from different states and organisations will be joining and leading the agitation on Women’s Day. “The agitation will be completing 100 days soon. This could not have been possible without the support of women farmers, who are a pillar of the farmers’ protests. On Women’s Day, we will see greater participation from women who will spearhead the protests for the day. Women will address the gatherings and mobilise support for the agitation,” said Madhav. He said that the farmers union have extended invitations to various women’s organisations to hold programmes to highlight the contributions of women farmers.Farmers across the country have been agitating against the three contentious farm laws, which were passed by the Centre in September last year, for the past few months. They fear that the new laws will leave them at the mercy of big corporations and end the minimum support price (MSP) for important crops. Ramzan Chaudhary, the head of Jai Kisan Andolan’s Nuh unit, said that women farmers from Mewat would take the centre stage at the Sunehra-Jurehra protest site on Women’s Day. “We will observe March 8 as Mahila Kisan Diwas under the leadership of women from Rajasthan, Haryana and other states. Women are an equal participant in the ongoing agitation, but their role often gets overlooked. When women lead the protests, other women too will get motivated to join the agitation in bigger numbers,” said Chaudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/women-leaders-to-lead-farmers-protests-on-march-8-101614879225450.html
04-03-2021||Gurugram||Turnout for Covid vaccination sees a spike; residents face issues during online registration||At least 2,780 people above the age of 60 years, and 223 aged between 45 and 59 received their first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in Gurugram on Thursday.According to the district health department data, 56.1 per cent of the total 3,003 were vaccinated free of cost at government health facilities on Thursday.The footfall at 54 vaccination sites on Thursday was 45 per cent higher than Tuesday, when 1,641 people were vaccinated. The government vaccination centres saw a spike of almost 55 per cent turnout on Thursday, compared to 753 people vaccinated at 23 public facilities on Tuesday. “People can easily register themselves on CoWIN to get the vaccine dose at government facilities. People from high-rise buildings or condominiums are not hesitant to approach their nearby government facilities. Some sites have at least two vaccinators to inoculate people to reduce the waiting time,” said chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Virender Yadav. Many people, however, faced challenges to register themselves online, and claimed there was “no point in an advanced booking”.Ram Ratan Gautam, 82, reached the Civil Hospital around 11 am on Thursday and was inoculated and kept under observation till 12:30 pm. “On reaching the spot, verification details were noted. I waited for almost 30 minutes for my turn and took the shot,” said the Gurugram Sector 10 resident.Ashish Kumar and his father, residents of Gurugram Sector 28, went to the Civil Hospital following an advanced booking. “Only one time slot was available for the Civil Hospital on Wednesday evening. We booked the afternoon slot... However, we waited in a queue along with those who opted for on-spot registration. It seems there was no point in an advanced booking,” said Kumar. Vijay Arora, 75, and his wife Geeta Arora, residents of Uniworld Garden, tried booking an online appointment around 2 pm after a private hospital refused to inoculate them on Thursday. Arora demonstrated the entire process to show “how names were registered on CoWIN, but the link to schedule an appointment remained non-functional”.On this, Yadav said, “We are trying to organise and set up a system to facilitate both the categories — walk-in and advance self-registration — to avoid unnecessary inconvenience.” A person can book a time slot 24 hours before the vaccination. The option — “schedule an appointment” — is functional till 12, and it is again available in the evening, according to health officials and beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/turnout-for-covid-vaccination-sees-a-spike-residents-face-issues-during-online-registration-101614879224936.html
04-03-2021||Gurugram||Speeding truck rams motorbike, kills 20-year-old pillion rider||A 20-year-old man was killed and his uncle injured when a speeding dumper hit the motorbike they were riding on Wednesday morning in Bilaspur, the police said. The duo was on the way to a private company, where the 20-year-old was supposed to attend a job interview.The police registered a case against the dumper driver, who fled the spot leaving the vehicle behind, on Wednesday night.The injured man was identified as Karan Singh, a resident of Hathin in Palwal, who was visiting his sister in Chopanki village in Rajasthan’s Alwar on Tuesday night. He decided to accompany his nephew to Tauru, where he had a job interview.Around 10am, when the duo reached Pathredi-Tauru road in Bilaspur, a speeding dumper rammed them. “Both of them fell on the road and the truck ran over the pillion rider leaving him dead on the spot. The driver stopped the dumper a few metres ahead and ran from the spot,” said Naveen Kumar, station house officer, Badshahpur police station.The police said that passersby took both of them to a private hospital in Manesar, where doctors declared the 20-year-old, identified as Naveen Kumar, brought dead and admitted Singh, who was severely injured.Singh said that Naveen was excited to apply for his first job. “He was planning to buy clothes before joining and had requested me to come along for shopping. We were driving slow as he had to take a turn, but the dumper driver was speeding and lost control over the wheels. It seems he forgot to apply brakes and rammed us,” he said from the hospital, adding that Naveen’s death has traumatised the family.A case under sections 279 (rash driving), 304A (death by negligence) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the unidentified driver on Wednesday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/speeding-truck-rams-motorbike-kills-20-year-old-pillion-rider-101614879167910.html
04-03-2021||Gurugram||Gadkari sets August 2022 deadline for Dwarka Expressway, shifting toll plaza||Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari during a visit to the city on Thursday set a deadline of August 15, 2022, for shifting the Kherki Daula toll plaza on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway and making the Dwarka Expressway project operational. Gadkari made the announcement after completing an inspection of the Dwarka Expressway project, from Kherki Daula to Dwarka, along with Gurugram member of Parliament (MP) Rao Inderjit Singh and senior officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).“There have been a number of legal issues and complications related to land acquisition because of which shifting of Kherki Daula toll did not happen. But I announce it today that this toll plaza will be shifted by August 15 next year and it will be on same day when Dwarka Expressway becomes operational,” said Gadkari.The union transport minister said that he has also revised the deadline for entire Dwarka Expressway project to next year. “The two phases in Haryana will be completed by this year-end and phases one and two in Delhi would be completed by August 15,” he said, adding that the NHAI had earlier anticipated to finish the project by December 2022.Gadkari also said that the Dwarka Expressway will play an important role in reducing pollution in Delhi and NCR as well as decongest the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway. “The biggest positive would be the decongestion of Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway which has daily traffic of 3 lakh (300,000) PCUs (passenger car units). When this road is completed, this area will get developed like Singapore and Dubai,” he said. Shifting of the toll plaza has been a longstanding demand of daily commuters to Manesar, who work in the industrial sector, and residents of the developing sectors.Earlier on February 13, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar promised to shift the toll within six months as land required for the same was set to be transferred to NHAI. The proposal to shift the toll was mooted in late 2018, when the government and NHAI agreed to shift it to Sehrawan near Manesar but was hindered by legal issues. The plan to shift the toll to Panchgaon at present has also remained stuck due to land acquisition issues. The 29-kilometre-long Dwarka Expressway is designed as an eight-lane grade-separated road, with a provision for three-lane service roads on both sides. Dwarka Expressway will have four multi-level interchanges and crossroad underpasses at major junctions.Prakhar Sahay, who owns a flat along the Dwarka Expressway, said that once the Gurugram portion of the Dwarka Expressway becomes functional, the toll plaza will lose relevance. “This is going to happen by December 2021, although the toll may officially shift next year,” said Sahay. Gurgaon MP and union minister of state, Rao Inderjit Singh, said that early completion of Dwarka Expressway and shifting of Kherki Daula toll would give a great impetus to economic growth of the city. “We have been pursuing the shifting of the toll plaza and early completion of several road projects, particularly the Dwarka Expressway. We are thankful to the union minister for bringing forward the deadlines,” said Singh.Earlier in the morning, Gadkari, Singh and senior NHAI officials, along with mediapersons, boarded a bus at Central Peripheral Road near Kherki Daula toll plaza and took stock of the progress of the expressway. Officials apprised him that 50% construction work of the expressway has been completed. Of the 29 kilometres of the expressway, 18.9 kilometres is in Haryana while the remaining 10.1 kilometres are in Delhi. Also, 23 kilometres of the entire project would be elevated.Dwelling on the key technical features of the Dwarka expressway, Manoj Kumar, member (project), NHAI, said that once completed, the road project will facilitate safe and seamless travel to travellers moving between Jaipur, Gurugram, Delhi and adjoining areas. “This road will reduce the load on NH8 and reduce both congestion and pollution,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gadkari-sets-august-2022-deadline-for-dwarka-expressway-shifting-toll-plaza-101614879167349.html
04-03-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram secures 8th rank in easy living index among cities with less than 1mn population||Buoyed by better-than-average performances in the main survey parameters (see box), the city ranked eighth among cities with less than a million population in the Ease of Living Index report 2020, released by the ministry of housing and urban affairs on Thursday.In the National Capital Region, Gurugram, with a score of 56 out of 100, was second only to Delhi, which scored 57.56, while other NCR cities of Ghaziabad and Faridabad scored 54.31 and 51.26, respectively. The report also pegged the overall quality of life in Gurugram (53.3) slightly better than the Capital (51.22), which was assessed in a separate category of cities with more than one million population. At 51.38, the national average for quality of life was lower than both cities.The cities were ranked on the basis of scores on four pillars with different weights: Quality of Life (35%), Economic Ability (15%), Sustainability (20%), and Citizen Perception (30%). The last, which has a weight of almost one-third in the rankings, is a completely subjective parameter.The four pillars were divided into a total of 14 categories, such as education, health, housing, etc. under the quality of life pillar. Scores on these categories were themselves generated on the basis of a total of 49 indicators, such as household expenditure on education, literacy rate, etc. for the education category.According to the report, Gurugram also scored well on parameters such as housing and shelter (75.69) and education (74.06) under the Quality of Life pillar. Although the report assigned a high score of 82.61 to the city for safety and security, not too far behind the national average of 86.74, the report stated “...top-performers in the Quality of Life pillar such as Indore, Delhi, and Gurugram have recorded a high incidence of crimes against women.”Apart from these, the city registered a perfect score of 100 in the city resilience category under the Sustainability pillar, which had a national average score of 91.59. Mapping the housing and shelter category scores, the report states, “Twelve Less than Million cities have emerged as positive outliers in terms of slum population, with no section of the population residing in slums. This includes cities such as Gurugram, Varanasi, Meerut, Patna, Dhanbad, Shimla, Indore, and Jammu.”The ground situation is, however, different for Gurugram where slum clusters continue to be a part of the urban landscape.On the downside, mobility remains a challenge in the city. Gurugram scored a measly 25.54, lower than the national average of 28.05.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said, “Even though Metro connectivity is available in the city and Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus also has regular services, but considering the number of migrants and people who go to work, we need to work upon mobility issues here. We also have to work on green spaces in the city and ensure that all our services are energy efficient and sustainable.”In 2018, Gurugram had ranked 88 out of 111 cities surveyed across Indian as part of the Ease of Living index, indicating generally poor quality of living for city residents. But this year, a reformed framework was built based on previous learnings.“The scope and parameters of the index were expanded based on the feedback received from key stakeholders and urban experts. A significant revision is in the form of separation of the outcome and input parameters that determine the ease of living of citizens… Apart from the segregation of the indicators into input and outcome indicators, there have been significant revisions in the framework of Ease of Living itself. The index carries a 30 percent weightage on the Citizen Perception Survey,” the report stated, making both the rankings incomparable.Recreation was another category where Gurugram, with a score of 11.65, “scored considerably lower than the national average (11.68)”.“Given that we are a Millennium City, we are working with the municipal corporation and we hope to see a jump in that sector within a year. Recreation is important for a city like ours as it brings a cultural vibrancy, which can be through different avenues like concerts, street art, food festivals, so that the general public has different options,” said Garg, on the scope of improving recreational avenues.Under the municipal performance index, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) ranked at 15 with a score of 45.84 in the category of below one million population, whereas Delhi ranked 1 with a score of 52.92 in the same category.Speaking on the performance, Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner of MCG said, “We are still analysing where the MCG’s performance has gone down and needs improvement. We will be working on all issues and improve the ranking in future. However, if we compare scores of MCG with municipal bodies of South Delhi (46), then we are not far behind. Both East (40.79) and North Delhi (37.66) have scored less than us.”City residents, however, said that improvements are needed in the areas of mobility, safety and security and recreational facilities.Neela Kaushik, the founder of Gurgaon Moms, a parent body, said, “When I talk to members in my community, I still get the feedback that mothers do not feel confident in sending children out after a certain time. Another safety issue in the city is drunken and underage driving, which lead to on-the-spot deaths in many cases.”Manas Fuloria, a resident of the city and co-founder of Nagarro, said that mobility has been an issue in the city for years now. “Gurugram came up as a city with middle-class to upper-middle-class car-focused population, with roads frequently widened and public transport taking a back seat until recently, when municipal bodies started the services of minibuses and developing footpaths. It is the style of development which is incorrect and authorities have now recognised and started working on it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-secures-8th-rank-in-easy-living-index-among-cities-with-less-than-1mn-population-101614879166669.html
04-03-2021||Gurugram||51.1% of total vaccination reported from public facilities||In Gurugram, 51.1 per cent of the total turnout for vaccination this week was recorded at government hospitals and primary health centres, the health department said on Thursday.Around 26 private hospitals vaccinated the rest of the beneficiaries — senior citizens and those aged above 45 with comorbidities. Total of 5,583 common people have been inoculated in Gurugram since March 1, officials said.Following a meeting with the health department on Wednesday, several private hospitals introduced measures to streamline the vaccination process ahead of an expected increase in turnout in the coming days. After an initial lack of planning, private hospitals introduced a token system on Thursday so that people can book slots through phone calls or mobile apps.The move will ease the chaos and long waiting hours at the vaccination centres, according to officials.“A contact number has been issued to organise the walk-in procedure for vaccination. Based on the calls received for on-spot registration on a given number, people are listed for the day,” said Pankaj Mishra, marketing manager, Narayana Hospital in DLF Phase III.“As many people are unaware of the process and directly coming to the site, we asked them to make a phone call and send their details on the number so they can be put in the vaccination list for Friday,” Mishra added.Almost 200 vaccine beneficiaries, whose names were displayed on the notice board at the vaccination centre, were confirmed for the shot on Thursday. Many people at the site were, however, in a dilemma regarding the vaccination process.Sanjay Kalia, who brought his parents to the centre for vaccination, said, “Until now, we had no clarity about the walk-in registration. Now, they have asked us to send us the details on the given number. Hopefully, our names will be in the list tomorrow, for which we will have to visit the hospital again.”The vaccination for the prioritised group started at 20 vaccination centres on March 1. On Day 1, senior citizens, including people who came to make an inquiry about the process after they were unable to register themselves on CoWIN portal, turned up in large numbers. The footfall for the walk-in vaccination has been high since then. People say they have been “facing problems in online booking”.Other centres, like the Park Hospital, issue tokens almost 30 minutes ahead of the vaccination, which starts at 9 am. “Over 100 tokens for on-spot registration are issued every day. All tokens get distributed within 10 minutes. No tokens are issued thereafter. People are asked to either register themselves on the portal in advance or collect the tokens,” said vaccination site manager Surjit Singh, adding that the tokens are issued based on vaccine doses available for the day.Geeta Singh, a resident of Uniworld Garden, collected the token early Thursday morning and received the shot at 2 pm. “The entire verification and payment process is extremely slow. After collecting the token, I reached the hospital again at 10:30 pm and have been waiting since then,” she said.As the vaccination is free in government facilities, the payment process is excluded, expediting the process. The Civil Hospital in Sector 10A issued tokens throughout the day, catering to all on-spot registration till 4 pm.Almost 131 people got tokens till 1.30 pm on Thursday, of which 90 were inoculated. “Walk-in registration is open for all. Since there are two session sites, the process is fast if the server is not down. We inoculate everyone almost till 4:30 pm. The footfall is generally high during morning hours,” said Civil Hospital medical superintendent Dr Manish Kumar.Other hospitals have asked the visitors to register themselves on the hospital’s mobile app before coming for on-spot registration.According to Artemis Hospital head administrator Reena Tiwari, people receive a message confirming the registration for walk-in after they register themselves on the hospital’s mobile app. They go through the verification process on Co-Win and the fee payment process before the vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/511-of-total-vaccination-reported-from-public-facilities-101614879166076.html
04-03-2021||Gurugram||Poor performance in economy due to Covid-19: City-based businessmen||The recent Covid-19 pandemic left the city’s industrial sector paralysed for almost a year, with business yet to make a full recovery and economic opportunities being hit. The effect was reflected in a low score on this count in the Ease of Living Index, which was released countrywide on Thursday.The Millennium City, which has long been touted as the engine of economic growth in Haryana, scored only 32.5 out of 100 under the Economic Ability pillar. Although the national average was much lower, at 13.17, industry leaders in the city said that Gurugram’s poor performance on this parameter was surprising.They said that Gurugram was hit badly due to the lockdown in 2020 as most businesses and manufacturing stopped and the secondary and allied business sector, such as transport, security, food and beverages, failed to generate revenue. The food and beverage business and liquor industry, which account for a high proportion of jobs, have still not recovered while the real estate is still trying to find a way forward, according to local business associations.The recent decision to implement job reservations for locals in such a scenario does not augur well for the future of the city, said experts but they agreed that Gurugram should bounce back as a favoured business destination as it has resilience and depth.Vinod Sood, managing director, Hughes Systiqe, an IT company, said that while software companies have managed to remain unaffected, the pandemic has hit ITes and BPOs badly. “The service providers were also hit but things are bouncing back and the city will again score among top cities for business and economic opportunity as it has always been,” said Sood, who also holds the chair of National Association of Software and Service Companies (Nasscom), Haryana.Experts said that the IT sector, which generated a lot of allied businesses like cafeterias, cab services, pantry jobs, security business, etc, are also working at 25% capacity as a majority of people are working from home.Owners of manufacturing companies, however, said that they are positive about Gurugram and said that the low numbers on the index might be an aberration. “This is only a blip on the radar as Gurugram is and will always remain a top job and business destination. The city has jobs for everyone and of every kind. Secondly, the wages are better and workers are well off,” said Manmohan Gaind, a Manesar-based industrialist.Pawan Yadav, who owns a telecom-related manufacturing unit, said that demand was growing and business was getting back to normal. “Gurugram, like any other part of the country, suffered during the pandemic but we are seeing job generation. Demand is good and the industry is looking for workers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/poor-performance-in-economy-due-to-covid-19-city-based-businessmen-101614879165444.html
04-03-2021||Gurugram||Mobility problems continue to weigh down city||Mobility remains a challenge for city agencies even after several decades of rapid urban development, as per the findings of the Ease of Living Index released by the Central government on Thursday. The city scored 25.84 in the category of mobility, ranking among its worst score in the parameters.Although a comprehensive mobility plan was conceived in the last two years, its implementation remains pending. Sewa Ram, an urban transport systems design expert and a faculty member at the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), Delhi, said that mobility continues to remain a problem in the city due to fragmented development and lack of connectivity between individual pockets.“Different pockets of development came up at different times and locations in a fragmented manner unlike the neighbouring city of Delhi, where development started spreading outwards from centre and that is how transport facilities were also developed. Since development was fragmented, intracity mobility got affected and the places were not connected by a good network,” said Sewa Ram.Gurugram had performed poorly in the 2018 edition of the Ease of Living Index as well, with the city being ranked 69 in this sector. In the 2020 edition, the city ranked 31, albeit only among the 62 cities with a population of less than a million.To understand the mobility standards, the current report has taken three indicators, availability of public transport, transport-related fatalities and road infrastructure, into account. The city has limited Metro connectivity, with only five stations, and there has been no expansion beyond the last station at Huda City Centre since 2010 although plans are afoot. Though the Rapid Metro was introduced in 2012, its reach remains confined to a few localities. A city bus service started in 2018 has provided some relief but it is yet to form a complete network to provide seamless mobility and last-mile connectivity.The report states, “Urban mobility emerges as one of the greatest challenges to urbanisation. With growing resources and population, the need for expansion in transportation services arises… Over 60% of the cities participating in this index have scored below the national average of 28.05.”Speaking on improvements in the sector, Maqsood Ahmed, additional chief executive officer for mobility division with the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority, said, “Mobility has been an issue in the city, but we are working to improve it by increasing buses, making specific paths for cyclists through our comprehensive mobility plan that has been approved by the chief minister and is in the implementation stages.”The state government, meanwhile, said it was planning to slowly switch to electric buses in Gurugram as a more sustainable measure to improve connectivity.Mool Chand Sharma, state transport minister, said that following the guidelines of the Central government, the state is also working towards switching to electric vehicles from CNG vehicles.“Along with starting more minibus services to improve intracity connectivity in Gurugram and proper implementation of the comprehensive mobility plan, we are also working on slowly switching towards electric vehicles. There has been a slight shift already with people using electric cars and two-wheelers, but the state government is also aiming to switch to electric buses in large numbers by 2024 to ease mobility issues in the city,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mobility-problems-continue-to-weigh-down-city-101614879164907.html
04-03-2021||Patna||No city from Bihar in top 10 of Ease of Living Index, Patna climbs a notch||Patna has recorded a significant improvement in its ranking in the Ease of Living Index 2020, a survey of cities across the country conducted by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, the findings of which were released on Thursday.The city has ranked 33rd out of the 111 cities that participated, 49 of them in over one million category and 62 in less than a million population category.Four cities from Bihar -- Patna, Biharsharif, Bhagalpur and Muzaffarpur, participated in the survey. Muzaffarpur was adjudged the lowest in the Ease of Living Index.In the first edition of the Ease of Living Index in 2018, Patna had scored 18.67 out of 100 and was ranked 109th among the 111 cities across the country.The rankings are based on various parameters, including governance, education, health, housing, power supply and transport, among others.In the latest survey, Patna has scored 53.26 out of 100 and is ranked ahead of Ranchi (42).In the less than a million population category, Biharsharif, with a score of 52.42, has ranked 28th out of 62 cities; Bhagalpur (52.19) points ranked 30th. Muzaffarpur, with 45.53 points, is the lowest among all categories.The cities were assessed on five parameters: quality of life (education, health, housing and shelter, safety and security, etc.), economic sustainability (level of economic development, economic opportunities), sustainability (environment, green building, energy consumption, city resilience, etc.); ease of living and citizen perception survey.As far as quality of life is concerned, Patna has scored 47.02 as against the national average of 51.38 (in million-plus category) and has ranked 42nd out of the 49 cities in this category. Bhagalpur has scored 49, Biharsharif 48.71 and Muzaffarpur 45.82 on the quality of life.The Citizen Perception Survey (CPS) was undertaken from January 16 to March 20, 2020. A total of 32.2 lakh citizens from 111 cities participated in the survey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/no-city-from-bihar-in-top-10-of-ease-of-living-index-patna-climbs-a-notch-101614877228999.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 8,998 new Covid-19 cases, 1,104 fresh infections in Mumbai||Maharashtra continued to witness a high spike in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as 8,998 fresh infections were reported in the western state on Thursday, according to the latest medical bulletin released by the health department. With this, Maharashtra’s infection tally reached 2,188,183, the highest in the country.Follow all Covid-19 related updates hereMaharashtra’s active caseload rose to 85,144 from 82,343 a day ago, with an increase of 2,801 cases, the bulletin showed. It also showed 6,135 more patients recovered from the viral disease in the last 24 hours and 60 succumbed to it, taking their respective tallies to 2,049,484 and 52,340.The state’s present surge in cases began in the last week of February, with more than 8,000 new daily cases being recorded. This came to an end on March 1, when there were 6,397 infections, followed by 7,863 on March 2. Then on March 3, the daily tally went up with 9,855 infections, the highest single-day count in four months.The number of new coronavirus disease cases in the state’s capital city of Mumbai were more than 1,100 for the second straight day. The infection tally of the metropolis increased by 1,104 to 329,846. The number of recovered patients in the city rose to 308,436 while related fatalities were up by five, taking the death toll to 11,492. Active cases, meanwhile, crossed 9,000 to reach 9,041, up from 8,594 on Wednesday.Maharashtra is among the six states, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) has pointed out, which contribute nearly 86% of the country’s daily new Covid-19 cases. The other five are Kerala, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Karnataka.Also Read | Six states contribute 86% of daily new Covid cases: Govt dataOn Thursday, Punjab also witnessed a major spike, recording more than 1,000 infections for the first time since October 5 last year. The northern state saw 1,074 new infections and 15 related deaths, taking its infection tally and death toll to 185,381 and 5,887 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-8-998-new-covid-19-cases-1-104-fresh-infections-in-mumbai-101614874853631.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||‘7 bank lockers seized, emails recovered’: What I-T dept found during raids on Anurag Kashyap, Taapsee Pannu||The income tax department’s raids on filmmaker Anurag Kashyap, actor Taapsee Pannu and two talent management companies in Mumbai are still underway in connection with Phantom Films tax evasion probe, the Union ministry of finance said in a statement on Thursday. The I-T department found income discrepancies worth ₹650 crore during the raid. Searches that began on Wednesday are still on at 28 premises at the residences and offices Mumbai, Pune, Delhi and Hyderabad linked to the now-dissolved production house Phantom Films. Here are the key developments:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/7-bank-lockers-seized-emails-recovered-what-i-t-dept-found-during-raids-on-anurag-kashyap-taapsee-pannu-101614873717577.html
04-03-2021||Other||Waste pickers’ children write to minister to increase amount of scholarship||PUNE At least 1,500 children of waste pickers from Pune have written to Maharashtra’s cabinet minister Dhananjay Munde to increase scholarships amount, as promised to them.There was no response to HT’s questions from Munde as of March 4.“All children of waste pickers are eligible under the centrally sponsored pre-matric scholarship for those engaged in an occupation involving cleaning and prone to health hazards. In 2018, the central government announced an increase in the amount from Rs1,850 to 3,000 per year, but the state government has not implemented the change,” said Poornima Chikarmane, from Kagad Kach Patra Kashtakari Panchayat, Pune.These children wrote postcards and held posters with slogans to create awareness about the cleaning occupations scheme on March 1 which is celebrated as the International Waste Pickers’ Day.The postcard reads “Sir, I am Sachin Kamble from Pune. I study in Class 8 in Babu Jagjivan Ram school. My mother is a waste picker. I receive the scholarship amount of 1,850 per year which is given to children of waste pickers but the central government has changed the amount to 3,000 ₹per year in 2018. The change has not been reflected by the state government and I am deprived of the money which I need to continue my education. Covid has severely affected our studies and we request you to please grant us our rightful amount of scholarship.”Chikarmane had met minister Mundhe along with the deputy chairperson of the legislative council, Neelam Gorhe just prior to the Covid pandemic in 2020.Mayur Gaikwad, one of the students of Class 10, said, “I am protesting for our rights, only because we know that if we don’t get the scholarship we will never be able to pursue higher education. Another student of Class 10 Poonam Shinde, said, “My mother has spent her life collecting waste, it is such an important service. Why does it take so long to recognize our value to the world and give us what is rightfully ours.”“We hope that our handwritten letters will hasten the process and we get a sum of ₹3,000 as the scholarship starting this year itself”, said Rutuja Mote, a student of Class 8, studying in PMC school, daughter of a waste picker from Yerawada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/waste-pickers-children-write-to-minister-to-increase-amount-of-scholarship-101614874664092.html
04-03-2021||Other||3.79 lakh households in rural Pune without tap water connection||PUNE At least 3.79 lakh households in the Pune district do not have a tap water connection, as of February 26, 2021, according to a report on sanitation needs of rural Pune.As per the report, at least 3.79 lakh households in the district, approximately 15.19 lakh people considering four members in each family, have to depend on tankers, bore wells and public taps for daily sanitation needs.The report states that the highest number of such families are from Haveli taluka, with over 84,000 families, followed by Junnar with 53 families and Indapur with 51 families.However, amid the pandemic the district administration has overachieved its target in 20-21 by providing tap water connection to over 2.19 lakh households against the target of two lakh.The administration presented the report to Supriya Sule, an MP from Baramati in Pune.According to the report, Haveli has also got the most number of tap water connections with over 46,000 beneficiaries, followed by Indapur with over 24,000 beneficiaries and Junnar with 20,000 beneficiaries.Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Zilla Parishad, said, “During the lockdown period we completed administrative works. We had to face challenges such as availability of stamp paper for signing an agreement with contractors and movement restrictions made it difficult to find material.”“We also found it difficult to work in certain areas due to extended monsoons, but our engineers and contractor partners have worked diligently,” he said.For the year 2021-22, the administration now aims to cover two lakh more households under the “Jal Jeevan Mission” which aims to provide clean tap water to each household.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/379-lakh-households-in-rural-pune-without-tap-water-connection-101614874604204.html
04-03-2021||Other||Dalit activist Shiv Kumar out on bail||Dalit activist Shiv Kumar was released from prison after a local court in Sonepat granted him bail in the third case.A day earlier, he got bail in two cases. Three FIRs had been registered - one on December 28 and two on January 12 against various activists including Nodeep Kaur and Shiv Kumar for extortion, among other charges.Sessions judge YS Rathor released Kumar on bail on furnishing bond in sum of ₹1 lakh with one surety.Kumar was booked under Sections 148, 149, 186, 332, 353, 384, 379-B and 307 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and was arrested on January 23.He was arrested on a complaint filed by inspector Ravi Kumar, SHO of Kundli police station, on January 12, for allegedly attacking cops while protesting outside factory number 349 in industrial area of HSIIDC Kundli. Kumar was arrested in this connection.“The court said that Kumar shall not directly or indirectly make any inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the case so as to dissuade him from disclosing such facts to the court or any police officer. He shall not leave India without prior permission of court,” the order of the copy said.Shiv Kumar contended before the court through his counsel Jatinder Kumar that he was not even present at the protest site on January 12.“Co-accused Nodeep Kaur, whose case is identical to that of the applicant, has been released on bail by the Punjab and Haryana high court. In these circumstances, the applicant is entitled to be released on bail on grounds of parity,” the lawyer added.On February 19, the HC had ordered to conduct medical examination of Kumar after hearing a petition filed by his father Rajbir Singh alleging police torture and brutality with Kumar by Sonepat police.In a plea filed in HC, Rajbir had alleged that Kumar, president of Majdoor Adhikar Sanghathan, was picked up by police on January 16, illegally detained for seven days before producing him before the magistrate and sought CBI probe and his medical examination.Medical report submitted by a team of doctors of GMCH, Chandigarh, to the HC had mentioned that Kumar has sustained eight injuries, including multiple fractures, that are more than two weeks old. The nail beds of some of his toes were also found to be broken. The team of doctors had found four injuries simple in nature, two of them are grievous and had not commented on two injuries as regard to their nature because of the possibility of fracture.Doctors had done a psychiatric evaluation of Kumar and said that he appeared “sad and distressed with occasional crying spells.”“He expressed preoccupation with his current situation, reported predominant anxiety symptoms, flashbacks of brutality meted out to him, nightmares, feeling of loneliness, uncertainty about future,” it said, adding that overall, he appears to be in “post-traumatic stress disorder like symptoms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dalit-activist-shiv-kumar-out-on-bail-101614873224024.html
04-03-2021||Other||Pune’s problem: Better on sustainability, but low on economic ability, quality of life||PUNE While Pune has officially been tagged the second best among 49 cities in the country considered on the “Ease of Living Index”, released by the Centre on Thursday, there is a catch. The Ease of Living Index for the year 2020 evaluated the well-being of Indian citizens in cities, across various parameters that consist of four pillars: quality of life, economic ability, sustainability, and citizens’ perception. During the evaluation, Pune scored 58.10 on quality of life, which has a weightage of 35%; 48.88 on economic ability with a weightage of 15%; 75.74 on sustainability; and 66.27 on citizens’ perception. For the last two pillars the weightage is 20% and 30% respectively. (See graphic) There were 14 categories under these four pillars with 49 indicators. Among these 14 categories, such as green buildings, Pune has scored 100, while on safety and security, the score is above 90 and for resilience, 100. On the other hand, on the economic opportunities front, Pune scored below 20, while at the same time the score for level of economic development was above 80. On health, it was less than 60 and for mobility, below 40. Activists said the report rightly observed Pune’s key problem of mobility and poor public transport, along with garbage issues and a need for health facilities. “Pune is following the industrial belt, but due to it being a non-capital city there are some limitations. Like other capital cities, Pune is not getting enough direct investment,” said a senior Pune Municipal Corporation official, on condition of anonymity. Rajya Sabha MP from NCP Vandana Chavan said, “Overall Pune city is best on some parameters. There is natural potential in this city, though there are problems on the ground, such as mobility. Even today I raised the question of dumping on the riverbed.” The PMC accepts that the city has enough health of infrastructure, but it is lying idle. Pune’s big problem is garbage. Every year there are agitations over the issue. The existing solid waste management plants are not working aat full capacity. According to Prashant Girbane, director-general, MCCIA, what is needed for the city is a constant follow up of major projects which have the potential to generate economic opportunities. “Pune has scored very low on economic opportunities, mobility and recreation. Pune has a dozen infrastructure projects announced worth more than ₹50,000 crore. A dashboard of monthly progress on each of these would help. Speedy execution of these would generate economic opportunities, especially for unskilled workers who are most impacted by the pandemic,” Girbane said. College of Engineering Pune (COEP) director Prof B B Ahuja said, “Citizens of Pune are conscious of their responsibilities towards the growing needs of the city. Pune is regarded as the Oxford of the East and so more and more students come here for their academic careers. There is harmony among citizens. It is indeed a proud moment for all of us to get the 2nd rank in the country.”Arun Adsul, former vice-chancellor of the SPPU said, “I have seen Pune developing over the last 50 years, earlier as a student, then as a professor and finally as the vice-chancellor of the university. It is indeed a good and liveable place for not only students, but for people of all ages.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punes-problem-better-on-sustainability-but-low-on-economic-ability-quality-of-life-101614871303808.html
04-03-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM presents ₹57,400 cr budget for FY22 with health, infra in focus||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday presented a ₹57,400.32 crore budget for 2021-22 in the Assembly here with emphasis on health, rural infrastructure, education, employment generation and agriculture. Tabling the budget in the post-lunch session of the Assembly, the chief minister said it will help in fulfilling the aspirations of the people. The budget contains the vision of a self-reliant Uttarakhand which is essential to the realisation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision of a self-reliant India, he said. The chief minister began his budget speech by saluting those who fought for the statehood of Uttarakhand and to those who are always ready to lay down their lives to protect the country's borders and people from all sections combating the challenge posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. He also thanked the Centre for giving its valuable support to the state government in its endeavours to bring about development in the state. Rawat said many things have happened with the Centre's support in Uttarakhand in the last four years which were hard to think of during previous governments including Rishikesh Karnaprayag rail link project, Chardham all-weather road project, Kedarnath Dham Reconstruction project, Bharatmala project, Jamrani multi-purpose project and the Namami Gange project. The budget makes a provision of ₹3,319.63 crore for medical and family welfare department, ₹1,511.29 crore for PWD, ₹954.75 crore for PM Gram Sadak Yojana, ₹695.16 crore for important infrastructure schemes and ₹385.27 crore for annual maintenance and renovation of roads, Rawat said. The budget proposes to make a provision of ₹1,154.62 crore under Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan while a provision of ₹153.7 crore has been proposed under Right to Education Act. A provision of ₹228. 99 crore has been made in the budget for three medical colleges in Haridwar, Pithoragarh and Rudrapur. A provision of ₹150 crore has been made for Atal Ayushman Uttarakhand Yojana. ₹272.45 crore has been proposed for MNREGS and ₹94.43 crore for National Rural Livelihood MIssion. ₹197.61 crore has been proposed for Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (rural) in this budget. A provision of ₹245 crore has been made in the budget for payment of sugarcane prices besides that of ₹87.56 crore under Traditional Agricultural Development Scheme to double the farmers' income by 2022, the chief minister said. Besides, there is a provision of ₹20 crore in the Chief MInister State Agriculture Development Scheme and ₹12 crore in the Integrated Adarsh Krishi Gram Yojana. An amount of ₹67.94 crore is proposed under the National Agricultural Development Scheme and ₹25 crore in the budget for Chief Minister Ghasyari Kalyan Yojana, Rawat said. Total expenditure has been estimated at ₹57,400.32 crore for 2021-22 in the budget. Revenue Expenditure is estimated at ₹44,036.31 crore and Capital Expenditure at ₹13,364.01 crore in the next fiscal starting from April. Under salary and allowances a provision of ₹16,422.51 crore has been made and ₹6,400 crore has been allocated for pension and other retirement benefits. An expenditure of ₹6,052.63 crore is estimated as interest payment and an expenditure of ₹4,241.57 crore is estimated as repayment of loans. No revenue deficit is estimated. Fiscal deficit is estimated to be ₹8,984.53 crore in 2021-22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-cm-presents-rs-57-400-cr-budget-for-fy22-with-health-infra-in-focus-101614870675244.html
04-03-2021||Other||ITF $25K wwomen’s tennis tournament in Pune from March 7||PUNE Pro tennis returns to the city after the Covid break, as it gears-up to host the KPIT MSLTA ITF $25K wwomen’s tennis tournament at the Deccan Gymkhana tennis courts from March 7-14.Pune is the first city in Asia to host an ITF women’s events after the pandemic year, 2020. After the women’s tournament the city will also host the men’s ITF $15K event from March 22.Indian players, Riya Bhatia (353), Rutuja Bhosale (431), Zeel Desai (636), Sowjanya Bavisetti (641), Sathwika Sama (859), Mihika Yadav (907), and Jennifer Luikham (948) have got an entry into the main draw. Four Indian players will also be added to the list via wildcards, which will be announced later.Katharina Gerlach (Germany, 249), Lina Gjorcheska (Macedonia, 350), Panna Udvardy (Hungary, 352), Miriam Bianca Bulgaru (Romania, 380), Sofia Shapatava (Georgia, 384), and Marianna Zakarlyuk (Ukraine, 490) are amongst the players from 15 countries who will be seen in action.The qualifying matches will be played on March 7-8, followed by the main draw matches from March 9. The doubles finals is slated for March 13 and the singles final for March 14.“Strict Covid regulations will be in place as per guidelines of the national, state and district administration and the SOPs of the International Tennis Federation during the event. Matches will be held without spectators. Entry to the event will be strictly with accreditation. The ‘live’ scoring of these matches will be available on ITF Live scores app on the ITF website,” said Sunder Iyer, joint secretary of All India Tennis Association and honorary secretary of MSLTA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/itf-25k-wwomen-s-tennis-tournament-in-pune-from-march-7-101614870583598.html
04-03-2021||Other||65-year-old arrested for sexually assaulting minor||PUNE A 65-year-old man has been arrested by the Pune police on Thursday, for sexually assaulting a minor girl from his neighbourhood, which falls under the jurisdiction of the Khadak police station. The arrested man has been identified as Husain Sultan Dhotekar (65), according to police. The assault allegedly happened on Monday when the man lured the girl into his house under the guise of giving her a chocolate.“Yes, we have arrested him, and he is in the lock-up now,” said police sub -inspector Jyoti Kute of Samarth police station. The female police official at Khadak police station, where the case was registered, tested positive for Covid-19, due to which a female official from Samarth was called in in order to take over the investigation.A case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (Pocso) Act has been registered at Khadak police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/65yearold-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-101614869683556.html
04-03-2021||Other||Pimpri-Chinchwad 16th on Ease of Living index; PCMC outdoes Pune on municipal performance||PUNE With a score of 57.16, the industrial townships of Pimpri-Chinchwad has been ranked 16th on the Easy of Living Index, 2020. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) one of the biggest corporations in the state, scored a lower rank in citizen perception on the (65), the biggest reason for PCMC falling to 16 overall.“In the citizen perception index, we have scored very low marks. The projects on various basic amenities and other facilities will get completed this year which will boost our ranking next year,” said Rajesh Patil, PCMC municipal commissioner.Pimpri-Chinchwad mayor Usha Dhore added, “We have lacked in a few aspects of development, that is why currently we are 16th. The projects which are going on will help us to improve our rankings.”Activists and residents of the twin cities feel the city lacks all-round development. “I feel overall development should be looked at, so people from all categories will be happy in PCMC. Middle-class people face many hardships while living in the twin cities,” said environmentalist Prashant Raul.“PCMC still needs to work and focus on improvement of basic infrastructure. We are getting big towers, but road completion work is going on at a snail’s pace,” said Rakesh Surve, an IT professional from Theragon.PCMC outdoes Pune on MPIOn the municipal performance index (MPI), part of the Ease of Living index, Pimpri-Chinchwad is placed fourth place with a score of 59.00, ahead of Pune at 58.79.“It is a good sign and in the coming year our target will be to achieve top rankings,” said Rajesh Patil, PCMC municipal commissioner.The municipal performance index is an effort to assess and analyse the performance of Indian municipalities based on their defined set of functions.The responsibilities of a municipality span across a range of verticals that include provisions of basic public services to more complex domains like urban planning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pimprichinchwad-16th-on-ease-of-living-index-pcmc-outdoes-pune-on-municipal-performance-101614869383547.html
04-03-2021||Chandigarh||Upcoming Budget presentation in Haryana: Revenue deficit, debt burden sore points in economy||A revenue surplus state till 2008–09, Haryana has consistently been in deficit since then. It appears to be fiscally worst off in its class with very high trend growth rate of expenditures particularly interest payments and salaries and a huge debt burden primarily due to the power sector. These red flags about Haryana’s state of finances were raised by the 15th Finance Commission in its report tabled last month in Parliament. The observations are important keeping in view the presentation of budget estimates for 2021-22 fiscal by Chief Minister, ML Khattar later this month. The finance commission said that Haryana’s outstanding debt has been increasing at a trend growth rate of 20.2% between 2011–12 and 2018–19. The debt–gross state domestic product (GSDP) ratio also increased from 18.33% in 2011–12 to 25.09% in 2018–19. RD-FD ratio increasing The state’s revenue deficit-fiscal deficit ratio has been increasing over time and is currently 51.4% (2018–19) indicating that most of the state’s borrowings have gone for financing its revenue deficit, the report said. Subsidy, as per the finance commission, constituted around 12% of the total revenue expenditure with power subsidy alone accounting for 87% of the total subsidies. Interest payments are also a huge liability for Haryana. “Between 2011–12 and 2018–19, interest as a percentage of total revenue expenditure has been in the range of 12.5% to 17.6% which is among the highest in the country,” the commission said. “Social security and welfare constituted about 10% of total revenue expenditure with a significant part going to over 25 lakh pensioners under various flagship schemes for the elderly, widows, persons with disabilities. Despite high per capita income, Haryana has a consistently adverse sex ratio and high incidence of anaemia. Yet, health expenditure is only 4.8% of the total revenue expenditure. The pandemic apart, availability of health infrastructure and healthcare professionals in the state is hardly enough to meet its regular needs,’’ the Commission said. ‘Require balance between revenue and capital expenditure’ Chief minister ML Khattar, who holds the finance portfolio, said that payment of salaries, pensions coupled with implementation of the 7th Pay Commission has put a burden on state’s finances. “We have to strike a balance between the revenue expenditure and capital expenditure. The revenue expenditure is a committed liability and not much can be done about it.’’ Khattar said. The CM said that state debt is within the 25% limit of the GSDP as mandated by Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act. “At present, its 22.8 %. Under FRBM Act, loans up to 3% could be taken. But this year, the Central government had raised the limit 5%,’’ Khattar said. Finance officials said that debt had increased due to the fact that state government took over the huge debt of power distribution companies. As per the finance commission, the state government took over ₹25,950 crore debt of power distribution companies during 2015–2017 in the form of grants of ₹7,785 crore, loan of ₹15,570 crore and equity of ₹2,595 crore under the Ujjawal Discom Assurance Yojana (UDAY). Further, the loan was converted into equity in 2017-18 and 2018-19. ‘Our GSDP increased two-fold in last six years’ Khattar said that Haryana’s GSDP saw a two-fold increase in the last six years of BJP rule. When the Congress rule ended in 2014-15, our GSDP was ₹3.99 lakh crore. It has increased to ₹8.58 lakh crore now,’’ he said. The finance commission though has remarked that intra-state disparity between the most advanced district (Gurugram) and the most backward (Nuh) is staggering. “Without Gurugram in the equation, Haryana’s GSDP and per capita income would reduce drastically,’’ the commission said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/upcoming-budget-presentation-in-haryana-revenue-deficit-debt-burden-sore-points-in-economy-101614869323594.html
04-03-2021||Other||Much irony, little ecstasy: Punekars react to city’s Ease of Living index ranking||PUNE On the day Pune was adjudged to be the second most liveable city in country, residents grappled with long traffic jams and increasing pollution in the peth (old city) areas. The irony wasn’t missing. While residents and activists welcomed the ranking, they raised a question over how it was done and said the ground situation is different. Activist Vivek Velenkar said, “We are facing many issues in the city and even raising it regularly. We must get the details about the sample size of this survey and from which locality people have given responses.” “For Punekars, the slow progress of various infrastructure projects, air pollution, traffic jams and absence of a robust public transport system, have been top of their minds,” said Velankar. Rajya Sabha MP from the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) Vandana Chavan, also an environmentalist, said, “It is our common experience that whenever Pune gets any top ranking, the administration becomes lazy. Whenever we raise a question, they either point at other cities, or claim that we got appreciation from the government. The ground situation is different and there are many issues in the city.” In 2018, when Pune was ranked first in the Ease of Living Index, many were surprised. Activist Vijay Kumbhar said, “The survey may have been conducted only in smart city areas. Doing some basic infrastructure does not make us a liveable city. If someone took a walk on the city’s roads, there would be no need to give any answers. They can see the situation of footpaths, traffic, garbage and many other issues.” Retired civic officer Deennath Patil said, “I worked with big corporates and during my service, lived in almost all the metro cities. I can confidently say that Pune is much better city. I preferred to settle down in Pune after retirement. Pune’s climate, culture, and civic sense is much better. It is true that there is scope to improve, but when we compare it with other cities, even Mumbai, Pune is preferable for many.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/much-irony-little-ecstasy-punekars-react-to-city-s-ease-of-living-index-ranking-101614868843449.html
04-03-2021||Other||1 arrest after 21-yr-old housewife dies by suicide; family booked in case involving dowry demands||PUNE A man has been arrested by the Pune police after his sister-in-law died by suicide in their house in Chandan nagar on Tuesday.The man is accused of demanding an amount of dowry that her parents could not pay during the wedding.The deceased woman is a 21-year-old and a complaint in the matter was lodged by her 50-year-old father who is a sugarcane farm worker in Jintur village in Parbhani.While the woman was a housewife, the husband worked as a supervisor in a local factory, according to the police.The woman and her husband were married during the lockdown and were married for less than 10 months, when she died by suicide.“They had a deal for payment of ₹70,000 of which her parents had paid ₹20,000. The family kept demanding the remaining amount. One person is arrested and the rest will be arrested soon,” said police sub-inspector Kiran Aute of Chadannagar police station, who is investigating the case.The woman’s body was found in the house where she lived with her husband, his parents and his brother, in Chadannagar. The woman was allegedly alone in the house when she took the drastic step and was later found by the father-in-law who arrived home from work.Along with the arrested man and the husband, the husband’s parents, and one other sibling of the husband have been booked in the case.A case under Sections 304(b), 498(b), 506 and 34 of Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Chandannagar police station against the family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1-arrest-after-21-yr-old-housewife-dies-by-suicide-family-booked-in-case-involving-dowry-demands-101614868303432.html
04-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi record over 200 new Covid-19 cases for third consecutive day, tally above 6.40 lakh||National capital Delhi recorded 261 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases - a slight increase from Wednesday's caseload of 240 - in the last 24 hours, the state government's health department said on Thursday evening. With this, the total tally in Delhi reached 6,40,182.This is the third time in three days that Delhi has recorded more than 200 new cases of Covid-19. On Tuesday, 217 new infections were added to the city's tally.Delhi also recorded 143 recoveries on Thursday which took the cumulative recoveries to 6,27,566, according to the health department update. One death was added to the number of Covid-19 linked fatalities in Delhi, which now stands at 10,915. The number of active cases in the national capital are 1,701.The positivity rate in Delhi stands at 0.39 per cent during the 24-hour cycle as the 261 cases were recorded from 66,432 tests, the health department data showed. Out of these, 43,460 were RT-PCR and 22,972 were rapid antigen tests.The total number of tests conducted in Delhi till date are 12,622,319. The city also has 585 containment zones till Thursday.Meanwhile, more than 25,000 beneficiaries, including 13,794 senior citizens, received shots of Covid-19 vaccine in the national capital on Wednesday, according to data shared by officials.In the 45-59 years age group, 1,625 beneficiaries received the jabs, a senior official said.In the first phase, starting January 16, over 3.6 lakh beneficiaries comprising healthcare workers and frontline workers, have been vaccinated in Delhi.According to Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, over 300 centres have been set up at 192 facilities across the city for this phase of the vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-record-over-261-new-covid-19-cases-tally-above-6-40-lakh-101614867777776.html
04-03-2021||Other||80-yr-old gagged, bound; caretaker assaulted in Rs4.25 lakh Pashan robbery||PUNE The Pune police booked four unidentified men for gagging and robbing an 80-year-old woman after forcefully entering her house in Panchavati area of Pashan, on Wednesday evening.Valuables and cash worth ₹4,25,000 are stolen from the house, according to her complaint.The men are also accused of assaulting her husband’s 28-year-old caretaker.The incident happened at 7:30pm when the woman and the caretaker were in the independent house, in which she lives with her bed-ridden husband.“It is a two-storey house and there is a space in the porch area of the house for the caretaker to live in. The caretaker’s accommodation is covered on three sides and one side is a steel door that leads to the house. They forced him to open the door and assaulted him so he could not raise an alarm,” said assistant police inspector Santosh Koli of the Chaturshrungi police station, who is invesitgating the case.The caretaker was assaulted with wooden sticks and a sharp weapon, before the 80-year-old’s limbs were bound with a cloth and her mouth was gagged with a cloth, according to her complaint.The men proceeded to the first floor of the house and found a cupboard in the bedroom. The three fled with ₹25,000 in cash and jewellery worth ₹4,00,000 from the cupboard.A case under Sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 4(25) of Arms Act has been registered at Chaturshrungi police station against the four men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/80yrold-gagged-bound-caretaker-assaulted-in-rs4-25-lakh-pashan-robbery-101614868003315.html
04-03-2021||Other||Indian Army opens probe into entrance exam paper leak||PUNE The Indian Army is also investigating the leak of the question paper for its common entrance examination for recruitment of soldiers (general duty), as per a statement issued by the Army on Thursday.“In pursuance of the Indian Army’s resolve to ensure transparency and eliminate corrupt practices in recruitment, Indian Army and Maharashtra State Police are jointly investigating the recent case of leakage of question paper for Common Entrance Examination for recruitment of Soldiers (General Duty),” read the statement.Two separate FIRs have been registered in Pune after raids in multiple places led to the arrest of seven people, including two serving officials, according to a statement issued by the police. The Army, however, has refused to “divulge details” in the matter.“As the matter is under investigation, hence, we cannot divulge any details at this stage,” read a response to a media query by HT, about the arrest of two serving personnel.The arrested men are currently in the custody of the Pune police. Three have been arrested in the case registered at Vishrantwadi police station, while four have been arrested in a case registered at the Wanowrie police station.The paper leak was detected based on information received by the Military Intelligence (MI) officials in Pune and communicated to the local police. The police claim to have found the paper in possession of some of the arrested people.“The findings of the inquiry will be incorporated in the existing system of recruitment process to make it more fool-proof and robust. Due process of law will be followed to proceed against persons who may have violated the standard operating procedures for the conduct of such examinations,” the Army statement further read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/indian-army-opens-probe-into-entrance-exam-paper-leak-101614867523113.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Fire safety audits completed in 323 state-run hospitals||Fire safety audits have been completed in 323 healthcare facilties affiliated to the Maharashtra government's public health department, the state Legislative Assembly was informed on Thursday.As many as 567 hospitals come under the state public health department.In a written reply to a question raised by BJP MLA Atul Bhatkalkar, state Health Minister Rajesh Tope said the public works department is preparing the estimate plan for fire safety for 170 hospitals, of which the plan for 74 is ready.The process of making funds available through the district planning committees is in progress, he said.Bhatkalkar had asked about 506 hospitals not having fire-fighting equipment.To which, Tope in the written reply said fire safety audits of 323 healthcare facilities have been completed, and the fire brigade has been told to complete audits of all hospitals.At least 10 newborns were killed in a fire at a hospital in Bhandara district in January this year.Two nurses were booked for culpable homicide, following a probe.Meanwhile, Medical Education Minister Amit Deshmukh told the House during the question hour that the government is considering a separate facility for leprosy patients.Deshmukh was responding to a supplementary raised by Pranati Shinde (Congress) to the main question of Ashish Shelar (BJP).As many as 5,281 leprosy patients were detected by December last year, of which 450 were children, minister of state for health Rajendra Yedravkar said.A fresh drive to detect leprosy patients had begun from February 8, he said.BJP MLA Sudhir Mungantiwar said NGOs have been working on leprosy eradication and rehabilitation of the patients for several years, and the government should ensure they get annual grants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-fire-safety-audits-completed-in-323-state-run-hospitals-101614867021181.html
04-03-2021||Gurugram||Gadkari hopes Dwarka Expressway will be completed before August 15 next year||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said he is hopeful that the construction work on ₹8,662-crore Dwarka Expressway will be completed before August 15, 2022.The road transport and highways minister was reviewing the progress work on the 29-km expressway, which connects Dwarka in Delhi to Gurugram.Also Read | Gadkari to take stock of Dwarka Expressway progressDwarka Expressway, being constructed under the Bharatmala Project at a cost of ₹8,662 crore, would be completed before Independence Day next year, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways said in a statement."The Minister made an inspectional visit to Dwarka Expressway. He reviewed the progress of India's First Grade Separated Urban Expressway, Dwarka Expressway."He expressed hope that the expressway, being constructed under the Bharatmala Project and with a cost of ₹8,662 crore, would be completed before the Independence Day next year," the statement said.Gadkari said it will be the first-ever elevated Urban Expressway in India. Its construction will also immensely help to reduce air pollution in the Delhi-NCR region.The Delhi-Gurugram section of National Highway-8 is presently carrying traffic of over three lakh passenger car units (PCUs), which is much beyond the design capacity of this 8-lane highway, leading to severe congestion. With the construction of the present project, 50 to 60 per cent of traffic on National Highway-8 will be reduced, the minister added.The project will also provide around 50 thousand direct or indirect employment opportunities, he said.Being built in four packages, the total length of the expressway is 29 kilometres out of which 18.9-kilometre length falls in Haryana while the remaining 10.1-kilometre length is in Delhi.It starts from Shiv-Murti on National Highway-8 and ends near KherkiDaula Toll Plaza.Once complete, the minister said, it will be an "engineering marvel" of the country with the longest (3.6 kilometres) and widest (8 lanes) urban road tunnel in India. The project's road network will also comprise of four levels, i.e. tunnel/ underpass, at-grade road, elevated flyover and flyover above flyover."The project also comprises India's first 9-km long 8-lane flyover (34-metre wide) on single pier with 6-lane service roads. There will be a fully automated tolling system with 22 lanes toll plaza. The entire project will be equipped with an Intelligent Transportation System (ITS)."The project has a total estimated consumption of two lakh MT of steel, which is 30 times that of the Eiffel Tower. The total estimated consumption of 20 lakh Cum of Concrete is six times of the Burj Khalifa building," Gadkari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gadkari-hopes-dwarka-expressway-will-be-completed-before-august-15-next-year-101614866813162.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra governor accepts state forest minister Sanjay Rathod’s resignation||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Thursday accepted Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Rathod’s resignation as the state’s forest minister, hours after it was sent to him by the government. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the main opposition party in the state, was putting pressure on the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA)-led government to send Rathod’s resignation to the governor.Rathod, whose name had emerged in connection with the death of a 23-year old woman, tendered his resignation to chief minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray on February 28. The woman from Parli town in Maharashtra’s Beed district apparently jumped off a building in Pune on February 8. A case of accidental death was registered with the Wanawadi police station in Pune.Few days after the woman’s death, audio and video clips along with photographs went viral on social media which purportedly linked her with Rathod. The BJP accused the Shiv Sena leader of being involved in the woman’s death and demanded an investigation into the case.Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari accepts the resignation of Forest Minister Sanjay RathodRathod had tendered his resignation over his alleged connection with the death of a woman in Pune in FebruaryFollowing Rathod’s resignation last week as a cabinet minister, Leader of Opposition (LoP) and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said on February 28 that no first information report or FIR had been registered against him despite the availability of evidence and went on to blame ‘higher-ups for shielding him’. On the other hand, the BJP’s Maharashtra unit chief Chandrakant Patil said that Rathod’s resignation was a result of the constant pressure put by the people of Maharashtra and the BJP. Patil added that he was glad that CM Thackeray displayed courage in removing Rathod as a minister.Rathod, a four-time legislator from the Digras assembly constituency in Yavatmal district, has denied all charges and demanded a fair investigation. The 49-year-old leader added that the opposition defamed him and all this was being done to destroy his political career.Rathod is the second minister in the MVA government whose name has surfaced in a criminal case. Earlier, state minister of social justice and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Dhananjay Munde had been accused by a 38-year-old woman of rape, who later withdrew her complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-governor-accepts-state-forest-minister-sanjay-rathod-s-resignation-101614862844985.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Found discrepancy, manipulation in income worth ₹650 crore, says I-T dept after raids on Anurag Kashyap, Taapsee Pannu||The income tax department said on Thursday that it found discrepancy and manipulation of income during the searches at various places linked to actor Tapsee Pannu, filmmaker Anurag Kashyap and his partners who launched the now shuttered production house Phantom Films. There was also huge suppression of income compared to the actual box office collections, the IT department further said.Also Read: All you need to know about the raidsGiving details about the searches, the officials said that the production house staff was not able to explain discrepancy of around ₹300 crore.The officials also said that they found evidence related to manipulation and under-valuation of share transactions of Phantom Films amongst the film directors and shareholders, having tax implication of about ₹350 crore. Evidence of cash receipts by the leading actress amounting to ₹5 crore has also been recovered, they further said.The officials added that further investigation is on, adding that raids are still being carried out.The searches, part of a tax evasion probe against Phantom Films, were carried out across 28 locations in Mumbai and Pune on Wednesday, according to government release. Properties linked with Reliance Entertainment group CEO Shibhasish Sarkar and some executives of celebrity and talent management companies KWAN and Exceed were also raided. During the search, seven bank lockers were found which have been placed under restraint, the release said.The others searched include some Phantom Films production house employees, which was dissolved in 2018, director-producer Vikramaditya Motwane, producer Vikas Bahl and producer-distributor Madhu Mantena.Both Pannu and Kashyap, who are shooting in Pune, were also questioned by the income tax officials. They are collaborating in the upcoming film "Dobaara".The raids were slammed by opposition parties. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said that the raids are being carried out against those who are pro-farmers.He used three popular Hindi idioms in his tweet - 'Ungliyon pe nachana', 'Bheegi billi banna' and 'Khisiyani billi khamba noche' - to say what he believes they mean in the current context.Similar thoughts were expressed by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik. His cabinet colleague and Congress leader Ashok Chavan said this is nothing new. "We have been seeing this as happening often. Those who put forth facts are being pressurised in this way so that they don't speak up," said the PWD minister.But government ministers rejected allegations that the raids against Kashyap and Pannu were linked to their comments, which are seen at times critical of the BJP."This is too much. Probe agencies undertake investigations based on credible information and the matter later goes to courts as well," Union minister Prakash Javadekar said at a press conference on Wednesday.Pannu's last tweet was on March 1, in which she strongly spoke about the Supreme Court asking a man accused of repeated rape whether he was willing to marry the woman. Kashyap, meanwhile, has been quiet on Twitter in recent time. He visited the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) and Shaheen Bagh during the anti-CAA protests last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/found-discrepancy-manipulation-in-income-worth-rs-650-crore-says-i-t-dept-after-raids-on-anurag-kashyap-taapsee-pannu-101614862392768.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Police submit report in court on probe against Kangana Ranaut on posts||Mumbai Police on Thursday submitted before a magistrate court a report of their inquiry into a complaint against actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister for posting alleged hateful messages on social media.In October last year, the magistrate court in Mumbai asked suburban Amboli police to conduct an inquiry into a private complaint, filed by lawyer AliKashif Khan Deshmukh, related to the alleged objectionable messages and file a report by December 5.The police failed to submit their report within the time-frame given by the court.The court later extended the deadline which, too, was missed.During a hearing on February 5, the court asked the police to submit a progress report on the inquiry it had ordered into the complaint against Ranaut and her sister and posted the matter for further hearing on March 4.The police on Thursday filed a report of their probe into the matter.The court heard the arguments and kept the matter for orders on April 5.According to the complaint, Ranaut's sister Rangoli Chandel had posted an objectionable message on Twitter in April last year, targeting a particular community, following which her account was suspended.Ranaut then posted a video in support of her sister and in the clip allegedly referred to members of a particular community as "terrorists", the complainant said, seeking a police investigation and action against the two. PTI AVI GK GK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/police-submit-report-in-court-on-probe-against-kangana-ranaut-on-posts-101614859075455.html
04-03-2021||Lucknow||Budget passed in UP Assembly; House adjourned sine die||The Uttar Pradesh Assembly was adjourned sine die on Thursday, a week ahead of the schedule, after the House passed the annual budget for 2021-22, the largest budget so far in the history of the state.The government presented the last budget of its current tenure last week with an outlay of ₹5,50,270.78 crore.The first paperless budget of Uttar Pradesh, which intends to make the state "aatmanirbhar" (self-reliant) as Finance Minister Suresh Khanna put it, includes new schemes worth ₹27,598.40 crore.The brief session, which was to conclude on March 10, was curtailed following requests from lawmakers to wrap it up so that they could campaign for the upcoming panchayat polls in the state.As soon as the House met for the day, Khanna, who is also the parliamentary affairs minister, said due to the upcoming panchayat polls and the recurrence of Covid-19 cases in some states, the proceedings will be completed and the House will be adjourned.Leader of Opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary of the Samajwadi Party (SP) termed it "murder of democracy" and said the Assembly members do not have to contest in the panchayat polls and that the House should be run till March 10, as decided earlier.Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader Lalji Verma and Congress Legislative Party leader Aradhna Mishra Mona too cited rules and said the proceedings should continue and there is no reason for curtailing the session.Khanna, however, cited examples from 2009, 2006 and 1991 and said as the number of coronavirus cases is also rising, the budget should be passed and the House adjourned sine die.Dissatisified with the "undemocratic" move of the government, opposition SP, BSP, Congress and Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) staged a walkout.Subsequently, the budget and the related appropriation bills were passed by a voice vote.Several amendment bills were passed before the House was adjourned.The session commenced on February 18 with the governor's customary address to the joint sitting of the Assembly and the Legislative Council, but it was marked by opposition protests and walkouts.Replying to the debate on the Motion of Thanks to the governor for her address, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath slammed the opposition members for their "behaviour".Later, while speaking on the budget, Adityanath flayed the SP, accusing it of presenting "directionless" state budgets in the past, unlike the budget presented by Khanna, which was "lauded by various chambers of commerce and welcomed by all sections of the society".Opposition parties, on the other hand, said the budget was anti-poor and anti-farmer.As the opposition tried to corner the government on the issue of law and order, Adityanath sought to turn the tables on the SP on Wednesday over incidents of crime in the state, asking why the word "samajwadi" gets tagged to every criminal.He referred to an incident in Hathras, in which a man out on bail after his arrest in 2018 in a molestation case allegedly shot dead the victim's father.The Assembly passed two key bills on Monday, including one that relates to recovery of damages to public and private properties from protesters, amid opposition demands that it be referred to a select committee.According to the statement of reasons and object of the Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damages to Public and Private Property Bill, 2021, protesters found guilty of damaging government or private properties will face imprisonment up to a year or a fine ranging from ₹5,000 to ₹one lakh.The House also passed the Uttar Pradesh Goonda Control (Amendment) Bill, 2021 to empower the joint and deputy commissioners of police to act under the legislation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/budget-passed-in-up-assembly-house-adjourned-sine-die-101614849956501.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Women were not forced to dance at a hostel: Maharashtra govt probe||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday said a state government-appointed panel investigated allegations that a woman was forced to strip and dance by policemen at a hostel in Jalgaon last month and found them to be untrue.“A six-member committee of senior women officers...a psychiatrist... visited the hostel, spoke to other residents of the hostel, took their statements, checked the register, and found the allegations as unfounded. No policemen entered the hostel premises as they do not have permission to do so because it is a women’s hostel,” Deshmukh told the state assembly.Also Read | BJP MLAs stage protest outside Maharashtra assemblyIt was also found that the complainant is mentally unstable, according to her husband, who has earlier requested that she be hospitalised, Deshmukh told the House.Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party lawmaker Shweta Mahale raised the matter in the assembly on Wednesday and demanded action. She said that a video of the incident had also surfaced.The hostel is being run by the state women and child development department for destitute, mentally unstable women and sexual abuse survivors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/women-were-not-forced-to-dance-at-a-hostel-maharashtra-govt-probe-101614858696472.html
04-03-2021||Chandigarh||CII red-flags Haryana govt on 75% quota to locals in private firm jobs||Much before Haryana assembly in November 2020 passed the Bill that now binds industry to reserve 75% jobs for locals, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) had cautioned the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP coalition government about adverse impact of this decision on existing businesses and investments. Coinciding with CII’s strong reservations about this move of the state government, some local industry associations of Haryana had petitioned the Punjab and Haryana high court to apply brakes on this contentious bill. The court had, however, declined the plea on the grounds that bill was yet to become an Act, CII functionaries familiar with this matter said. On Wednesday and the day after chief minister Khattar announced that Haryana governor Satyadeo Narain Arya had given assent to the bill, the CII, which is apex industry organisation, made it clear that it was miffed with this populist decision and reminded Haryana about “Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat” vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “At a time when it is important to attract investments at state level, the Haryana government could have avoided imposing restrictions on Industry. Reservation affects productivity and Industry competitiveness,” Chandrajit Banerjee, director general, CII, said in a statement. “We hope Haryana government relooks at the legislation. With Prime Minister’s vision of ‘Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat’ we look forward to an integrated and mobile labour market within the country.”Under the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020, the private sector will have to employ 75% of the local candidates with respect to such posts where the gross monthly salary or wages are not more than ₹50,000. This Act applies to all the companies, societies, trusts, limited liability partnership firms, and any person employing ten or more persons. Sources in CII said their director general Banerjee’s statement is a reflection of the tough stand the CII had taken in the run up to Haryana drafting this bill. Immediately after learning about Haryana’s decision to pass the legislation, the CII functionaries flagged the concerns of the Industry actively to the State government. At least six representations along with suggestions (see box) were submitted to chief minister Khattar and deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala to reconsider the decision. “This law if implemented is bound to impact existing businesses present in the state and slow down investments while further affecting ease of doing business ranking of Haryana,” the CII functionaries told Hindustan Times. The CII’s warning that the new law has potential to affect in what is called ease of doing business comes in the backdrop of Haryana slipping to the 16th slot in 2018-19 rankings from the third position. CII sources say the “job reservation act” has potential to give a blow to the industry friendly image of Haryana. In the run up to the government tabling the bill in the Vidhan Sabha, the CII held discussions with “major industrial houses” in the state regarding the impact of this legislation on their businesses. “They have been saying that this Act is going to affect their businesses in a big way and that they will have o rework their expansion plans in Haryana. We have been requesting the state government to reconsider the decision as this will have a long term negative impact on Haryana’s image as a business hub,” CII officials privy to the talks with the government, said.Senior executive committee member, Garments Export Manufacturers Association (GEMA), Gautam Nair, said that the 75% private sector job quota is not a good policy as the apparel export industry has to work in an extremely competitive market. “We have been losing business to countries like Bangladesh and Vietnam. Apparel exports is a labour intensive industry and we are already not competitive. Legislations such as these will further erode our competitiveness,’’ Nair said. Nair whose Matrix Clothing manufactures garments for brands like Ralph Lauren and Gapp said if the government introduces such distortions then workers efficiency and competitiveness will decrease. “ The apparel industry is primarily situated in Gurugram and Faridabad. There is not enough local labour to do this job. This industry needs migrant labour from Bihar, Jharkhand and Eastern Uttar Pradesh.” President of Gurgaon Industrial Association, Jagananth Mangla, said that the industry needs skilled and proficient workforce which can handle its machines and equipment diligently. “We have been opposing the private sector quota move. But since the government has enacted a law despite our opposition, we will figure out how to go about it,’’ Mangla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cii-red-flags-haryana-govt-on-75-quota-to-locals-in-private-firm-jobs-101614858456262.html
04-03-2021||Chandigarh||Virbhadra asks HP CM to show magnanimity, Jai Ram insists on apology||The deadlock between the ruling BJP and the Opposition over the suspension of five Congress legislators for the duration of the budget session for allegedly manhandling the governor continued for the fifth day on Thursday as both sides refused to relent. The Opposition abstained from participating in the proceedings of the House. The legislators, party workers and leaders, including the Congress’ state chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore, covered their faces with black ribbons and staged a sit-in protest outside the Vidhan Sabha. Veteran Congress leader and former chief minister Virbhadra Singh also joined the protesting legislators and requested the chief minister to ‘show magnanimity and soften his stance’. Virbhadra Singh described the registration of cases against the Congress legislators unfortunate. “Had I been present in the Assembly, I would have resolved the matter within hours. It is the duty of the Opposition to raise issues. In a democracy , it is the right of the Opposition to protest. The governor was not insulted. It was their right to protest, and they protested, “ he said “Where is the need for tendering an apology as the Opposition did not mishandle him. The Government should not adopt tough posturing,” the veteran leader said. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who is leader of the House, however, refused to the budge and parceled the blame squarely on the Opposition’s soldier. After the Assembly was adjourned for the day, Thakur said, “The fault does not lie with the government. The Opposition has committed a grave mistake and should tender an unconditional apology to the governor. Had the Opposition targeted me, the matter could have been overlooked, but they misbehaved with the governor.” On Virbhadra Singh’s request, the CM said, “I hold him in high regard. However, we also remember the time when we were bundled in buses and thrown in the forest for walking into the well of the House.” ‘Footage of episode should be shown in House’ Thakur said, “The leader of Opposition jumped to conclusions before the governor could finish his address and termed it a bundle of lies. If there is a provision, the footage of the entire episode should be played in the House so the truth can be differentiated from lies.” On the Opposition refusing to attend the proceedings, the CM said, “Had they been in the House it would have been good . Barring those who had been suspended, others could have attended the House, but the Congress violates the rules time-and-time again.” Five legislators - leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, Harshwardhan Chauhan, Vinay Kumar, Satpal Singh Raizada and Sunder Thakur - were suspended for unruly behaviour and obstructing governor Bandaru Dattatreya on the opening day of the budget session on February 26. The suspension has led to a stalemate in the budget session with Opposition members asking the Speaker to revoke his decision. On a complaint from the marshal, the police had registered FIRs against the legislators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/virbhadra-asks-hp-cm-to-show-magnanimity-jai-ram-insists-on-apology-101614857976757.html
04-03-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Over 200 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours amid 2nd wave fears||For the first time in 39 days, the number of new Covid-19 cases registered within a 24-hour span crossed the 200-mark to reach 215 on March 3, fuelling apprehensions of a second wave of the disease in the state. New Covid-19 cases jumped by 110% in just 24 hours--from 102 registered on Tuesday to 215 on Wednesday. Similar number of new cases was seen 40 days ago, when 203 new Covid-19 cases were reported on January 23, after which new cases were in continued decline, reaching 60 on February 16.New Covid-19 cases dwindled between 60 and 99 between February 16 and February 24, before setting on a path of gradual incline since February 25, when 128 new cases were registered. Out of the 200 new cases registered on Wednesday; 40 were reported from Jaipur alone, while 50 were from Dungarpur district, where a particular locality has been sealed to contain the spurt."Unlocking of shopping malls, schools, cinema halls, transportation and other sectors have increased interpersonal contacts while apparently people have also stopped following Covid-19 protocols in the best possible manner, which is leading to a spurt in Covid-19 cases," said Dr Sudhir Bhandari, the principal, Sawai Man Singh Hospital, Jaipur.In the coaching city of Kota, 11 new cases of Covid-19 have been reported on Wednesday. Chief medical and health officer, Kota, Dr BS Tanwar attributed the rise to reopening of coaching institutes, schools, resumption of full-scale weddings and increase in railway traffic as contributing factors for a spike in Covid-19 cases.Also Read: Rajasthan assembly adjourned briefly after uproar by legislatorsChief medical and health officer, Dungarpur, Rajeev Sharma had a different take on the spurt. He said it was also due to regular sampling and a ‘proactive’ health department keeping a close eye on public gatherings. Sharma refused to label the recent spurt as the second wave of Covid-19.On the vaccination front, a total of 373,916 persons were vaccinated in the state in the first three days of the phase-2 of the drive. 196,144 of the beneficiaries were above 60 years in age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-over-200-new-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-amid-2nd-wave-fears-101614855250439.html
04-03-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan assembly adjourned briefly after uproar by legislators||The proceedings of the Rajasthan Assembly were adjourned briefly on Thursday after opposition BJP legislators trooped into the well and shouted anti-government slogans. The uproar started when BJP legislator Satish Poonia was speaking during the discussion on the budget in the House. Poonia raised issues related to farmers' suicide, farm loan waiver and deaths of infants in the past at a hospital in Kota. This led to a heated exchange of words between the ruling and Opposition legislators. Chairperson Rajendra Pareek sought cooperation from the legislators to let the House function and asked them to maintain dignity of the House but to no avail. Amid the din, Opposition legislators trooped into the well shouting slogans against the government. Pareek urged the BJP legislators to return to their seats but they did not pay any heed following which the House was adjourned for 30 minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-assembly-adjourned-briefly-after-uproar-by-legislators-101614851720789.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||BJP MLAs stage protest outside Maharashtra assembly||BJP MLAs staged a protest outside the state Assembly here on Thursday against the Maha Vikas Aghadi government alleging irregularities in Covid-19 related purchase by the government.The Opposition claimed that the state government has allotted tenders to contractors in creating Covid-19 infrastructure without proper procedures and hence there are irregularities.At present, there are 83,556 active coronavirus cases in Maharashtra, the highest in the country. As many as 20,43,349 people recovered from the disease while 52,280 died in the state.The state has seen a surge in Covid-19 in past few weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-mlas-stage-protest-outside-maharashtra-assembly-101614842455935.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Jalgaon incident: Maharashtra home minister Deshmukh denies engagement of police||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday rejected the claims that police officers were involved in an incident that took place in Jalgaon where women residing in a hostel were allegedly made to strip while dancing."A four-woman officer committee had been constituted to look into the incident yesterday and they have reported that no police officer was involved in the incident," Deshmukh said while speaking at the Maharashtra Assembly.He further said that during the cultural program which took place on March 1, one of the women removed clothes by herself and there was no involvement of the police.Also read: Anurag Kashyap, Taapsee Pannu under I-T scanner: All you need to know about the raidsBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Shweta Mahale had raised the incident on Wednesday and alleged that the police officials were involved. She also claimed that a video of the incident was recorded.Maharashtra Women and Child Development Minister Yashomati Thakur has also taken note of the incident and said that anybody found guilty will not be spared."I have not seen the video. But I assure you that nobody will be spared, strict action will be taken. The Home Minister has ordered a probe and I am personally looking into it too," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/jalgaon-incident-maharashtra-home-minister-deshmukh-denies-engagement-of-police-101614848273495.html
04-03-2021||Education||Bihar minister promises focus on teaching in mother tongue and learning outcomes||Bihar education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said on Wednesday that the government would address all the issues faced by teachers in the state, but would expect that the latter group addresses the key issue concerning delivery of quality of education. He also announced that mother tongue will now become the medium of instruction in elementary schools of the state, in line with the new education policy.“With over 20% of the budget, a lot has been done in the education sector in the last one and a half decade, but now, the focus will entirely be on improving learning outcomes and this can be done only by teachers, who are central to the education system,” said Choudhary.“I also urge the regional officials to ensure that the teachers got their due without running around offices. It needs continuous effort to improve the quality of education,” he added.The minister was replying to the debate on his department’s budgetary demand of ₹38,035 crore, which was passed by the Bihar Vidhan Sabha. The opposition leaders, however, slammed the government for poor quality education in the government schools.In keeping with the New Education Policy (NEP), the minister said that education in elementary schools would now be imparted in mother tongue. “It has been proved that children are more receptive in their mother tongue and Mahatma Gandhi also strongly batted for this. The government is also in the process of developIng a roadmap for implementation of NEP,” he added.Also Read: Bihar Dy CM promises makeover of Hindu holy site at Simaria GhatThe minister said that the government is committed to increasing gross enrolment ratio (GER) in higher education. “So far, the government has sanctioned ₹3290 crore under students’ credit card scheme, part of the Bihar government’s 7-Resolves, to help students of underprivileged sections pursue higher and technical education, while ₹1538.86 crore has already been released for benefit of 110,456 students,” he said.Choudhary said efforts were underway to develop one model school in each of the 38 districts of the state. “Due to Covid-19 pandemic, education suffered in schools. Therefore, the bridge course has been planned to cover the gaps, as many students could not have access to online education,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/bihar-minister-promises-focus-on-teaching-in-mother-tongue-and-learning-outcomes-101614850297998.html
04-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC suggests special spots to feed strays: Spot on, say animal lovers||In almost every other neighbourhood in Delhi, there’s this constant battle between the animal lovers who want to feed strays and the other residents who feel it’s unsafe to do so when animals are in close proximity to residential areas. Recently, three animal lovers filed a petition against one Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA) in Vasant Kunj for hindering feeding of stray dogs. And now, the Delhi High Court has asked all those involved to identify a spot that can be used for the purpose of feeding and taking care of strays. Many a times, the tussle between the two schools of thought has turned into nasty fights and sometimes residents end up penalising animal lovers for going out of their way to tend to the strays in their locality. In a recent incident, residents of an apartment complex in Gurugram reportedly held a family hostage for feeding stray dogs, alleging an increase in cases of dog bites. So would allocation of a spot for this purpose help solve the rampant issue in Delhi-NCR? Anuradha Sehgal, who runs an NGO Bowl of Life, feels hard to believe that RWAs blame feeders. “Most of us who take care of animals and their needs, do so at our own expense. We are doing a service to the animals, but above that we are also helping those people who don’t take any responsibility for the well-being of strays. Dogs are territorial; to be able to sterilise or vaccinate them, it’s important to regularly feed them and gain their trust. It’s extremely sad that society excludes such individuals who are helping the voiceless,” says Sehgal, who feels that it’s on all of us to care for animals. “The Delhi HC order is a good option, and should be implemented everywhere! It takes one bowl of food and water to ensure strays have a good life. If each person took care of one animal outside their home, India would soon have no strays. We cannot continue to practice speciesism and think only about ourselves,” she adds.Other animal lovers such as Akshey Joshi from Gurugram also feels that having designated places for feeding strays will go a long way in creating harmony. He explains, “Some people have issues with dogs dirtying the place, which I think isn’t unfair. Most societies ought to have designated corners to keep the friction to a minimal. It’s crucial for everyone to understand that the lives of these animals are in fact legally protected and so is the right of people to tend to them, especially since we’re the ones taking habitable space away from them.” And Noida-based animal rescuer Pooja Bhat believes sensitisation and sterilisation of strays can help mend the bridge between RWAs and animal lovers. “I believe both need to come to a table and discuss issues to find amicable solutions. A significant difference can be made if everyone and not just animal well wishers make efforts. For example, in Noida sector 31, the RWA has allocated an animal welfare fund for feeding and sterilisation of strays in their locality, along with a designated spot for feeding! People also need to understand that one can’t just feed an animal anywhere and everywhere,” says Bhat. Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-suggests-special-spots-to-feed-strays-spot-on-say-animal-lovers-101614849286390.html
04-03-2021||Pune||One year of Covid: Ripped apart by loss of near and dear ones, families struggle||When the Covid pandemic was at its peak in the city, during August and September 2020, most government offices, including the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) main building were deserted.There was one office though, always drawing crowds – the birth and death registration ward of the PMC.The long queues were of people coming to collect death certificates of their near and dear ones. Covid, for many, came as calamity they had never anticipated.Also read | Maharashtra sees 9,855 fresh Covid cases, sharpest 1-day spike since October 17The family of former mayor of Datta Ekbote is braving all the odds to come to terms with the tragedy which struck them, as Covid-19 has claimed three of their family members.The family feels let down by the PMC administration, following the deaths of the three family members due to Covid-19 - the former mayor, his son Ravindra Ekbote (51) and daughter Renuka (62).The family - grandson Gaurav, his wife Rajashree, mother Meenakshi and grandmother Kaveri (85) - stay in a small room in Ganj peth.Gaurav was employed at a private institution and lost his job after the imposition of lockdown.His grandfather Datta Ekbote was a noted socialist leader who breathed his last at Sassoon General Hospital. Ekbote, is known for his involvement in the fight for the rights of bidi workers and their empowerment.“Our demands must be fulfilled as it is the duty of the PMC to ensure that we get the requisite compensation from the authorities. The loss can never be compensated,” Meenakshi Ekbote said.As on Sunday, Pune district reported 8,115 deaths due to the infection, of which 4578 are from city areas alone.A PMC analysis shows that most of those died are above 50 years of age.“We lost three of our family members and the situation on the ground is tough. We are eligible for ₹50 lakh compensation announced by the government, but still nothing has been done on the ground. Our request to PMC has fallen on deaf ears. We have requested the PMC to release ₹25 lakh as compensation and offer me a job so that we can recover from the huge setback,” said Gaurav Ekbote.In some cases, getting the body cremated was a challenge for family members, something that added to the trauma. This PMC staff and NGOs had to take initiative, as relatives were scared to take possession of a corpse infected with Covid-19.In July and August, PMC assigned 12 crematoriums where final rites on Covid mortalities were performed.Also read | Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal gets first shot of Covid-19 vaccine﻿However, most crematoriums were overburdened.Relatives of Covid-19 victims were found to disappear just before the funeral, leaving health workers and social workers with the corpse.According to the law, the last rites cannot be performed without a relative’s approval and the corpse could not be stored a due to the infection .Social workers and health department officials found it hard to track down absconding relatives to get consent for the final rites.The deaths also took away earning members for many.Arshiya Shaikh (22), daughter of Nazir Hussain (65), a resident of Yerawada, also lost her father and uncle Mushir (55) in the Covid crisis in May 2020.Arshiya stays with her mother, sister, aunt and her three children aged 10, 12 and 15.“Covid-19 crisis struck us at the roots, as we lost two earning members. My mother had also taken ill due to Covid-19 and was sent to an isolation facility.. It is nearly nine months and things have changed for the better for the family. I have got a job and our relatives helped us financially to tide over the crisis,” said Arshiya.Like Arshiya, Adarsh Pihal (23), a resident of Bhavani peth, also lost his mother Hirabai (60), in April last year. The loss shattered the family. “We stay with our father, sister and aunt in our house. My mother worked for a private firm earned well for the family. Currently, things are bad and I am desperately searching for a job so that we can survive the financial impact of the Corona virus,” said Pihal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/one-year-of-covid-ripped-apart-by-loss-of-near-and-dear-ones-families-struggle-to-recover-101614845675106.html
04-03-2021||Patna||Bihar Dy CM promises makeover of Hindu holy site at Simaria Ghat||Bihar deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad on Wednesday assured the legislative council that the state government was committed to developing necessary infrastructure at Simaria Ghat in Begusarai, in accordance with its religious significance.Responding to a call attention motion by BJP’s Sarvesh Kumar, Prasad, who also holds the urban development portfolio, said he would hold a meeting of all concerned departments, such as the urban development, tourism, revenue and land reform and disaster management, after the budget session to prepare a comprehensive plan for raising suitable amenities at Simaria Ghat.Sarvesh Kumar told the House that Simaria Ghat had a link with King Janak and goddess Janki and Hindu devotees have been visiting the place during the month of Kartik for a holy dip for several years. He claimed that the state government used to get more than ₹2 crore as tax from this place every year; yet, it lacked basic amenities like concrete-paved banks suitable for bathing, and an electric crematorium. Several lives are lost every year due to drowning, said the BJP member. Another BJP member Rajnish Kumar said in terms of religious significance, Simaria Ghat was Prayagraj of Bihar.The deputy CM acknowledged the members’ sentiments and said he would strive to resolve the issues affecting the devotees and tourists. He said an electric crematorium was planned there but couldn’t materialise as the land earmarked for the purpose was acquired for widening of the national highways. “The government had allotted ₹1.97 crore to Bihar Urban Infrastructure Development Corporation (Buidco) for crematorium in 2017-18 and ₹97 lakh out of that sum was released to launch work on the project,” added Prasad.Also Read: Phanishwar Nath Renu’s birth centenary: Call to turn village into tourist spotSerious irregularities in Patna Smart City projectDeputy CM Tarkishore Prasad admitted in the legislative council that the departmental committee had detected serious anomalies in settlement of tender for development of integrated control command project—a component of Patna Smart City project—and hence cancelled it. The Patna divisional commissioner had been asked to probe the case and recommend punitive action against those found guilty for tampering with the tendering process.Flagging the issue in the upper house, JDU member Sanjiv Shyam Singh alleged that the project suffered delays owing to corrupt practices adopted by the concerned officers, yet no action was taken to punish the guilty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-dy-cm-promises-makeover-of-hindu-holy-site-at-simaria-ghat-101614844763066.html
04-03-2021||Delhi||A clean act: Youngsters give a new lease of life to these Delhi walls||One fine Sunday, the residents of Rohini woke up to the sight of some walls getting rid of garbage and getting a splash of bright colours at the hands of 40 youngsters! The walls in the area around Sai Baba temple in Rohini had mounds of garbage lining the dilapidated walls, for the longest time. “The place, in spite of being frequented by so many people, had been a mess for years. The walls were stained and an eyesore. So we decided to have our weekly cleanliness drive in Rohini,” says Shankar Singh, a 23-year-old software engineer, and founder of the NGO Vrikshit Foundation, which lead the group that gave a makeover to this nook. Environment conscious youngsters had gathered from around the city to take up this task. Lakshita Gupta, a Sanskrit (Hons) student at Miranda House college, Delhi University, says, “At the drive, we were provided with all the equipments like gloves and masks. It took us 15 hours to clean up and paint the whole place, but to see people click selfies there once we were done, was worth it!”“For the clean up, I travelled on my bicycle from Greater Noida upto Rohini,” says Bichitrananda Rout, another member of the group, adding, “I believe our environment can only be changed by individuals who implement a conscious and responsible behaviour.” And Rohini residents are ecstatic at the revamp, and express enthusiasm to maintain their surroundings henceforth. “These kids have executed what the local bodies couldn’t. We have been filing complaints for five years now, but to no avail. We are extremely proud and thankful for what these kids have done for us,” says Umesh Gugarwaal, a resident in the neighbouring locality.But this isn’t the first place that these young volunteers have worked upon to sanitise and beautify surroundings in the Capital. Singh adds, “I started the NGO after being inspired by cleanliness drives conducted on Mumbai’s beaches... We run cleanliness drives across the city because we want to send a message that this is as much our responsibility as it is of the government. It is a collective responsibility and we also inform the locals about our efforts so that they feel involved in the upkeep of the place. So far we have cleaned over 200 locations in the country, and the activities are funded from our salaries and pocket money.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/a-clean-act-youngsters-give-a-new-lease-of-life-to-these-delhi-walls-101614844059101.html
04-03-2021||Other||Taste of life: The leaf cups vs brass bowls debate swings an election||In 1935, the Government of India Act granted a large measure of autonomy to the provinces in British India. The Act abolished diarchy and introduced direct elections, increasing the franchise from seven million to 35 million people. Accordingly, provincial elections were held in the winter of 1936 - 37. While the election campaign was going on, on December 5, 1936, a letter written by one Dattopant Supekar appeared in the Marathi newspaper “Jnanaprakash”. It asserted the importance of the forthcoming elections and urged the residents of Pune to choose their representatives wisely. But, it also admonished the candidates and their followers for downgrading the level of public discourse. “We are supposed to elect our representatives to the Legislative Assembly, and what are some people talking about? Plates and bowls! Why is this even a topic of discussion? We should concentrate on issues of national importance. Let us not worry about which bowls to use when one is hosting a feast”, the letter said. Though this letter did not name anyone, the jab about “plates and bowls” was clearly directed at Bhaskar Balwant, alias Bhausaheb Bhopatkar, who, six years earlier, had endorsed the use of bowls made of brass, instead of leaf cups.Bhopatkar was a leading lawyer, who in April 1905, had launched a Marathi newspaper named “Bhaala” (Spear) to support staunch Hindu nationalism and equally staunch orthodoxy. Bhopatkar and “Bhaala” played a very important role in the socio-political scenario of 20th century Maharashtra.In May 1931, he wrote a small article in his newspaper condemning the practice of using leaf bowls, or cups, and plates during feasts. Small sticks used to put the plates and bowls together often caused injuries, he argued. Eggplant and potato curry, spiced buttermilk, rice and lentils was the common menu then, and the leaf cup filled with buttermilk would be supported between the mound of rice and the thick curry. According to Bhopatkar, this was not a pretty sight. The buttermilk would spill over and the plates often tore up. The solution was to give up the practice of using leaf cups and plates and to switch to brass utensils. Unlike several leaders of those times,Bhopatkar did not ignore the socio-political impact of rituals and behaviour related to food. He made it a point to make his readers aware about what he thought were the best practices when it came to cooking and devouring food.Charity dinners were in vogue in Great Britain and British India in the early 20th century. Bhopatkar emulated those and started the tradition of commemorating the death anniversary of Lokmanya Tilak by organising charity lunches. The menu would be sheera (suji ka halwa), potato curry, puri and rice. The event was quite popular in Pune for several years after 1923, and was known as Lokmanya Bhojan. For many years, he would distribute sheera near Tulsibaug on the birth anniversary of Tilak.Bhopatkar clearly loved sheera. Around 1930, a movement was launched by some Gandhian followers to oppose tea and tea shops in Maharashtra. Sugarcane juice was endorsed as a substitute for tea. Young men were encouraged to open sugarcane juice parlours in Bombay and Poona. Bhopatkar wholeheartedly supported the move, but at the same time wrote that people who did not like sugarcane juice should continue drinking tea if they wished so. The British always ate something while having tea, so one should ideally have some sheera with lots of almonds and ghee with tea, he wrote. If one could not afford eating sheera everyday, non- Brahmins should open bakeries and bake biscuits for Brahmins, he opined. When elections were announced in 1936, Bhopatkar decided to contest. His brother, LB alias Annasaheb Bhopatkar, was contesting too on the Democratic Swarajya Party ticket. Both campaigned against each other. While swadeshi, autonomy, untouchability were the bigger topics of discussions, the issue of use of leaf bowls/cups and plates too cropped up, albeit inadvertently.If Bhausaheb were elected, he would make the use of brass utensils mandatory, people were told during a couple of rallies. This obviously did not go well with some, because using brass utensils meant spending much more money for the feasts. Many voters were annoyed because this was hardly an issue for them and they hated that it was being discussed, albeit on a small scale, during such an important event.The Bhopatkar brothers lost the election, not entirely due to the unwarranted attention towards leaf cups. Nevertheless, the discussion around the use of leaf cups continued with much gusto for a few years after the elections were over. Bhopatkar actively campaigned for the abandonment of leaf cups, because the issue had generated a renewed interest during the elections. Pune slowly gave up on them and embraced brass/aluminium and later, stainless steel utensils.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/taste-of-life-the-leaf-cups-vs-brass-bowls-debate-swings-an-election-101614844055121.html
04-03-2021||Patna||Bihar: Two women raped, two minors shot at in separate incidents||A 16-year-old girl and a 35-year-old widow were allegedly gang-raped while two girls were shot at in a fresh spate of crimes against women in Bihar.Ashok Kumar Singh, a police officer said, four men, abducted and raped the 16-year-old in Sitamarhi on Wednesday. He added the accused were on the run even as they have been booked for rape and under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. “The men barged into her house and took her to an isolated place and raped her,” said Singh. He added the four threatened her and told her not to report the matter. Singh said they were conducting raids to arrest the accused.Also Read | Teen held for murder of girl after rape bidThe 35-year-old was allegedly gang-raped and stabbed in front of her 13-year-old son in Jamui. Police said the accused barged into her house after breaking its door and one of them stabbed her when she raised an alarm. The woman is being treated at a hospital.Police superintendent Pramod Kumar Mandal cited preliminary investigation and added it suggested an old dispute between the woman’s family and the accused. “Further action will be taken based on the facts of the medical examination.”Two girls, aged 17 and 16, in Bhojpur were shot at when they were returning after attending a wedding on a motorcycle with their uncle. Three men in an inebriated condition fired on them when the uncle refused to stop his motorcycle when they asked him to do so.Police superintendent Harkishore Rai said raids were on to arrest the attackers.(With inputs from Prashant Ranjan, Ara)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-two-women-raped-two-minors-shot-at-in-separate-incidents-101614839915548.html
04-03-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Trust buys two plots near Ram temple complex in Ayodhya||The Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, set up for the construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya after the 2019 Supreme Court verdict paved the way for it, has purchased two plots for augmenting facilities for devotees. The plots are located around 1.5km from the 70-acre land where the temple is being built.“The Trust has purchased two properties. They will be used for augmenting facilities for devotees coming to Ayodhya from all across the country,” said Anil Mishra, a member of the trust.The trust is purchasing two more properties around a kilometre from the temple.Also Read |  ₹2,100 crores raised for Ram Temple so far: TrustA survey was also underway of the adjoining properties for the expansion of the temple land. A list of all houses in the area is being prepared to ascertain ownership of the properties. “The survey is being carried out to find out real owners of these properties. This will help to find out whether those residing here are tenants or owners of houses,” said Ayodhya mayor Rishikesh Upadhyay.In the first phase of expansion, around 11,000 square feet of land has been identified for allotment to the police department. The Ayodhya district administration has sent the proposal for acquiring this land to the state government. The second phase of the expansion will involve a power substation.The temple is coming up at the site of the 16th century Babri Mosque, which was destroyed in 1992. The destruction triggered riots that left about 2,000 people dead. Hindus believe the site is the birthplace of Lord Ram, an incarnation of god Vishnu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-trust-buys-two-plots-near-ram-temple-complex-in-ayodhya-101614839375923.html
04-03-2021||Patna||Phanishwar Nath Renu’s birth centenary: Call to turn village into tourist spot||Kin and close associates of the illustrious Hindi writer Phanishwar Nath Renu want his village, Aurahi Hingna, located near Simraha railway station in Forbesganj block of Araria district in Bihar, to be declared a heritage place, and the government to develop it as a literary tourism destination.Phanishwar Nath Renu (Mandal), born on March 4, 1921, is best known for his works like the widely acclaimed Maila Aanchal, Parti Parikatha and Mare Gaye Gulfam, which brought his remote village on the socio- cultural map of the country and introduced Renu’s literary genius, cast on a rural canvas, to a wider audience through adaptations like Teesri Kassam (based on short story Mare Gaye Gulfam). ‘Maila Aanchal’, ‘Parti Parikatha’ and ‘Panchlite’ were also successfully adapted into popular teleserials in the late ‘80s and early ‘90s.On his birth anniversary today, Renu ji’s descendants and admirers want his village to be turned into a literary pilgrimage of sorts.“Many writers and academicians still visit Aurahi Hingna to feel the mood of the landscape which shaped up the creativity of Renu ji. Research scholars also turn up here to research his writings,” Dakshineshwar Renu, son of Phanishwar Nath Renu, said before adding, “The literary potential of the village can be tapped and be used as a tourism product.”Researchers from China, Russia, UK and Uzbekistan keep visiting the village for research work. The village also gets many visitors from Nepal, where he spent many years and even participated in the political movement.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar had got Renu Bhawan built in the village at a cost of ₹two crore but tourism infrastructure needs to be developed for customized tour packages, says Renu’s son.Also Read: Regional languages to be medium of instruction in Bihar's elementary schoolsDr Ram Bachan Roy, a noted writer, former member of the legislative council and one of the close associates of Renu ji, recalled him as a “multifaceted personality”. Apart from being a literary genius, he was also a freedom fighter and one of the main protagonists of the Sampoorna Kranti or the Total Revolution in the state, said Rai.“People want to see his native place and its residents, who were characters of his novels and short stories. It can be turned into a literary destination,” he said.It would be better if the state tourism offered a tour to places related to some prominent writers of the state including Renu ji, Ramdhari Singh Dinkar, Ramvriksha Benipuri and Sudhanshuji. “A bus can be dedicated to this tour,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/phanishwar-nath-renu-s-birth-centenary-call-to-turn-village-into-tourist-spot-101614838847550.html
04-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal gets first shot of Covid-19 vaccine||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday took the first shot of vaccine against Covid-19 at the Delhi government’s Lok Nayak Hospital around 10.30am.“I took the first shot of Covid-19 vaccine today along with my parents. We have not faced any difficulties or uneasiness. I appeal to people to get themselves vaccinated at the earliest. There should be no reason for any hesitance. Vaccination centres, like the one in Lok Nayak Hospital, have excellent facilities and highly trained staff,” said Kejriwal after taking the vaccine.Also Read | India reports 17,407 new Covid-19 cases, below 100 deaths in last 24 hoursKejriwal, 52, is diabetic. The vaccine drive is currently open for health workers, frontline workers, people aged over 60 years and people aged between 45 and 59 years who have comorbidities. Government records showed that 327,355 people have so far been vaccinated in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-gets-first-shot-of-covid-19-vaccine-101614838775837.html
04-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal gets first dose of Covid vaccine at Lok Nayak Hospital||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and his parents got their first doses of coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccine at Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital on Thursday. "I took the first shot of Covid-19 vaccine today along with my parents. We have not faced any difficulties or uneasiness. I appeal to people to get themselves vaccinated at the earliest. There should be no reason for any hesitance. Vaccination centres, like the one in Lok Nayak hospital, have excellent facilities and highly trained staff," said Kejriwal after taking the vaccine.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe inoculation was done as part of the second phase of the vaccination drive in the country, that began on Monday, covering people above 60 years of age, those above 45 years with comorbidities, healthcare workers and frontline workers. Kejriwal, 52, is diabetic.Watch: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal gets his first dose of Covid vaccine﻿﻿After registering themselves on the the Co-Win website, beneficiaries who have comorbidities will have to produce a medical certificate attested by a registered medical practitioner at the time of vaccination.This phase will cover around 270 million beneficiaries. According to the government records, as many as 327,355 people have been vaccinated in the national Capital so far.Some other leaders who have been vaccinated in this phase are Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, external affairs minister S Jaishankar, defence minister Rajnath Singh, health minister Harsh Vardhan and minister of minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-gets-first-dose-of-covid-vaccine-at-lok-nayak-hospital-101614836763763.html
04-03-2021||Lucknow||UP roadside eateries, dhabas on radar in drive against illicit liquor||Dhabas or roadside eateries along the state and national highways in Uttar Pradesh (UP) are on the radar of the excise department during the special enforcement drive launched ahead of the upcoming festive season as well as panchayat polls, officials said.The roadside eateries are under scrutiny as the intelligence wing of the excise department wants to keep a vigil on some “suspicious” eateries to check the sale and consumption of illicit liquor, said officials. They added that the first phase of the drive will end on March 8 and continue in a phased manner thereafter. The excise department has decided to rope in village chowkidars (watchmen) to get alerted about the activities of the liquor mafia.“To check the manufacturing, smuggling and sale of illicit liquor, joint teams of excise, police and administration will be constituted by the district magistrate and superintendent of police in each district,” said additional chief secretary, excise, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy.Also Read: Muslims’ share in welfare schemes more than share in population: Yogi Adityanath“Besides checking suspicious dhabas along the highways, the stock available at excise shops will be verified,” he said. “We will also keep an eye on the movement of vehicles through a checking drive. Any vehicle suspected to be carrying illicit or smuggled liquor will be checked. Instructions have been issued to register FIRs for illicit liquor trade under the relevant sections of the excise act as well as under the various sections of the IPC,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-roadside-eateries-dhabas-on-radar-in-drive-against-illicit-liquor-101614834945209.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Anurag Kashyap, Taapsee Pannu under I-T scanner: All you need to know about the raids||The income tax department on Wednesday raided the homes and offices of filmmakers Anurag Kashyap, Vikas Bahl, actor Taapsee Pannu, and other film and media personalities, triggering allegations from Opposition parties that the action was politically motivated to muzzle dissent. Here is all you need to know about the action and reactions to it:• The raids began at 8 am and continued late into the evening.• They were carried out at least 30 places in Mumbai and Pune, and included the premises of Reliance Entertainment executive Shibhashish Sarkar, talent agency Exceed Entertainment executive Afsar Zaidi and the now-dissolved production company, Phantom Films.• Kashyap and Pannu were questioned in Pune.• Residences and official premises of Kashyap and Pannu in Versova, Goregaon and Andheri were raided. • Pannu’s PR company KRI Entertainment was also searched. • Kashyap and Pannu have criticised several policies and leaders of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Also Read | I-T raids on Anurag, Taapsee going on: ‘Nothing new’, say NCP, Shiv Sena• Officials said the searches were part of a tax evasion probe against Phantom Films, started by Kashyap, Bahl, director Vikramaditya Motwane and producer Madhu Mantena. • The company opened in 2011 but shut in 2018 after sexual harassment allegations against Bahl. • In March 2015, Reliance Entertainment procured a 50% stake in the company. Mantena’s premises were also raided.• Maharashtra’s ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi criticised the raids and said it was an attempt to suppress the voices of people speaking against the central government. • Kashyap, 48, is a vocal critic of the government who has backed opponents of the Citizenship Amendment Act that fast-tracks citizenship for non-Muslim refugees from three neighbouring Muslim-majority countries. • Pannu, 33, has supported the ongoing farmers’ protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anurag-kashyap-taapsee-pannu-under-i-t-scanner-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-raids-101614834695426.html
04-03-2021||Lucknow||Muslims’ share in welfare schemes more than share in population: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday in the state assembly that Muslims’ share in the state government’s welfare schemes was many times more than their share in the state’s population. He added that the state government was providing benefits of welfare schemes to all people without any discrimination.Making an intervention during the debate on the state Budget, he alleged that the previous governments used a ‘pick and choose’ policy to identify beneficiaries of welfare schemes, while his government was committed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas’ mantra.“The Muslim population in UP is 17-19%, but their share in the benefits of welfare schemes is 30-35%,” he said, drawing attention of SP member and Leader of Opposition (LoP) Ahmad Hasan. He said there was no discrimination based on caste, creed, religion, region and language when it came to implementation of government schemes. “This is what we call the Modi model,” he said.Also Read: Uttar Pradesh: Rahul, Priyanka slam state govt over law and order situationThe CM took a jibe at the Samajwadi Party and said that the kind of socialism practised by stalwarts such as Acharya Narendra Dev, Jai Prakash Narayan and Ram Manohar Lohiya is lost on SP leaders of today.“Today’s socialism has become a multiform brand—socialism of caste, socialism of family and by the time socialism comes to Shivpal Yadav, it becomes ‘pragatisheel’,” he said amid repeated interruptions by SP members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/muslims-share-in-welfare-schemes-more-than-share-in-population-yogi-adityanath-101614833613262.html
04-03-2021||Other||Sasikala quits politics ahead of TN election: All you need to know||Expelled All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) leader VK Sasikala, who was a close aide to late chief minister J Jayalalithaa, said on Wednesday she will “stay away from politics”. Here is all you need to know about the announcement:• It came amid a buzz of her return to the party just weeks ahead of the assembly elections in Tamil Nadu.• In a two-page statement, Sasikala urged the AIADMK cadre to stay united and defeat the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) in the assembly polls. • “I never wanted any position, title, or power. I’ll always remain grateful to the beloved cadre of Puratchi Thalaivi (revolutionary leader, as Jayalalithaa is addressed) and the people of Tamil Nadu. I’ll keep away from politics and pray to my akka (older sister) whom I’ve always worshipped and the almighty for Puratchi Thalaivi’s golden rule to continue,” she said.Also Read | Ahead of Tamil Nadu elections, Sasikala says she will ‘stay away from politics’• She said the cadre will have to strive hard to prevent the “evil force of DMK” from returning to power to ensure the “golden rule of Amma(as Jayalalithaa’s followers called her)” continues.• Sasikala added she would continue executing the vision of Jayalalithaa• Sasikala, who was released from a Bengaluru prison following the completion of a four-year term in an assets’ case, last month announced her intention to engage in active politics.• Earlier on Wednesday, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said the AIADMK would decide on accommodating Sasikala in the ruling party-led alliance for the April 6 assembly polls. • The AIADMK, however, ruled out accommodating her or her nephew TTV Dhinakaran-led Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam in the party or in the alliance.• After Sasikala’s announcement, BJP state president L Murugan welcomed the move, adding to her call that the DMK should be defeated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sasikala-quits-politics-ahead-of-tn-election-all-you-need-to-know-101614833375398.html
04-03-2021||Business||Industry captains seek ease of Karnataka curbs on iron ore export and sale||The southern chapter of the Federation of Indian Minerals Industries (FIMI) on Wednesday made a representation to the Karnataka government expressing the distress on the sector due to restrictions on sale and exports of iron ore.“There is a peculiar disparity in the state of Karnataka owing to the restrictions, where the steel industry is free to import from other states and countries while the miners are restricted to sell through e-auction only to the end users around the state,” according to the letter addressed to the government.FIMI said this has added the ‘artificial oversupply’ of iron ore in the state leading to depressing prices and leaving large quantities unsold and huge stockpiles in the mines.FIMI said the restrictions have led to an estimated revenue loss of ₹3,000 crore per annum to the state.The legal entanglement for auctions of existing stockpiles and export restrictions from the state by the Supreme Court (SC) almost a decade ago (2011) among other authorities has forced Karnataka to pursue a cautious approach, adding to delays, unrealised potential and loss of revenues, industry leaders and officials said.“(The) Government should look into expediting e-auctions and whatever reserves are there, they should explore and auction it. They (the government) will get a huge amount of revenue out of that,” Vinod Nowal, Deputy Managing Director, JSW Steel Ltd, said.He added that the e-auction process exists, but fresh areas need to be explored and all clearances should be expedited.In October last year, FIMI had estimated that the state endured ₹29,000 crore losses due to the ban on iron ore exports.Iron ore mining in Karnataka is a political hot potato after the issue led to the collapse of the first Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in the south. B.S.Yediyurappa, then (and incumbent) chief minister of Karnataka, had to relinquish power after the political face-off against his own cabinet colleague, Gali Janardhana Reddy from the mineral-rich district of Ballari, about 320 km from Bengaluru. A report by then Lokayukta, Justice N. Santosh Hegde, had detailed the extent of illegal mining, losses to the state exchequer and large-scale and irreversible degradation of the environment in areas by mining lords, including the infamous ‘Reddy brothers’.“The mining industry in Karnataka has not lived up to its potential. It is a big travesty that when you have ore in Karnataka, you are bringing it from Odisha. It makes absolutely no sense,” Basant Poddar, former chairman and current member of the FIMI, said.Poddar estimates that Karnataka has barely auctioned 15% of its capability that has left the industry at the mercy of piling costs, shortage of iron ore and without any imminent reprieve.Despite the huge iron ore reserves in Karnataka, large corporations like JSW have depended on Odisha to make up for shortfalls.“Iron ore for steel industry is in short supply in Karnataka and we are bringing it from Odisha which has a logistical problem,” Nowal said, adding that the company brings in about 3-4 million tonnes of ore from Odisha to make up for at least 15% shortage in the state.He said that logistics cost in India is about 2.5 times more than global costs, adding to piling up operational expenses.The state government has reached out to the Centre to expedite clearance requests for at least four pending proposals of the Karnataka State Minerals Corporation Ltd.“Exploration activities are underway in about 24 blocks in the state. But all of this depends on clearances from the forest department and the Centre,” said a senior official at the state mines and geology department, requesting anonymity.Several petitions have been filed by the industry in the SC for some relief, FIMI added.There are about 25 major mineral licensees operating in Karnataka, according to government data. Industry leaders also point out the deputation of inexperienced and incompetent officials to the mines and geology department, leaving the sector at the mercy of a complex bureaucratic process.Poddar said the impact of restrictions is being felt largely by the micro, small and medium enterprises, which do not have deep pockets to compete against big corporations.He said Goa is now importing iron ore from South Africa. He added that ore was being sold at $50 per tonne in Karnataka whereas the price is around $150 per tonne in exports.Meanwhile, environmentalists believe that unscrupulous mining is leading to widespread destruction of fragile ecosystems in the state. “Mining licences are given without any thought or consideration for the environment. This is a revenue-oriented approach with mindless growth and reckless development,” AN Yellappa Reddy, a noted environmentalist, said.Environmentalists have also raised the issue of the large-scale and irreversible damage done to the ecology in areas like Ballari, Chitradurga and other places. Thousands of crores from district mining funds, rehabilitation and other purposes remain unused in the 10 years since the SC judgement on Karnataka, experts said.While iron ore mining is strictly monitored, other forms of mining like stone and sand are being carried almost unregulated in the state, according to officials and industry leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business/industry-captains-seek-ease-of-karnataka-curbs-on-iron-ore-export-and-sale-101614832344050.html
04-03-2021||Lucknow||UP pollution control board to review industries on Ganga’s banks||The Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) has decided to conduct a fresh review of industries, including tanneries, located along the banks of the Ganga in the state. The move is a part of the ongoing drive to reduce pollution in the river.According to UPPCB officials, the review will begin in April and is expected to continue till June. “It will focus on the level of pollution caused by industries located along the banks and also ensuring if they are following required protocols to reduce it,” said VK Singh, senior environmental engineer.Also Read | Noida, Ghaziabad among 5 UP cities with worst air quality in countryReportedly, there are over 1,000 registered industries situated on the banks of the Ganga in UP. Most of these industries are situated on the Kanpur-Prayagraj belt.A local UPPCB team will conduct the review along with experts. “The aim will be to determine the volume of pollution caused by industrial units, so that we can take measures to reduce it to a minimum,” the officer said.The board is likely to conduct a similar review of industries located on the banks of tributaries of the Ganga, like Ram Ganga and Gomti River, later this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-pollution-control-board-to-review-industries-on-ganga-s-banks-101614832776475.html
04-03-2021||Other||Arunachal to develop 3 villages on China border to check ‘foreign misadventure’||The Arunachal Pradesh government has decided to develop three villages along the state’s border with China as part of measures to “check against any foreign misadventure”. The decision was announced by deputy chief minister-cum-finance minister Chowna Mein while tabling the state’s annual budget in the Arunachal Pradesh assembly on Wednesday. “I am happy to announce a major initiative to develop three model villages on a pilot basis in the Indo-Tibet China border areas, one each in eastern, central and western part of the state. I propose to earmark a fund of ₹30 crore for the same,” the budget speech read. Also Read | China using Covid-19 pandemic to increase restrictions for foreign journalists“These model villages would serve as pilot projects which will be further expanded to cover many more such villages. The scheme would encompass innovative ways to dovetail socio-economic cultural needs of village life while establishing the model villages,” it added. Mein said that services of border guarding forces would be roped in to design and implement the scheme. Arunachal Pradesh shares an 1126km-long border with China. Due to high altitude and inhospitable terrain, most of these border areas are not clearly marked and there have been reports of incursions in past. In January this year, there were reports that China had constructed a village in the border area in Upper Subansiri district of Arunachal Pradesh. Indian officials later stated that the area has been under Chinese control since 1959. “It is of critical importance that areas near the international border are rapidly developed so that a permanent and patriotic border population acts as a check against any foreign misadventure,” Mein said in his speech. “Development of border villages will remain an important priority of our government. We will continue to work for the comprehensive development of border villages by providing them good road connectivity, power, water supply, health and education,” he added. Mein proposed the allocation of ₹5 crore to repair foot suspension bridges in border areas used by the border guarding forces for patrolling. The minister also earmarked ₹40 crore to start a border village illumination programme, which would involve setting up small and micro hydro-power projects in remote border areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/arunachal-to-develop-3-villages-on-china-border-to-check-foreign-misadventure-101614832775315.html
04-03-2021||Patna||175 LJP functionaries join BJP; party disowns turncoats||The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) headed by Chirag Paswan suffered another jolt with a large number of party functionaries — majority being panchayat presidents — deserting the party and joining the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday, even as a rattled LJP disowned them. The latest setback follows the desertion of party’s lone member of the Bihar Legislative Council (MLC), Nutan Singh, to the BJP.“No, they are not our leaders. Some of them were thrown out of the party months ago, there are many who are not even the primary members,” said Raju Tiwari, executive chairman, LJP, claiming the desertion ‘was blown out of proportion.’Tiwari claimed that some deserters were followers of former LJP state general secretary Vishwanath Prasad Kushwaha, who joined the BJP. “He has been out of our party fold for the past many months. If a few people join the BJP under his leadership, it should not be seen as a split in our party,” said Tiwari.BJP state president Sanjay Jaiswal welcomed the switch. “As many as 175 leaders, ranging from state to district and block level office bearers, besides panchayat presidents of the LJP chose to join the BJP. We welcome them in our party,” Jaiswal said.Former LJP state general secretary Vishwanath Prasad Kushwaha, state general secretary Dalit Sena, former district president Shyamnand Prasad and district secretary Birju Thakur among others joined the BJP in presence of state president Sanjay Jaiswal here.“Some of us had resigned last year as we were feeling suffocated in the LJP. The party is reduced to a drawing room organisation, where even old party workers don’t have access to Chirag Paswan. Hence, they preferred to join the BJP” said Vishwanath Prasad Kushawaha, ex-member Bihar state executive committee and in-charge Sitamarhi district affairs.Also Read: 'Rahul Gandhi’s take on Emergency is his personal opinion,' says CM Nitish KumarThe desertions have gathered pace LJP following the party’s dismal showing in Bihar Assembly elections last year, when it could win only one seat.On February 22, Nutan Singh, wife of Bihar minister and BJP MLA Neeraj Kumar Singh, and the lone LJP MLC joined the BJP, preceded by more than 200 mid-level and lower-rung leaders who joined the Janata Dal United or the JD(U) in Bihar.“We have been associated with Ram Vilasji for about 37 years. But Chirag is totally inaccessible to the old party workers. There is no respect for the workers in the party and hence the circumstances forced us to resign in November last year. But nothing was done to keep the old leaders in the party,” said Premchand Hazra, ex-West Champaran district general secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/175-ljp-functionaries-join-bjp-party-disowns-turncoats-101614830285665.html
04-03-2021||Bangalore||Unfulfilled promises, lack of new projects loom large over Karnataka government||Karnataka chief minister B.S.Yediyurappa is scheduled to present the state budget for 2021-22 on March 8 even as the cloud of poor expenditure numbers, lack of infrastructure and failure to fulfil projects and schemes announced in the previous budget looms large over the two-year-old government.While the government claims to have performed to the “best of their abilities” given the financial constraints during the previous year, the lack of visible schemes and programmes aimed at mitigating the plight of the people in the calamity-prone state is likely to weigh in on the performance of the government.“Whether it is roads, water or jobs under MNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act), we have performed exceedingly well,” KS Eshwarappa, Karnataka’s minister for rural employment and panchayat raj (RDPR), said.He said that the ‘Grameena Sumarga’, a scheme for the construction of rural roads, was probably the only one impacted due to the fund crunch.The sentiment, however, is not shared by the opposition or BJP’s own legislators, who complain over the lack of work in their respective constituencies.“It is our government only in name. There is absolutely no work happening in our constituency,” said a BJP legislator, requesting anonymity.At least two other BJP legislators mirrored the sentiment, adding that turncoat ministers and even the opposition party legislators were given more preference than core-party workers, who had helped the party get 104 seats in the 2018 elections.Several BJP legislators have met the central leadership in the past months to express their concerns about the state government that has further soured relations between Yediyurappa and the party high command.Already under pressure over rising dissent, factionalism, scandals and a threat to this own term in the top office, Yediyurappa has struggled to find a balance to manage expectations of the state as well as to initiate schemes that would not just help his own political goals but also that of the party that faces the assembly polls in 2023.According to 2020-21 budget estimates, Karnataka was set to lose at least ₹20,000 crore due to reduction in share of central taxes, goods and services tax (GST) and the new calculations, under the 15th Finance Commission, have reduced the state’s share from 4.71% to 3.64%.“If they have borrowed double the permissible limit, it probably makes up for more than the loss of revenues. So where has this money gone?” Krishna Byre Gowda, former minister and Congress legislator, asked.He said the reduction in revenue was a narrative spun by the government to make up for its non-performance.The government has expressed its helplessness repeatedly but has so far only passively pursued the Centre to release funds for flood relief and other financial help to sustain itself.Yediyurappa had increased cess on petrol, diesel and on liquor to mitigate the fund-crunch at the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic last year.The government is likely to feel the pinch of the fund-crunch as demands by labour-intensive sectors like Anganwadi workers, civic workers in Bengaluru, transport corporation workers among other sections intensify agitation seeking higher wages.Revenue expenditure or payment of salaries, servicing loans and pension payouts account for a lion’s share of the state’s earnings and the BJP government had estimated an increase of approximately ₹10,000 crore for 2020-21.Departments like RDPR, which depend on central and state grants, have shown an expenditure of over 90%.Irrigation and industries department expenditure is also near 100%, at least three senior government officials said.Yediyurappa has spent a better portion of his two-year tenure as CM trying to douse one crisis after another, including dissent, dissatisfaction over cabinet berths and uncertainty over his continuation in the top chair among other challenges with little time dedicated for new schemes or developments. He has focused on setting up caste-specific boards that have been criticised by the opposition and even challenged in courts.Yediyurappa had announced an additional assistance of ₹4,000 along with the ₹6,000 announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led central government to small and marginal farmers under the “Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Scheme”.The pitiable state of roads and infrastructure in Bengaluru, the state’s growth engine and India’s IT capital, paints a poor picture of the government.The 2020-21 budget had allocated ₹8,344 crore for the city’s development.“There are no schemes that have some recall value that have been announced in the budget. Soon after the budget, the lockdown has washed away the memory of most of the announcements made in the budget,” said a political analyst, who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/unfulfilled-promises-lack-of-new-projects-loom-large-over-karnataka-government-101614830006990.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Grandma’s bond with grandchild special, but she can’t replace parents: Bombay HC||While there is a special bond between a grandmother and her grandchild, it cannot replace the natural bond between the child and his biological parents, said the Bombay high court on Wednesday while directing a Nashik resident to immediately hand over custody of her 12-year-old grandson to his parents.The couple had moved the high court earlier this year as the maternal grandmother of their child refused to part with him. They stated that the child’s mother had been unwell and had been advised bedrest. So, in 2019 she and the child temporarily shifted to Nashik to stay with her mother.Also Read | Bombay HC asks Amazon to take down film over actor’s defamation caseThe child was admitted to a school in Nashik and after recuperating, the woman and child were ready to return to Pune for the 2020-21 academic session, but could not in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. In May 2020, the woman returned to Pune whereas the child, by then admitted to an international school at Pune, was undergoing lessons online while staying in Nashik.However, when the couple later went to Nashik to bring back the child to Pune, his grandmother refused to part with him. She approached police and the child welfare committee, claiming that there was a matrimonial dispute between the parents, which was adversely affecting the 12-year-old, and it was in the best interest of the child that he stay with her.The couple then moved the high court for custody of their child.A high court bench comprising justices SS Shinde and Manish Pitale accepted their contention, holding that “the ordinary comfort of the child, his contentment, health, education, physical, moral and intellectual development, upbringing and well-being, as also his future certainly lies with his parents.”What weighed with the judges were the facts that the father of the child was an electrical engineer at a senior post in a multinational company, whereas grandmother did not appear to be educated and her financial condition also did not appear to be sound.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/grandmas-bond-with-grandchild-special-but-she-can-t-replace-parents-bombay-hc-101614829535076.html
04-03-2021||Delhi||Digitised PDS: Now, automatic food vending machines to be set up||The Union government is likely to gradually move towards automatic dispensing machines to provide subsidised food grains to nearly 800 million beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act. The shift is aimed at bringing transparency, plugging leakages, and ushering in real-time management of the country’s food stocks.Trial runs to dispense monthly quota of food grains to the poor through automatic machines are being carried out in five cities, including Hyderabad and Ahmedabad.The initiative is part of the food ministry’s programme to modernise the public distribution system (PDS), a chain of over 400,000 traditional fair price shops which serve as the endpoint for disbursal of cheap food to beneficiaries.Also Read | 4 million Aadhaar-linked PDS cardholders avail foodgrains in BiharThe government now provides subsidised grains to the poor through the “One Nation One Ration Card” digital system, which offers the mobility of in-kind subsidies, which allows beneficiaries to draw their ration from anywhere in the country and not necessarily from their usual place of stay. This is a boon for the country’s vast migrant labour force.“Automatic grain dispensing machines are being tested in five cities on a pilot basis that enables beneficiaries to obtain subsidized food grains without having to visit a fair price shop,” an official said, requesting anonymity.In the automated machines being experimented with, beneficiaries have to feed some simple inputs about their ration card along with biometric-based authentication into the internet-linked machine, which then dispenses the monthly quota of grains.The PDS is a lifeline for the nearly 800 million food-insecure Indians who receive cheap food of 5 kg grains per month per beneficiary from government-held granaries.India ranks 94 among 107 countries on the Global Hunger Index 2020 and is placed in the “serious hunger category” with a score of 27.2.“With automated machines, not only will beneficiaries have more ease to access the benefits because these machines will be conveniently deployed but the government will also have a real-time update of food movements across the country,” the official said.According to Aaditya Verma of The Northcap University, Gurugam, an expert on the PDS, the “existing ration distribution system has a high level of corruption such as inaccurate measurement of food grains, long waiting times in queues, material theft in ration shops and manual distribution of the food grains”. A fully automated model will offer “high levels transparency” at all the stages.The “One Nation One Ration Card” system now covers 650 million citizens. The country’s food-rationing system has been fully digitised in 26 states, allowing beneficiaries to receive subsidised food handouts there.A digitised PDS system links Aadhaar biometric details of ration cardholders with their entitlement details, enabling software to allow dispensation of foodgrains to any beneficiary anywhere. Until now, beneficiaries could only get access to rations in their hometowns, which meant those who migrated elsewhere for work lost food aid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/digitised-pds-now-automatic-food-vending-machines-to-be-set-up-101614828035391.html
04-03-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi’s borders with Haryana, UP remain affected||Delhi’s multiple borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh continued to remain closed for vehicular movement on Thursday due to the ongoing protest by farmers against the three new farm laws.Those travelling towards Delhi from Uttar Pradesh cannot cross the Ghazipur border and the Delhi Traffic Police advised them to take alternative routes which pass through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni and Apsara borders. Commuters can also use the Chilla border which was opened late January after several weeks of remaining blocked by farmers.The entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Saboli and Mangesh, continued to remain closed.Also Read | ‘Will send team to poll-bound states’, says farmer leaderThe traffic police have advised motorists to go via alternative routes such as Lampur , Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders. The police have been diverting traffic from Mukarba Chowk and GTK road.Motorists also have the option of choosing longer routes via the Delhi-Gurugram and Delhi-Faridabad borders to travel between the two states.Farmers have been protesting at the Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu borders for over three months now against the three newly enacted farm laws -- Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-s-borders-with-haryana-up-remain-affected-101614826955115.html
04-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Air quality deteriorates, temperature set to rise||After staying in the “moderate” zone for two days, the city’s air quality on Thursday deteriorated again and reached “poor”, with the hourly average air quality index (AQI) recording 258 at 7am.Delhi’s air quality on Wednesday was 188.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed that on Tuesday the overall AQI levels in Delhi were 175, also in the “moderate” category.Also Read | Study: Sharp rise in extreme weather events in last 50 yearsIndia Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said that this deterioration in air quality was because of lowered wind speed and ventilation.Meanwhile, the maximum temperature on Wednesday was recorded as 30.8 degrees Celsius and the minimum temperature was 13.2 degree Celsius.Met officials said that from March 7 the temperature will rise again and touch around 33 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-air-quality-deteriorates-temperature-set-to-rise-101614826775193.html
04-03-2021||Lucknow||UP class 1 girl dies after choking on berry seed, principal suspended||A class 1 student of a government primary school in Uttar Pradesh’s Ballia choked on a seed of berry she was eating and died, an education department official said. He ruled out the possibility of the mid-day meal at the school having caused the girl’s death. The school is located in the Bansdih Road area of Ballia. Following the incident, district magistrate Aditi Singh ordered the suspension of the school principal and directed basic education officer Shiv Narain Singh to probe the matter.The incident occurred at around 1pm when the student was playing with her friends on the school campus after consuming the mid-day meal with 35 other students. She also consumed a few berries and a seed got stuck in her throat, said the basic education officer.“The girl’s friends raised an alarm and informed the teacher that she had fainted. The school staff took the girl to a hospital where she was declared dead,” said Ballia superintendent of police, Vipin Tada. Another official said that the food samples and berries recovered from her bag were sent for forensic tests.Also Read: Four held for murdering two children in MeerutThe girl’s body has been sent for a post-mortem examination and the report is awaited. The director general of school education, Vijay Kiran Anand, confirmed that the school principal was suspended and the matter was being investigated. Anand ruled out the possibility of food poisoning in the mid-day meal because no other student developed complications.Government primary schools across UP reopened on Monday after nearly a year-long closure due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-class-1-girl-dies-after-choking-on-berry-seed-principal-suspended-101614825082627.html
04-03-2021||City||Ahead of Tamil Nadu elections, Sasikala says she will ‘stay away from politics’||Expelled All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) leader VK Sasikala, who was a close aide of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa, said on Wednesday she will “stay away from politics”, an announcement that came amid buzz of her return to the party just weeks ahead of the assembly elections in Tamil Nadu.In a two-page statement, Sasikala urged the AIADMK cadre to stay united and defeat the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) in the assembly polls. “I never wanted any position, title or power. I’ll always remain grateful to beloved cadre of Puracthi Thalaivi (revolutionary leader, as Jayalalithaa is addressed) and people of Tamil Nadu. I’ll keep away from politics and pray to my akka (sister) whom I’ve always worshipped and the almighty for Puratchi Thalaivi’s golden rule to continue,” she said.“The cadre will have to strive hard to prevent the evil force of DMK from returning to power to ensure the golden rule of Amma continues,” Sasikala added. “I would like to continue my life, as I was executing the vision of Jayalalithaa,” she said.After being released from a Bengaluru prison following the completion of a four-year term in an assets case, Sasikala last month announced her intention to engage in active politics.Earlier on Wednesday, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said the AIADMK would decide on accommodating Sasikala in the ruling party-led alliance for the April 6 assembly polls. The AIADMK, however, ruled out accommodating her or her nephew TTV Dhinakaran-led Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam in the party or in the alliance.After Sasikala’s announcement, BJP state president L Murugan welcomed the move, adding to her call that the DMK should be defeated.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ahead-of-tamil-nadu-elections-sasikala-says-she-will-stay-away-from-politics-101614809421982.html
04-03-2021||Delhi||Big boost for AAP in municipal bypolls; ruling BJP draws blank||A year ahead of elections to Delhi’s municipal corporations, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday won four out of five wards in civic bypolls held on February 28, while the Congress bagged one seat, and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which has been the ruling party in the three MCDs for 14 years now, drew a blank.Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal said the result were a positive message for his party ahead of the 2022 contest. “The results show that the people of Delhi trust the AAP’s model of good governance,” he said, before accusing the BJP of corruption and misgovernance in the three municipal bodies.In terms of overall vote share, the AAP got 46.1% of the total votes cast. The Congress and the BJP got 27.29% and 21.84% respectively, according to election commission data.Out of the five seats that went to bypolls on February 28, AAP retained three seats that it had won in the 2017 municipal polls, and gained one from the BJP, while losing one to the Congress.The bypoll results are a blow to the BJP -- the party lost all seats with margins varying from 2,700 to 7,000 votes, which are significant given the sizes of wards, indicating the people’s dissatisfaction with the performance of the civic bodies.Of the five wards, the AAP pushed the BJP to second place in four -- Kalyanpuri (margin of 7,043) and Trilokpuri East (margin of 4,986) in the East Delhi Municipal Corporation; and Rohini-C (margin of 2,985 votes) and Shalimar Bagh (margin of 2,705) in the North Delhi Municipal Corporation.While the first three were won by the AAP in 2017 municipal polls, too, Shalimar Bagh was won by the BJP in the last municipal polls.The AAP, however, lost Chauhan Banger ward (one of the few wards with a large Muslim population) in east Delhi to the Congress by a margin of 10,642 votes.The five seats fell vacant after four councillors won the assembly elections in 2020 representing the AAP, and one -- Renu Jaju, former BJP councillor from the Shalimar Bagh ward -- died two years ago.During its bypolls campaign, AAP had hit out at the BJP for corruption, mismanagement and flawed policies, which, it alleged, has landed the corporations in a crisis. The BJP, on the other hand, was blaming the ruling party in the Capital for paralysing the corporations by not giving funds on time.“The BJP should resign from the municipal bodies after this miserable defeat and let the municipal polls happen in Delhi right now. People have lost their trust in the BJP. They believe that only the AAP can bring a positive change in the municipal corporations,” AAP’s incharge of municipal affairs Durgesh Pathak said on Wednesday.Accepting defeat in the bypolls, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said: “We accept the people’s verdict. But this is not the end. We will analyse the results and see where we went wrong. We still have a lot of time to prepare for the municipal polls.”While the Congress won just one seat, Chauhan Banger, the party’s vote share improved as compared to the 2020 assembly polls. Delhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhary said: “The impressive show by Congress in the by-elections and the victory in Chauhan Banger ward has raised the party’s overall vote share from 6% (in the last Assembly elections) to 22% now.”Rahul Verma, a fellow with the Centre for Policy Research, said, “In terms of overall figures, the AAP was in power in four of these five municipal seats, and they will continue to be in power in four. It has lost one seat and gained one. There is not much difference as far as the numbers are concerned. However, I would still say the party has much better prospects in the 2022 municipal polls. They have won the assembly polls with a huge majority for two terms now and the party machinery has strengthened at the grassroots level.”Tanvir Aeijaz, associate professor in the department of political science at Ramjas College, said, “These are local elections where the candidate matters a lot. In these elections, local issues are of real importance. People have seen and benefitted from AAP’s model of governance. The bypoll result indicates that people are happy with it.”Delhi has 272 municipal wards -- the north and south Delhi corporations have 104 wards each and the east corporation has 64 wards. The BJP has a majority in all three of them with 64, 70 and 47 councillors, respectively. If all three of them are taken together, the AAP and the Congress have 49 and 31 councillors, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/big-boost-for-aap-in-municipal-bypolls-ruling-bjp-draws-blank-101614808258798.html
04-03-2021||Gurugram||Job quota law regressive, say Gurugram industry leaders||Information technology, auto and export companies based in Gurugram on Wednesday said that the Haryana government’s decision to reserve 75% jobs for local job-seekers who have a state domicile will signal that the city and the state were no more business-friendly destinations.While IT industry leaders termed the government’s new law as regressive, industrialists based in Manesar questioned the legality of the quota and said that they were looking for possibilities to challenge the government decision in a court of law as it will enable “another era of inspector raj in the state”.Haryana governor, Satyadev Narayan Arya, on Tuesday gave his assent to the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020, which provides for 75% reservation in private sector to job seekers in the state which have a salary of less than ₹50,000 per month in private companies, societies, trusts, limited liability partnership firms, partnership firms. The quota will initially be applicable for 10 years, after it is notified by the government.Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who made the job quota a central plank of his election campaign in 2019, on Wednesday said the state government will begin a massive employment campaign from next month for youths of the state to benefit, as per their qualification and skills.Chautala, however, also made it clear that the government will make an exemption in the reservation if a company fails to find local skilled employees.Stating that there is a provision of penalty if the firms violate rules of this law, he said private companies will have to mandatorily give complete details of their registration and employees on the portal.More than 300 Fortune 500 companies are headquartered in Gurugram that has emerged as one of the largest IT and ITes hub in the country with several top companies setting up operations in the last two decades. It is also home to large auto and auto part makers such as Maruti, Hero Moto Corp and Honda, while garment exports also forms a major chunk of industry.Vinod Sood, managing director, Hughes Systiqe and chair, NASSCOM, Haryana, said that the new law and will send a very wrong message to MNCs and IT companies, which are headquartered abroad. “While all other states in India are coming up with forward-looking policies, this reservation will create a perception that Gurugram is no longer a business-friendly destination. Companies abroad don’t want to get into such technicalities and their immediate response would be to expand or shift to Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad. The reservations might have some caveats, but optics are bad, and don’t augur well for the city,” said Sood.IT companies also said that instead of imposing reservations there is need to skill train local youths for these jobs.“We appreciate the desire of the government to create jobs for local youths. However, it is ironic that an industry that competes around the world and brings nearly ₹5 lakh crore in foreign exchange into India will have to deal with these restrictions that may hamper its operations and efficiency. We are also nervous that the current scope of reservations may be expanded later. We believe the best way to expand opportunities for youth is equipping them with skills,” Manas Fuloria, CEO, Nagarro, a city-based IT company.Industrialists based in Manesar were also worried that the job reservations will bring back the era of ‘inspector raj’ and it would be difficult to run industrial units. “Where are the workers in Haryana who are experts in leather cutting, fabric stitching, cutting, weaving. These jobs need talent and is mastered when generations work on the same skill set. This move will destroy the export industry and other manufacturing units in Gurugram and Haryana. We are looking for options to challenge this move in a court of law,” said Manmohan Gaind, vice president, Manesar Industries Welfare Association, who heads an export company.The Confederation of Indian Industry’s Haryana chapter said that Haryana was already facing a tough competition in attracting industrial investment as other states are offering liberal industrial policies and employment incentive schemes. The government’s new move will prove to be quite the deterrent to bring in new investments.“The law will act as a blow to the industry-friendly image of Haryana. This law is detrimental to the economic growth of Haryana and will impact existing businesses present in the state by slowing down investments and further deteriorating the state’s ease of doing business ranking,” said Anadi Sinha, vice chairman, CII Gurugram zone and group president - HR and corporate affairs, Minda Industries Ltd, which has large presence in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/job-quota-law-regressive-say-gurugram-industry-leaders-101614806817165.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Maha cops force girls to strip, govt orders probe||he Maharashtra government formed a four-member committee to probe an incident in which girls were allegedly forced to strip and dance by policemen at a hostel in Jalgaon, state home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Wednesday.Deshmukh made the announcement during a debate on the issue during zero hour in the Assembly, when Bharatiya Janata Party leader Sudhir Mungantiwar attacked the government for the alleged failure of law and order situation.According to media reports, some girls from Ashadeep hostel in Jalgaon complained that people from outside and policemen were allowed to enter the facility on the pretext of a probe and some girls were forced to strip and dance. The incident took place on February 2.Raising the issue in the assembly, BJP MLA from Chikhali, Buldhana, Shweta Mahale said that a video of the incident has also surfaced.Deshmukh replied that a team comprising a psychiatrist and a woman police officer has been constituted, assuring action within two days. “It is a very unfortunate incident. A four-member high-level committee of officials has been formed to conduct a probe into it,” he said.“We have been collating the information and the available documentary evidence including video clips. Statements are being recorded. Strict action would be taken against those found guilty after the report is submitted in next two days,” he said.Social workers in the area have filed a complaint with the district collector, Abhijit Raut who formed the four member team. No police complaint has been filed as yet.Mungantiwar accused the state government of not taking the issue seriously. The case is an example of the failed state of law and order, he said, adding that the BJP would seek imposition of President’s rule. “If such type of serious case which proves that our sisters and mothers are not safe... are not taken seriously by the government, it is evident that the law and order here has failed... Take immediate action and suspend policemen involved,” he said.“Our expectation is that you take immediate action sensitively,” the leader of opposition, Devendra Fadnavis said supporting Mungantiwar’s demand for president’s rule.Reacting to the BJP leaders, minority welfare minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik demanded their statements be expunged. “This is a direct threat to the government. Ours is an elected government with full majority,” Malik said. Deputy speaker Narhari Zirwal said, “I will take a call on expunging the proceeding after examining it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-cops-force-girls-to-strip-govt-orders-probe-101614805017849.html
04-03-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The moong masoor ambassador||Surely there’s nothing wrong with moong masoor—but this dal certainly isn’t celebrated much. In restaurants, you are more likely to find dal makhani, not the humble moong masoor. But at least one person’s life in the city revolves around it.“I make it every day for my lunch,” says Muhammed Hashim. A long-time staffer in a central Delhi hotel, Mr Hashim is busy preparing his meal during his midday break. He’s of course making the moong masoor. He has set up his makeshift kitchen on the floor of his room and is quietly chopping onions and tomatoes. Green chilies and dhaniya are already chopped. A pot of dal is on a low flame. “It takes about 20 minutes to cook,” says the gentleman in a voice permeated with extreme politeness.Looking thoughtfully at the pot, he mutters that “my dal is always very simple. Only a little salt and haldi powder. No mirchi. No garam masala.”In his 60s, Mr Hashim lives alone. Nobody taught him the recipe of his favoured dish. He smiles while chopping a tomato with great care. “One lives, one learns,” he declares enigmatically, as if reading aloud a bumper sticker at the back of a truck.To be sure, Mr Hashim admits he has good feelings for a few other dishes, too. “My mother used to make delicious meat curry... my wife and my daughter-in-law too make good meat,” he says. The family lives in the village in Darbhanga, Bihar. “But no other dish can come close to moong masoor... it beats every meat.”Even so, this same masoor day after day after day? Doesn’t his palate rebel?Mr Hashim shakes his head, though he confesses that “sometimes I cook something different... I made gosht (meat) the day before yesterday.” Here he suddenly stops and makes an eye contact with his interlocutor. “I tell you by experience that moong masoor gives more taakat (energy) than the gosht.”He now lifts the lid from the pan to check on the dal. “A few more minutes,” he murmurs. He was sitting cross-legged all this while, but now settles on his haunches and briefly stirs the dal, saying, “After this I’ll make rice and the lunch will be ready.”At night too, he makes his own dinner. “I will again make masoor,” he confirms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-moong-masoor-ambassador-101614804557952.html
04-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Budget session: AAP, SAD compete to corner Capt govt||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) vied with each other in the state assembly on Wednesday to corner the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government. The two parties, which are jockeying to dominate the opposition space ahead of next year’s assembly polls, went after the state government from the word go, targeting it over the delay in post-matric scholarships for SC students, irregularities in Mohali land auction, and, last but not least, Uttar Pradesh gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari’s custody. The SAD and AAP legislators then staged walkouts from the House in quick succession over the delay in the implementation of pay commission and release of dearness allowance instalments, and scrapping of power purchase agreements (PPAS) with private power plants, respectively. As soon as the question hour got over, leader of opposition (LOP) Harpal Singh Cheema, SAD legislator Bikram Singh Majithia and several other MLAs of the two opposition parties were up on their feet to draw speaker Rana KP Singh’s attention for time to speak during the zero hour. The speaker allowed Cheema first, and he began by blaming the Congress government for the suffering of lakhs of students due to the failure of the state government to release funds under the scholarship scheme. Citing a reply he received from the Union government under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, the LOP accused the government of diverting the scheme funds and not submitting the utilisation certificates to the central ministry. Majithia, who was the next to speak, tore into the Congress government over custody of Ansari, who is facing trial in UP in several criminal cases. Accusing the Punjab government of shamelessly shielding the gangster-turned-politician, the Akali leader demanded a CBI inquiry. He said when the state government did not have the money to implement the pay commission and release dearness and other allowances of its employees, it was wasting money. However, his remarks on efforts being made by the state government in the court in this matter were expunged by the speaker. A Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLA from Mau, Ansari, is wanted in UP for trial in 14 cases on charges of murder, extortion, etc. He is lodged since January 2019 in a jail in Punjab where he was named in an extortion case by a builder. Then, the SAD members asked for a discussion on the 6th State Pay Commission and the state government’s reluctance to give Punjab scales to its employees, but were not given time. The members responded by entering the well of the House, raising slogans against the state government. They continued raising slogans for six minutes before staging the walkout. Within minutes, slogan-shouting legislators of the AAP were also in the well of the House to protest against the high power rates in Punjab, repeated tariff hikes and the delay in scraping of power purchase agreements with private power plants. The party MLAs had also marched from the MLA Hostel to the state assembly in the morning to register their protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-budget-session-aap-sad-compete-to-corner-capt-govt-101614802353992.html
04-03-2021||Other||Haryana minister advises Rahul Gandhi to leave Congress over Emergency remarks||A day after Congress MP and former party president Rahul Gandhi said that the Emergency in 1975 was a “mistake”, Haryana home and health minister Anil Vij on Wednesday advised him to leave the party.“It is not enough for Rahul Gandhi to accept that the Emergency imposed by his grandmother in 1975 was a mistake because anti-democratic dictatorship thinking is still alive within the Congress. Indira Gandhi is not alive today, but rest of the leaders who supported the Emergency are still active in the party,” Vij tweeted in Hindi.“Today he (Rahul) is also leading the same party. If Rahul Gandhi has to atone for the imposition of the Emergency, then he should leave the dictatorial Congress,” he said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-minister-advises-rahul-gandhi-to-leave-congress-over-emergency-remarks-101614802113721.html
04-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Sector-5 property grab case: HC seeks fresh status report from CBI||The Punjab and Haryana high court has sought fresh status report from the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on its probe into alleged attempt to grab an NRI’s ₹30-crore property in Chandigarh’s upscale Sector 5.The property — House No. 17 in Sector 5 — was owned by one Sunder Singh, father of bygone era actress Vera Sunder Singh alias Priya Rajvansh. Now, the family members of Rajvansh — her brother Padamjit Singh and second brother Kamaljit Singh’s family have a dispute over property. Priya, who was in a relationship with Chetan Anand, elder brother of actor Dev Anand, was murdered in 2000 in Mumbai. She died issueless.The high court had ordered CBI probe in October on the plea of Padamjit Singh, 84, a former United Nations executive living in the US, who alleged that a petition filed on July 8, 2020, using his name was not, in fact, filed by him.The July 8 plea had claimed that Padamjit never sold his 50% share of the property to a woman named Pritam Kaur. However, Padamjit ’s affidavit in August 2020 stated that he had sold his share of property to the woman and that he had authorised none to file the July 8 plea. When the lawyer appearing in the July 8 petition was questioned, he told court that the matter was brought to him by another lawyer and all requisite permissions to file the plea were obtained on mail.Subsequently, the HC had sought response from all parties involved, including family members of the NRI’s brother, who had further given power of attorney to a third person, and the woman who had bought the property. The HC bench of Justice Jitendra Chauhan and Justice Vivek Puri has sought fresh status report by April 29 and directed the registry to provide all the necessary original documents to the inquiry officer of the CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-sector-5-property-grab-case-hc-seeks-fresh-status-report-from-cbi-101614801993784.html
04-03-2021||Chandigarh||6 years on, UT industrial policy remains a non-starter||Six years have passed since the UT administration notified the Chandigarh Industrial Policy, 2015 — which was considered as the panacea for city’s industry problems — but it still largely remains only on paper.The policy assured to boost ease of doing business, ease of transfer of property, promoting city’s industry at national and international levels, development of infrastructure in the industrial area, and a preferential procurement policy for the city’s industry. Industry was allotted dedicated sectors — industrial area phases 1 and 2 in the original city plan. But it took another 60 years for an industrial policy to come up. Phases 1 and 2 have 1,884 plots spread over 150 acres.“In the last five years, the number of MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) decreased by nearly 35% and industrial workforce shrank by around 20%. Nearly 40% space in the twin industrial areas is lying vacant,” said Naveen Manglani, president, Chambers of Chandigarh Industry.Ease of doing businessOn top of the policy assurances was facilitating ‘ease of doing business’ by creating a robust single-window system, and a common application form compatible with the electronic platform.Manglani, said, “For setting up a new industry or expanding an established one, one has to run pillar to post in the city. There are multiple government agencies from which one needs to get permissions and approvals. There is also no set time for granting these. It is high time an effective single-window system gets introduced in the city.”Ease of transfer of propertyWith nearly 75% of the industrial area allotted on the leasehold basis, the policy assured facilitating clear title of land to the allottees.“Allowing transfer of leasehold of property to freehold property and even to leasehold property is pending for so many years even though the policy assured it,” said Arun Mahajan, secretary, Industries Association of Chandigarh.Industrialists complaint that the leasehold property has created obstacles in getting loans for industry expansion.“When the property title is not clear, banks are not keen in lending money. Lots of properties have been transferred on general power of attorney, which is now not being recognised by the UT administration that further complicates the property rights. There is also an issue of exorbitant charge of unearned profit in transfer of leasehold to leasehold,” Mahajan added.Other promisesPromoting the industry at the national and international levels is also an important feature of the policy, which only remains on paper.Similarly, a preferential procurement policy was to be formulated for city industry so that they could get preference when the administration make procurements.“A centre of excellence was to be set up, time-bound schedule for clearance of investor application was assured, and marketing assistance was to be given. Industry is still waiting for it,” Siddharth Gupta, a city-based entrepreneur, said.UT adviser Manoj Parida, said, “Central government’s policy on industry is being strictly followed. In UT, single window is available for all departments, including industry. There are certain policy decisions, like land use, which require ministry of home affairs’ approval. All other incentives by central government like MSME, finance, loan and mortgage are being given. If industry associations have some proposals, they are welcome for discussions.”Promised, but not delivered||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/6-years-on-ut-industrial-policy-remains-a-nonstarter-101614801873849.html
04-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh house grabbed: Journo’s six bank accounts traced||A day after a journalist and a realtor were arrested for forcibly grabbing a 48-year-old man’s house in Sector-37, the police on Wednesday traced the former’s six bank accounts and conducted searches at his house in Sector 37. The scribe, Sanjeev Mahajan, and property dealer Manish Gupta are accused of kidnapping and torturing the victim, Rahul Mehta, 48, the only surviving heir of his family, to secure the general power of attorney (GPA) of his 338 square yards house, and selling it to Manish’s brother Saurabh Gupta in March 2019.Besides Sanjeev and Saurabh, others named in the FIR are Khalendra Singh Kadyan and liquor contractor Arvind Singla, to whom the GPA was transferred; Satpal Daggar, brother of a UT DSP; Ashok Arora, slain bouncer Surjit Singh, Shekhar and Daljit Singh. Police also questioned Arvind on Wednesday with regards to the disappearance of Rahul, who was left at a stud farm in Gujarat in 2017, before being shifted to various ashrams in Maharashtra, Rajasthan and New Delhi, where he is now lives in a similar facility.Police are also looking into the role of several cops, as the FIR details that the meeting regarding the deal of the house was held at the office of Satpal’s cop brother. The FIR also mentions the name of the then Sector 39 station house officer (SHO), who failed to take action on allegations of assault and forcible ouster of Rahul’s tenant. Police have yet to question these officials. “We are verifying the allegations. Everyone, whose name crops up in the probe, will be investigated,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-house-grabbed-journo-s-six-bank-accounts-traced-101614801755139.html
04-03-2021||Chandigarh||Oppn lambasts Capt govt on poll promises, treasury benches count ‘achievements’||The opposition — Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) — on Wednesday cornered the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government in Punjab for “failing to fulfil any of the promises” made to people ahead of the 2017 assembly polls in the last four years. The treasury benches, however, claimed to have fulfilled all the promises, saying the Congress was headed for a victory repeat in the 2022 Punjab polls. During the debate on the governor’s address on the third day of the budget session, Akali MLA Pawan Kumar Tinu said the Congress government is charging ₹11 per unit of electricity against its promise of cheaper power at ₹5 per unit. “Even the poor, scheduled caste and backward class consumers are being forced to pay the high tariffs. The Congress will not be voted back to the power as it has deprived poor Dalit students of education. Many were denied their degrees since the 2018 session for not depositing fees as their scholarships funds were never paid to them,” added Tinu. He accused state justice minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot of embezzling ₹56 crore from scholarship funds last year and was then being given a clean chit by the CM. Without naming anyone, the MLA raised questions on the appointment of a principal adviser to the chief minister. “He accepted a monthly salary of ₹1 and has been given all the perks and facilities of a cabinet minister. It needs to be disclosed by the government as how many crores he will be getting under the table,” asked Tinu. AAP legislator Meet Hayer demanded registration of a criminal case against the newly appointed principal adviser to CM, as he had showed big dreams ahead of the 2017 polls. His party colleague Budh Ram raked the issue of sacrilege of the Sikh holy book in 2015, accusing the government of failing to take any action in this regard. “Punjabi University, Patiala, is under a loss of ₹400 crore and the teachers have not been given salaries for 3 months. Dearness allowance (DA) to the state government employees has not been paid,” he added.SAD’s Sharanjeet Singh Dhillion accused the Capt government of playing fraud upon farmers of Punjab. “Against its promise to waive debt to the tune of ₹90,000 crore, only a small fragment of ₹4,625 crore (5%) was waived. The sewa kendras set up by the previous government were shut and 6,000 people were rendered jobless,” he said. Defending the ruling party’s record, Congress MLA Tarsem Singh DC said the government has done its best to fulfill the promises made to people. Also, party’s Navtej Singh Cheema wondered as why everyone was so scared of the new adviser (to CM). “We are going to pull out an impressive victory in the 2022 polls on the basis of our government’s good work,” he added. Countering the AAP’s claims, health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the government did its best to handle the coronavirus pandemic and its response was better than Delhi’s. AAP’s Aman Arora said, “Before becoming MLA, I used to think that the governor’s address is a pious document and every word written in it is a truth. But I found that it has imaginary things mentioned which never happened on the ground.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/oppn-lambasts-capt-govt-on-poll-promises-treasury-benches-count-achievements-101614801753892.html
04-03-2021||Chandigarh||SSC exam irregularities: Ex-deputy regional director convicted in Chandigarh||A special CBI court has convicted two persons and acquitted 10 others in a September 2012 case where irregularities had surfaced during written exams for various posts in central police organisations.The convicts are Naveen Sehgal, the then Staff Selection Commission’s (SSC) deputy regional director, Chandigarh, and Satish Kumar Ahlawat, the then senior auditor, Principal Controller of Defence Accounts (PCDA), Sector 9, Chandigarh. Sehgal is currently posted as audit officer, PCDA, Halwara, Punjab. Both have been taken into custody.The quantum of sentence will be pronounced on March 5.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), in April 2012, had booked Sehgal and 11 others for allegedly committing forgery, cheating and other irregularities during the said exams. Sehgal was accused of abusing his official position and committing criminal misconduct, in connivance with others, by manipulating the conduct of the examinations held for recruitment of sub-inspectors in the central police organisations, intelligence officers in the Narcotics Control Bureau and assistant sub-inspectors in the Central Industrial Security Force.The CBI said out of the 16 candidates whose seating plan was adjusted, so as to enable them to appear from the same room, seven candidates turned out to be all-India toppers in the results.The chargesheet was filed in October 2013 after two accused, Saurab Kant, partner of Softpro Consultants, who was accused of manipulating the seating order, along with Rajpal, a beneficiary, turned approvers for CBI.On Wednesday, special CBI judge Sushil Kumar Garg held Sehgal and Ahlawat guilty under Sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 420 (cheating) read with 511 (offences punishable with life imprisonment), 468 (forgery) read with Sections 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 15 read with Section 13 (1) (d) and 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act.Among the 10 people acquitted were Hargovind Singh Dhangi, Chitra Vasu, Deepak Sindhu, Subodh Gaur, Rakesh Sharma, Dushyant Kumar, Deepak Dahiya, Sandeep Kumar, Pritam Singh and Dinesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ssc-exam-irregularities-ex-deputy-regional-director-convicted-in-chandigarh-101614801453780.html
04-03-2021||Chandigarh||Will urge Centre for funds to raise honorarium of mid-day meal workers: Punjab school edu minister||School education minister Vijay Inder Singla on Wednesday said that the state government will request the Central government for additional funds to enhance to honorarium of cooks-cum-helpers to ₹3,000 per month under the Mid-Day Meal Scheme. Responding to BJP MLA Arun Narang’s question regarding the action being taken by the state government to enhance the monthly honorarium of mid-day meal workers to ₹3,000 from ₹1,700 in the state, the minister said that since MDM was a centrally sponsored scheme, the state government would take it up with the central government. “The scheme is jointly funded by the central and state government on 60:40 sharing basis. However, the Centre contributes on ₹600 and the state government is giving more than its agreed share,” he said, pointing out that the honorarium was increased by ₹500 per month by the present government in 2017. When Narang reminded the minister of the Congress’ poll promise to hike to increase their honorarium to ₹3000 per month, Singla said the department would also take up the matter with the finance department. Punjab’s ODF status questioned AAP MLA Aman Kumar Arora questioned the open defecation free (ODF) status of districts, blocks and villages in the state. The member, who asked the government about the procedure adopted for declaration of ODF and the funds spent on construction of toilets between 2017-18 and 2020-21, said there were several villages across the state where people were still defecating in the open and no toilets had constructed. In response to his question, water supply and sanitation minister Razia Sultana said that all districts, blocks and villages were open defecation free and ₹415.72 crore were spent from 2017-18 to 2020-21 on building toilets. The MLA urged the speaker to set up a committee to visit to check if toilets had been built in all villages and people were still defecating in the open. However, the speaker refused his request, saying that a committee cannot be set up during the question hour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-urge-centre-for-funds-to-raise-honorarium-of-mid-day-meal-workers-punjab-school-edu-minister-101614801213883.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra ATS arrests major drug supplier from Himachal Pradesh||The Maharashtra Anti-terrorism squad (ATS), in a covert operation on Saturday, arrested a hotelier from Kullu district in Himachal Pradesh for allegedly supplying charas to Mumbai, Pune, and other parts of the state for several years. He was brought to Maharashtra on Tuesday and was produced before a court in Pune on Wednesday. The court has remanded him in police custody till March 9, said a police officer. ATS officers claimed the arrested accused, Roomy Thakur, who runs hotel River View in Kullu, is the kingpin of the drug supply racket and allegedly delivered charas through his people in Mumbai, Pune, Goa and Bengaluru. A team of Maharashtra ATS went to Himachal Pradesh in the last week of December 2020 after Pune government railway police (GRP) arrested Lalitkumar Dayanand Sharma, 50, a travel firm owner; and Kaulsingh Rupsingh, 41, a driver, with 34.4kg of charas. The case transferred to ATS to find out the source of the drugs, the people behind the racket, their distribution network and more importantly, if the gang had any links with terror groups, said an ATS officer.Initial investigation revealed that most of the seized drugs were to be distributed in Mumbai, while 5kg each was to be transported to Bengaluru and Goa, 2kg was meant to be supplied in Pune, said an officer. Deputy inspector general (DIG) Shivdeep Lande of ATS said, “The team had conducted several raids in Himachal Pradesh, following which Thakur’s role became clear. A team was then stationed in Kullu for almost a month. He runs a hotel River View in Kullu”. A dedicated team has been assigned to investigate the case from all possible angles, said an officer.Sharma and Rupsingh, both arrested earlier by Pune GRP, are natives of Himachal Pradesh. Pune GRP had made arrested them after receiving a tip-off about two men travelling from Delhi to Pune by train with drugs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-ats-arrests-major-drug-supplier-from-himachal-pradesh-101614801153747.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Delete scene, withdraw movie from viewing platforms: Bombay HC to Telugu filmmakers||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday directed makers of a Telugu film to withdraw the film from all viewing platforms till they deleted a portion of the film where a photograph of a model and actor was shown as that of a commercial sex worker.The directions were issued after the actor approached the HC seeking damages for defamation from the filmmakers for using her photograph without her permission and in a derogatory manner. The court also directed Amazon Prime to withdraw the film from its portal till the objectionable scene was deleted and the court’s permission was taken for re-releasing the film. A single bench of justice GS Patel, while hearing an interim application in a commercial suit filed by actor Sakshi Malik, was informed by advocates Alankar Kirpekar and Saveena Bedi that while a suit was filed against Venkateswara Creations Pvt Ltd for claiming damages in defamation, the application sought removal of the objectionable scene wherein Malik’s photograph was used without her permission and in a derogatory manner. Kirpekar informed the court that in 2017 the actor commissioned a photographer to make her portfolio after making a mark for herself in Bollywood through songs and movies. The photographer had shared the portfolio with Malik, following which she uploaded some of the photographs on her social media account. The advocates informed the court that a Telugu film released in September 2020 contained a scene showing the photograph of the actor from the portfolio on a mobile screen depicting her as a commercial sex worker. Kirpekar submitted that it was violation of the actor’s privacy and that it was an unauthorised use of private material. He further claimed the nature in which it was used was derogatory. In light of these submissions, Kirpekar sought directions to the filmmakers to delete the scene. The filmmakers represented by advocate Akash Menon, however, informed the court that they had got the photograph from a commercial agency for the scene and it was used only after they were assured that the same could be used legitimately. While agreeing with Kirpekar, justice Patel said, “It seems to me self-evident that it is not possible to use the image of any person for a commercial purpose without express written consent. If images are to be used without such express consent, they must be covered by some sort of legally enforceable and tenable licensing regime, whether with or without royalty. Simply using another’s image, and most especially a private image, without consent is prima facie impermissible, unlawful and entirely illegal.” While directing Amazon Prime, India to stop telecasting the film, the court directed the filmmakers to take down the film from all viewing portals and to delete the entire scene and get an approval from the court before releasing it again. “The entire sequence which has the image of the Plaintiff is to be removed immediately. If the 1st and 2nd Defendants (filmmakers) wish to replace the deleted segments, they are free to do so but without using any of the Plaintiff’s images in any shape, fashion or form without her express written consent. The 3rd Defendant (Amazon) will have 24 hours to discontinue the availability of the film.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/delete-scene-withdraw-movie-from-viewing-platforms-bombay-hc-to-telugu-filmmakers-101614801035968.html
04-03-2021||Chandigarh||Indian made foreign liquor to get dearer in Chandigarh||Come April, the Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL) is set to cost at least 10% more, while prices of beer and wine are unlikely to increase.In the excise policy 2021-2022 announced on Wednesday, the UT administration has decided to keep the licence fee and excise duty on beer and wine unchanged, but the duty on IMFL has been increased by 6%.This, market experts say, will inflate the prices of popular liquor brands by 10% to 12%.In addition to this, the market price of liquor will also depend on the rate at which liquor vends are auctioned.Cow cess imposed last year will continue to be charged at ₹5 per bottle.With the new policy, the administration expects to rake in a revenue of around ₹700 crore.The number of liquor vends has been increased from 94 to 96. To curb the menace of cartelisation and monopolistic practices, a single entity will be entitled to allotment of a maximum of 10 vends.UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, after a detailed presentation with the UT adviser Manoj Parida, secretary (excise and taxation) and other senior officers of the excise department, approved the new excise policy on Wednesday.“The new policy is aimed at balancing the aspirations of the consumers, manufacturers, wholesalers/retailers and the government. After the pandemic setback to the industry, we had to restrict the enhancement to the minimum,” said Parida.Last year, the administration had imposed a 12% increase in the excise duty from 2019. The policy had come into effect from July 1, 2020 after the initial policy announced on March 9, 2020, couldn’t be implemented due to the Covid-19 lockdown.PERKS FOR HOSPITALITY INDUSTRYIn order to boost the hospitality and tourism industries in Chandigarh, the administration has decided against increasing the licence fee of hotels, bars and restaurants.It has also allowed mini-bars at 3-Star and 4-Star hotels in addition to 5-Stars or above category of hotels.Microbrewery licencees can sell draught beer against excise permits to bars, restaurants and clubs by following proper standard safety measures. For this, kegs of up to 50 litres are allowed. Beer shall not be packed in bottles, cans or pouches for sale.No new bottling plant licence will be granted, which Parida termed “a bold and right step”.The basic quota of IMFL has been increased from 100 lakh proof litres (PL) to 110 lakh PL, while the quota of countrymade liquor has been increased from 8 lakh PL to 12 lakh PL.The allotment of licensing units will continue to be made through e-tendering system for transparency, and online system will also be used for issuance of permits and passes.NEW CATEGORY OF BEERTo promote beverages with low-alcoholic content, a new category of beer – super mild beer, containing alcoholic content up to 3.5% – has been introduced. Most of the widely consumed beers contain 4-6% alcohol.The policy has made alcometers mandatory at taverns (ahatas). The facility is already mandatory at bars, restaurants and clubs for voluntary assessment of alcohol level. They also have to post a signage at a proper place, clearly mentioning the permissible limits of consumption of alcohol as per relevant laws, and also mentioning thereof “Be Safe-Don’t Drink and Drive”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/indian-made-foreign-liquor-to-get-dearer-in-chandigarh-101614801034858.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Centre’s role now important in Maratha quota matter: Ashok Chavan||State public works department minister Ashok Chavan, during the question hour in the legislative Council on Wednesday, said the role of Central government is important in Maratha reservation. Chavan said the Centre must take steps to back the Maratha and other reservations in the country by seeking to tag all quota related matter in the Supreme Court and a larger constitutional bench to hear the matter. The regular hearing for Maratha reservation issue is scheduled to commence from March 8. Chavan heads the state cabinet sub-committee on Maratha quota. Congress legislator Sharad Ranpise, through a starred question, sought to know what assistance the state was seeking from the Centre and the state’s preparedness in the matter. Responding to the question, Chavan said that the Centre needs to make its stance clear on few points which will not only help Maratha quota matter but also reservations issues in other states, besides the 10% EWS quota of the Centre. “The petitioners in the case have contended that Maharashtra’s quota has gone over 50% with reservations for Maratha. There are 16 states in the country where the reservation has gone over 50%. Parliament that passed a quota for EWS that too is over 50%; that decision too is challenged by this. The Centre now has the opportunity, through Attorney General, to tag all these matters together,” he said in his reply. Chavan also mentioned legalities that create hurdles in the matter and said that Centre could overcome that by seeking a larger constitutional bench to hear the reservation case. The leader of opposition of the legislative Council, Pravin Darekar, said the state government is merely passing the buck to hide its failure. Darekar demanded that keeping the legalities aside, the state government should allow people who have got appointment letter in the job, through the quota, to start their service. Chavan, in the response, said, “The Bill was passed unanimously, so now [again] you have the opportunity. We are putting forward our case on this matter; we are requesting to put forward positive steps as you are in power in Centre... About the jobs, the stay order of SC is clear: ‘Admissions to educational institutions for the academic year 2020-21 shall be made without reference to reservation provided in the SEBC Act. Appointment to public services and post and the government shall be made without implementing the reservation as provided in the Act.’ This is the interim order which states that we cannot proceed further’.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/centres-role-now-important-in-maratha-quota-matter-ashok-chavan-101614801033770.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai group set to make mattresses for homeless using discarded plastic||A group of Mumbaiites have come together to collect plastic from across the city, make mattresses using them and distribute to those living on the streets before the onset of monsoon.As a demo, the group of six women — called Food Army —involved around 1,000 volunteers to make a 6ftx3ft mattress using discarded plastic bags. With an aim of making 100 such mattresses for the homeless, members of the Food Army said their larger aim is protecting the environment by reducing plastic burden on the planet, while at the same time generating employment for women.Food Army started their work in 2014 with reaching out to victims of natural calamities and giving them home-cooked food. Rintu Kalyani Rathod, founder of the group and a resident of Santacruz, said, “We have been helping the needy during natural calamities with food and grains. This (mattress) project is very close to us.”The plastic collection drive will be held on March 5 and 6 where citizens can give away polythene bags of various thickness, grocery plastic packaging bags, multi-layered wrappers of biscuits, chocolates, detergent and more. Food Army will also provide information about the 32 collection centres across Mumbai to the donors.The group has employed two women to make plastic mattresses and is set to add four more women for the purpose. They also aim to involve rescue foundations by training girls to make plastic mattresses.“Street children and women will collect plastic from donors and hand it over to us. In return, we will give them grains. We will reuse the plastic waste by engaging underprivileged women after training them, thus providing employment and also reach our ultimate goal to reduce plastic waste,” Rathod added.People are requested to WhatsApp on 7977818669 (non- calling number) to donate plastics or help in the project.Food Army, which does not accept monetary donations, had despatched 35,000 theplas to victims of the 2014 Kashmir floods, one lakh theplas to Nepal for earthquake victims in 2015, 30,000 to Chennai in 2016 and 85,000 to Gujrat flood victims in 2017. They had also sent 75,000 kgs of grains to Kerala flood victims in 2018 and groceries and other household items to Orissa in 2019 for the victims of Cyclone Fani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-group-set-to-make-mattresses-for-homeless-using-discarded-plastic-101614800853044.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Harassment at Jalgaon hostel: 4-member panel to conduct probe||The Maharashtra government has constituted a four-member committee to probe an incident in Jalgaon, wherein policemen allegedly made girls from a government hostel strip and dance. State home minister Anil Deshmukh said action would be taken against the guilty in the next two days, once the probe report was submitted. BJP MLA Shweta Mahale raised the issue during the zero hour in the Assembly said the girls complained that people from outside and policemen were allowed to enter the facility on the pretext of a probe and some girls who refused to join the investigation were forced to strip and dance. The Assembly witnessed uproar after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Sudhir Mungantiwar during the debate on the issue said they will have to demand president’s rule in the state on the grounds of failure of law and order. Mungantiwar said the state and home minister were not serious about the shameful treatment given to the women in Maharashtra. Deshmukh said a probe committee of four, including a psychiatrist and woman police officer, has been constituted and action would be taken against the guilty in two days. “We have been collating the information and the available documentary evidence, including video clips. Statements are being recorded. Strict action would be taken against them found guilty after the report was submitted in next two days,” he said. Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said as the video clips are available there is enough evidence to take quick action against the culprits. He said there was nothing wrong in demanding president rule for failure of governance in the state. To this, minority welfare minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik took strong objection saying it was a threat given by the opposition to the state government. He also demanded to expunge the statement from the proceedings. Deputy speaker Narhari Zirwal said that he will decide on expunging the reference after examining it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/harassment-at-jalgaon-hostel-4-member-panel-to-conduct-probe-101614800793716.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||BJP mounts pressure to send Sanjay Rathod’s resignation to Governor||Claiming that forest minister Sanjay Rathod’s resignation to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was just a farce and the state was shielding the minister despite evidence, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has started to mount pressure on the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government to send the resignation to governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. Rathod, whose name surfaced in the suicide case of a 22-year old woman, had submitted his resignation to Thackeray on Sunday. As Thackeray has not sent the resignation to Koshyari, Rathod continues to be a minister. As the head of the state, the governor has to accept a minister’s resignation after which the latter ceases to be a member of the state’s council of ministers. The BJP has been attacking Rathod for the past three weeks, alleging the audio clips that went viral on social media clearly prove the involvement of the minister. Former minister and senior BJP leader Sanjay Kute said on Wednesday. “Until it is not sent to the governor, the process is not complete. This is nothing but an eyewash. The resignation was taken just to avoid further embarrassment. I think it has been kept framed at Matoshree (Thackeray’s residence). The Thackeray government is shielding the minister and he may be reinstated after a few months.” Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday took a swipe at Thackeray. “The chief minister had said that he has not kept the resignation to frame it, but I don’t think it has been sent [to the Governor’s Office yet].” A Shiv Sena leader said the resignation is unlikely to be forwarded to the Governor. “Once the probe is completed, Rathod may come back if he is given a clean chit. If it is accepted by the Governor, the minister will have to be sworn in again if the government wants to reinstate him,” the leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-mounts-pressure-to-send-sanjay-rathod-s-resignation-to-governor-101614800553634.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Only chanting slogans doesn’t make one a patriot: CM Uddhav Thackeray||In a veiled attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its leadership, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said just chanting ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’ doesn’t make one a patriot and those questioning the Central government are called “traitors”. He said the country is not someone’s personal property and the BJP is trying to hijack idols such as Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Vallabha Bhai Patel and Veer Savarkar and portraying them as theirs as they don’t have their own. He taunted Prime Minister Narendra Modi over renaming of Motera stadium in Gujarat after his name saying that now the country will never lose a match in that stadium. Thackeray was replying to a debate in the state Assembly on the Governor’s address, which continued for two days. “The Shiv Sena has not fought for freedom but your mother organization (Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh) also never fought freedom struggle. One doesn’t become a patriot by just chanting ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’. If the elected government could not provide justice to its people then they don’t have the right to chant this slogan (Bharat Mata Ki Jai),” he said, slamming the Modi-led government over multi-layered barricading at Delhi borders to prevent the agitating farmers entering the capital. “Terrorists wouldn’t have infiltrated the country if this much security arrangements were made at the borders. Are these farmers terrorists or traitors? This country is not your private property. It is also a property of the farmers as well,” he said. Taking a swipe over renaming of Motera stadium, he said, “Someone said now we won’t be losing any cricket matches because the name of the stadium has been changed. We won’t be losing any match in that stadium… You erase the name of Vallabh bhai (Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel), do not award Bharat Ratna to Savarkar (Veer Savarkar) and try to teach Hindutva to us.” He said the state has proposed the Centre to award Veer Savarkar with ‘Bharat Ratna’ and also sent two letters in 2018 and 2019 in this regard. The state has also passed a resolution for granting classical language status to Marathi language, which is Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s (Maratha warrior king) language, and completed all necessary documentation. A proposal to rename Aurangabad airport after Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj, son of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj) is again pending with the Centre. Reacting to Union home minister Amit Shah’s comment, Thackeray said, “Whatever was decided between Amit Shah and me inside Balasaheb Thackeray’s room at Matoshri was denied shamelessly. I am purposely using this word because that room is like a temple for us.” He also said he still wonders why Devendra Fadnavis (the then chief minister) was asked to wait outside Thackeray’s room during that meeting. He also pointed out that the BJP didn’t make a law for construction of Ram Mandir at Ayodhya despite being in the government for six years and tried to take the credit after a decision came from the Supreme Court. “Now they are collecting money for temple construction from the people and again trying to take the credit,” he said taking a jibe at the ruling saffron party. Responding to the accusations, former chief minister and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said the chief minister is yet to understand the difference between a reply on issues raised in the Assembly and addressing a public rally. “He (CM Thackeray) could not reply to the issues raised by us, be it corruption in handling Covid-19 pandemic or providing relief to the farmers hit by pink bollworm, a pest that damages cotton farms,” Fadnavis told reporters at Vidhan Bhavan premises.He said that the chief minister is lying through his teeth on the claims made by Thackeray over the union home minister. “He is lying through his teeth on whatever he said about the union home minister. He (Thackeray) also knows the truth,” he remarked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/only-chanting-slogans-doesn-t-make-one-a-patriot-cm-uddhav-thackeray-101614800253726.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC asks authorities to reply to PIL against removal of cash lanes at toll plazas||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday directed the Union Road Transport Ministry and National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) to respond to a public interest litigation (PIL) which has challenged a February 15 circular by the authorities wherein toll plazas were authorised to collect double toll fees as fine from vehicles not having FASTag. The responses are to be filed before the next hearing on March 10. The PIL has alleged that the decision to replace cash lanes with FASTag lanes was taken arbitrarily, and added that as the decision left no scope for cash payment, it would create problems in the event of any technical problems faced by the commuters or toll plazas. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the PIL filed by Arjn Khanapure, was informed that the petitioner was a regular user of state and national highways and that He was forced to pay double toll charges on February 16 at Dumbarwadi Toll Plaza for a single journey as he did not have FASTag. The petitioner said that he was informed that the double charges were being collected as a fine for not having FASTag and a decision to that effect had been taken and announced by the authorities on February 12 and 14. The petition further states that after the incident, the petitioner inquired and found that there was no provision in the Highways Act to collect double charges, and hence the decision by the authorities to allow toll plazas to collect double charges was arbitrary and illegal. The petition also states that the discontinuation of cash lanes, which were existing till February 15, was also detrimental as any technical problems such as connectivity issues, non-functional or faulty RFID readers, power failures would create problems for not only commuters but also toll plazas. In light of the submissions and the fact that many people were not comfortable with the use of FASTag due to illiteracy, hesitance in using e-wallets and other logistical problems, the petition urged that the authorities should be directed to have the option of cash lane so that it could be used by such persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-asks-authorities-to-reply-to-pil-against-removal-of-cash-lanes-at-toll-plazas-101614799773556.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra announces probe into Devendra Fadnavis’s plantation drive||The Maharashtra government announced a probe by a panel of members of the legislature into tree plantation drive, the pet project of previous Devendra Fadnavis government, after a few members alleged the drive was scam-driven. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said the committee will be constituted by March 31 and will be given four months to submit its report.The government also announced a probe into the alleged ₹14-crore scam by Nagpur-based Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Samata Pratisthan. Social justice minister Dhananjay Munde has declared suspension of the government officials involved in the scam, which had come to the fore during the audit by Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG).“The scam amounts to ₹14 crore, allotted for the celebration of Dr BR Amebdkar’s 125th birth anniversary. The financial irregularities were revealed in the audit. The officials involved deliberately kept the CAG under dark by hiding the details. We are suspending the officials immediately. The SIT [special investigation team] will probe the irregularities further,” Munde said.Munde said that the departmental committee appointed to probe the irregularities have revealed many anomalies. “The fund was spent without the knowledge and permission of the board of directors. The officials involved in the irregularity were politically well connected,” he said in a reply during question hour.The question over plantation of 330 million trees during Fadnavis government’s rule was raised by Ramesh Korgaonkar, Shiv Sena’s MLA from Bhandup. Korgaonkar asked about the survival rate and the amount spent on the drive, saying many of the trees are believed to not have survived despite spending a huge amount. Minister of state for forest Dattatrey Bharne said the survival rate was 75.63%. “Forest department spent ₹429.78 crore on the drive implemented between 2016 and 2020. 28.27 crore (282.7 million) trees were planted and their survival rate by October 2020 was 75.63%,” he said. Leader of opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis took strong objection to the probe, saying it was being constituted out of vengeance and to do politics over the issue. “Generally, around 60% trees from such drives survive. Here, the rate is too high against set parameters. The probe is being announced out of political vendetta,” he said.Former forest minister Sudhir Mungantiwar, who spearheaded the drive, said any such probe is welcome as nothing will come out of it. “The government should ensure that it would not face embarrassment after the report was submitted. It was a noble cause undertaken by our government and we achieved the goal. We are not afraid of any such probe as there was nothing wrong in it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-announces-probe-into-devendra-fadnavis-s-plantation-drive-101614799653718.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Madrassa teacher gets 5-year jail term for molesting minor girls||A special court under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act on Tuesday sentenced a 29-year-old Madrassa teacher to five years of imprisonment for molesting two minor girls in 2016.As per the prosecution case registered with Trombay police station in August 2016, the accused started teaching at the age of 19 at the madrassa where the minors — an 11-year-old girl and her 9-year-old sister — studied.On August 16, 2016, the 11-year-old allegedly returned from madrassa and started crying. She told her parents that the teacher touched her private parts, kissed her and asked her to go to the madrassa in the night. The 9-year-old said that the teacher had also touched her inappropriately.When the parents confronted the teacher, he gave evasive answers, following which they approached the police. The accused was subsequently arrested and granted bail on October 17, 2016, as police failed to file charge sheet within the stipulated time.During the trial, the prosecution examined the two girls and their parents to prove the case against the teacher. The court, on the basis of testimony of both the minors, held the teacher guilty of abusing the sisters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-madrassa-teacher-gets-5-year-jail-term-for-molesting-minor-girls-101614799473670.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Salesman arrested for theft of antiques worth ₹70 lakh||Oshiwara police on Monday arrested a 40-year-old salesman for allegedly breaking into an antique showroom in Andheri (West) and robbing antiques worth ₹70 lakh. Police officers recovered antiques worth ₹60 lakh from the accused.According to Oshiwara police, the accused has been identified as Ankit Vishwas Mahantoh, a resident of Anand Nagar in Jogeshwari (West). The theft came to light when the owner of the antique showroom approached police and lodged a case of house break-in after the lockdown.In the complaint, the owner said when he opened the showroom, located in Adarsh Nagar, he noticed the windows at the back of the shop were broken. Upon checking inventory, he found statues, clocks and jewellery worth ₹70 lakh missing. Senior inspector Sanjay Bandale said that the police checked CCTV footage from the shop and area, and found a person roaming around the shop at night. Police then circulated the image of the suspect to different police stations and informers to ascertain the identity. On Monday, police received a tip-off that a man was trying to sell an antique clock at the black market in Jogeshwari for ₹2 lakh. Following this, the police laid a trap and arrested Mahantoh. “Mahantoh told us that he had lost his job during the lockdown and needed money,” said Bandale. The accused also revealed that since he worked as a salesman he used to visit various localities and had also gone to the antique showroom in the past. He had noticed that there was window behind the showroom which did not have a grill.The accused then planned the theft and broke into the shop during night in July. He allegedly threw the antique piece one by one through the window and collected them once he was out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-salesman-arrested-for-theft-of-antiques-worth-70-lakh-101614799353662.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Shakti Mills gang rape convict arrested in assault case||Mumbai Police’s crime branch arrested two people, including 25-year-old Akash Jadhav — a Shakti Mills gang rape convict, for allegedly stabbing a Bandra resident on February 28. The victim is still undergoing treatment at Sion hospital. Police officers said Jadhav has committed more than 10 serious crimes including attempt to murder in the past three years, after he was released from Nashik Borstal School in July 2017.At the time of Shakti Mills gang rape case, Jadhav was 17-years old. He, along with one more minor and four adults, were nabbed in connection with the gang rape of a 23-year-old photojournalist at defunct Shakti Mills compound on August 22, 2013. In July 2014, the juvenile justice board of Mumbai had sent Jadhav and the other minor to Nashik Borstal School for three years. According to the police, Jadhav and his associate, Ankit Naik, 25, both allegedly stabbed Rizwan Shafi Qureshi, 28, with a knife on his head and hand near Nargis Datt area in Bandra (West)on February 28. Jadhav and Naik came to Bandra on bike and were searching for a drug peddler to buy MD around 4am when they saw Qureshi and asked him to arrange MD, said a police officer. When Qureshi said he was not a peddler, Jadhav took out a knife and stabbed him in the head and hand and fled from the spot. Qureshi sustained severe injuries and currently undergoing treatment at Sion hospital. He had memorised the bike number and gave it police during investigation, said inspector Nandkumar Gopale of crime branch unit 9. Following this, a case was registered in Bandra police station against two unknown persons under sections 326 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. Meanwhile, crime branch unit 9 also started a parallel probe. Using the registration number, police traced the bike and found that Jadhav was using it at the time of the incident, added Gopale who was also part of the investigating team in Shakti Mills gang rape case.“I was shocked when I got Jadhav’s mobile number and saw his picture. I immediately formed a team to trace him. We got his address in Dombivli area. Our team waited two days outside his residence and arrested him on Wednesday morning,” said Gopale. During interrogation, the police learnt about Naik and arrested him near Saat Rasta circle, added Gopale. Jadhav is a habitual offender with this being the 11th criminal case registered against him since his release from the remand home after three years of confinement, said deputy commissioner of police Akbar Pathan of the crime branch. Two months after he was released, he assaulted a 48-year-old man from Mahalaxmi. Later, Jadhav along with his associate allegedly assaulted another man in NM Joshi area. Several offences including kidnapping, extortion and an attempt to murder case were registered against him and his associates in NM joshi Marg, RAK Marg and Agripada police stations, said an officer. Naik also had murder and attempt to murder cases registered against him in Kalachowki and NM joshi Marg police stations, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-shakti-mills-gang-rape-convict-arrested-in-assault-case-101614799233615.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Mangrove cover in Maharashtra up by 16%, finds survey||Mangrove cover in the Maharashtra’s coastal districts increased by 16% between 2005 and 2019, suggests a survey conducted by the Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology (IIST) at the behest of the Maharashtra forest department. From a total cover of 304.39 square kilometres (sq km) in 2005, Maharashtra’s coastline now has a mangrove cover of 353.18 sq kms, indicating an additional 48.79 sq kms of mangroves.According to a summary of the report, which has been seen by Hindustan Times, six of Maharashtra’s seven coastal districts reported an increase in mangrove cover during the study period, with the exception of Palghar where the opposite was observed. All districts reported an increase in dense mangrove cover and a decline in sparse mangrove cover.Raigad recorded the highest increase with adding 22.20 sq kms of mangroves to its coast during the study period, followed by Mumbai city and suburban districts where mangrove cover grew by 12.90 sq km. Meanwhile, Thane saw an addition of 6.40 sq km mangroves, followed by Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, which saw 3.01 and 0.30 sq km increase, respectively.However, the report also attributes the increase only to the growth of dense mangrove cover, while sparse mangrove cover declined in each of the districts surveyed. Raigad, for example, gained about 42 sq kms of dense cover during the study period, but lost more than 20 sq kms of sparse mangroves. Palghar, which was the only district to record a decrease in mangroves, gained 8 sq km in dense cover but lost more than 19 sq kms of sparse cover. Across Maharashtra, “about 44.25 sq km of sparse mangrove is converted to dense mangrove, which is considered to be a positive change and 16.17 sq km of dense mangrove is changed to sparse mangrove, indicating the degrading stage of such mangroves,” states the summary of the report, which officials said will soon be submitted before the Bombay high court as part of an ongoing litigation.Environmentalists, however, viewed these results with scepticism. “Depletion of sparse mangroves means that tidal flow to the land has decreased. Increase in density is not necessarily an increase in extent of mangrove cover,” said Stalin D, environmentalist and director of NGO Vanashakti. Stalin also pointed out that too dense mangroves will result in less room for waders, thereby adversely impacting the ecosystem’s ability to sustain biodiversity.Officials from the Maharashtra forest department’s mangrove cell said that these findings require further investigation. “The increase in mangrove cover is due to better legal protection as reserved forests under the Indian Forest Act. Sparse mangroves have now become dense mangrove. However, in some areas it may be due to mangroves coming on mud flats, thereby decreasing the width of the creeks, particularly Thane Creek. We are analysing this aspect,” said Virender Tiwari, principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell).Commenting on the situation in Palghar, Tiwari said, “The reduction in growth of mangroves there may be due to more people practising aquaculture, mainly for prawn fishing. This is again something we are looking into.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mangrove-cover-in-maharashtra-up-by-16-finds-survey-101614798574546.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Garage owner stabs man over parking space, arrested||Wadala TT police have arrested a garage owner for allegedly stabbing a 32-year-old man during an argument over parking a four-wheeler, near his garage in Pratiksha Nagar, Sion on Tuesday afternoon. The victim, Krishna Kumar Mishra sustained severe injuries and was admitted to Sion hospital. The Wadala TT police have registered a case of attempt to murder against the garage owner, Javed Chaudhary, 35.“The victim and the accused stay in the same vicinity. They had fought earlier on January 30 over the parking of a vehicle. They had ended up kicking and punching each other. At that time we warned both of them,” said senior inspector Shailesh Pasalwar. According to police, the incident occurred around 1:15pm on Tuesday when Mishra was parking his car in an open space, near the garage, said Pasalwar. Chaudhary came out of his garage and got into a fight with Mishra. He allegedly removed a knife and stabbed Mishra four times in his abdomen and on the neck.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-garage-owner-stabs-man-over-parking-space-arrested-101614798573449.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Businessman Deven Mehta booked for duping architect of ₹11.66 crore||The economic offences wing (EOW) of the Mumbai Police on Wednesday booked businessman Deven Mehta of Smart Card IT Solutions, one of the largest manufacturers of smart cards in India, for cheating an architect to the tune of ₹11.66 crore.Mehta allegedly took his service for interior designing of three of his properties in Mumbai and Alibag but defaulted in making the payment.The complainant architect, Nozer Rishi Wadia, 66, a Malabar Hill resident, has been in the interior designing business for the past 35 years.In his complaint to the police, Wadia stated that in 2016, he was introduced to Mehta and wife Ushma in his rented residence at Kanta Building in Malabar Hill, by a common acquaintance. Mehta then asked him to remodel his rented house. “It was decided that Mehta would pay the cost of the furniture and Wadia’s fee - ₹20 lakh, but he allegedly paid only ₹5 lakh. He assured Wadia that he would give him more work in future and would make the balance payment in new orders. Mehta also did not pay for the furniture,” Wadia alleged in his complaint.Deven Mehta said, “Its a frivolous complaint. This complaint was made to EOW by Nozer Wadia three years ago, but then the EOW officers had then disposed it of, terming it a civil matter as they did not find any criminal aspect in the complaint. I have made all the payments to Wadia and have sufficient proofs of the same. I don’t understand the logic behind reopening an already disposed off matter.”Hwoever, the complainant Nozer Wadia refused to comment on the matter.In December 2016, Mehta entrusted Wadia with the interior work of his 10,000 square feet luxurious flat in a building on Altamount Road. “Mehta and Wadia mutually decided terms and conditions for the deal. Wadia carried out interior work worth ₹1.11 crore which included his architecture fee of ₹70 lakh. But Mehta only paid ₹10 lakh to Wadia, despite Wadia regularly presenting bills to him. When he asked about the rest of the payment, Mehta told him that he wishes to give him another order for the interior of his bungalow in Alibag and promised to make payment of all the balance dues after the work,” said an EOW officer.Wadia’s firm carried out all the interior work worth ₹16.5 crore at Mehta’s bungalow, Jay Niwas at Alibag. This included Wadia’s architecture fee of ₹2.13 crore. However, Mehta paid only ₹50 lakh to Wadia. This is when Wadia realised that Mehta has no intention of making his full payment. Wadia, after waiting for months, recently approached the police and lodged a first information report (FIR).“Mehta between 2016 and 2017 allegedly took services from Wadia and various other contractors worth ₹17.86 crore but paid only ₹6.20 crore and cheated him and other contractors of ₹11.66 crore. He also failed to make payment for the furniture worth ₹71 lakh,” the FIR states.Mehta and Ushma have been booked under sections 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code after a preliminary inquiry find material in the case.Mehta was in news for buying an apartment in luxurious Lodha Altamount for ₹57.45 crore in 2017.He was previously arrested by EOW in 2019 at the Mumbai airport for allegedly cheating a Hong Kong-based Non-resident Indian (NRI) of ₹9 crore under the pretext of selling him a 5-acre land in Raigad which belonged to the forest department.Earlier this year, he was also arrested by Pune GST officials for alleged fraud and causing a loss of ₹45 crore to the revenue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-businessman-deven-mehta-booked-for-duping-architect-of-11-66-crore-101614798453727.html
04-03-2021||Other||Mumbai: Woman cop, lover arrested for killing husband||Manor police on Wednesday arrested a 25-year-old woman constable deployed with the traffic police, an associate of a senior inspector and three others for allegedly killing the constable’s husband.The accused have been identified as Snehal Patil, Vikas Pashte, 30, an aide to the senior inspector in-charge; Swapnil Govari, an outsourcing agent with MSEDCL; Avinash Bhoir, electrician and Vishal Patil, a security guard. According to police, Patil allegedly gave ₹2.50 lakh contract to Govari, Bhoir and Vishal to kill her husband Pundalik Patil, 35, an autorickshaw driver she was in a relationship with Pashte.Dattatray Patil, superintendent, Palghar police, said, “On February 17, night, as per the plan, the three accused hired Pundalik’s autorickshaw. After they reached Dhekale, on the Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway, the trio asked the Pundalik to stop the rickshaw. The three accused then hit Pundalik at the back of his head with an iron rod five times and dumped his body on the floor between the passenger and the driver seat, and tilted the vehicle to make appear as an accident.”“Before the crime, Pashte had conducted a recce and hired the victim’s auto twice. He would send the other three accused in his auto and would pay ₹1,000 per trip. He would make calls from different numbers to Patil to confuse police with the call data record (CDR),” said Shinde. Assistant inspector Pratap Darade said, “After investigating the crime scene, the Manor police confirmed it was murder. Also, the post-mortem report revealed the same. We are yet to recover the murder weapon.” “However, the sketch made by our police artist matched with Pashte and he was arrested. He then revealed the names of four other accused. All five have confessed to the crime,” Shinde said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-woman-cop-lover-arrested-for-killing-husband-101614798333637.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Kirit Somaiya files police complaint against Maharashtra CM; Sena says claims false||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya has filed a police complaint against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, at the Revdanda police station in Raigad district, for allegedly misusing his position for purchase of 19 houses by his wife Rashmi and Manisha, wife of Shiv Sena legislator Ravindra Waikar, at Alibag.Somaiya said he will approach the Bombay high court (HC) if the police failed to register a first information report (FIR) against Thackeray.The Shiv Sena has called the allegations a pack of lies and said the allegation does not deserve a police complaint.“There is not a single house on this plot, forget 19 houses. If there is no construction, then how come Somaiya came up with this figure of ₹5.29 crore? How can Uddhavsaheb declare something in his affidavit which is not there in the first place?” questioned Waikar.Somaiya accused Thackeray of not disclosing the purchase of 19 houses in a 23,500 square feet area, at Korlai village in Alibag, in his election affidavit. “Architect Anvay Naik constructed these houses in 2008-09. These houses were purchased from Naik in March 2014. These were transferred in Rashmi’s and Manisha’s name only on November 12, 2020. That means they were benami properties for six years. This is against the law,” said Somaiya.“This clearly shows that Thackeray, as the head of state, played an important role in facilitating this dubious deal,” he added.Somaiya had complained about Thackeray to the Election Commission and the income tax department.Naik had died by suicide in 2018 and the case was reopened in November 2020, in which journalist Arnab Goswami was arrested for abetment of suicide. “Since Thackeray had dealt with Naik, even he should also be investigated in this suicide case by the police,” demanded Somaiya.Waikar, whose wife Manisha is the joint owner of this plot, said that even the collector has surveyed the plot and found no construction at all. “All that is there, is just a dilapidated watchman’s house, three wells and a cowshed which were already present when we purchased the plot,” said Waikar.Waikar said this does not merit a police complaint in the first place. “This is a simple real estate transaction and we have paid stamp duty, all the taxes and have not caused any loss to the state exchequer. Forget FIR, this does not even qualify for a simple police complaint,” said Waikar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kirit-somaiya-files-police-complaint-against-maharashtra-cm-sena-says-claims-false-101614798153649.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Final-year students miss campus, canteen, farewell||The final year of college is an emotional time for students as they make memories on campus that they will cherish for years to come. However, this year has been different as campuses remain shut across the city. As the semester draws to a close, the chances of visiting the campus and meeting friends for one last time are diminishing. This has left the graduating batch of 2021 with a sense of longing. “I was eager about starting my final year before the pandemic and wanted to make the most of it. But now we are just attending online lectures. I miss eating dahi papdi chaat in the college canteen, completing projects on the college staircase at the last minute, attending morning lectures and craving for coffee, bunking lectures to watch movies or try a new restaurant,” said Yesha Shah, Bachelor of Mass Media student at Usha Pravin Gandhi College, Vile Parle. “I think we won’t get a chance to have a farewell and have lots of fun one last time,” Shah added. At the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), students said the academic structure is designed such that they have relatively more time in their hands in the final year. “In the initial years, students are very busy with the academic workload and club activities. However, in the final year, apart from the one big activity of placements, the academic load is comparatively less. So this is the year when students interact with more people, especially from outside their branch,” said Aman Rai, a final year B.Tech student at the mechanical engineering department of IIT-B. With a little time on his hands, Rai, who hails from Nagpur, had plans for exploring Mumbai more in the final year but has missed the opportunity. Another aspect of the final year of college that students are missing is the events. “The campus is usually buzzing with events. There is a traditional day, childhood day, annual fests, social work etc. These are fun times. We make new friends and learn from each other. It’s difficult to quantify what we’ve missed out this year,” said Akshata Pawar, final year botany student at Sathaye College, Vile Parle. “While there are no plans for an online farewell as yet, even if we do, it won’t be the same,” said Pawar. “The placement preparation process is a very unique experience, and it would have been nice to be there on campus for it, instead of doing it online,” Rai added. Shakshi Rane, a third-year, commerce student from ML Dahanukar College, said she missed taking exams offline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-final-year-students-miss-campus-canteen-farewell-101614798034055.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Mercury crosses 37°C; IMD warns of warmer than usual summer in Mumbai||The city witnessed its warmest day of the season so far on Wednesday. The Santacruz weather station of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a maximum temperature of 37.3 degrees Celsius, up from 35.3 degrees Celsius a day prior. Wednesday’s reading was 4.4 degrees Celsius above normal.Officials attributed the spike in Mercury, to dry, warm winds blowing at a low altitude over the city at around 900 metres above mean sea level, coming from an anticyclonic circulation over central India.Officials also cautioned that the upcoming summer season is likelier to be warmer than usual. “The entire Konkan coastal region is likely to see a warmer summer this year. Days will be about a quarter of a degree warmer while nights will be about half a degree warmer,” said Dr Shubhagi Bhute, a scientist at IMD. The minimum temperature at Santacruz was recorded at 20.4 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, which was at normal, and only slightly slower than the previous day’s reading of 20.6 degrees Celsius.Colaba, on the other hand, the maximum temperature was recorded at 34.5 degrees Celsius (up from 32.5 degrees a day prior), but the minimum temperature was recorded at 22.3 degrees Celsius (same as the day prior).As per the IMD’s seven-day forecast for Santacruz, there may be some relief from the heat on Thursday. The maximum temperature is expected to drop and remain at 35 degrees Celsius for the next week, while the minimum reading is also predicted to remain at 21 degrees Celsius. Mainly clear skies will prevail.Meanwhile, according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research, air quality on Wednesday returned to the poor category with the air quality index (AQI) of 208.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mercury-crosses-37-c-imd-warns-of-warmer-than-usual-summer-in-mumbai-101614797913616.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Man dies after getting second dose of vaccine: Family awaits post-mortem report||A day after a 45-year-old private health care worker, Sukhdev Kirdat, died in Bhiwandi minutes after taking the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine, his family is awaiting the post-mortem report to know what caused his sudden death. The police have registered an accidental death report as the post-mortem by JJ Hospital did not give any conclusive results. The police said the hospital was awaiting a few more tests to determine the cause of death. “When he took the first dose, he did not face any health issue. That day he went to work like usual and the doctor for whom he worked reminded him to go and take the second dose of vaccine,” said Prithviraj Salunke, 24, nephew of the deceased. Kirdat who lived in Thane’s Manorama Nagar is survived by his wife and 13-year-old son. He was taking medication for hypertension for the past three years. He has been working as a driver to a doctor in Bhiwandi for 8-9 years. Yogesh Chavhan, deputy commissioner of police, Bhiwandi, said, “The post-mortem report submitted by expert doctors states their opinion is reserved “It might be just a coincidence that the beneficiary suffered cardiac arrest right after the vaccination,” said Dr Prashant Patil, president Indian Medical Association, Kalyan. Dr Pankaj Kumar Kasar, an interventional cardiologist from Kalyan said, “It is very rare that a vaccine cause any heart ailment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-dies-after-getting-second-dose-of-vaccine-family-awaits-post-mortem-report-101614797312890.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Private hospitals all set for phase 3 of Covid vaccination||Most of the 29 private hospitals given the go-ahead by the Central government on Tuesday to conduct Coid-19 vaccinations will start doing so from Thursday, officials said. Also, on the third day of the vaccination drive’s third phase on Wednesday, no chaos was reported at any of the centres. The authorities attributed this to the smooth functioning of the centralised CoWIN portal.Overall, on Wednesday, 11,019 senior citizens above the age of 60 and those above 45 years of age with comorbidities were vaccinated at 22 vaccination centres and three private hospitals, almost double the 6,863 vaccinated on Tuesday.Further, on Wednesday, several citizens took to social media, a contrast from the previous day, expressing their satisfaction over the arrangements. Prashant Prasad, a resident, tweeted, “On Tuesday, there were phenomenal arrangements at the BKC jumbo centre. It was extremely impressive as my parents were in at 8.30am and out at 10am. Crowd management is impeccable.”Earlier, on the first and second days, crowding was reported at several vaccination centres, including at BKC and the NESCO centre in Goregaon. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had maintained that it is following up with the Centre on fixing glitches on the portal. On Wednesday, on-the-spot and pre-registered vaccinations were conducted smoothly owing to the portal running smoothly. Dr Pradeep Jadhav, medical superintendent, Bandra Bhabha Hospital, said, “We carried out vaccination as per the stipulated timings, between 9am and 5pm. The vaccination was smoother on Wednesday compared to the earlier two days as there was no technical glitches.”Meanwhile, the 29 private hospitals include many major ones —Hinduja, Lilavati, Jaslok, Kokilaben, Bombay, SL Raheja, Global, Nanavati, Saifee and Fortis. A BMC official said, “Inspections of several private hospitals started on Wednesday and many hospitals were given clearances post inspection. The pending hospitals will also be given clearances in a day or two.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-private-hospitals-all-set-for-phase-3-of-covid-vaccination-101614797193427.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s first Covid patients: ‘We have let it stay under the carpet’||“After witnessing the suffering that the virus has caused over the past year, I am thankful to god for saving our lives,” said the 70-year-old, who, one year on, still refuses to divulge his name for fear of being stigmatized.The Andheri-resident and his 68-year-old wife were the first two cases of Covid-19 detected in Mumbai on March 11. They had only just returned from Dubai.The senior citizens did not want to be named because they haven’t told members of their extended families that they tested positive for Sars-CoV-2. “We belong to a village in Gujarat and a majority of our family members still stay there. I didn’t know how they would react to us being affected by Covid-19, and I didn’t want us to get stigmatised for it. We never told them then [when it happened], and it is too late to inform them now. We’ve let it slip, we’ve let it stay under the carpet,” he said.Last year, the husband and wife, visited Dubai and Abu Dhabi on a six-day tour with 40 other people from the state. Their flight landed at the Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport in Mumbai on March 1 from where the group dispersed to their homes in Mumbai, Pune, Beed and Nagpur.Eight days later, a couple from the same group who had taken a taxi to Pune, tested positive for coronavirus disease, making them the first two patients in the state. It turned out that the rest of the 40 were infected too.****On March 10, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) made a call to the couple’s Andheri residence. The city municipal body was conducting a contact tracing exercise in an attempt to track down all the people who had travelled with the Pune couple. The officials asked the husband and wife to report to Kasturba Hospital, immediately.The wife, already a patient of diabetes and hypertension, felt afraid. For the past three days, she had been experiencing breathlessness, cough, fever and a loss of appetite. But she didn’t hide these symptoms from the civic authorities; they made their way to the city’s only infectious diseases hospital the same day. In the afternoon, their swab samples were collected and sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune. The couple was put under quarantine in a hospital ward.****By February 2020, international flyers entering Mumbai and exhibiting symptoms were already being quarantined in the isolation ward of Kasturba hospital until their swab reports, sent to NIV, like returned negative for the virus. On February 3, the Indian Council of Medical Research, the nodal central agency overseeing the country’s response to the virus, allowed Kasturba hospital to conduct its own Covid-19 tests, making it the first civic-run testing centre in the state. However, it still needed to send its samples to NAV for confirmation of results.“We have a state-level testing facility where we have been analysing samples such as HIV, E-coli and other viral infections for years. Once a team of experts from the central government inspected the lab infrastructure, they immediately selected us for the testing,” said Dr Chandrakant Pawar, the medical superintendent of the hospital.The leafy campus located in Byculla had 150 beds for patients of infectious diseases, who needed to be quarantined or isolated. Of these, the hospital initially reserved 20 to quarantine possible Covid patients. Within a month, the hospital raised the number of beds to 275; till date, it has treated over 4,000 Covid patients.That sort of scaling up was only possible, Pawar said, because the hospital recruited health care staff. “We had to get resident doctors from other hospitals. We increased the number of doctors from 8 to 30 and recruited around 200 additional nurses.”Everyone worked round the clock. Till July, the hospital even put up their staff members in hotels and lodges in case they were worried about returning home to their families.The 129-year old hospital is no stranger to pandemics. Established in 1892 as the Arthur road hospital or City hospital, it was built as a sanatorium for people suffering from infectious diseases. In 1896, when the bubonic plague first hit what was then Bombay, spreading through Nowroji slums in Mandvi and infecting thousands, the hospital began admitting affected patients. The medical superintendent at the time, Nasserwanji Hormusji Choksy, received a title from the British for his tireless work during this pandemic.Later, the hospital treated patients affected by the Influenza pandemic in 1917-18, which hit the residents, particularly the poor, hard. Millions died in the city, although there are no records of how many were actually affected.Since then, the hospital has always risen to help the city whenever it has come under attack of microorganisms. In 2009, when the H1N1 pandemic struck, the hospital was one of the main centres providing isolation wards and treatment facilities for the affected patients in Mumbai.It’s no surprise then that the hospital’s wards are named after diseases. There’s a swine flu ward, a chickenpox ward, a jaundice ward, and even an isolation ward named after Ebola.“The hospital has been a safe haven for Mumbai residents whenever the city has witnessed any infectious diseases outbreak. Every staff member is trained to handle such patients in sudden crisis,” said Dr Jayanthi S Shastri, in-charge of the molecular diagnostic laboratory at the hospital.It was Shastri who received the call from NIV on March 11 confirming that the Andheri couple was Covid positive.***After five days of quarantine, the wife recovered, and tested negative. She was shifted to the outer wing of the ward. The husband, also a diabetic, remained in quarantine with another patient. “Though I had fever and body ache, I was feeling fine until I started vomiting on the ninth day of my quarantine. That continued for another day,” he said.His oxygen saturation levels dropped to below 80%, but the husband didn’t require ventilator support or a stay in the Intensive Care Unit.While both were treated with a drug combination of hydroxychloroquine, Tamiflu and Lopinavir, the husband was administered with an additional antibiotic injection since he had developed fluids in his right lung due to pneumonia.“They were the first patients to be treated with a drug combination of hydroxychloroquine, Tamiflu and Lopinavir. Although there is no specific evidence about the effectiveness of the drugs, we used the drugs as an experiment which actually worked,” a doctor from the hospital who was involved in her treatment had told HT in April last year.At the time of treating the husband-wife duo, knowledge about the virus and how to treat it was limited, so doctors used a combination of drugs—Tamiflu (oseltamivir or Fluvir), an antiviral used in treatment of swine flu; hydroxychloroquine, a medicine used to prevent and treat malaria; and anti-human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) drug Lopinavir. With growing research across the globe, doctors added Tocilizumab and the antiviral, Remdesivir, in the regime. Later, steroid and blood thinners were also added to the list, along with vitamins. Convalescent plasma therapy also gained popularity among doctors over the following months.At present, hydroxychloroquine and Tocilizumab have lost its shine, but doctors still use a cocktail of other drugs for treatment.It was only midway through their stay that the seriousness of being infected with Sars-CoV-2 dawned upon them. On March 17, a 64-year-old man, who was also admitted to Kasturba and quarantined, succumbed to the infection becoming the first casualty of the pandemic in Mumbai.“Till then, I thought the virus is not deadly. But when I saw the ward boy carrying away the body wrapped in a white plastic bag, my heart sank,” the husband recalled. “For the first time, I felt scared.”***“We are either provided with the old HIV PPE [Personal Protective Equipment] kits or donated kits which are of poor quality. These don’t even cover the whole body. The upper body cover is too thin to stop any possible contact of the virus to the skin. All doctors and nurses are given proper high quality PPE,” a staffer said during a protest that a group of them had held last April. Following the protest, city mayor Kishori Pednekar also visited the hospital.Even as Kasturba hospital grappled with the same shortage of PPE kits that health care and frontline workers around the country were facing at the start of April, the civic body converted Seven Hills, a private hospital in Marol into a Dedicated Covid Care Hospital. Later, the civic-run BYL Nair hospital was also converted into a dedicated Covid hospital. This was done to ease the burden on Kasturba and King Edward Memorial (KEM) hospital, Parel, both of which had become the ports of call for severe patients.When experts from the central government visited the hospital in May, they observed that the hospital lacked a negative pressure room, UV lights, high-efficiency particulate air (or HEPA) filters, and an anteroom (sort of an in-between chamber) between the patient’s area and general corridor. Despite these infrastructural shortfalls, Kasturba continued to treat a large volume of patients. The footfall of suspected Covid-19 patients in the hospital’s outpatient department that once ranged at 1,200 on an average a day has now fallen to 50.Last month, the BMC declared that it would make a separate building with a 150-bed facility in preparation for another pandemic.“We need a state-of-the-art hospital for infectious diseases, so we would try to make a centralised hospital for future usage. The new building will have all advanced facilities for immediate usage of patients,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC, while speaking during the budget announcement.***On March 24, the husband and wife were discharged. They had spent 14 days at the hospital. When they returned home, neighbours came forward to help them get down from the ambulance.“The hospital staff was extremely kind. After we got back home, we were still very weak. Our neighbours carried me on a plastic chair to the house. I was down with a stomach infection and my husband used to get breathless. It’s our neighbours who gave us food for a week until we improved,” said the wife.“On the first day of our quarantine, the ward had only 20 beds. But when we left 14 days later, the ward had more than 50 beds with around 25 suspected patients,” the husband said.The couple’s children, a daughter and son, live abroad and could not visit as all international and domestic flights had been shut down.As it turns out, the daughter, a resident of Singapore now, had interned at Kasturba hospital as a medical student two decades ago. “My daughter said we were in the best hands and I shouldn’t worry,” the 70-year-old said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-first-covid-patients-we-have-let-it-stay-under-the-carpet-101614797073559.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Not a second Covid wave, but a spike: Maharashtra task force||Maharashtra at the moment is likely witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases and not a second wave, believes the state’s task force, saying the test positivity rate indicates so and that the current trajectory is similar to September 2020 when there was increased movement of people due to Ganesh Chaturthi. This comes amid the steady spurt in cases in the state over the past few weeks, fuelling speculation, however, experts attribute this rise to increased testing.According to experts, a spike means the number of cases rises for a few days and then comes back to normal levels, while in the case of a wave, the infections keep rising,In February, the test positivity rate — the total number of cases testing positive for Covid-19 against the total tests done — was 7.8%, despite the 40% rise in cases from January, data revealed. “We conducted over 1.6 million tests in February, as a result of which, new cases increased. Had there been a second wave, the positivity rate should have also surged. In January, Maharashtra recorded around 5% positivity rate, which in February increased by a mere 2 percentage points,” said Dr Satish Pawar, state surveillance officer. According to data provided by the state health department, there were 90,673 cases in Maharashtra in January, which increased to 126,723 in February. The sudden spike was observed from mid-February with a significant share from Amravati, Yavatmal, Akola, Mumbai and Pune. In contrast, the state’s positivity rate was higher in the last four months of 2020 — 20% in September and October; 18% in November and 16% in December. Data from the state health government showed that in September 2020, as many as 2,646,276 tests were conducted in the state; in October there were 2,182,198 tests. In January 2021, 1,869,535 tests were conducted. In Mumbai, too, when 543,821 tests were conducted in September, the positivity rate was 14%. However, while the number of tests in January and February stood at 433,681 and 459,794, the positivity rate didn’t show a spike. It was around 4% in January and 5.3% in February. “Last year, in the middle of September, the state had observed a similar spike after Ganesh Chaturthi and gradual relaxation of the lockdown. It gradually flattened by October-end. So, this year, with the starting of local trains and laxity on the part of citizens in not following Covid norms, cases increased. So, we can’t call it a second wave,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, attached to Bombay Hospital and in charge of Covid-19 beds in private hospitals. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, technical adviser to the Maharashtra government on Covid-19, also overruled the spike as a “second wave”. “There has been a mutation of the virus, which is more infectious. But it is contained to a few districts like Amaravati, So far, considering that there hasn’t been much of a surge in positivity rate and also, the death rate is under control, we may not be facing a second wave. But we need a few more days to come to a conclusion,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/not-a-second-covid-wave-but-a-spike-maharashtra-task-force-101614796953519.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Passengers from Brazil will undergo 7 days hotel quarantine in Mumbai||The incoming passengers from Brazil will now be quarantined in a hotel for seven days, as per the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) circular released, on Wednesday. According to the circular, any passenger, on testing negative post-seven days of mandatory hotel quarantine, will be allowed to go home subject to seven days home quarantine. However, if tested positive after seven days, passengers will be admitted at GT Hospital or SevenHills Hospital followed by four private hospitals including Bombay Hospital, Raheja Hospital, Hinduja Hospital and Reliance Hospital. This is being done owing to the available evidence of new strain or mutated Covid-19 virus in circulation from several countries around the globe.Until now, passengers coming from the UK, Europe, South Africa and the Middle East are already following the above rules, but they were admitted only at GT or SevenHills Hospital. However, with the addition of Brazil to the list, the BMC has also given the option of getting admitted to private hospitals.This was followed by the Central government decision of making it mandatory, starting from February 17, 2021, for incoming passengers from Brazil to get institutional quarantined for seven days.A BMC official said, “The direction to quarantine incoming passengers from Brazil was already given on February 18 by the municipal commissioner, however, a formal order was pending, which was issued on Wednesday. Also, the list now offers options for getting admitted in private hospitals considering with the addition of Brazil, the strain of passengers increases on public hospitals.”Meanwhile, as per the practice, there will be several passengers who will be exempted from the mandatory quarantine rule. This includes those who are government officials, having a death in the family, pregnant women or officials of an embassy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/passengers-from-brazil-will-undergo-7-days-hotel-quarantine-in-mumbai-101614796893576.html
04-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 9,855 fresh Covid cases, sharpest 1-day spike since October 17||Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 9,855 Covid-19 infections, its highest single-day spike in 137 days (since October 17 when the state reported 10,259 cases), taking its tally to 2,179,185. The state also reported 42 more deaths owing to Covid-19, taking the toll to 52,280.Meanwhile, after two days of clocking below 1,000 fresh cases, Mumbai on Wednesday added 1,121 more infections, taking the city’s tally to 328,742. Mumbai reported six more Covid-19 deaths.The active caseload in the state rose to 82,343, while Mumbai’s active caseload increased to 8,594. In the past 24 hours, the state tested 87,627 samples, and had a positivity rate of 11.25%, while the state’s overall positivity rate was 13.2% on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the state’s recovery rate stood at 93.77% with 6,559 patients discharged on Wednesday. Amid the resurgence of Covid-19 cases in the state, Amravati, Akola, Nagpur, Pune, Aurangabad and Nashik districts reported a chunk of fresh cases on Wednesday. Pune district (including Pimpri-Chinchwad) reported 1,696 new cases, Nagpur district clocked 1,181 fresh cases and Nashik district saw 740 new cases. Amravati district saw 661 fresh cases, while Aurangabad and Akola districts reported 518 and 439 fresh cases, respectively. A state health department official, who did not wish to be named, said, “The state’s numbers are going to hover around 8,000-10,000 for a week with an occasional dip. The increase is due to increased viral activity in Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Vidarbha regions for the past two-three weeks. We have scaled up the testing; with targeted testing coupled with tracing, we are getting more cases. However, the numbers will stabilise in a couple of weeks.”Meanwhile, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday issued a circular, adding Brazil to the list from where incoming fliers will be quarantined in hotel for seven days. On testing negative, passengers will be allowed to go home and then follow a seven-day home quarantine. If any passenger tests positive after seven days, passengers will be admitted at GT Hospital or at three listed private hospitals in the city. Until now, passengers coming from UK, Europe, South Africa and Middle East were being quarantined.The ongoing vaccination drive in the state, meanwhile, saw a jump in numbers on Wednesday with more senior citizens coming out to get vaccinated across the state. On Wednesday, 51,240 beneficiaries were inoculated across 769 centres in the state. Of which, nearly 50% were senior citizens. The state saw 24,186 — 47.2% of the days’ total vaccinations — senior citizens inoculated on Wednesday.Of the total vaccine shots administered in Mumbai on Wednesday, 50.37% were given to senior citizens, data from the state health department said. As per the data, 2,739 beneficiaries above the age of 60 were give vaccination and 194 beneficiaries, who are between age 45 and 59 with comorbidities, were vaccinated in Mumbai. In the state, 7,465 beneficiaries were inoculated between the ages of 45 and 59 years, health department data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-9-855-fresh-covid-cases-sharpest-1-day-spike-since-october-17-101614796713702.html
04-03-2021||Delhi||SC panel inspects Metro Phase 4 sites to see if trees can be saved||The Supreme Court-constituted Central Empowered Committee (CEC) on Wednesday conducted the first round of inspections of the Delhi Metro Phase 4 construction, after a petition was filed before the Delhi high court to save over 11,000 trees that are proposed to be felled to make way for the new corridors.In a petition before the Delhi high court, it was submitted that for the construction of three of DMRC corridors —Janakpuri-RK Ashram, Maujpur-Majlis Park and Aerocity-Tughlakabad—the Metro had sought permission to cut 11,454 trees. The petitioners had also sought a change in alignment of Metro Phase 4, from above ground to underground.The members of CEC, chief project manager of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), representatives from the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and the petitioner of the case, urban ecologist Vallari Sheel, visited the under-construction site on the Janakpuri-RK Ashram corridor on Wednesday, to ascertain whether trees, which have been marked by the DMRC for felling, can be saved.“The team inspected stretches, including the Najafgarh drain, Mangolpuri, and section of the Outer Ring Road between Derawal Nagar near Mukarba Chowk and Pul Bangash. The inspection ended at RK Ashram, the other end of the proposed Metro corridor,” an official present during the inspection on Wednesday said, on condition of anonymity.The official added, “The second round of inspections are scheduled for Friday, when the Aerocity-Tughlakabad corridor of the DMRC will be inspected.”On February 11, the high court had asked the CEC to “consider as representation” the plea, which contended that felling over 11,000 trees for the Metro construction would have an adverse effect on the ambient air quality of the national capital, where pollution is already at critical levels.In a notice issued on February 15, CEC member secretary had called the Delhi chief secretary, principal chief conservator forests (PCCF), public works department (PWD) engineer-in-chief, Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) member secretary, as well as representatives of the Union ministry of environment forests and climate change (MoEFCC) and ministry of housing and urban affairs, to hear the grievances of the petitioners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/scpanel-inspects-metro-phase-4-sites-to-see-if-trees-can-be-saved-101614795213317.html
04-03-2021||Delhi||Court grants bail to five arrested for violence on R-Day||A Delhi court on Wednesday granted bail to five persons, including a class 10 student, arrested in connection with the violence at Nangloi Chowk during the farmers’ tractor parade on Republic Day. While granting bail, the court said the accused cannot be kept in custody on the mere apprehension that they would commit the same crime again, especially when they have no criminal antecedents.Additional sessions judge Sudhanshu Kaushik granted bail to class 10 student Naveen, Ashish, Parvesh, Deepak Singh and Ravi on a bail bond of ₹30,000 while also noting that no tear gas gun was recovered from the accused despite the city police claiming that the accused had forcefully taken the gun from the police.“It was alleged that during the incident, the accused and his accomplices robbed the tear gas gun of the police but the same could not be recovered. Record shows that investigation in the matter, qua the applicant, already stands concluded. He is stated to be in custody for more than a month. No previous criminal involvement of the applicant has been alleged by the prosecution,” Kaushik said.“Keeping in view all these factors, I am of the considered opinion that there is no point in keeping the accused further detained in custody. He cannot be kept detained in custody merely on the apprehension that he might again commit a similar offence, more particularly, when there is no record of previous involvement,” the judge said in five separate orders for each of the accused.The police had arrested the accused on charges of rioting, dacoity, criminal conspiracy and damaging public property during the tractor rally to protest against the three contentious farm laws of the Centre. The police, while opposing the bail pleas, had contended that there are serious allegations against the accused and several police personnel were injured in the rioting.The police also told the court that in order to disperse the mob, they had to fire tear gas shells following which the protesters turned violent and started attacking the police personnel with sticks, rods, stones and deadly weapons. The police also said the accused are not farmers and were hired to instigate rioting.Appearing for the police, the public prosecutor (PP) told the court that the agitation against farm laws is still continuing and there is every likelihood that the accused might commit similar offences, in case they are released on bail.Advocate Jaspreet Singh Rai for the accused told the court that the accused had been falsely implicated in the present case and they have been kept in custody without any purpose since January 26. He said there was an inordinate delay of around 18 hours in the registration of the FIR while contending that the delay has not been explained by the police.He also stated that the accused had come to Delhi to peacefully participate in the protest march of farmers and they did not resort to rioting. He argued that the accused have not been captured on any CCTV cameras and the police have falsely implicated them. He added that nothing but sticks were recovered from the accused.The court accepted the contentions and granted bail to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/court-grants-bail-to-five-arrested-for-violence-on-rday-101614795153453.html
04-03-2021||Delhi||Riots, Tablighi Jamaat issues resonated in Chauhan Banger result||Of the municipal five wards where bypolls were held on Sunday, Chauhan Banger– a Muslim-dominated ward in north-east Delhi where communal riots erupted in February last year, recorded the biggest victory margin.The Congress won the seat defeating the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) by a margin of 10,642 votes. In the other four municipal seats that went to the bypolls, AAP defeated BJP with victory margins ranging between 2,705 (Shalimar Bagh) and 7,043 (Kalyanpuri), election commission data showed.Zubair Ahmad, the Congress candidate who won the seat on Wednesday, said: “People in the area were affected by the north-east Delhi riots and they felt that Arvind Kejriwal abandoned them during the crisis. Then, they were disgruntled about the way the AAP government dealt with the Tablighi Jamaat issue during the Covid-19 lockdown. There were development-related issues too and people of Chauhan Banger did not have any trust on AAP.”Zubair is the son of Mateen Ahmad, five-time MLA from Seelampur assembly segment. Ahmad, a veteran Congress leader, unsuccessfully contested the 2020 assembly polls from Seelampur. Chauhan Banger ward is a part of Seelampur assembly constituency.The AAP candidate, Mohd Ishraq Khan, a former MLA from Seelampur, agreed that there was “anger among people in Chauhan Banger” but said, “While we focused our campaign more on development issues – sanitation, school, health centres, roads, etc – the Congress focused on the riots and Tablighi Jamaat issues.”The AAP’s in-charge of municipal affairs Durgesh Pathak said the party could not win the Chauhan Banger seat because the Congress candidate was more “popular” among people and there were other “local factors”. He further said, “But the biggest thing is that the BJP did not win a single seat in the municipal bypolls.”Chauhan Banger ward has around 40,000 voters, of which around 22,000 cast their votes in the February 28 municipal bypolls, election commission data showed. While the Congress got 16,203 votes, the AAP got 5,561 and the BJP candidate got only 105 votes in the ward.Praveen Rai, political analyst with the centre for study of developing societies, said: “The huge gap between the votes garnered by the Congress and runner up AAP in Chauhan Banger reflects the resentment among the Muslim community over Delhi riots and the Tablighi Jamaat incidents... The AAP has to develop political strategies to ensure that it retains its Muslim voter base in Delhi. The alienation of the Muslims from AAP can lead to an en-masse shift of the community’s vote to the Congress in the 2022 municipal polls. This will not only hurt the electoral prospects of AAP in local elections in the national capital, but also help save the BJP from a major political defeat.”Rahul Verma, a fellow with the Centre for Policy Research, differed. He said, “It would be difficult to draw larger interpretations from this one ward. Similar resentment factors -- related to the anti-citizenship law protests and AAP trying to fight the BJP with Hindu-oriented strategies such as Hanuman worship during the assembly poll campaign -- could have affected the Muslim vote base ahead of the 2020 assembly elections too. But Muslims still voted for the AAP in large numbers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/riots-tablighi-jamaat-issues-resonated-in-chauhan-banger-result-says-winner-cong-candidate-101614795153976.html
04-03-2021||Delhi||Five held for violence and rioting in Mukundpur in outer Delhi||After a video of mob rioting and firing in the air in outer Delhi’s Mukundpur surfaced on social media on Tuesday, police arrested five men on Wednesday and said the violence was perpetrated by a group of men to intimidate and dissuade their rivals in a plot dispute.The video, taken from CCTV footage, is about 6 minutes long and shows at least 10 to 15 masked men carrying rods and stones hitting the shutter of a chemist’s shop, damaging parked motorcycles on the road, pelting stones, and firing in the air. On Tuesday, the video was widely shared on social media, prompting the Delhi Police to register an FIR and identify the rioters.Police said the video was from Mukundpur, under the Bhalswa Dairy police station limits in outer Delhi, and the incident took place on March 1.Deputy commissioner of police (Outer) Rajiv Ranjan identified the five men as Rahul, Arif, Rakesh (identified only by their first names) Amit Khanna, and Rustom Ali. “We have identified more suspects. Five teams are still conducting searches to arrest the others,” the officer said.Police said the men had a dispute with a resident of Mukundpur. “They wanted to usurp a disputed plot and resorted to violence as a show of strength. We have recovered one spent bullet cartridge from the spot. The arrest has been made on the basis of video evidence. We have identified other persons and will make more arrests soon,” DCP Ranjan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/five-held-for-violence-and-rioting-in-mukundpur-in-outer-delhi-101614795094729.html
04-03-2021||Delhi||220 acre Bharat Vandana park in Dwarka sub-city gets green clearance||Spread over 220 acres of verdant greenery in Dwarka sub-city, Bharat Vandana park is being developed as a major tourist destination by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA). The project -- the park will be developed in the shape of lotus —recently got clearance from the environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee (EAC).DDA officials said it will be a one-of-its-kind park with an eco-forest zone, several lakes, cultural and adventure sports facilities and a ‘Mini India’ park that will have replicas of important monuments from different states. The park is being developed by NBCC India, which was roped in by the DDA in 2019.“The project has got the environment clearance,” said a DDA official on Wednesday.The park will be designed in the shape of a lotus flower with each petal acting as a zone for a dedicated activity. As per the plan, the park will have 10 zones: congregational zone, cultural zone, pushpa kriti sarovar zone, eco-sensitive zone, meditation garden zone, fun park zone, adventure park zone, lake view restaurant zone, mini India zone and the vandana sarovar zone.DDA officials said each zone will be spread over 10 to 12 acres. For instance, the fun park will have gaming and other facilities for children while the eco-sensitive zone will be developed as a dense green zone with a large number of medicinal plants. The plan, DDA officials said, is to eventually hold tree walks for nature enthusiasts. There will be a dedicated area for food plazas and restaurants, including one overlooking the many water bodies and lake.The project was conceived in 2019 and its foundation stone was laid by Union home minister Amit Shah in December 2019. The ₹530 crore project is aimed at developing the park as one of the main tourist attractions in the national capital. DDA officials said work has started at the site and the project is expected to be ready by November 2022.The adventure park is going to be a key attraction at the park. DDA officials say the Delhi Master Plan 2021 allows adventure parks to be developed on up to 10 hectares. The adventure park proposed at the site will have a zip-line facility.The mini India park will be the other key attraction as it will have miniature replicas of popular monuments in the country. The park has been conceptualised to outline the heritage of India, said a DDA official.When the plan was proposed, environmentalists and some local residents had opposed it, as they wanted the area to be developed as a biodiversity park. Diwan Singh, an environmental activist and a resident of Dwarka, said, “This area should be developed as a natural green space. It will help mitigate the increase in pollution in the area. There is a provision to make a parking space for 1,700 vehicles. Given the increase in pollution levels, there is a need to protect such green spaces.”As per the EAC minutes, close to 99 acres of the area will be developed as a landscape area and over 26 acres will have water bodies and lakes. There will be 30 rainwater harvesting recharge pits spread across the park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/220-acre-bharat-vandana-park-in-dwarka-sub-city-gets-green-clearance-101614795093440.html
04-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi traffic police test new diversion plan for Ashram flyover extension||Delhi traffic police on Wednesday began trials on a diversion plan that will see vehicles on the Ring Road and Delhi-Noida-Direct Flyway being redirected as the Ashram flyover is extended. Traffic officials said that this was an assessment to see how the traffic flow would be impacted during peak rush and non-rush hours, once the diversions are put in place for construction work.On Wednesday, vehicles coming from east Delhi and Noida via the DND, going towards Lajpat Nagar, were not allowed to take the Ashram flyover. Instead, the traffic was diverted to Mathura Road, from where they had to take a U-turn from the New Friends Colony traffic signal and then take a left turn on the Ring Road towards Lajpat Nagar.This diversions were first put in place for four hours between 11am and 3pm, before being again implemented after 7pm.Senior traffic police officials said that the diversion was lifted and traffic movement was normal during the peak traffic hours — between 8am and 11am, and then again between 3 pm and 7pm.“Since this was the first day, we tried the route only during the non-rush hours, so that there are no major traffic holdups. We will be trying this route and different permutations of it in the coming days before a final diversion plan is approved for the Public Works Department (PWD),” said a traffic police official.The official also said that this was not the final diversion plan that will be in place once work for the extension of the Ashram flyover is started.“Since this stretch is among the busiest, and it already has some ongoing construction work, formulating a traffic plan for minimum inconvenience to commuters is becoming a little tricky. But we will come up with the best route. We are likely to release the final traffic plan in two weeks,” the official said.Traffic police and PWD officials confirmed that the construction agency had sent a request to divert traffic on the Ring Road in January this year, to initiate work for the extension of the Ashram flyover.In their permission request, the PWD had stated that the construction work of the underpass at the intersection was in its final leg, and before any major digging work begins on the Ring Road, the barricades placed on Mathura Road will be cleared and this will act as a diversion for traffic. The current deadline for the completion of the underpass is April 31.Hindustan Times had on Tuesday reported how the simultaneous construction work at and around the Ashram intersection, from where every day over 3.5 lakhs vehicle pass during peak traffic hours, is likely to cause a traffic nightmare for commuters.The Public Works Department (PWD) last month started work on extending the Ashram flyover on Ring Road, even as work on a 750-metre Ashram underpass is going on after already missing its deadline. These two projects running simultaneously has made one of the Capital’s most crucial intersections — one that connects south and central Delhi, and virtually serves as the connection for two NCR cities Noida and Faridabad — a nightmare for commuters.After missing its December deadline, the PWD is yet to finish work for the 750-metre underpass connecting Nizamuddin Railway Bridge and CSIR Apartments on Mathura Road. A week ago, the PWD also started placing barricades on the Kilokri side and on the Maharani Bagh side of the Ring Road, which has further thinned down space for traffic movement.Experts said that the PWD is “biting more than it can chew” and this will ultimately result in long and mismanaged traffic on the stretch. The impact of this is also likely to spillover to adjoining roads, including Sarai Kale Khan, Noida Link Road, Meerut Expressway, and the Ring Road.“What we are seeing at Ashram is a classic example of poor site management from traffic and safety point of view, and the agency is repeating the same mistakes by undertaking work on the Ring Road before wrapping up the underpass project. How does the agency expect Mathura Road to take the load of the flyover, when large portions of it are barricaded?” said Subhash Chand, head of traffic engineering and safety division at the Central Road Research Institute (CRRI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-traffic-police-test-new-diversion-plan-for-ashram-flyover-extension-101614795094159.html
04-03-2021||Delhi||National Book Trust editor booked for sexual assault on woman||Rubin D’Cruz, the editor of the Malayalam department of the National Book Trust (NBT), has been booked after a woman accused him of sexually assaulting her at his home in south Delhi’s Vasant Kunj, the Delhi Police said on Wednesday.Ingit Pratap Singh, deputy commissioner of police (south-west), said D’Cruz was booked under Indian Penal Code Section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) registered at Vasant Kunj (North) police station.“According to the complainant, the crime happened in October 2020 at the home of D’Cruz. The first information report (FIR) was registered on February 2 this year, soon after the woman submitted her complaint,” Singh said.D’Cruz, former director of Kerala State Institute of Children’s Literature, did not respond to phone calls and a text message from HT seeking his response.It is learnt that at the time of the crime, the 46-year-old woman from Kerala was on a visit to Delhi and was acquainted with D’Cruz through common friends. The alleged sexual assault happened at the home of D’Cruz while the woman was attending a dinner at his home on his invitation.“The woman has alleged that he misbehaved with her and grabbed her,” the DCP said, adding that the woman reiterated her complaint while recording her statement in front of a magistrate.The officer said D’Cruz has been questioned about the alleged assault but hasn’t been arrested. “We will be submitting the charge-sheet in this case in a few days,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/national-book-trust-editor-booked-for-sexual-assault-on-woman-101614795035486.html
04-03-2021||Delhi||MCD bypolls: BJP’s loss outcome of poor performance in civic bodies||Drawing a blank in the bypoll to five municipal wards and losing one of its strongholds has come as a setback to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP0 ahead of the 2022 civic polls in Delhi with political analysts pointing out that the results reflect the party’s poor governance of the three municipal bodies.To be sure of the five wards that went to polls, AAP had won four in the 2017 civic polls and the BJP won the fifth seat. The BJP rules all three municipal corporations with a clear majority and the current results will not have a bearing on the party position in the three MCDs.Party leaders, however, admitted on Wednesday that the defeat of BJP candidate in Shalimar Bagh ward, which is considered its stronghold, is likely an outcome of its performance in the three MCDs as well as anti-incumbency.Experts also said that the AAP’s sustained campaign on local issues and the Delhi government’s record also helped it sweep the bypolls. Tanvir Aeijaz, associate professor in the department of political science at Ramjas College, said, “AAP’s victory in Shalimar Bagh is an indication that people like their model of governance. People have seen how the party managed the Covid crisis.”Residents of Shalimar Bagh said for the past four years the area witnessed little development. They said they voted for essential services such as sanitation, good roads, etc.Sanjay Saini, a resident of Shalimar village, said, “From sanitation to road repair, the civic bodies have not been able to provide any essential services. They don’t have the funds for it. Our ward is one of the most neglected wards as no work has happened here in the past five years, especially after the death of the sitting councillor.”Delhi BJP general secretary Harsh Malhotra, who was in-charge of Shalimar Bagh, said, “We accept the verdict. There are a lot of factors that were responsible for today’s result and we will analyse it.”AAP’s in-charge of municipal affairs Durgesh Pathak said the BJP’s poor showing shows that people are not happy by its performance in the MCDs. He also said that AAP did extremely well. “Four out of five seats is a big win, especially a seat like Shalimar Bagh which was a stronghold of the BJP. The BJP losing that seat and scoring a zero in the bypolls shows how disgruntled people are with the BJP.”In its campaign, the BJP focused on the work done by the Centre and alleged failure of the AAP government to deliver on its pre-poll promises. The BJP also raised the issue of alleged corruption in the Delhi Jal Board. It held protests and rallies in different parts of the city against the AAP. It also carried out fund collection drive for the Ram temple, citing it as one of the key achievements of the BJP.Locals, however, said national issues cannot work in local elections. “What the Modi government has done is irrelevant in this election, as it is a local election and people voted on local issues,” said Giri Bharadwaj, a resident of CC block in Shalimar Bagh.In other wards too, the issue of sanitation, repair of internal roads, encroachment, lack of development were the key issues on which people voted. In Kalyanpuri and Trilokpuri East, BJP lost the election to AAP by 7,043 and 4,986 votes respectively.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said that the party will analyse the result and take corrective measures. He also accused the AAP government of paralysing the corporations by not releasing funds on time. Gupta said, “We will have to look into all the aspects and analyse the reason for our defeat. The municipal corporations have not been able to work properly due to the lack of funds. The Delhi government is to be blamed for it.”Playing down the bypoll results, some BJP leaders said that not much should be read into it. They said that of the five wards, BJP won only Shalimar Bagh in 2017.Other party leaders demanded a course correction, citing margins of loss. “The margin of victory in municipal bypolls is usually not very high. The fact that we lost Kalyanpuri by 7,043 votes and Trilokpuri East by 4,986 votes. Losing our stronghold (Shalimar Bagh) by 2,705 votes indicates that there is something wrong. The party needs to change its strategy,” said a senior BJP leader, who did not want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mcdbypolls-bjp-s-loss-outcome-of-poor-performance-in-civic-bodies-101614795034795.html
04-03-2021||Delhi||Winter was more polluted this year, but saw fewer smog days: CSE analysis||The seasonal average pollution levels in Delhi this winter was higher than previous years, but the severity and smog episodes this year was lower, an analysis by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) has shown.The analysis also shows that north Delhi recorded the worst pollution levels in the city this winter, with Jahagirpuri emerging as the hot spot with the worst air.There were two continuous smog episodes during this year’s winter. The first episode was of longer duration as it started on November 3 and lasted seven days. The second started on December 22 and lasted three days. Thus, the continuous smog episodes were fewer and shorter compared to previous winters. The 2019-20 winter had three smog episodes of eight, six and five-days durations respectively; the 2018-19 winter had four smog episodes of 10 days, two episodes of six days, and one of three-days duration.Among the four neighbouring satellite towns of Delhi, Ghaziabad was the most polluted, the CSE’s winter air quality analysis — which was made based on the air quality recordings of the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) official online portal Central Control Room for Air Quality Management (CAQM) between October 15 and February 1— further read.“There is always a special interest in understanding winter pollution trends, given the extraordinary situation we faced due to the pandemic this year, as well as the fact that winter remains the most difficult season in this region due to atmospheric conditions of inversion, calm wind, and cold weather,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), CSE.She added, “The winter air traps local and regional pollutants and gives rise to the deadly winter smog that we, the residents of Delhi-NCR, are so familiar with.”The trends show that the number of days with ”severe” and “very poor” levels of PM 2.5 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) concentration was comparatively lower this winter. According to the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap), which is a set of emergency measures that kick in as the PM levels reach a certain mark, air quality is considered to be in the ‘severe’ zone when the PM 2.5 levels are above 250ug/m3 or the PM 10 levels (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometres) are above 430ug/m3. It is categorised as ‘poor’ when the PM 2.5 levels are between 91ug/m3 and 120ug/m3 or the PM 10 levels are between 251ug/m3 and 350ug/m3.However, the number of days in the “poor” pollution category has increased. At the same time, the overall city-wide average for the season was comparatively higher this year, the analysis found.For Delhi, this average stood at 186μg/m3, which is 7% higher than the seasonal average of 2019-20 winters.Avikal Somvanshi, programme manager in CSE’s urban lab team of the sustainable cities programme, said, “On a year-on-year basis, the annual average PM2.5 levels are declining in Delhi. Is this also moderating the impact on the pollution build-up and severe peaks during winter? This analysis of winter pollution trends since 2018 helps understand the patterns of change.”He said,“Overall, higher seasonal average but lower peak can be attributed to meteorology and changes in farm stubble burning patterns. But considerable variation has been noted among individual stations in the city. This also indicates the dominance of local pollution sources.”At a more hyper-local level, except at Wazirpur and Sahibabad, all the locations in the Delhi-NCR pollution hot spots list saw a spike in the seasonal PM2.5 levels, compared to last winter.Jahangirpuri, with a seasonal average of 256μg/m3, was the dirtiest among the hot spots. Bahadurgarh — that recorded an almost 50% spike in its PM2.5 level — was the cleanest.The findings also showed that steep deterioration was noted in many locations in the Capital that are not yet designated as ‘hot spots’ by the pollution monitoring agencies.The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPC) defines hot spots as those areas where the annual average pollution levels are higher than the mean value of the city.During the winter months, at least 14 more locations registered higher seasonal averages than the mean of recognised hot spots (197μg/m3).These were Alipur, Delhi Technological University (DTU), ITO, Nehru Nagar, Patparganj, Sonia Vihar and Vivek Vihar in Delhi, sectors-1 and 116 in Noida, Loni, Sanjay Vihar and Indirapuram in Ghaziabad, Knowledge Park in Greater Noida, and Bulandshahr.“These trends show that urgent next steps are needed for scale and speed of action across all sectors and across NCR. The region needs massive clean fuel and technology transition in industries, time-bound implementation of power plant standards, massive transportation and mobility transition across Delhi and NCR, and a paradigm shift in waste management with strong compliance and accountability,” Roychowdhury said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/winter-was-more-polluted-this-year-but-saw-fewer-smog-days-cse-analysis-101614795034251.html
04-03-2021||Delhi||Bypoll results indication of things to come outcome of 2022 civic polls:Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said the results of the bypoll to five municipal wards has given a positive indication ahead of the 2022 municipal polls in the Capital, adding that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has failed to govern the municipal corporations in Delhi (MCDs).While the AAP is in power at the Delhi government, the BJP rules all three municipal bodies. Full municipal polls are scheduled to be held in Delhi in 2022.“I congratulate party workers for their hard work and the people of Delhi for the big win. The results show that people of Delhi trust the AAP’s model of good governance. In 2015 assembly polls, we won 67 out of 70 seats. In 2020, we won 62 out of 70 seats. Now, we have won four of the five seats in the municipal bypolls. It shows that people are happy with our work,” said Kejriwal on Wednesday, while addressing a gathering at the party headquarters on DDU Marg in central Delhi.The AAP on Wednesday won four of the five wards where bypolls were held on Sunday. Wards which went to polls were Rohini-C and Shalimar Bagh under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation; and Trilokpuri East, Kalyanpuri and Chauhan Banger under the East corporation. The AAP won all wards except Chauhan Banger where the Congress candidate defeated his AAP rival. The BJP could not win any seat.The five seats fell vacant after four councillors won the assembly elections in 2020 and one died (the councillor of Shalimar Bagh) two years ago.Kejriwal said, “Also, the BJP winning no seat in the bypoll reflects that people are extremely unhappy with BJP’s governance of the municipal bodies. The BJP has failed in the governance of the MCDs and there is corruption everywhere. Their constant rant about seeking funds from the Delhi government for operating the MCDs have upset people. The Delhi government has paid all its dues to the BJP, but the BJP leaders have spent it all. Now, they cannot even pay salaries. Even the Delhi government gets very less from the central government, but we chose to work harder on better governance instead of ranting about inadequate funds. People know these things. We have improved hospitals, schools, subsidised power and water bills and improved condition of roads.”The chief minister also mentioned the vandalism at the Delhi Jal Board by a mob led by Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and some workers of BJP barging into the residence of Manish Sisodia, saying people have taken note of the politics of violence being perpetrated by the BJP.“This is not why people had voted the BJP to power in the municipal polls (in 2017). The bypoll results give an indication of how people would vote in the 2022 municipal polls in Delhi. I congratulate all the winning candidates and wish them luck for better work in their municipal wards,” said Kejriwal.Delhi-BJP president Adesh Gupta dismissed CM’s allegations as “baseless”. He said, “We accept the people’s verdict. But this is not the end. We will analyse the result and take corrective measures. We have a year to prepare for the municipal polls. We will continue our protest against the failure of the AAP government to deliver on its promises.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bypoll-results-indication-of-things-to-come-outcome-of-2022-civic-polls-kejriwal-101614795033576.html
04-03-2021||Delhi||DU, College of Art faculty oppose merger with Ambedkar University Delhi||Delhi University officials and members of the faculty at the College of Art on Wednesday said the Delhi government’s decision to merge the institution with the state-run Ambedkar University Delhi (AUD) was “illegal and arbitrary” even as the AAP government asserted that the college needed reforms and that it was authorised to decide the college’s affiliation.The college, which is currently affiliated with Delhi University, is funded fully by the Delhi government. The Delhi Cabinet on Tuesday decided to merge the college, located on Tilak Marg in central Delhi, with AUD. It offers six undergraduate and five postgraduate courses in applied art, art history, painting, printmaking, visual communication, and culture. Around 1,400 students are currently enrolled with the college.DU officials and the faculty also alleged that the government did not follow the due process.DU registrar Vikas Gupta said the Delhi government has not followed the “democratic process”. “The government wrote to the university 8-10 days ago, saying that they wanted to take over the college. But it did not give us the required time to follow the due process.”“As per the democratic process, we asked the principal of the College of Art to give the comment. Once we receive the response, we will have to place it before our academic council. In case the academic council approves, the matter will go to the executive council for final approval. However, we have not yet received any comment from the college principal yet and the Delhi government has already announced the decision... We are not even sure if the Ambedkar University can affiliate colleges,” he said.Also read: DU, Singapore Fine Arts Society sign MoU on collaboration in Indian musicDelhi education minister Manish Sisodia said the government was authorised to take a decision about a college owned by it. “It is a Delhi government college. It’s up to the Delhi government to decide from which university it wants to attach it. The college is in really bad shape. It needs lots of reforms and its staff needs lots of support,” Sisodia said, adding that the Ambedkar University Delhi is authorised to have constituent colleges.DU will write to the Delhi government on Thursday, asking it to follow the “due process”, said Dean of Colleges Balram Pani. “The way the Delhi government has taken the decision is illegal. We are writing to them to follow the due process before taking any decision...We will take legal action in the matter if the government will not do so” he said.The college faculty said on Wednesday that they were not consulted by the authorities. “We got to know about the decision through news reporters on Wednesday. The change in affiliation with a state university will change our service conditions and salary structure… We have been getting frantic calls from the students since morning. Most of the students enrol here just for a DU degree,” said a faculty member at the college, requesting anonymity.College officiating principal BS Chauhan, however, said that it will be good for the college and students if it merges with AUD. “The college has been struggling to function smoothly due to the involvement of multiple agencies. There has been no permanent appointment on the principal’s post since 2012. We only have 14 faculty at present on over 56 sanctioned posts. All the remaining posts are lying vacant. The Delhi government’s decision will be good for the college and students,” he said.In a statement, DU teachers’ association (DUTA) criticised the Delhi government’s decision. “This can be seen as a continuation of the attempts to push premier and specialised institutions into the self-financing mode with no responsibility to fund as was done in the case of DTU and NSIT,” it said.In 2019, the Delhi government de-affiliated the Delhi College of Engineering from DU and made a separate university called the Delhi Technological University (DTU). It also converted DU’s Netaji Subhas Institute of Technology into a university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/du-college-of-art-faculty-oppose-merger-with-ambedkar-university-delhi-101614794972768.html
04-03-2021||Other||Man hammers wife, two daughters to death in UP’s Bulandshahr||A 60-year-old man was on the run after hammering his wife, 50, and daughters, aged 20 and 15, to death in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr district. His third daughter, 18, who was injured when the man went on a rampage and attacked his family in sleep on Tuesday night, was struggling for her life at a Meerut hospital.“The man suspected his wife and daughters of having illicit relationships. He would often fight at home,” senior police superintendent S K Singh said, citing the complaint filed by the man’s 22 -year-old son.Also Read | Delhi riots case: A hundred suspicions not proof, says court“Some time after his wife and daughters fell asleep, the man hit them with a hammer on their heads. The wife and two daughters died, while the third one has been referred to Meerut for treatment.”Singh said four teams have been formed to arrest the man.The murders came to light when neighbours of the family informed the son, who lives separately with his family, after spotting the mother and her three daughters in a pool of blood. The four were rushed to a local health centre, where doctors declared the mother and her two daughters dead. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-hammers-wife-two-daughters-to-death-in-up-s-bulandshahr-101614771992698.html
04-03-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka minister steps down after accusations of sexual exploitation||Ramesh Jarkiholi, who served as Karnataka’s water resources minister in the B.S.Yediyurappa-led government, on Wednesday resigned from the cabinet a day after allegations of sexual exploitation surfaced against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Gokak in Belagavi district.In his resignation letter, which was shared by the chief minister’s office, Jarkiholi stated that the allegations against him are “far from the truth”.“There should be an investigation into this. Even though I am innocent, I am taking moral responsibility and resigning from the cabinet,” Jarkiholi said in the letter, written in Kannada.Jarkiholi’s resignation comes a day before the commencement of the month-long budget session in Karnataka. His resignation is expected to help Yediyurappa avoid the issue in the legislature, the incident has given ammunition to the opposition to attack Jarkiholi who was one of the main players in the defection drama that led to the collapse of the HD Kumaraswamy-led Janata Dal (Secular) -Congress coalition government in 2019.Also Read | Karnataka minister faces allegations of sexual exploitation“It is disgusting to watch. Such people (Ramesh) are ministers in Yediyurappa’s council of ministers. His brother (Balachandra) has threatened Yediyurappa that he will release a CD against the chief minister if they ask for his brother’s (Ramesh) resignation. Should such people remain in power,” Siddaramaiah, the Congress’ leader of the opposition said, while addressing a gathering as part of the party’s Padayatra near Bengaluru on Wednesday.Jarkiholi was dropped from the Kumaraswamy government over non-performance in 2018. He is one of five powerful Jarkiholi brothers who wield significant influence in the border district of Belagavi, about 508 km from Bengaluru. Dinesh Kalahalli, a social activist, filed a police complaint on Tuesday in Bengaluru’s Cubbon Park station. An unverified video of a person resembling the minister with an unnamed woman has gone viral with TV news channels in Karnataka playing the incident on loop. Also doing the rounds is an alleged phone call between the two, in which the person believed to be the minister is making corruption allegations against the CM.Hindustan Times could not independently verify the contents of the video or the call.Over the last decade, successive governments in Karnataka have been left red-faced over the surfacing of sex-scandals. Hartal Halappa, the food and civil supplies minister in the Yediyurappa-led BJP government in 2010, was forced to resign after allegations of rape. Two years later, two ministers—Laxman Savadhi and CC Patil—of the D.V.Sadananda Gowda-led BJP government were caught watching porn on their mobile phones during assembly proceedings. Savadhi is currently one of three deputy chief ministers of Karnataka while Patil is the minister for small-scale industries. In 2016, HY Meti, then excise minister in the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government, was forced to resign after a video of him allegedly seeking sexual favours from a woman surfaced. More recently, Congress MLC Prakash Rathod was caught watching porn during proceedings.“Whatever the complaint is there (against Jarkiholi), based on the complaint we are doing the inquiry as per the law,” Basavaraj Bommai, state’s home, law and parliamentary minister said in Bengaluru on Wednesday.Kalahalli, in his complaint on Tuesday, alleged that Jarkiholi sexually exploited the woman in the guise of helping her land a government job at Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Limited (KPTCL).Ramesh Jarkiholi could not be reached for comment.Jarkiholi, on Tuesday night, told TV reporters that the video was fake and the incident was a political conspiracy. “The identity of this woman is unknown and the complaint has been lodged by some random person. Taking this complaint itself if wrong. I have requested the CM to give the case to the CBI or COD (CID),” Balachandra Jarkiholi, Ramesh’s brother and BJP MLA told reporters on Wednesday after meeting Yediyurappa.Already under pressure for non-performance, internal fighting and the state’s parlous financial situation, the incident has added to the troubles of the Yediyurappa-led government that has two years before it faces elections in 2023. Jarkiholi, who was among the first to defect to the BJP in 2019, helped engineer defections from the coalition government. He is also the district in-charge minister for Belagavi and hoped to be made deputy CM for his role in helping Yediyurappa to power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-minister-steps-down-after-accusations-of-sexual-exploitation-101614761972174.html
