05-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s Sector 50 to have apni mandi on Tuesdays||The apni mandi started by the Punjab Mandi Board in Sector 50 in February last year will resume from Tuesday. It had been cancelled within weeks due to the lockdown.Also, the mandi at Sector 29, which was earlier held on Tuesday, will be shifted to Friday.“There had been some delay in restarting the mandi in Sector 50 due to tendering. The matter has been resolved. There is a great demand for mandis in southern sectors, and the space available opposite the BSNL Society and PEPSU Society will be used to set it up on Tuesdays,” said a mandi board official.Meanwhile, the footfall at apni mandis, which were reopened on February 1, continues to be low. After the recent spike in Covid-19 cases, the numbers have dwindled further. “The footfall hasn’t crossed 50% of the pre-lockdown period, even as most of the sellers have returned. Many people are not aware about the days on which the mandis are held, and there is some confusion with the Chandigarh Market Committee as well, as it follows a different schedule,” said mandi supervisor Satbir Singh, who works with the Punjab Mandi Board. Auction recorder Harpreet Singh said the sales are most hit on Sundays due to confusion over the schedule. While Chandigarh Market Committee holds no mandi on Sunday, Punjab Mandi Board holds it in Sector 34.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-sector-50-to-have-apni-mandi-on-tuesdays-101614968760915.html
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||12,500 senior citizens vaccinated in Chandigarh tricity in 5 days||As many as 1,835 senior citizens and those with comorbidities got inoculated at 28 vaccination sites across Chandigarh on Friday – up from 1,643 on Thursday. With this, 6,148 elderly people and 423 with comorbidities in the age group of 45-59 have received the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the past five days. Also, coverage among healthcare workers has climbed to 48.7% (11,949 vaccinated), and that among frontline workers has reached 48% (11,361).In Mohali district, 911 senior citizens and 178 aged between 45 and 59 were administered the vaccine at 29 private hospitals and seven government hospitals. The total stood at 1,089, as compared to 829 on Thursday.Those vaccinated at the civil hospital, Phase 6, included Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu. After receiving the jab, Sidhu said he is feeling “fit and fine”, and people must come forward for the vaccination without giving any heed to rumours. Civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said a total of 2,899 senior citizens and 470 with comorbidities have been jabbed so far. Meanwhile, 5,965 healthcare workers and 4,320 frontline workers have also been vaccinated.In Panchkula, as many as 1,458 senior citizens and 79 in the age group of 45 to 59 got vaccinated at 24 sites, including five private hospitals. The total stood at 1,537, up from 1,184 on Thursday. Civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said as many as 3,434 senior citizens and 161 with comorbidities have been jabbed so far.197 people test positiveA day after crossing the 200 mark, the daily Covid-19 count dropped to 197 in the tricity on Friday.Mohali recorded 80 cases, followed by 76 in Chandigarh and 41 in Panchkula. No death was reported.The number of active cases has reached 587 in Chandigarh. The total stands at 22,116, of whom 21,174 patients have recovered while 355 have died. In Mohali, 20,681 people have tested positive so far, of whom 864 are still undergoing treatment. While 19,429 patients have been cured, 388 have died. Panchkula has recorded 10,968 cases. While 10,628 patients have been discharged, 149 have died and 191 are still to recover.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/12500-senior-citizens-vaccinated-in-chandigarh-tricity-in-5-days-101614968580418.html
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||Consumers paying through their nose for water in Chandigarh||After the recent hike in water tariff in Chandigarh, which ranges from 40% to 185%, the city residents, in some consumption slabs, are paying more than 10 times the rates prevalent in the neighbouring districts of Mohali and Panchkula.Sample this: For a Chandigarh resident, with a water consumption of 200 kilolitre per month, the bimonthly bill comes to around ₹10,000. In Panchkula, it is less than ₹1,000, while in Mohali it is less than ₹500. This is the slab in which most residents fall.Meanwhile, a household consuming 50-kl water in Panchkula gets a bill of ₹273, while in Chandigarh, it is ₹1,025.In addition to having the highest water tariff, Chandigarh also has the highest rate of sewerage cess in the tricity. As much as 30% of the water consumption charges are added to the bill as sewerage cess in Chandigarh. In Panchkula, it is 20%, while in Mohali, it is ₹30 per seat.In September last year, the UT administration had notified the new water tariff. In October, the MC General House passed a resolution to roll back the hike. However, the administration did not approve it. The House will again debate the issue in its meeting on March 9.RK Garg, president, Second Innings Association, said: “It is pertinent to highlight here that when the source of supply for water in the tricity is common, then why is the Chandigarh MC charging rates in excess. As per the 1983 agreement on water distribution from Bhakra through Kajauli, it is shared among Mohali, Chandigarh, Chandimandir and Panchkula. As such, higher rates imposed on Chandigarh residents are unjustified.”The water tariff in Panchkula were last revised in January 2018. Earlier, the rates were high, as notified in April 2017, and were lowered after residents protested. In Mohali, from January 1 this year, a uniform rate of ₹1.8 per kl was imposed.Inflated billsFor a Chandigarh household with a consumption of 25 kl per month, the old bimonthly tariff was ₹232, while now it is ₹323, an increase of ₹91 or 40%. Similarly, for a consumer with 50-kl consumption per month, the bill has gone up by 72%, from ₹596 to ₹1,025.For 100-kl consumption, a consumer is getting 140% higher bimonthly water bill, while for 150 kl, it has increased by 165%.For consumption of 200-kl water, the bill has gone up from ₹3,664 to ₹10,073. As this is the slab in which most residents fall, most are paying 175% more than they paid at older rates.Meanwhile, for residents falling in the 300-kl per month slab, the water bill has been inflated by 185%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/consumers-paying-through-their-nose-for-water-in-chandigarh-101614968520624.html
05-03-2021||Other||Lucky draw for farmers who gave land for airport||The Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) and the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration will hold a draw on Saturday to allot property to farmers who gave their land for the Noida International Airport project at Jewar.Authority officials said that 3,627 farmers were eligible for residential plots at the upcoming airport township at Jewar Bangar town area.“To begin with we will allot plot numbers and allotment numbers via a lucky draw for 238 farmers (on Saturday),” said Balram Singh additional district magistrate Gautam Budh Nagar.Once the allotment is done, farmers can move to their new plots and the vacated land will be handed over to the Swiss company Zurich Internation AG that had won the contract to build and operate the airport.Yeida officer on special duty and the airport nodal officer Shailendra Bhatia and ADM Balram Singh on March 3 inspected the work at the airport township.“The 238 farmers are from Nagla Ganeshi village,” said Bhatia.Money soughtYeida also sought ₹3,090 crore from the state government to start acquiring 1,365 hectares under phase 2 of the airport project -- where the airport will be expanded to five runways.“Once we will get the approval, we will start the process to acquire land. We will also conduct the social impact assessment survey of the villages that will be affected,” said Singh.Work on the project is likely to begin by mid-2021. Under the first phase, the airport with two runways is scheduled to become operational by 2023-2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucky-draw-for-farmers-who-gave-land-for-airport-101614967319290.html
05-03-2021||Noida||Session-3 of phase-3 Covid-19 vaccination: Nearly 9K people vaccinated in GB Nagar||Exceeding expectations, 8,926 people got their Covid-19 vaccination in Gautam Budh Nagar on Friday, the highest on a day in the district.GB Nagar district vaccination officer Dr Neeraj Tyagi said 14 government centres administered the vaccine to 4,580 people who were either senior citizens or people over 45 years’ of age with co-morbidities. “The 23 private vaccination centres served 4,346 people,” he said. Until Friday, nearly 37000 doses, including the second dose, had been administered in Gautam Budh Nagar district since the drive started on January 16.Among the recipients were those who got their first vaccination shots, as well as health care workers and front line workers who were scheduled for their second dose.On Thursday, the district had vaccinated 4,000 people, higher than the target of 5,000. Officials suggested that the increase in vaccinations could be because of the government allowing walk-in registrations.Dr Rakesh Gupta, the director of the government institute of medical sciences (GIMS), said that as many as 490 people were inoculated there. “No adverse event following immunization (AEFI), which is any untoward medical occurrence which follows immunisation and reflects consequences for immunisation coverage and disease incidence, was reported among these beneficiaries,” he said. Dr Yatendra Singh, the medical superintendent of community health centre in Bhangel, said that as many as 209 beneficiaries were vaccinated at the hospital on Friday. “Out of them, 150 were the recipients of the second dose of vaccine, while the remaining 50 belonged to the group identified for the third round of vaccination. No AEFI was reported among the beneficiaries,” he said. Among the private hospitals, 310 people were vaccinated at Sharda hospital. Ajit Kumar, the joint registrar of Sharda institute of medical sciences, said that while 80 of them took their second dose of vaccination, the remaining 230 were from the senior citizen and 45-plus co-morbid group. “Out of 230 new beneficiaries, 60% were senior citizens. The remaining 40% beneficiaries were either 45-plus people with co-morbidities or our hospital’s doctors and paramedics – who were not registered in the first list of healthcare workers, due to some technical reasons,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/session3-of-phase-3-covid-19-vaccination-nearly-9k-people-vaccinated-in-gb-nagar-101614967259823.html
05-03-2021||Noida||Mercury soars in Noida, light rains likely on Sunday||Noida: The minimum temperature soared by three degrees in the past 24 hours in Noida, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).“Temperatures will keep fluctuating for another few days, however, a fresh western disturbance has arrived in Jammu and Kashmir and will lead to snow or rains across the northern hill states. Due to this, parts of northern plains including north-west Uttar Pradesh will see rains towards 7 March and Delhi may see clouded sky and thundery development, with possibility of light rains showers. This weather activity will cut down possibilities of sudden rise in mercury to their higher thirties till mid-March,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet.A western disturbance is moisture-laden wind that originates from the Mediterranean which are responsible for snow in the northern states.The minimum temperature soared, with IMD recording Noida’s maximum and minimum temperature on Friday at 30.5 degrees Celsius and 16.7 degrees Celsius, against 32.9 degrees Celsius and 13.8 degrees Celsius a day earlier.According to IMD, the upcoming western disturbance will affect the wind speed of the region.“Wind speed increased from 15 kmph on Thursday to upto 25 kmph on Friday leading to better ventilation. Due to the upcoming western disturbance the wind speed is likely to drop on 6 March in the NCR. It will increase further towards 7 March and may reach upto 30 kmph ,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), while the air quality of Noida and Ghaziabad improved to ‘poor’ from ‘very poor’ a day earlier, pollution levels spiked in Greater Noida, bringing it under ‘very poor’ category and the second worse polluted city of the country. The System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR) also said that the air quality is likely to improve. “Surface winds are high and forecasted to further increase for the next 24 hrs. The AQI is forecasted to sharply improve to the Moderate category for tomorrow. AQI is likely to further improve and in the ‘moderate’ to ‘satisfactory’ category for 7 March and marginally deteriorate to ‘moderate’ to ‘poor’ category on 8 March ,” said the SAFAR statement on Friday.The air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Friday, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 250 against 302 a day earlier.The AQI of Greater Noida was 310 – second worse in the country following Bhiwadi in Rajasthan, 298 a day earlier. The air quality index of Ghaziabad was 276 against 332 a day earlier. An AQI level up to 100 is considered ‘good’, between 101 and 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is considered ‘very-poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/mercury-soars-in-noida-light-rains-likely-on-sunday-101614967259296.html
05-03-2021||Noida||Dry run for FASTag on Delhi-Meerut Expressway begins; 70,000 vehicle owners to be sent ‘zero deduction’ messages||Ghaziabad: Over the next few days, about 70,000 vehicle owners who use FASTags, chosen randomly, will get text messages informing them of the distance they travelled on phases one and two of the Delhi Meerut Expressway. This is part of a dry run initiated by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on Friday, which said that though the trial has been started for linking FASTags to the automatic number plate reader (ANPR), the amount declared in the messages will be zero.The dry run for phase 1– from Akshardham to UP Gate – will be started first, for about four days, while for phase 2 – UP Gate to Dasna – it will be started in another four days, and will be run for about five to six days. Officials said the highways authority will be testing its ANPR systems which will be installed one phases one, two and phase four (Dasna to Meerut), although FASTag trials for phase four will not be started as of now.The phase three of the DME – Dasna to Hapur – has tolls in place at Chhijarsi near Pilkhuwa.“Across phases one, two and four, we will be installing a total of about 100 ANPRs which will be in the form of high-resolution cameras. During the dry run, the readers will try to note the registration number of all four-wheeler or larger vehicles on the expressway. It is estimated that about 60,000 vehicles ply on phase one daily which includes about 40,000 cars, while phase 2 sees about 50,000 vehicles, including about 30,000 cars, daily,” said Mudit Garg, project director of NHAI.During the dry run, the ANPRs, installed at every expressway lane, will read the number plates of the vehicles at entry and points.The three phases one, two and four have entry and exit points at Sarai Kale Khan, Akshardham, Ghazipur, Indirapuram, Dundahera, Dasna, Rasoolpur Sikrod, Bhojpur besides Jainuddinpur and main plaza at Kashi in Meerut.On the basis of the distance travelled, the NHAI will charge commuters from their FASTag on a per-kilometre basis. “Owners of vehicles plying on these stretches during the trial run will be sent a message saying, for example, ‘Thank you for using Delhi Meerut Expressway, your transaction has been processed for an amount ₹0.00.’ So, if any vehicle owners receive this message, they need not worry. Receiving the message also means that the vehicle’s FASTag has been successfully aligned with the ANPR. The actual charging of toll will be started after a notification,” Garg said further.“It is likely that people using vehicles regularly may get messages every day during the dry run period. Once the dry run becomes successful, the same ANPRs will also be used for sending fines in case of traffic violations like over speeding and driving in the wrong direction, among others,” Garg added.Phases two and four, the two under-construction phases, have been scheduled to open up on March 31 while their physical progress is estimated at 95% and 98%, respectively. On phase two, the trial will be conducted at six locations in Delhi and 12 locations in Ghaziabad.For private vehicles like cars, the speed limit in Delhi is 80kmph while it is 100kmph on phase two and phase three (Dasna to Hapur), besides 120kmph for the Greenfield expressway under phase four. Officials said the speed limit for commercial vehicles, however, will be reduced by 20kmph under the four respective stretches.Earlier in February, the ministry of road transport and highways decided that all toll plazas on national highways shall be declared as “FASTag lanes of the fee plaza” with effect from midnight of February 15/16.Any vehicle not fitted with FASTag or vehicle without a valid and functional FASTag entering into the FASTag lane of the fee plaza will be charged double the toll at electronic toll plazas, according to National Highway Fee Rules, 2008.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/dry-run-for-fastag-on-delhi-meerut-expressway-begins-70-000-vehicle-owners-to-be-sent-zero-deduction-messages-101614967207948.html
05-03-2021||Gurugram||Farmhouse owners get notices for illegal construction on Aravalli land||The Sohna Municipal Council has sent notices to 40 farmhouse owners for allegedly building illegal properties on Aravalli forest land, said officials on Friday.Sandeep Malik, executive officer, Sohna Municipal Council, said the notices were sent as part of compliance of a high court order issued in June 2020.“We had sent notices to over 400 farmhouses in Raisina, which were constructed in illegally, in June 2020, after which the owners approached the high court. The court had asked us to send notices before taking any action, but many people did not turn up. We will be sending notices to 150 such owners once again to know their stance. As of now 40 farm owners have already been issued notices,” said Malik.The property owners have been given seven days to respond to the notices, which will be assessed by a five-member committee. In October 2018, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) ruled in the case of Soniya Ghosh v/s State of Haryana, “Any construction raised on the forest area or the area covered by the notification dated 07.05.1992, without a permission of the competent authority (after the date of the said notification) has to be treated as illegal and the forest land has to be restored (sic).”After the judgment on June 6, 2020, the Sohna Municipal Corporation served show-cause notices to over 400 farmhouses in Aravalli Retreat, on the grounds that the farmhouses were constructed in violation to the notification issued by ministry of environment, forest and climate change.Following the instructions laid down by the NGT, the deputy commissioner ordered on June 11, 2020, that the land use category of ‘gair mumkin farmhouse’ be struck from revenue records and replaced with the ‘gair mumkin pahad’ — the original nomenclature. This move would have set the precedent for demolition of the properties. The local residents, who had opposed the move, then moved to the high court. Since Tuesday, the council has sent notices to 40 farmhouse owners and after learning their response, the next course of action will be decided by officials, Malik added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/farmhouse-owners-get-notices-for-illegal-construction-on-aravalli-land-101614967206685.html
05-03-2021||Noida||Procedure for e-stamps of up to ₹500 taken online in Uttar Pradesh||Noida: People needing low-value e-stamps for routine works such as affidavit, rent agreement, authorisation letter, etc. need not visit stamp vendors anymore as the Uttar Pradesh government has taken the process online. Ministhy S, the UP commissioner of stamps, in a letter stated that the Stock Holding Corporation of India sells e-stamps at its authorised centres. “Low value e-stamps are on demand in the state, and ensuring their availability is important. Considering this, and for ease of doing business, the government approved to be made online e-stamps (self-printing) up to ₹500 on February 25, 2021,” she wrote.Individuals need to visit the corporation’s website (https://shcilestamp.com/) and register themselves using an ID and a password. Payment can be made through net banking, debit or credit cards, after which the e-stamp will be generated, which can be printed. However, the stamps issued by vendors will still be valid. S K Tripathi, assistant commissioner stamps, and assistant inspector of general registration of Gautam Budh Nagar, said the new initiative will the people. “There are various works like rent agreement, internships, authorisation letter, etc. in which e-stamps of low amount are required. Earlier, people needed to visit the authorised centre of the corporation or the local stamp vendor. This new initiative will help people to get the e-stamps online,” he said.Surinder Bhatia, Noida branch manager, Stock Holding Corporation of India Limited, confirmed that the Corporation has received the letter. “We are updating the system to integrate the required changes. The e-stamps up to ₹500 will be issued online soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/procedure-for-e-stamps-of-up-to-500-taken-online-in-uttar-pradesh-101614967199252.html
05-03-2021||Gurugram||Two held for selling counterfeit versions of branded clothes online||The police arrested a man and a woman in Gurugram Sector 12 on Friday for allegedly selling fake versions of branded clothes online, after attaching tags of various popular brands.The suspects had registered a private company and shared their catalogue on social media to attract retailers with lucrative offers, the police said.Commissioner of police KK Rao said, “Shopkeepers from across India used to approach them for their branded apparel. Their sale in the past one year has been to the tune of ₹1.5 crore, while other industries have been suffering huge losses due to Covid-19 pandemic.”Rao said they had a wide network and extensive marketing teams to promote their apparels through social media platforms.Police and anti-counterfeiting agency Brand Protectors India allegedly seized 1,000 pieces of shirts, jeans, tags and labels during a raid in a building on Sheetla Mata Road in Sector 12 on Friday afternoon.Both the suspects — the company directors — were arrested for selling counterfeit branded apparel, the police said. The suspects were identified as Lakshmi Jha and Umakant Sharma of U3S traders.The police team has allegedly unearthed a large network of distributorship and online marketing of counterfeit apparel.During a market survey, the anti-counterfeiting agency discovered that an online wholesaler was allegedly engaged in the sale and distribution through all social media platforms of duplicate apparels of popular brands. Dhirendra Singh, Director, Brand Protectors India Private Limited, said they mapped the areas where the duplicate apparels were kept for sale and distribution by the suspects.“The suspects had earned nearly ₹2 crore in the last one-and-a-half years, and this was proved by their bank account statements recovered by the police during the raid. They had a Pan India network of over 300 retailers who source duplicate branded garments from U3S. The records were seized to establish the claims,” he said.A case under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 63 was registered at the Sector 14 police station on Friday, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/two-held-for-selling-counterfeit-versions-of-branded-clothes-online-101614967141856.html
05-03-2021||Gurugram||Parents protest against private schools||Over 100 parents from different private schools of the city protested outside a private school in South City 2 on Friday against the practice of charging of fees other than tuition fees by the school authorities. Protesting parents complained that schools were putting pressure on them to pay the fee in addition to tuition fees and feared that students’ access to online classes might be suspended ahead of examinations. Dhruv Bansal, whose daughter studies in Class 1 in a private school, said that the school was seeking fee in addition to the tuition fee. “The school is asking for all fee components except the transportation fee. They are simply adjusting other fee components into the tuition fee and not giving us any concessions even during the pandemic,” said Bansal, adding that school authorities were also reluctant in listening to the parents. “When we approach the school authorities with any issue, they simply ask us to pay the complete fee and do not entertain our queries,” said Bansal. Following the closure of schools in March last year amid the coronavirus outbreak, the directorate of education had issued multiple directives pertaining to fee payment. Private schools were asked to charge fees under applicable heads only after the physical opening of schools, until which the schools were allowed to collect fees only under the tuition head. Later, parents who were affected financially due to the pandemic were also allowed to apply for exemptions. After the schools had challenged the reduction in fee, the Punjab and Haryana high court allowed “reasonable fee collection” by schools, if online classes are held daily. Another parent, who requested not to be named, said that the school had been bombarding parents with messages every month, asking them to pay the full fee. “Besides tuition fee, the school is asking for building and security fund, along with other components. We are being asked to pay for these components at a time when children have been taking online classes and not visiting the school,” said the parent. She said that while the school had not blocked the school identity cards yet. However, the parent community was apprehensive that such steps could be taken once annual examinations start. “School authorities are saying that they are complying with the court orders and not listening to our legitimate demands. They are using pressure tactics to compel parents to pay the fee,” said the parent.District education officer Indu Boken said that the court orders were clear, and the department would comply with them. “The additional charges beyond tuition fee were never waived off. Parents who are facing difficulty in paying the fee due to the pandemic can approach the school on an individual basis and the school will assess if they can be given a concession. However, the court order has also remarked that this provision cannot be misused,” said Boken. Col (retd) KR Pratap Singh, senior vice-president of Haryana Progressive Schools Conference, said that the courts had allowed parents with genuine financial issues to approach schools for relief and such parents had been given relief too. “There is no bar on the collection of all charges by the school as per the court order. The court order dated June 30th said that annual charges can be self-assessed by schools. The issue is that expenditure during the lockdown months didn’t go down. Schools take services from vendors and we need to pay them. Those expenses didn’t go down, but we did roll back certain charges by 10%,” said Singh. Gurugram block education officer Sheel Kumari, who spoke to the protesting parents, said that she had asked parents to approach the respective school managements with proof of financial constraints. “Schools should listen to parents and not suspend classes without a dialogue. Parents should also take up concerns with school management. The department will go by the court order,” said Kumari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/parents-protest-against-private-schools-101614967141255.html
05-03-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram district to soon launch campaign to improve ground water level||With the aim of improving the groundwater level in the district, a comprehensive campaign for water conservation is likely to be launched in the city by the district administration.Yash Garg, deputy commissioner of the district said that the campaign will be run by the team of GuruJal Society in collaboration with the district administration and the department of town and country planning (DTCP).“We are aiming to identify water harvesting structures present in the district and make them functional. I have also instructed the GuruJal team to coordinate with the DTCP and ensure that the water harvesting system in housing societies and high-rise apartments are operational. It is important to make these systems functional so that rooftop spillage does not go waste and the water table is recharged,” said Garg.The administration also aims to clean drains through which rainwater can be harvested naturally to increase the groundwater table.On March 1, the district town planners for planning and enforcement met with members from the GuruJal team. During the meeting, it was decided that a legal framework for the implementation of rainwater harvesting structures in Gurugram will be prepared and a rainwater harvesting enforcement drive will be conducted in the city with an aim to check the functionality and status of the such structures.Osho Kalia, a senior member from GuruJal who participated in the meeting, said, “The objective is to make people aware and awake about water conservation and what necessary actions they can take to do so. For this project, we will be working with all departments concerned on how to take action against those who are not following the norms.”Between 2014 and 2018, the groundwater table in Gurugram district reduced by two-and-a-half metres. In 2014, the district recorded an average groundwater level of 26.3 metres (below the ground). By 2018, this level had dipped to 28.9 metres across four monitoring blocks of Gurugram, Sohna, Pataudi and Farrukhnagar. The latest data obtained from the agricultural department’s groundwater cell revealed that between June 2019 and June 2020, the groundwater table in Gurugram district dropped by 0.27 metres and stood at 29.86 metres.Despite attempts, RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-district-to-soon-launch-campaign-to-improve-ground-water-level-101614967140657.html
05-03-2021||Gurugram||College students stage protest, demanding online examination||Students of Dronacharya College on Friday gathered outside the college premises to demand online exams for the upcoming semester examination that is scheduled to start from March 19. Students said that they were not being given the option of choosing the online mode for examination despite it being mandated by Gurugram University. The college later assured the students that online option will be made available to them.Government colleges across the state will be holding semester-end examinations in a combination of offline and online modes this month. Though the exams for first- and second-year undergraduate students affiliated with Gurugram University will start from March 19, exams for third-year students affiliated with Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU), Rohtak, have already started on March 3. As per a notification issued by Gurugram University, students can choose between online and offline modes. “The exam notification issued by Gurugram University says that students can choose between online and offline modes. However, the college has not provided the option of choosing the online option due to which a demonstration was held today. Most other colleges in the city have already asked students to make a choice but there has been no such development in our college,” said Nishid Kumar Singh, a first-year-student. He said that following the protest, the college authorities had assured us that the provision of online exams would be provided to us. Ankit Saini, another student, said that college authorities had assured that a link would soon be generated to enable them to opt for online exams. “The issue has been addressed and we have been told that we will get the choice to opt for both modes. While I am okay with both the modes, this will help outstation students who wanted to go for online exams,” said Saini.Virender Singh Antil, principal of Dronacharya Government College, said that the provision of online exams was already meant to be provided to students. “We don’t know how this misunderstanding arose. I have been told that some faculty members told students that exams will take place only in an offline mode. However, this is not true. While offline classes have been taking place, the option of online exams mandated by the university will be provided to students,” said Antil. He said that students had been assured that both the options will be provided to them and a form seeking their responses would be floated soon. “Students are satisfied now, and their concerns have been addressed,” said Antil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/college-students-stage-protest-demanding-online-examination-101614967140036.html
05-03-2021||Gurugram||MCG hires contractor to issue water bills all property owners||For the first time in thirteen years, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram has hired a private contractor for reading water meters and issuing bills to residents — a practice that has been largely ignored by the civic body due to lack of records pertaining to water meters in the city. The development holds significance for Gurugram residents as the MCG until now has largely not issued any bills related to water supply. While the civic body has the data of only around 88,000 water meters in its records, the city has at least 3,97,000 properties listed in the property records.As per the estimates by MCG officials, this number has increased to 5,00,000 properties presently. The move to hire private contractors will help the civic body to reach out to all the 5,00,000 properties in the city. “In all the authorised and unauthorised colonies, private builder areas and sectors falling within the limits of the MCG, the work of taking water meter readings and preparing bills on the spot according to the readings have been awarded to BCITS Private Limited Company. The work of distributing water bills is being done on the basis of the data of the property owners. For consumers who do not have a water supply meters at their home, the bill will be issued according to the fixed rate,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.Singh added that the contract has been awarded to the concessionaire until 2024. As per MCG officials, consumers who are getting water bills based on fixed rates can contact Manish Kumar and Ravindra Kumar, both employees of MCG, for queries, complaints, suggestions, or corrections related to their bill.Consumption of the first 20 kilolitres of water will be charged at ₹8 per kilolitre and for every kilolitre thereafter the consumers will have to shell out ₹10 per kilolitre, under the flat rates.As per MCG officials, bills on flat rates tend to be 20-30% higher than a metered water bill as they rely heavily on assumption. As such, it is difficult to have any accuracy for the same.Consumers who have water supply meters can contact the MCG’s helpline number 1800-180-1817 or the Water Bill Branch for any queries, complaints, suggestions or corrections.Residents can pay water bills at the citizen facilitation centres (CFCs) located in the MCG’s offices at Sector 34, opposite Civil Hospital, and Sector 42. They can also pay bills online by visiting www.mcg.gov.in — which is the official website of the MCG and can use various online modes to make payment.The MCG’s 88,000 metered water connections data has largely been compiled over the last two years. Until, three years ago, water supply in internal sectors was the responsibility of the cash-strapped Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP).Based on the existing data, MCG sanctioned 33,000 water bills to residents in August last year for the first time. However, officials said that they soon realised that the task needed outsourcing.“In two years, we managed to get only records of around 88,000 metered water connections. There are nearly 3,00,000 more residents that needed to be covered. We soon realised that our resources and manpower are too limited for this task. As such, a private contractor was needed to do the job on our behalf,” said an MCG official privy to the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-hires-contractor-to-issue-water-bills-all-property-owners-101614967139266.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||R-Day violence: 19-year-old gets bail as he is not seen in any video footage resorting to violence||A Delhi court has granted bail to a 19-year-old man arrested in a case related to the violence on Republic Day during the farmers’ tractor parade, after the police said he has not been seen in any video footage taking part in the violence at the spot.Additional sessions judge Samar Vishal granted the relief to Sumit, on furnishing a bail bond of ₹25,000 with one surety of like amount in the case related to the violence in Nangloi area. The court noted that of the 20 accused persons arrested in the case, 19 have already been released on bail.“Applicant/accused (Sumit) is a student stated to be pursuing two years diploma course from Govt Model ITI, Rohtak, online classes for which has started. On being asked from the prosecutor whether he is seen in any video footage committing violence at the spot, the reply came in negative. Considering the age of the applicant/accused, his clean antecedents and the period of incarceration, I deem it fit to release him on bail,” the judge said.Police had alleged that Sumit was a part of the mob which on January 26, 2021, assaulted police officers near Nangloi Chowk and obstructed them from discharging their duty.Police claimed that the accused was apprehended from the spot while he was running behind 10 other alleged accomplices who were on two tractors and were heading towards Peeragarhi. They further alleged that he was carrying a stick and resorting to violence.The court, however, asserted that the right to protest also means the right to peacefully protest and not to resort to violence of any kind, even on provocation.“The facts portrayed by the prosecution shows that the acts of the protesters/rioters cannot be condoned. However, the guilt or innocence of the applicant (Sumit) is a matter of trial and nothing can be said about it, at this stage,” the judge said in his order passed on March 4.Protesting farmers had clashed with the police on January 26 during a tractor parade to highlight their demand for the repeal of three farm laws promulgated by the Centre. Several police personnel and farmers were injured in violence, in which one protester has also died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rday-violence-19-year-old-gets-bail-as-he-is-not-seen-in-any-video-footage-resorting-to-violence-101614967081074.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||CBSE revises dates of select exams of class 10 and 12; no exam between May 13-15||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Friday issued a revised board exam date sheet for a few subjects, including mathematics, commerce, and physics, for classes 10 and 12. According to the revised date sheet, no exam will take place between May 13 and 15. This has been done to ensure that the exams don’t clash with Eid-ul-Fitr, which may fall between these dates this year. The exams for classes 10 and 12 will begin on May 4 and conclude on June 10. For class 10, the science exam has been deferred to May 21. Earlier, it was scheduled for May 15. The mathematics exam which was scheduled for May 21, will now be held on June 2, according to the latest date sheet.For class 12, physics paper will be held on June 8 instead of May 13. Mathematics exams and applied mathematics exam, which were earlier scheduled for June 1, will now be conducted on May 31 for class 12 science and commerce streams. The board has revised the date for the June 2 geography exam of the arts stream and it will now be held on June 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cbse-revises-dates-of-select-exams-of-class-10-and-12-no-exam-between-may-1315-101614967019760.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||Draw of lots for DDA Housing Scheme 2021 on March 10||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) will hold the draw of lots for its Housing Scheme 2021 on March 10 and the entire proceedings will be live-streamed, the land-owning agency officials said.The DDA has received over 22,000 applications for its housing scheme, which was announced in January this year.The agency has put up for sale 1,354 flats, mostly in the high-income group (HIG) and middle-income group (MIG) categories and located in Dwarka and Jasola, in its latest housing scheme. DDA officials said the response has been good despite the slump in the real estate sector.“The response has been quite good. We have received 22,750 applications for 1,354 flats. The draw of lots will be live-streamed. We have made the entire process online due to the pandemic so that people don’t have to make frequent trips to our office to get work done,” said the official, on condition of anonymity.The DDA has received over 7,000 applications along with payment for its 1,011 HIG and Middle Income Group MIG flats in Dwarka and Jasola. The 254 HIG flats are in Jasola, Vasant Kunj, Rohini and Dwarka. There are 757 two- and three-bedroom MIG flats in Dwarka, Rohini, Vasant Kunj, Janahgirpuri and Madipur.While 215 flats in Jasola have been put on sale for the first time, the remaining were returned by allottees in the previous housing schemes. The cost of HIG flats, which are 87.9 square metres (sqm) to 177.3 sqm in size, varies between ₹69.62 lakh and ₹2.14 crore.Apart from the location of flats, DDA officials said the quality of construction, facilities at the housing complex, two parking slots per flat in HIG category, .,are some of the reasons why people are keen on picking up one of these flats.Despite the slump in the real estate market, DDA officials are optimistic that 254 HIG flats in Jasola will find many takers. “These are spacious flats, located on the Delhi-Noida border and well-connected to the rest of the city via Metro and other public transport systems. There is a dual piping system as the complex has its own sewerage treatment plant. The most important thing is that each flat has two parking slots. The ₹2.1 crore cost is as per the market rate,” said a second senior DDA official, also on condition of anonymity.Spread over 64.04 sqm to 129.98 sqm, the cost of MIG flats varies between ₹40.64 lakh and ₹1.24 crore. Of the 757 flats, 711 are located in Dwarka Sub-City—a planned residential area being developed by the DDA. It is after nearly a decade, a senior DDA official said, that MIG flats in such large numbers have been put on sale in Dwarka.There are 291 flats in the economically weaker section and 52 in the lower income group category in Dwarka and Rohini.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/draw-of-lots-for-dda-housing-scheme-2021-on-march-10-101614966902561.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||Decomposed bodies of man and woman found at woman’s house in Tilak Nagar||A 29-year-old man and a 23-year-old woman were found dead at a house in west Delhi’s Tilak Nagar late Wednesday night. Police said the woman, who worked as a consultant with a private firm in Gurugram, lived in the house on rent, while the man, a gym trainer, who was into modelling, had come to meet her two days ago. Police have found liquor bottles and some medicines lying beside the bodies and have ruled out any foul play so far.A senior police officer, who did not wish to be named, said the deaths came to fore after neighbours reported a foul smell from the ground floor of the house. The matter was then reported to the police who arrived on the spot and broke open the main entrance door that was locked from inside.“Our team entered the house and found a man and a woman lying dead. It looked like they had been lying there for at least two or three days. Their bodies were moved to a hospital and later sent for a post-mortem examination,” said a police officer, requesting anonymity.The police said during preliminary inquiry it was found that the woman worked in Gurugram and lived on the ground floor on rent. The man had visited her two days ago, the neighbours said. Their families were also informed and they confirmed that man and women were acquainted, police said.Deputy commissioner of police (west) Urvija Goel said the bodies had no visible injuries. “While the woman was from Uttarakhand, the man was from Uttar Pradesh. An almost empty liquor bottle, some supplements and wrappers of some tablets were found lying at the spot and have been seized as evidence. The autopsies were conducted and viscera samples preserved for further proceedings. So far, we do not suspect any foul play in the case. We have not found any suicide note and the matter is being probed from all angles,” the DCP said.Police said they will ascertain the nature and type of the tablets found in the room as part of the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/decomposed-bodies-of-man-and-woman-found-at-woman-s-house-in-tilak-nagar-101614966901297.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||HC asks cops to find official who leaked riot accused’s statement to media||The Delhi high court on Friday said that riot accused Asif Iqbal Tanha’s disclosure statement to the police had been “leaked” to the media and directed the police to identify and fix responsibility of all erring officials.Justice Mukta Gupta asked the Delhi Police Commissioner to file an affidavit fixing responsibility of the person instrumental in leaking information to the media.The judge also pulled up the police for the leak of a second supplementary charge sheet filed in the case related to communal violence in north-east Delhi last year even before cognisance was taken by the concerned court“It is a proven allegation (of leak) once it comes in the media. It no longer remains an allegation now. You have to ascertain who has done it,” the court told the counsel for the police.“Please fix the responsibility.. And don’t do the kind of enquiry that you did last time..,” the court added.The court was hearing a plea by Tanha seeking action against alleged misconduct of police officials in leaking his disclosure statement to the media. On the last date of hearing, the court had pulled up the city police for their “half baked” vigilance inquiry in ascertaining the role of the police officials who could have leaked the document to the media.Tanha, a third-year student of BA in Persian language, was arrested in May last year in connection to conspiracy in the north-east Delhi riots cases. He was earlier arrested in connection with violence in the Jamia area during a protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in December last year.The police had said that Tanha was a member of the Students Islamic Organization and was part of the Jamia Coordination Committee, which spearheaded protests against the new citizenship law.On Friday, advocate Siddharth Aggarwal — appearing for Tanha — told the court that even when this matter is sub judice, yet another charge sheet in the main conspiracy case related to the north-east Delhi riots was leaked to the media even before cognizance was taken in the court.The court then asked the police to find the person who is instrumental in committing the three offences—misuse of official power, criminal breach of trust or theft.“You have to find out the person who is instrumental. Who will do it if you don’t do it? If your officer has leaked it, it’s abuse of power, if for sanction this was entrusted to someone else it’s criminal breach of trust and if the media has taken it away then it’s a theft. So in any case, an offence is made out,” the judge said nudging the police.It cautioned that various courts are repeatedly commenting on the role of media but are still lenient and are not passing orders.Advocate Amit Mahajan, representing the Delhi Police, maintained that the contents of the supplementary charge-sheet were not leaked to the media by police. He said the responsibility cannot be fixed on police as they have not leaked it.The high court said that the earlier order was clear that there would not be any media briefing till charges are framed.The matter would be now heard on March 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-asks-cops-to-find-official-who-leaked-riot-accused-s-statement-to-media-101614966900688.html
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM trashes allegation of rejecting Covaxin, calls it 'BJP's propaganda'||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday trashed the Bharatiya Janata Party's allegation of Congress-ruled states rejecting Covaxin and termed it 'a complete lie' and 'part of the ruling party's false and politically motivated propaganda.'The CM was responding to a question during an informal media interaction after taking the first shot of the Covid-19 vaccine at Civil Hospital in Mohali.Categorically denying the charge, he slammed the BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra's claim that Punjab, along with other Opposition-ruled states, had expressed doubts and refused to accept the vaccination.When asked how he was feeling after the Covid-19 vaccine jab, Singh said, "He was in 'Chardi Kalan' and was feeling absolutely fine."An official of the Punjab Health Ministry later disclosed that the state had received 1.34 lakh Covaxin doses, of which 2500 had already been administered.The CM, in response to another question on the slow pace of vaccination in the state, said the media was contributing to scaring the people. He urged the media to spread awareness about the importance and efficacy of vaccines.Admitting that Covid-19 cases in Punjab were on the rise, having crossed 1000 after more than a month, Captain said, "It was a matter of concern. Our government was keeping a close watch on the situation."He also blamed the casual and carefree attitude of the people of Punjab for the resurgence in cases.He further appealed to the people to strictly adhere to all Covid-19 safety norms, including wearing masks and social distancing, and not let their guard down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-trashes-allegation-of-rejecting-covaxin-calls-it-bjp-s-propaganda-101614964073999.html
05-03-2021||Other||Self-styled godman rapes, murders 22-yr-old in Ludhiana, dumps body in field||A self-styled godman has been arrested for strangling a 22-year-old woman to death after raping her at his ashram on February 26.The decomposing body was found stuffed in a gunny bag at a field in Daad village on Friday, following information provided by the accused, Sambodh Das, 35, of LIG flats of Dugri. The woman’s mobile phone was also recovered from him.Hailing from Uttarakhand, Das has been living in Ludhiana for the past 30 years and runs his ashram in a room at Phullanwal Enclave.According to police, the woman had approached him through her parents, who were his regular visitors, as she had lost her job during the pandemic and was pinning hopes on him to provide a remedy.“The woman’s parents had filed a complaint after she didn’t return home on February 26. Her mobile phone was also switched off, following which an FIR under Section 346 (wrongful confinement in secret) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against unidentified accused,” said additional commissioner of police (ADCP, City 3) Sameer Verma, while addressing a press conference on Friday.Mobile phone records helped crack caseThe ADCP said the victim’s mobile phone call details helped track down the accused, as he was the last person she had called and the last mobile location was also recorded at his ashram before she went missing. Police suspicions grew stronger after a friend of the woman shared that he had dropped her at the ashram on his motorcycle on February 26.“Initially, Das kept refusing any contact with her, but eventually conceded, and confessed to raping and killing her after she visited him on February 26. He was alone at the ashram, when he raped her. Afraid of being caught, he strangled her to death and waited for four hours till nightfall to dump the body in a field,” said the ADCP.“To avoid any suspicion, he remained at his ashram and continued his usual routine,” he added.The police official said the woman used to be a manager at an automobile agency, but lost her job during the Covid-19 outbreak in 2020. As she wanted to continue to support her family financially, she had approached Das for help with securing a job soon.Police have added Section 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of the IPC in the FIR. They will produce the accused before a court on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/selfstyled-godman-rapes-murders-22-yr-old-in-ludhiana-dumps-body-in-field-101614964739866.html
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||Waterlogging in Ludhiana: NHAI approves storm sewer line project||For providing relief from rain and sewage accumulation on Chandigarh Road (NH-95) and adjoining areas of Sectors 32, 32-A, and 39 among others, the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has approved the project to install a storm sewer line from Vardhman Chowk up to Buddha Nullah point on Tajpur Road.The project worth ₹4.4 crore will be carried out by Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) and funds will be provided by NHAI. Through the sewer line, which will move through Sector 32-A main road, rainwater will be directly discharged into the nullah.After getting approval from the higher authorities, NHAI project director, Chandigarh, Pardeep Atri has asked MC officials to move forward with the tendering process and submit bank account details so that the funds can be transferred.MLA Sanjay Talwar said the main sewer line on Chandigarh Road overflows due to dumping of waste by dyeing, washing and other industrial units in the MC sewer lines. During monsoon, rainwater accumulation is witnessed on Chandigarh Road and adjoining areas for days, troubling the residents and commuters.“To resolve the issue, we had taken up the matter with NHAI last year and field visits were also conducted on Chandigarh Road and areas nearby where rain and sewage accumulate during the rainy season. NHAI chairperson Sukhbir Singh Sandhu has accepted our demands and the project has now been approved. It will be completed within six months,” said Talwar.Residents said it will be a major relief for the area if the MC is able to find a solution to water accumulation on Chandigarh Road during the monsoon season.A resident of Chandigarh Road, Premjit Singh, said, “The residents have been raising hue and cry over the issue for a long time, but the authorities had till now failed to resolve the problem. The accumulated water even enters the houses. If the authorities are able to find a solution to this, then it will be a major relief.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/waterlogging-in-ludhiana-nhai-approves-storm-sewer-line-project-101614964499619.html
05-03-2021||City||Odisha sarpanch disqualified by court for keeping 2 wives, lack of Odia skills||A sarpanch in Odisha's Ganjam district lost his post after a court disqualified him over charges that he did not know Odia, and had two wives and six children, all of which makes him ineligible under the Odisha Gram Panchayat Act, 1994.P Simadri was elected as the sarpanch of Agastinuagam gram panchayat under Chhatrapur block of Ganjam in the 2017 polls. Simadri defeated his nearest rival Niwasi Gouda. After losing the polls, Gouda had lodged a case against Simadri before the court of civil judge (senior division) in Chhatrapur alleging that his opponent did not know how to write or speak in Odia, had two wives and six children.Gouda lawyer, Srikant Mishra, said civil judge senior division Santosh Panigrahi passed the order disqualifying Simadri as he violated several provisions of the Odisha Gram Panchayat Act, 1994. The court relied on the depositions of four witnesses in the case.Also read: 'Ensure disengagement at other friction points on LAC' - India tells China againIronically, the order came on the day of late chief minister Biju Patnaik's birthday which is celebrated as the panchayatiraj divas. Former chief minister Biju Patnaik had introduced 33 per cent reservation for women in panchayatiraj bodies during his tenure.In 1994, his government had brought an amendment to the Odisha Gram Panchayat Act, ensuring that a person can not contest for the post of sarpanch if he/she can't read or write in Odia, has more than two spouses at a time and more than two children.In 2019, a woman in tribal-dominated Kandhamal district had lost her post as the chairperson of panchayat samiti after a court ruled that she was ineligible. Subhranti Pradhan, chairperson of the Daringibadi panchayat samiti in Kandhamal district and wife of sitting BJD MLA was declared ineligible for having two children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/odisha-sarpanch-disqualified-by-court-for-keeping-2-wives-lack-of-odia-skills-101614963345760.html
05-03-2021||Patna||Bihar minister sends brother to govt function, faces opposition anger||Opposition parties in Bihar on Friday demanded the resignation of state minister Mukesh Sahani amid reports that he sent his brother to attend a government event in Vaishali district. The opposition also demanded that the minister’s brother Santosh Kumar Sahani must be arrested and action must be initiated against officials who were present at the event.As the opposition disrupted the proceedings of the assembly over the issue, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Friday expressed his shock. “If this is true, then it is shocking. I did not know about it. Such incidents should not happen and I will look into it,” Kumar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The minister, who is a leader of the Vikassheel Insan Party (VIP), later said he will make sure to attend events where he is scheduled to be present in future. “I could not attend the event due to the ongoing assembly session. I had no intention of sending my brother but he attended as he is the party president. It is important for the party president to be present but I will make sure that such an incident does not happen again,” Sahani was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Santosh Kumar Sahani said that his brother could not attend the event in the Vaishali district. “He was busy and that is why I have come here as his representative,” he said after he was questioned about his brother’s absence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-minister-sends-brother-to-govt-function-faces-opposition-anger-101614963099499.html
05-03-2021||Other||104-year-old “super senior” Devraj Agarwal gets the jab, says Covid vaccination is a must||PUNE On Friday, Devraj Agarwal, 104-years-old, became one of the oldest persons in Pune to have taken Covishield vaccine. He took the jab at the Kamla Nehru Hospital. Born in 1917, in Punjab, Agarwal retired as a defence accounts officer. “I lost my mother to the Spanish flu epidemic in 1919, however, I survived somehow. My overall health is good except for weakness. When I came to know that millions of people have been infected and lakhs died due to the Corona virus, I was disheartened and very sad. It has been over a year that no one comes to our house. This vaccination is must. I immediately agreed to inoculate myself with the vaccine when I was informed about it,” he said.His son, AP Kansal (84), who keeps in good health, said, “It has been devastating for super seniors who are confined to the four walls at home. I do yoga and go for a walk, coupled with healthy eating on time. I have been able to maintain good mental help keeping in touch with friends and relatives, though the initial months of lockdown were very depressing. However, I adapted quite well later.” Kansal is a retired professor from Vaikunth Mehta National Inst of Cooperative Management.He further said that the key to fight Covid-19 is to remain positive. His daughter-in-law, along with their caretaker took him and his dad for the vaccination at the Kamla Nehru Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/104yearold-super-senior-devraj-agarwal-gets-the-jab-says-covid-vaccination-is-a-must-101614961258573.html
05-03-2021||Other||1,767 new Covid-19 cases and five deaths in Pune district on Friday||PUNE Pune district has reported 1,767 new Covid-19 cases and five deaths due to the infection in the last 24 hours, as of Friday, as per the state health department. This takes the progressive count of Covid-19 cases in the district to 4,17,237, of which 3,90,707 have recovered.The death toll stands at 8,129 with 18,401 active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation. Pune city reported 849 new cases on Friday, which takes the count to 2,13,038. Four new deaths put the death toll at 4,587.PCMC reported 549 new cases on Friday, which took the progressive count to 1,04,278. No deaths were reported, so the death toll stands at 1,335. Pune rural reported 369 new cases which takes its progressive count to 99,921. One death reported on Friday took the death toll to 2,158. The recovery rate in the state is 93.52%. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.38%. Currently, 4,10,411 people are in home quarantine and 4,203 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1767-new-covid-19-cases-and-five-deaths-in-pune-district-on-friday-101614959758558.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Over 200,00 passengers took RT-PCR Covid-19 tests at Mumbai airport in past six months||Over 2.2 lakh passengers underwent the RT-PCR test at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in Mumbai in the past 6 months, out of which 1480 tested positive, informed the airport authority on Friday.According to a statement issued by CSMIA, the airport authority introduced the RT-PCR test counters at the terminal on September 6 last year."In February this year, over 80923 passengers registered for test as compared to 1776 in September last year," the statement read."Of over 2,20,000 tests conducted at the airport in the period from September 2020 to February 2021, CSMIA has recorded a little over 1480 results as positive," it read.CSMIA had originally introduced the testing facility for arriving passengers in line with the norms of the government; the facility enabled passengers to submit a test sample at the counters at the airport and receive their report in 8 hours.Taking forward its commitment towards creating a safe and seamless passage for its passengers, the airport extended this facility for departing passengers as well in October 2020.It could also be availed by non-passengers visiting the airport to drop off or collect their loved ones. As a passenger-centric airport, CSMIA pays close attention to the comfort and convenience of its passengers. For passengers wanting a quicker result, CSMIA also rolled out an express test that provides results in 13 minutes.CSMIA has adhered to the requirements as laid down by the government regarding the testing of domestic as well as international passengers.Currently, the airport hosts three facilities at its Terminal 2 located at Level 2 Arrival Exit near Gate B, Level 2 Airside corridor, and Level 4 Departure on the curbside opposite Gate 2. The testing facilities are handled by Suburban Diagnostics, Metropolis Healthcare Ltd, Lifenity Wellness International Limited and Mylab Discovery Solutions Pvt Ltd, respectively.CSMIA has established over 30 counters of testing facilities set up for international and domestic passengers, including those equipped with molecular testing facilities that offer passengers the option to process their test results in 13 minutes post sample collection. In line with government norms, the regular test that provides results within 8 hours can be availed by passengers at a minimal cost of INR 850 while the express test is available at INR 4500.As per the latest directive from the government, passengers arriving or transiting from flights originating from United Kingdom (UK), Europe, Middle East, Brazil and South Africa with a final destination in Maharashtra will have to observe a compulsory institutional quarantine of 7 days at a state-designated facility irrespective of a negative report pre-boarding. All international arriving passengers who are transiting from CSMIA to other states in India will have to undergo a mandatory molecular test on arrival at the airport before their onward journey; passengers arriving from Brazil, South Africa and the UK must wait at CSMIA until receiving their test result while those from Europe and the Middle East can proceed with their journey post submission of their sample.All other international arriving passengers will have to provide proof of a negative report of a test undertaken 72 hours prior to the arrival. Alternatively, they can opt to undergo the molecular test on arrival at the airport, wherein post submitting the test sample they can proceed with their journey and receive their reports in 8 hours. Similarly, domestic passengers arriving at CSMIA from Delhi, Rajasthan, Goa, Gujarat and Kerala can opt to provide a negative test report taken 72 hours prior to travel or undergo the RT-PCR test on arrival at the airport. In lieu of the travel restrictions, passengers can also opt to undertake the test at CSMIA before their departure or at their destination airport.Since the advent of the pandemic, CSMIA had implemented numerous SOPs, including the preventive measures laid down by health and government bodies to safeguard the well-being of the passengers and airport personnel. The airport continually strives to provide the best services and facilities to its passengers to ensure a seamless transit. CSMIA's recent recognition as the Best Airport by Size and Region in the over 40 million passenger category is a further re-affirmation of the initiatives undertaken by the airport during the pandemic for enhancing the experience of its passengers. The RT-PCR test facility at CSMIA for both arriving and departing passengers is a boon for traveller concerns regarding the various quarantine regulations across borders. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/over-200-00-passengers-took-rt-pcr-covid-19-tests-at-mumbai-airport-in-past-six-months-101614958269933.html
05-03-2021||City||Blackbuck poaching case: HC directs lower courts not to proceed with 3 appeals||The Rajasthan High Court has directed the district and sessions court (Jodhpur district) not to proceed with the three appeals under consideration in the two blackbuck poaching cases.Justice Manoj Kumar Garg, while hearing the plea of Bollywood actor Salman Khan, issued notices to the state government, witness Poonamchand in the poaching case and the acquitted co-accused Saif Ali Khan, Neelam, Tabu, Sonali Bendre and Dushyant Singh.Salman Khan's counsel Hastimal Saraswat said that on October 2, 1998, a case of hunting of two blackbucks was registered against Salman Khan and others accused. The trial court sentenced Khan to five years in the case on April 5, 2018, while acquitting co-accused Saif Ali Khan, Neelam, Tabu, Sonali Bendre and Dushyant Singh.Also read: In 7 points, India rebuts US NGO’s ‘partly free’ downgrade in democracy reportThe petitioner had filed an appeal in the district and sessions court (Jodhpur district) against the five-year sentence, after hearing of which Salman Khan's sentence was suspended. Against the acquittal of the co-accused in the case, a witness named Poonamchand filed an appeal in the district court, while the state government filed a leave to appeal against the co-accused in the High Court, which is currently under consideration.Saraswat said that another appeal of the state government is under consideration in the sessions court, which was filed against Salman Khan's acquittal in the Arms Act case. Khan has demanded in the petition that while transferring the three appeals pending in the district and sessions court to the High Court, it should be heard with the leave to appeal by the state government.“All the three appeals arise from a common judgment pending before the sessions court and the state has also preferred Leave to Appeal before the High Court, therefore, ends of justice will be met if these three appeals are heard and decided together by the same court along with Criminal Leave to Appeal. Earlier, in Chinkara poaching cases, the High Court, while exercising power under Section 386 Cr.P.C allowed a similar transfer petition and directed the Criminal Appeal pending in the court of sessions judge, Jodhpur, to be transferred to the High Court,” Saraswat argued."In the meanwhile, the sessions judge, Jodhpur district, is directed not to proceed in Criminal Appeals,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/blackbuck-poaching-case-hc-directs-lower-courts-not-to-proceed-with-3-appeals-101614957108598.html
05-03-2021||Other||PMC invites applications for staff at new civic-run medical college||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has invited applications for posts of professors and clerical staff on a temporary basis, for Pune’s first civic-run medical college.The civic body had earlier said that 100 students would be admitted for the academic year 2021-22, which would be the first batch at the college. A trust set-up to run the medical college was first approved by the standing committee in August 2019.Demand for the college was further amped up following the pandemic, when the civic body had to rely on Sassoon General Hospital, private hospitals and charity funds to take care of critical Covid-19 patients, in the absence of a ventilator in any of the civic-run hospitals. The college will be set up near the premises of the existing Naidu hospital, on a 10-acre plot and at a cost of approximately ₹622 crore. The civic body has now invited 57 applications for the posts of dean, associate professor, assistant professor, demonstrator, senior residents and junior residents, which includes experts like surgeons, forensic experts, paediatricians, dermatologists, psychiatrics, radiologists, ENT specialists, eye surgeons, gynaecologists, and pulmonologists, among others. Another tender has also been issued for 122 applicants for the posts of administrative officers, clerks, librarian, technicians and laundry services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-invites-applications-for-staff-at-new-civic-run-medical-college-101614957958145.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Palghar man kills wife after she denies to give money for liquor||In a shocking incident that took place recently in Maharashtra, a man allegedly killed his wife after she refused to give him money for purchasing liquor in the Shirdi Nagar area of Palghar district.According to the information received from the senior officers of Tulinj Police Station, the incident happened on March 3 when the accused, Rupesh Morey, attacked his 30-year-old wife first with a knife and then punched her on an iron pipe.After hearing the scream of the victim -- identified as Vanita Morey -- one of the neighbours Umesh Jadhav reached the spot and found her dead, lying on the floor.Jadhav then informed the police which reached the spot. The body was then immediately sent for postmortem.A case was registered with the Tulinj Police Station under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the accused and he was arrested on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/palghar-man-kills-wife-after-she-denies-to-give-money-for-liquor-101614955674389.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports over 10,000 new Covid-19 cases in nearly 5 months||Maharashtra reported 10,216 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the past 24 hours, the highest daily infections since mid-October last year, taking the state’s tally to 21,98,399, according to the health ministry on Friday. This is the first time since October 17, 2020, that the single-day count in the state has gone above the 10,000- mark after reporting 10,259 infections on that day. The state also registered 53 fatalities, which have pushed its death toll to 52,393, data showed.There were 9,855 cases on Wednesday in Maharashtra and the number of infections saw a dip on Thursday with 8,998, according to the state health ministry. The health ministry data also showed that 6,467 people recovered from Covid-19 on Friday. The number of recovered cases is slightly lower than the number of total cases. The state has also tested 90,580 people in the last 24 hours taking the tally of the total number of tested individuals to 16,686,880. The data also showed that the case fatality rate is currently at 2.38%.Pune and Nagpur have the highest number of active cases in the state, as per Friday’s data. Pune currently has 18,401 active cases while Nagpur has 11,552 active cases. Maharashtra currently has 88,838 active cases. The districts which have more than 3,000 active cases are - Mumbai (9055), Thane (9579), Aurangabad (3424), Amaravati (5,260), Pune(18,401), Nagpur(11,552), Akola (4,411) and Jalgaon (3606).Mumbai, which currently has 9,055 active cases recorded 1,174 fresh infections on Friday. The number of Covid-19 cases in the country’s financial capital has reached 331,020. Three fatalities took the number of deaths to 11,495 in the city. Mumbai also reported a spike in the number of daily cases on Friday after 1,104 infections on Thursday. The city has reported more than 1,000 cases since Wednesday.The state government has warned citizens against breaking Covid-19 guidelines saying that violators will be fined. It has also asked people to remain indoors to prevent themselves from getting infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-massive-single-day-spike-of-10-216-covid-19-cases-53-deaths-101614955735966.html
05-03-2021||City||Odisha bride suffers cardiac arrest due to excessive crying, dies||A newly-wed bride in the western Odisha district of Sonepur died of cardiac arrest as she continued to cry during her 'bidaai' while she was leaving for her in-laws.On Thursday evening, Gupteswari Sahoo of Julunda village in Binika village of Sonepur district tied the knot with Bisikesan Pradhan of Bolangir district. On Friday morning, when the family members of the newly-wed bride were preparing to send her off to her in-law’s, she started crying and suddenly fainted.Also read: Odisha sarpanch disqualified by court for keeping 2 wives, lack of Odia skills﻿﻿She was rushed to Dunguripallu Community Health Centre (CHC) where doctors declared her brought dead. The doctors later confirmed that she had died due to cardiac failure.“She kept on crying while being sent off. We knew that she was under a lot of stress as she had lost her father a few months ago. Her maternal uncle and others were organising the marriage. We did not expect her to die in such a way," said a villager, Ramesh Sahu. "She was a sweet girl," he added.A doctor at the CHC said cardiac arrests can happen due to emotionally stressful events which may lead to curbing of the heart’s ability to pump effectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/odisha-bride-suffers-cardiac-arrest-due-to-excessive-crying-dies-101614955595746.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports over 300 new Covid-19 cases after 49 days||Delhi on Friday reported 312 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and three related deaths in the past 24 hours taking the Capital’s infection tally to 640,494 and fatalities to 10,918. Daily infections crossed the 300-mark in Delhi for the first time on Friday since January 14, 2021, when 340 cases were reported in the city. However, daily infections have been continuously on the rise in the national capital again, since February 24 with a slight dip recorded only on March 1 (197 cases) and March 2 (175 cases).Also read | Mumbai colleges return to online classes as Covid-19 cases riseThe national capital’s active caseload stands at 1,779 after witnessing a slight increase from 1,701 on Thursday. With the discharge of 312 patients, Delhi’s recoveries went up to 627,797 so far, according to a bulletin from the Delhi state health department.The Union ministry of health and family welfare identified Delhi along with seven other states where the number of daily new cases have witnessed an increase.#United2FightCoronaEight states are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases. pic.twitter.com/HKjBGGWqJRThe city on Friday conducted 59,122 Covid-19 tests comprising 36,119 RTPCT/CBNAAT/True Nat tests and 23,003 Rapid Antigen Tests. With this, the Delhi government has tested 12,681,441 samples for the disease so far and the tests per million count stand at 667,444 tests, according to the health department. The cumulative positivity rate, considering the total tests done and the total positive cases found, stands at 5.05 per cent and the case fatality rate (CFR) stands at 1.7 per cent, as per the latest data. Also, the city currently has 863 patients on home isolation and 591 containment zones.Meanwhile, 499,770 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered so far in Delhi, of which 446,950 people have received a first dose of the vaccine and 52,820 have received the second dose as of 7am on Friday, according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-fresh-spike-in-covid-19-infections-reports-over-300-new-cases-101614955439469.html
05-03-2021||Other||PCMC collects Rs3.64 lakh in fines from restaurants flouting 11pm deadline||PUNE The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation has collected ₹3,64,500 in fines, between February 24-March 4, from hotels and eateries not following Covid norms, especially running the business after 11 pm.Pune and PCMC have restrictions on any movement between 11pm and 6am, till March 14. Essential services are allowed to operate, however.“Many people are still not following the orders. Our squads have also fined people roaming the streets unnecessarily. Major fines have been imposed on hotels and street eateries, who, even after several warnings, continue to do business after 11 pm,” said Ajit Pawar, additional commissioner, PCMC.Currently, there are eight night patrolling squads who start their duty from 6 pm and continue till 1pm. Till 11pm the squads keep a check on mask usage.“We are also planning to increase our squads, as few residents have complaints regarding eateries operating after 11pm. All should wrap up their business by 10.30pm,” added Pawar.On Thursday, 502 residents tested positive in PCMC, which takes the total number of Covid positive patients to 1,07,230.“The number of cases is increasing every day. People need to follow all the norms, otherwise the administration will have to come out with more stringent actions,” added Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pcmc-collects-rs3-64-lakh-in-fines-from-restaurants-flouting-11pm-deadline-101614955617800.html
05-03-2021||Bangalore||Congress protests demanding revoking suspension of its MLA in Karnataka assembly||Protest by opposition Congress legislators demanding revocation of suspension of one of their colleagues from the House for his "indecent" conduct, disrupted proceedings of the Karnataka Assembly on Friday.Congress MLA B K Sangamesh was on Thursday suspended from the Assembly till March 12 for removing his shirt inside the House, during a protest by his party against Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri's decision to hold a special discussion on 'One Nation, One Election' (ONOE).Sticking to their stand, members of the principal opposition party also did not participate in the special discussion on ONOE, terming it "RSS agenda", as they also made it clear that they will not allow a debate on the topic.Disruption by Congress legislators through sloganeering and protest from the well of the House resulted in repeated adjournments, hence throwing the scheduled debate on ONOE out of gear.As the House met for the day Congress members trooped into the well and demanded that the suspension of Sangamesh be revoked.Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah, urging Speaker Kageri to revoke the suspension, said the MLA removed his shirt, angered by false cases of atrocity and attempt to murder booked against him and his family members and his voice not being heard by the Chair,Defending Sangamesh, he further said, the decision to suspend him for a week was not right, and demanded that the Chair using its powers should revoke the suspension.Hitting back, ruling BJP members criticised the Congress and Siddaramaiah for defending indecent conduct.Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Basavaraj Bommai said, despite the Speaker informing Sangamesh that his notice on false cases will be heard, his behaviour of removing the shirt during the opposition's protest on ONOE was uncalled for."To what level are we going? He (Sangamesh) is not apologetic and has criticised the Chair in front of the media. ...if Congress leaders are defending his conduct this shows to what level they have stooped to.The decision to suspend him is right and it should not be revoked," he said.BJP member Araga Jnanendra, hitting out at the Congress and Sangamesh, asked "Do they think this is a cabaret club to remove dress?" Several other BJP MLAs including Basangouda Patil Yatnal said that the decision to suspend Sangamesh was right and urged that it should not be revoked.As the House witnessed chaos with Siddaramaiah and Congress members stating that false cases are being registered against opposition MLA, the Speaker requested them to cooperate and allow discussion."..if you (Congress) don't want to participate in debate on ONOE at least don't curtail the rights of those who want to participate," he said, as he defended the suspension of Sangamesh calling his conduct indecent and disrespectful.Siddaramaiah then said ONOE was an RSS agenda and it cannot be discussed here."We will not allow it..." Following this, the Speaker adjourned the House for some time.Again as the House resumed, even as Congress members continued to protest, the Speaker asked Minister Bommai to speak on ONOE, to which Siddaramaiah said, "we will not allow" and asked his partymen to continue sloganeering.Slogans like "revoke suspension", "speaker RSS puppet", marred Bommai's speech who tried to make a case for ONOE, as he noted that elections were held together till 1967 and held Congress responsible for deviating from it.Amid the din, the Speaker requested opposition members to allow those who want to participate in the debate to exercise their right and told Siddaramaiah and the state Congress chief D K Shivakumar to instruct his party members not to respect democracy.He then adjourned the House till post lunch.When the House resumed post lunch, BJP MLA P Rajeev started speaking on ONOE, but Congress members soon walked into the well of the House and continued with their protest.As his repeated appeal for smooth debate went unheard, Speaker Kageri said he would make all efforts to convince Siddaramaiah and Congress members for discussion on ONOE during the session till March 31 after budget presentation on March 8, and adjourned the House till Monday.The discussion on 'ONOE' was scheduled for March 4 and 5 at the beginning of the budget session, following advice by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a meeting of Speakers of legislative assemblies held in Gujarat, and the Karnataka assembly is said to be the first to initiate a debate on the issue.The Congress on Thursday too had held a protest in the House against the special discussion on ONOE terming it as an RSS agenda, despite which the Speaker made his introductory remarks and Chief Minister B S Yediyiurappa made his statement advocating for synchronising assembly and parliamentary elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/congress-protests-demanding-revoking-suspension-of-its-mla-in-karnataka-assembly-101614951052573.html
05-03-2021||Other||TCS Covid analysis finds schools, colleges biggest source of Covid-19 infection: div comm||PUNE At a district administration meeting held on Friday, with experts and officials of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) present, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao revealed the preliminary findings of a Covid analysis report prepared by the Tata Consultancy Services. Rao stated that as per the report, which is yet to be made public, schools and colleges are the biggest source of the Covid-19 infection, with a second level source of infection being malls, restaurants and bars. “The report forecasts that in a worst-case scenario, Pune district will have a total number of positive cases that were recorded in September-October 2020,” Rao said. “I have requested the experts from TCS to also consider the rate of vaccination going on and what will be that impact on the rate of infection, critical patients and death toll. They are expected to come up with further results on March 10,” Rao said. “Their study also shows that the schools and colleges are a major source of infection. Fortunately, we are approaching the summer vacations, so I don’t think there will be much harm if we continue with the restrictions on schools and colleges. We are aware that board exams are scheduled and we are definitely going to consider it,” Rao added.Covid review on Mar 12On Covid restrictions in the city, which have been declared till March 14, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said a decision regarding their extension, renewal or closure, will be taken on March 12. The next Covid review meeting will be held on March 12 in the presence of Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar. “The findings of the TCS report and recommendations based on it will be put forth before the guardian minister,” Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tcsiiser-covid-analysis-finds-schools-colleges-biggest-source-of-covid-19-infection-div-comm-101614954957704.html
05-03-2021||Dehradun||U'khand govt to provide maintenance to non-earning women in family disputes: CM||Uttarakhand government will provide money for maintenance to a woman in any family dispute involving her husband in the state, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said on Friday in Gairsain.The chief minister shared the information while addressing a press conference on the sidelines of the ongoing budget session on Friday.Rawat said, "There have been incidents of family disputes between couples that go to court during which women face issues with maintenance. The government has made a provision of ₹3.60cr in this budget to provide maintenance to such women.""However, those women who are earning won't be provided the benefit under this initiative," the chief minister added.Addressing the media persons on the budget, Rawat said that its emphasis is on making the state, "healthy, well connected, self-reliant and secure.""To improve the health services in the state, the government has made a provision of ₹2,313 crore which is an increase of 34 per cent in comparison to last financial year," said Rawat, adding the process to recruit 763 doctors and 2,500 nurses is underway.Also read: Most powerful way to fight climate change is to change our behaviour - PM ModiHe also informed that the government has made a provision of ₹200 crore for setting up multi-speciality hospitals in the hilly areas of the state to improve the health services there.Citing the improvement in health services in comparison to previous years, Rawat said that the "maternal mortality rate in the state has come down from 201 to 99 in one lakh. Also, the infant mortality rate has reduced to 33 from 41 per 1,000 births. About 71 per cent of the total deliveries now happen in health institutions."On improving the connectivity in the state, the CM said, "In the last four years of the government, a total 7,731 kilometres of roads have been built in comparison to 7,529 kilometres built in the previous 16 years before our government.""In this budget, there has been a provision of ₹385 crore for the maintenance and upgradation of roads, around ₹200 crore more than the previous financial year," he said.He also informed about the provisions in the state budget to make the state self-reliant, including an education budget of ₹9450 crore which is about ₹300 crore than the one allotted in the previous financial year."We would also provide free school bags and shoes to students of class 1-8 in the government schools with a provision of ₹24 crore in this budget. Taking care of the welfare of farmers, there has been a provision of ₹1,108 crore for agriculture which is ₹100 crore more than the previous financial year," said Rawat.He also emphasized the newly launched Ghasiyari programme to "remove the bale of hay from the head of women in hilly areas.""To collect grass for cattle, the women in hilly areas go to the forest during which many of them die after accidentally falling off hills or in attacks by wild animals. In Chamoli district alone, 62 women died in the last 4-5 years with more than 500 injured. Under this new initiative, we would provide grass at low prices to the women so that they need to go to forests for collecting it," said Rawat.On making the state "secure", the CM said that the government is chalking out a plan to provide self-defence training to one lakh school and college-going girls. To develop the border areas which are important from the strategic point of view, there has been a provision of ₹20 crore in the budget, apart from a provision of ₹18 crore to curb migration from the hilly areas."On the steps taken for the development of the state summer capital, Gairsain, there is a provision of ₹350 crore."A growth centre and a centre of excellence would be set up in Gairsain with ₹34 crore. Similarly, a mushroom-growing centre would be developed with ₹1 crore. A helipad would also be developed with the capacity to land three choppers together. To improve road connectivity, 278 kilometres of roads will be constructed under PM Gram Swarozgar Yojana in Gairsain," said Rawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/ukhand-govt-to-provide-maintenance-to-non-earning-women-in-family-disputes-cm-101614953087753.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Arnab Goswami exempted from appearing in suicide abetment case till April 16||The Bombay High Court on Friday granted interim exemption to TV journalist Arnab Goswami from appearing before a magistrates court at Alibaug in adjoining Raigad district in connection with an abetment to suicide case.The relief has been granted till April 16.Goswami, the Republic TV Editor-in-Chief, and two others are accused of abetting the suicide of Alibaug-based interior designer Anvay Naik, who killed himself in 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by the companies of the accused.They were arrested on November 4, 2020. The accused failed to get relief from the HC after which they approached the Supreme Court which granted them bail on November 11.On Friday, Goswami's advocate Sanjog Parab told a division bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale his client has been directed to appear before the Chief Judicial Magistrate at Alibaug, a coastal town 100km from Mumbai, on March 10 for committal of the trial in the case to a sessions court.The HC was hearing a petition filed by Goswami challenging the FIR lodged against him by the Raigad police in the case and the subsequent chargesheet submitted in the local court.The 47-year-old journalist, who has denied charges levelled against him in the case, has sought the HC to quash the FIR.Parab sought the HC to grant Goswami exemption from appearance in the local court.Since we are seized of the matter, we grant the petitioner (Goswami) protection with regard to exemption from appearance till April 16 when we will hear the plea further, the court said in its order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/arnab-goswami-exempted-from-appearing-in-suicide-abetment-case-till-april-16-101614949027494.html
05-03-2021||Patna||State health min says Bihar 'almost' fulfils WHO's doctor-population ratio||Bihar "almost" fulfils the World Health Organisation (WHO)-recommended doctor-population ratio as it has 1,19,000 doctors in the state with a population of 12 crore, state Health Minister Mangal Pandey said in the assembly on Friday.Referring to the WHO norm of having one physician for 1,000 of population, Pandey said the state which has 12 crore population should have 1,20,000 doctors, but currently it has 1,19,000 doctors.Providing the details of 1,19,612 doctors, the minister said, the state has 40,100 allopathic physicians, 33,922 ayurvedic doctors, 34,257 homoeopathic doctors, 5,203 unani doctors and 6130 dentists.The minister was replying to a Short Notice Question raised by RJD member Lalit Kumar Yadav. The RJD legislator wanted to know the timeframe by which the state intends to fulfil the WHO norm.Mentioning that expanding healthcare facilities is a continuous process, Pandey said that the government is opening 11 new medical colleges, 23 new general nursing and midwifery (GNM) schools, 54 nursing schools and 28 new paramedical institutions.The doctor-population ratio will improve further with the opening of the new institutions, he said.The minister said, 929 specialist doctors and 3,186 general doctors have been appointed and posted in various institutions between July and September 2020. Over 6,000 posts of doctors were lying vacant in health institutions across the state, the health minister said.The government has sent a requisition to Bihar Technical Service Commission through the General Administration Department to fill the vacancies.Appointments of doctors will be made as and when it receives recommendations from the commission, he added. PTI AR MM MM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-almost-fulfils-who-norm-of-doctor-population-ratio-state-health-minister-101614946781365.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi bus owners seek exemption from road tax, penalty amid pandemic||The Delhi High Court has directed the concerned authorities to treat a plea as representation filed by a bus association, seeking exemptions from payment of road tax and levy of penalty post December 2020, in view of the losses suffered due to the Covid-19 pandemic.A single-judge bench of Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva has directed the petition to be treated as a representation by the respondent.Respondent, in this case, the Delhi government shall decide the representation after affording an opportunity of hearing to the petitioners and take a decision preferably within a period of six weeks, the court said.Petitioners would be at liberty to take further recourse if so required after the decision is taken, it added.The court further said that in case there is a direction of the government to re-open schools/educational institutions, the respondent shall consider issuing appropriate interim directions, pending consideration of the representation.The court was hearing a petition filed by the Delhi Contract Bus Association (DCBA).The petitioner has sought exemption from payment of road tax and levy of penalty even post December 31, 2020, as the schools and educational institutions have not yet been re-opened and some of the offices have still not commenced full operations.DCBA is an association of commercial bus owners catering primarily to schools, colleges and educational institutions for transportation of students and staff of the said institutions as well as to office goers of MNCs and industrial establishments.The petitioner said that in view of the Covid-19 induced lockdown and the subsequent closure of schools and work from home culture, petitioners have not been able to ply their buses and the buses are lying idle. It is, in these circumstances, that petitioners have sought exemptions from payment of road taxes and penalty as also refund/adjustment of the amount already paid by some of the bus operators.Gautam Narayan, Standing Counsel appearing for the respondent Delhi government, submitted that a decision has already been taken on December 24, 2020, to grant exemption from payment of penalty till December 31, 2020. He further submitted that in a similar writ petition being heard by the high court, by its order dated December 11, 2020, directed the petition to be considered as a representation.He submitted that said the petition was filed by another association of similarly situated bus operators -- the Indian Tourist Transporters Association. He further submitted that the hearing as per the directions of the court has already concluded and a decision is likely to be taken shortly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-bus-owners-seek-exemption-from-road-tax-penalty-amid-pandemic-101614948015407.html
05-03-2021||Other||Road rage: Chicken shop owner shoots at trader in Ludhiana||A chicken shop owner has been arrested for shooting at a 30-year-old man in a road rage incident near Ishmeet Chowk in Model Town on Thursday night.The bullet hit the arm of the victim, Kanav Thapar, 30, a trader and resident of Green Field, after piercing through the windshield of his car. He has been admitted to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), where his condition is stated to be stable. The accused, Parminder Singh, 36, was arrested from his house in Parbhat Nagar on Friday morning. The .32-bore revolver, used in the crime, was recovered from him.In his complaint to the police, Thapar said that he went to Ishmeet Chowk for some dosa in his Maruti Suzuki Ciaz. There, Parminder was driving recklessly and hit his car. When he confronted him, Parminder took out a pistol and shot at him, hitting him in the left arm.Thapar alleged that Parminder and his accomplice then pulled him out of his car, and brutally assaulted him with punches and kicks. When he raised the alarm, they fled the scene. He informed his family members, who rushed him to the hospital and sounded the police.“Taking swift action, the police arrested Parminder from his house on Friday morning. He owns a chicken shop near Dholewal. A case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered,” said joint commissioner of police (JCP, City) Deepak Pareek.This is the second road rage incident in the city in the past three days. On February 3, the son of former mayor Harcharan Singh Gohalwaria was assaulted by three men in a Porshe at the Sarabha Nagar main market. The Division Number 5 police had arrested one of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/road-rage-chicken-shop-owner-shoots-at-trader-in-ludhiana-101614948117732.html
05-03-2021||Bhopal||Another irregularity in water resource department in MP after e-tendering scam||After the e-tendering scam, former Madhya Pradesh chief secretary and retired Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer, M Gopal Reddy, is under the scanner again as the state government found an irregularity worth ₹877 crores in the allocation of irrigation projects in the water resource department (WRD).The state government has decided to hand over the probe to the Economic Offence Wing (EOW) on the instructions of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan.According to the report by the water resources departmental, Reddy verbally instructed a chief engineer to relax the condition of the tender documents for construction of dams and canals connected with pressurized pump at seven places to make payment of ₹877 to seven private companies in advance without any work being done.Of the seven, three received the payment even before the design of the irrigation projects was approved by the Bureau of Design, said an officer of the department.Also read: As China eyes Taiwan and beyond, Quad's Indo-Pacific agenda takes priorityThe tenders were allocated between August 2018 and February 2019.“After this irregularity came to light in December last year, chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bais issued a notice to the officers of the department and asked why the payment was made in advance and why did a chief engineer relax the condition of the tender documents without informing the state government. The chief secretary also asked to cancel the order of advance payment issued in May 2019,” said an officer of the department, who didn’t wish to be named.“In a reply to notice, then chief engineer Rajeev Suklikar and chief engineer (tender) Shirish Mishra said the department didn’t want to delay the work as a delay can increase the cost of the projects. Suklikar also said that he released the order on the instruction of ACS M Gopal Reddy,” stated a letter of the inquiry report.When the department checked the progress of the projects till December 2020, it was found that even after two years, three renowned companies, which received the payment of ₹494 crores, had not started any work while two companies had undertaken merely 5 and 10 per cent of the work, respectively. The remaining two companies, however, ha completed 50 per cent of the work."After this progress report and reply of the engineers, the department found grave financial irregularities," said SN Mishra, additional chief secretary, WRD.The Chairman and the director of one of the companies, which got the payment but did not start any work, were arrested by the Enforcement Directorate recently in connection to the e-tendering scam.Hyderabad-based Mantena Constructions Private Limited's chairman Srinivas Raju, and Bhopal-based associate Aditya Tripathi were arrested by the ED under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act in January for paying a bribe to tamper the tender bid after the due date. The e-tendering scam broke in May 2018 but the first FIR was registered in April 2019 when the Congress came to power in the state.According to the FIR, a middleman hacked and illegally accessed the e-procurement portal and uploaded a changed tender document after the last date of submitting the tender to ensure that some companies would get the work.In the scam, the ED had also raided Reddy's premises in Banjara Hills, Hyderabad. Reddy, after his retirement in September 2020, had moved to Hyderabad. The ED had also called Reddy for registering his statement but he didn’t turn up at the ED office as he was found positive for Covid-19.Despite repeated attempts, Reddy, Rajeev Suklikar and Shirish Mishra couldn’t be contacted. They did not even respond to text messages.Water resource minister, Tulsi Silawat, said, “The irregularities have been found in the departmental inquiry and now the EOW will probe the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/another-irregularity-in-water-resource-department-in-mp-after-e-tendering-scam-101614945921775.html
05-03-2021||Patna||Bihar panchayat officials accused of withdrawing ₹70 lakh without doing work||Senior panchayat officials in Bihar’s Darbhanga district were booked for alleged embezzlement of funds to the tune of ₹70 lakh, meant for Mukhyamantri Gramin Peyjal Nishchay Yojana.The chairmen and secretaries of five Ward Implementation and Management Committees (WIMC) in Raj Rampura panchayat under Singhwara block of Darbhanga district were booked under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating and dishonesty) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Singhwara police station.Block development officer (BDO) Dr Shashi Prakash had submitted written complaint against the alleged misappropriation at Singhwara police station on March 1, following the district magistrate’s instruction to ensure lodging of an FIR against concerned WIMC of ward no 3,4,5,6 and 7 and the concerned private agency in Rampura village for non-delivery of work despite withdrawal of funds. The DM suggested recovery of the amount by filing of cases against the accused and furnish a compliance reportA BJP leader and the former Prakhand Pramukh (block chief) Singhwara, Rangnath Thakur said the chief minister should ensure that the fund meant for public welfare schemes are utilised properly. He also urged that the alleged irregularities in the drinking tap water assurance scheme in Singhwara block be probed thoroughly.The BDO didn’t respond to calls made by this reporter despite many attempts.The SHO of Singhwara PS, Amit Kumar confirmed that an FIR against the chairmen and the secretaries of 5 WIMCs in Raj Rampura panchayat were filed by the BDO.As per BDO’s complaint, ₹14 lakh each in ward 3, 4 and 5, ₹13 lakh in ward 6 and ₹15 lakh in ward 7 had been withdrawn by the WIMC officials without work being done.Also Read: Bihar: Evaluation of intermediate exam papers beginIn the meantime, a viral video showing a Nazir posted at Singhwara block went viral on social media. The Nazir is seen accepting a wad of ₹500 currency notes by another person. The audio suggests that the Nazir was being paid ₹17,500 in lieu of work getting done. The Nazir in the video has been identified as Umesh Prasad, who denied graft charge when contacted.Note- There were several gaps in the story, which could not be filled since the reporter could not be contacted over the phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-panchayat-officials-accused-of-withdrawing-rs-70-lakh-without-doing-work-101614945601513.html
05-03-2021||Other||Consecutive days of moderate rainfall helped fill up Pune dams last year: IMD||PUNE Even though the heavy rainfall events in Pune city have increased over the past few years, a recent study undertaken by scientists at India Meteorological Department (IMD) Pune has highlighted that consecutive days of moderate rainfall in the city and adjoining areas last year filled the three dams (Panshet, Varasgaon and Khadakwasla) solving the drinking water issue.Monsoon kicked off a little late in July (2020) which prompted local authorities to think about cutting down the water supply and exploring the option of artificial rainfall.The paper was presented by Anchal Khushwaha, junior scientist with the weather forecasting division of IMD, Pune at the annual monsoon workshop organised by Indian Meteorological Society, Pune on ‘Cloud precipitation process.’Along with Khushwaha, Jyoti Sonar, a scientist in the weather forecasting division, was also a part of the paper “Extreme rainfall warnings in monsoon 2020- Steps to liasoning with disaster managers for Maharashtra state’.The paper was guided by Anupam Kashyapi, head of the weather forecasting division, IMD, Pune.Research at the weather forecasting division aims at various operational aspects to benefit various users.Kashyapi said that the monsoon every year has a unique characteristic. “Consecutive moderate rainfall has an impact on low lying areas and allied aspects. Similarly, last year there was a query from local governing authorities about dam recharge. This was later resolved as the forecast given by IMD was realised,” said Kashyapi.Khushwaha said that last year, during the latter part of June and early July, rainfall was not good enough.“This created a little bit of panic among the local governing bodies like the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC)and Central Water Commission, Pune. However, a sequence of consecutive days of mostly moderate rain in isolated areas in and around Pune district from June to September 2020 helped the recharge of Panshet dam,” she said.“We found that during June 3 to June 5, 2020, the mean rainfall for Pune district for three consecutive days was 36.99 millimetre per day which resulted in 23.33 per cent of dam recharge,” said Khushwaha.The study also revealed that between July 23 to July 26, 2020, the mean rainfall for the Pune district for four consecutive days was 17.45 millimetre per day which resulted in 40.42 per cent of dam recharge. Also, from August 5 to August 8, 2020, the mean rainfall for four consecutive days was 20.06 millimetre per day which resulted in 70.75 per cent of dam recharge.Kashyapi said, “A similar trend was observed between August 13 to August 17, 2020, where the mean rainfall for Pune district for five consecutive days was 15.34 millimetre per day which resulted in 100 per cent of dam recharge.”“From September 9 to September 12, 2020, the mean rainfall for Pune district for the period of consecutive four days was 17.57 millimetre per day which maintained the 100 per cent of dam recharge till the end of the season. Because of this good rainfall, ultimately the dam recharge for Pune district was 100 per cent of its capacity,” said Kashyapi.He added that though there was a panic among various stakeholders due to erratic rainfall, the dam was recharged 100 per cent due to light to moderate rain in and around Pune.Last year, as per IMD, Maharashtra received normal rainfall (16 per cent more than normal) while Madhya Maharashtra received excess rainfall (29 per cent more than normal), as well as Pune district, also received excess rainfall (40 per cent more than normal).Increased warnings for heavy rainfall eventsSonar has also worked on another paper which highlights that Madhya Maharashtra last year received 89 warnings for extreme rainfall events between June to September.“My paper ‘Extreme rainfall warnings during Monsoon 2020 by IMD’, explores how many warnings were issued between June 2020 to September 2020 for extreme rainfall events,” she said.“In Maharashtra, a total of 299 warnings were issued. In Madhya Maharashtra, which includes Pune, a total of 89 warnings were issued due to extreme rainfall events,” said Sonar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/consecutive-days-of-moderate-rainfall-helped-fill-up-pune-dams-last-year-imd-101614946016881.html
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||HP’s economy to shrink by 6.2% this fiscal: Economic Survey||Hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, Himachal Pradesh’s economy is likely to contract by 6.2% in the current fiscal, according to the Economic Survey, 2020-21, presented in the assembly by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur. The hill state went into strict lockdown in March last year to curb the spread of coronavirus, shutting down all economic activity. The economy had grown by 8.9% in the previous year. The per capita income at current prices is estimated to drop by 3.7% to ₹1,83,286 as compared to the estimated ₹1,90,407 in 2019-20. The state budget will be presented on Saturday. Dip in agriculture and allied sectors The survey projected that growth in the agriculture and livestock sectors is set to decline by 3.1% due to a decrease of 43% in horticulture production. The share of agriculture and allied sectors is key as they support 60% of the population in the gross value added (GVA) of the state at current prices that has declined from 15.89% in 2015-16 to 13.62% in 2020-21. This is on account of the relatively higher growth performance of non-agricultural sectors due to structural changes taking place in the economy and is in line with national and international trends. The sector registered a positive growth of 18.3% in 2019-20 at constant (2011-12) prices with a GVA of ₹10,583 crore as compared to ₹8,949 crore for 2018-19. 81% contraction in tourism sector One of the hardest hit sectors by the pandemic has been tourism. It saw a contraction of 81.33% in foreign and domestic tourist arrivals in 2020. The trade, hotel and restaurant sector showed a contraction of 9.2% during 2020-21 as against a growth of 4.6% in 2019-20. The transport sector too showed a negative growth of 28% during the current financial year as against 5.6% growth during 2018-19. The survey says that the state government played a proactive role and took many steps to mitigate the Covid-19 effect. Negative growth in industrial sector The manufacturing sector showed a contraction of 14.2% during 2020-21 as against a positive growth rate of 0.3% last year. The mining and quarrying sector showed a negative growth of 18.4%. According to estimates for 2019-20 at constant (2011-12) prices, the GVA of this secondary sector is estimated at ₹53,498 crore against ₹7,53,456 crore in 2018-19. The contribution of the manufacturing sector in GVA is expected to drop by 26.94% in 2020-21. The construction sector growth shrunk by 11.5%. Inflation has been moderate The inflation has been moderate in the state since 2014. During April-December, 2020, the consumer price index combined (CPI-C) was 5.3% as compared to 2.5% for the same period in 2019-20. CPI-Rural and CPI-Urban indices were 4.8% and 7.6%, respectively, against 2% and 4.7% last year. Fiscal development and employment The revenue receipts for 2020-21 are estimated to be 24.56% of the GSDP compared to 19.86% last year. Tax revenue is estimated to be 9.81%. Non-tax revenue shows a marginal increase to 1.54%. Fiscal deficit is estimated to be 4.65%. The survey highlights the periodic labour force survey (PLFS) report for 2018-19. This shows that the LFS rate has increased from 49.1% in 2017-18 to 52.8% in 2018-19. There has been a considerable increase in the female workforce participation rate in the state from 37.9% 2017-18 to 44.6% in 2018-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hps-economy-to-shrink-by-6-2-this-fiscal-economic-survey-101614945117443.html
05-03-2021||City||Bhajans and dance figure in seers' unique protest against illegal mining||By Suresh FoujdarThousands of seers staged a protest at the district collector's office over illegal mining in the hills of Mewat region in Bharatpur, Rajasthan on Friday.The seers held a rally with dance and singing bhajans. The rally saw seers joining in from Mathura, Vrindavan, Govardhan, along with women.They have been on a sit-in for the last 48 days at Pasopa village under sub-division Deeg. The protesting seers demand an end to illegal mining in the hills of Braj Mewat region.Thousands of protesters demanded legal action against illegal mining.They alleged that mafias have been mining illegally and destroying hills in the forest land for a long time.Also read: As China eyes Taiwan and beyond, Quad's Indo-Pacific agenda takes priorityShri Aadi Badrinath Dham is located under Nagar tehsil of Mewat region in Bharatpur. The hill here holds great value for the local Hindu community as it is believed to be one of the play areas of Lord Krishan.Sub-divisions of Bayana, Rupwas, Kaman, Nagar, Pahari have been infamous for illegal mining where locals always register complaints and raise their demands against the illegal practice.Head of Maan Mandir Trust, Radha Kant Shashtri, who is leading the protest, said the famous land of Lord Krishna has many hills that hold religious significance for the locals. All the hills here have been damaged by the mining mafia but the officials have failed to save them and secure people's faith, he said."Our agitation against illegal mining will continue. We have handed over a memorandum to the district collector for the chief minister to fulfil our demands," Shashtri said.In 2008, 5,000 hectares of land of these hills had been reserved for the forest by the state government in Nagar and Pahari tehsils. Around forty-four mining lease here, allotted by the government, are active. A proposal to include the remaining parts of the hills in both the tehsils, along with 5,000 hectares of land area, in the forest reserve area will be forwarded to the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhajans-and-dance-figure-in-seers-unique-protest-against-illegal-mining-101614943650027.html
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab House panel to probe torture claims of farm activists||The Punjab assembly on Friday constituted a House committee to probe the torture allegations by farm activists who were jailed during the ongoing agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws. Speaker Rana KP Singh constituted the House panel after chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh referred the demand of Aam Aadmi Party member Kanwar Sandhu to him. Sandhu made the demand after Capt Amarinder Singh concluded his speech in response to the discussion on the motion of thanks to governor VP Singh Badnore’s address in the Vidhan Sabha. Sandhu said that labour activist Nodeep Kaur and her associate Shiv Kumar besides farmer activists have alleged torture in jails so a panel should be constituted to probe the matter. The CM referred the demand to the Speaker, who announced the constitution of the panel according to assembly rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-house-panel-to-probe-torture-claims-of-farm-activists-101614941697063.html
05-03-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan should not lose the battle won, says CM Ashok Gehlot amid Covid-19 surge in other states||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday urged people to get vaccinated against the coronavirus disease and follow the Covid-19 related protocols as he pointed out that several states are seeing a surge in the number of infections. Gehlot’s comments came after he, along with state health minister Raghu Sharma, were administered the first dose of the vaccine at the Sawai Man Singh Hospital in Jaipur.“I would like to send a message to the public that today Covid-19 cases are increasing in states such as Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Maharashtra and Kerala. Lockdown has been imposed in some of these places. In order to ensure that Rajasthan does not lose the battle won, it is important that apart from getting vaccinated, we should not be careless in following all protocols such as wearing masks, washing hands, social distancing,” Gehlot said while addressing reporters.Gehlot also issued a warning, saying that chances of survival are less in people who are hospitalised after not following the protocols properly. “If you experience any symptoms, do not hesitate. Free treatment is being provided at hospitals. Get yourself treated,” he added.मैं पब्लिक को मैसेज देना चाहूंगा कि आज कई जगह कोरोना के केस बढ़ रहे हैं, कई जगह लॉकडाउन की नौबत आ गई है, तो राजस्थान में हम लोग जीती हुई जंग को कहीं हार नहीं जाएं, इसलिए जरूरी है कि हम लोग यहां पर वैक्सीनेशन के साथ-साथ में जो प्रोटोकॉल हैं उनपर बिल्कुल लापरवाही न करें। pic.twitter.com/fg1jGl5gv7Lauding the state’s vaccination drive, the chief minister said that 200,000-250,000 people are being vaccinated on a daily basis adding that nearly 25 per cent of the total inoculations across India is happening in Rajasthan. He also said that the vaccine is safe and urged all beneficiaries to get inoculated when it is their turn and motivate others to do the same.Rajasthan has administered vaccine doses to 1,609,343 people till now, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard. As many as 1,326,074 people have received the first dose so far while the remaining 283,269 have been given the second vaccine dose.Also Watch| Covid update: India’s vaccination milestone; Italy blocks vaccine for Australia﻿Meanwhile, Rajasthan’s Covid-19 caseload is nearing 321,000 out of which 2,788 have died and 316,631 have recovered from the viral disease. The active cases have crossed the 1,500-mark. On Wednesday, 215 fresh cases were added while no death was reported in the state. It was the third consecutive time this week that there were no new deaths due to the disease. On January 8, the state had reported zero deaths for the first time in more than nine months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/after-getting-vaccinated-rajasthan-cm-gehlot-sends-a-message-to-the-public-101614938880971.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Two feared drowned in Khadavli river at Titwala in Maharashtra’s Thane||Two Bhiwandi residents were feared drowned in Khadavli river at Titwala, a popular picnic spot around 57 kilometers from Mumbai, near Kalyan in Maharashtra’s Thane district, while on an outing with their friends on Thursday evening, said officials."On Thursday, five people came to enjoy a swim in the river. At around 5pm, two of them took a dip in the water, while the three others were having food. The two, Sayed and Shaikh, disappeared in the water after 10 minutes following which their friends raised an alarm and informed the police and the locals,” said a police officer from Titwala police station.Police soon launched a rescue operation with the assistance of fire brigade and local divers, however, the two men are yet to be found. The two -Mohammed Shafiq Mohinuddin Sayed, 33, and Nafees Ahmed Shaikh, 40, are feared drowned, said police.Also Read: 'Failure of constitutional machinery': Fadnavis on vacant post of Speaker"With the help of the fire brigade, local swimmers from the nearby villages and members of an NGO, the search operation has been going on since Thursday evening. The water is deep and we are searching in more than a kilometer range to trace the two men," said Sandeep Tandel, police constable, Kalyan Taluka police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-feared-drowned-in-khadavli-river-at-titwala-in-maharashtra-s-thane-101614935610801.html
05-03-2021||Bangalore||Shanvi Srivastava: Kannada audience’s capacity to understand cinema is improving||Shanvi Srivastava has been working non-stop since few months now. She completed the shoot of her two upcoming Kannada films- Thrishulam and Kasthuri Mahal and is shooting for Bang (Kannada) and Mahaveeryam (Malayalam). Having starred in ten Kannada films in her nine-year-long career, she is happy to see the growth in the industry. “The Kannada audience’s capacity to understand cinema, as a whole, has improved. They have become more understanding to different content and genres. Even the kind of content and roles being offered to me are unlike what I used to get. I can see growth in the industry. Now, the question is how accepting will people be towards this varied content,” wonders Srivastava, who was glad that she got the time to focus on her health -mental and physical and “got some clarity about life” in 2020. Born in Varanasi, she grew up in Uttar Pradesh, and later studied in Mumbai. She debuted with Telugu, moved on to Kannada films and now is doing a Malayalam film. Talking about managing languages, she says, “It was tough initially as the languages are different. But over a period of time, I would get so involved and focus on learning that nothing else mattered. My growth as an actor encouraged me and I kept learning with each film. Of course, I get stuck sometimes with tongue twisters and certain words and that frustrates me (laughs). But when I crack it, it is such a joy. Moreover, it is the love of the audience which gives me a kick. It’s addictive (laughs). They are so happy and accepting of the fact that someone from another part of the country is talking so well in their language.”Looking back at her career, she credits three films for her graph and the stature in the industry. “Lovely (Telugu; 2012) opened the gates to the industry for me. Chandralekha (Kannada; 2014) introduced me a different world and I began enjoying acting with that film. Earlier, I played a pretty girl in films. Avane Srimannarayana (Kannada; 2019) was a game-changer for me as I realised my potential and capacity as an actor and was able to push myself. Working with the amazing team, with such talents for one and a half years too was a learning experience,” she says. Srivastava admits she would love to do a Hindi film as its her mother tongue but she is also happy in her space and doesn’t want to rush anything. “I am growing each day and I will get there sometime. I want to focus on the journey, rather than the goal. Today, I am getting scripts that satisfy the actor in me, so I will follow this path for now.”Interact with author on Twitter/@iamkav||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/shanvi-srivastava-kannada-audience-s-capacity-to-understand-cinema-is-improving-101614935276302.html
05-03-2021||Jaipur||Barmer man gets life threats from Kuwait employer, Indian embassy 'offers' help||A 23-year-old man from Rajasthan's Barmer district, who went to Kuwait to work two years ago, was allegedly facing a threat to his life from his employer, forcing him to hide while awaiting a rescue, claimed his family members.The issue came to light when his brother Jaswant Singh, a Barmer resident, approached Union minister and Barmer MP Kailash Choudhary, pleading for help to save his brother's life. Choudhary, in turn, spoke to the officials of external affairs ministry to intervene in the matter, which they apparently did.His brother said when Kumbh Singh, 23, a resident of Barmer's Patodi block, went to Kuwait to work about two years ago, his exploitative employer took away Singh’s passport and other identity documents. He further claimed that the employer even used to beat his brother and threaten not to let him ever return to India. The situation worsened two months ago, when the employer rejected Singh’s plea to let him go home after the expiry of his visa. It reached a crisis point about four-five days ago, when Singh had to escape from his employer and hide after he received a threat to his life from his employer, said his brother.Also Read: Out on bail, rape accused sets woman complainant on fire in RajasthanUnion minister Kailash Choudhary confirmed he was approached for help, after which he spoke to the officials of the external affairs ministry."MEA officials informed me that they have directed the Indian embassy in Kuwait to take up the matter and assured proper action,” said Choudhary."After MEA’s intervention, the Indian embassy in Kuwait had contacted Kumbh Singh and assured him help in returning to India, claimed his brother.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/barmer-man-gets-life-threats-from-kuwait-employer-indian-embassy-offers-help-101614934137012.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||'Failure of constitutional machinery': Fadnavis on vacant post of Speaker||Maharashtra's Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said on Friday that in an unprecedented turn of events, despite the Governor's recommendation, the post of Assembly speaker was vacant for over a month and this is equivalent to the failure of constitutional machinery.The post fell vacant after Nana Patole handed over his resignation letter to Deputy Speaker Narhari Zirwal on February 4 and took over as the Congress's state unit chief. Maharashtra | It has never happened before that despite the Governor's recommendation, the post of assembly speaker is vacant for over a week. This is equivalent to the failure of constitutional machinery: Leader of Opposition and former CM Devendra Fadnavis pic.twitter.com/IaPW034oja "Our connection will stay strong. As an MLA I will continue to work and will follow orders. Until the new Speaker is chosen, the Deputy Speaker will continue to work," Patole had said.Watch | ‘Failure of constitutional machinery’: Fadnavis on vacant Assembly speakeIn Thursday's Assembly session, BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar too termed the delay in election to the seat a 'mockery of the Constitution', and demanded that the Chair announce a schedule for the Speaker's election at the earliest. "Do you want to create history and find a mention in the Guinnessbook of world records?" he asked.Also Read: BJP MP Nana Patole resigns from Lok Sabha after criticising senior leadersTalking about 1980, when Indira Gandhi had dismissed the Sharad Pawar-led Maharashtra government on grounds that there was no constitutional machinery in place, legislator Sudhir Mungantiwar said that if the election schedule for Speaker's post is not announced immediately, there would be President's rule. According to the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, the three ruling parties -- the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress -- will collectively decide on the new speaker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/failure-of-constitutional-machinery-fadnavis-on-vacant-post-of-speaker-101614934202511.html
05-03-2021||West||Spotlight on Nandigram again as Mamata to fight Bengal polls from assembly seat||West Bengal assembly elections, which is already set to be one of the closely-watched polls this year, got a fillip as Trinamool Congress chief (TMC) and chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Friday she will be fighting from the Nandigram constituency. “When I say something, I keep my word,” Banerjee said and added that she will go to Nandigram on March 9 and file her nomination on March 10.Nandigram is important for Trinamool Congress’ political past as well as future. Nearly 14 years ago, a movement sprung out from Nandigram following the Communist Party of India (Marxist) or (CPI(M) government’s decision to build a special economic zone (SEZ) in the area. The move angered the villagers who needed those lands for agriculture.WATCH | CM Mamata Banerjee to contest from Nandigram; says this is a ‘smiley election’In 2007, the district saw several incidents of violence but on March 27 the killing of 14 unarmed villagers in Nandigram in police firing led to harsh criticism of the Left Front government. Banerjee stepped in along with her party and started the Nandigram movement, which eventually led to the fall of the Left Front government. The Nandigram movement became pivotal for the Trinamool Congress as it fought the elections on the plank of giving people back their rights and most importantly their lands. Along with Banerjee, Suvendu Adhikari also led the anti-land acquisition movement in Nandigram and worked to expand the party’s base in West Midnapore, Purulia and Bankura, which were the earlier strongholds of the CPI(M).Trinamool Congress, banking on what it called its pro-people politics, won the panchayat elections in 2008, Lok Sabha elections in 2009, municipal polls in 2010 and registered a massive victory ousting the Left Front government from power in the 2011 elections.In 2021, the picture has changed drastically as Adhikari is longer with the Trinamool Congress. At a rally in Midnapore in December 2020, the Union minister for home affairs Amit Shah stood alongside a group of Trinamool Congress lawmakers, who defected from the party saying it had shifted away from helping the people. The leaders were led by Adhikari, who claimed that the people of West Bengal will oust the TMC from power, sounding very different from a decade ago when he along with Banerjee celebrated the fall of the Left Front government.Banerjee’s decision to fight from Nandigram can be seen as a move to win back her electorates. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has not yet announced its list of candidates for the upcoming polls but Nandigram has once again become a critical point. As the BJP promises to usher ‘ashol poriborton’ (the real change) and a new era of development for West Bengal, the TMC chief has gone back to the drawing board to ensure that her party remains in power.TMC workers are already looking for houses in Nandigram where the West Bengal chief minister will set up her base in the following weeks as the state heads to elections on March 27. Sheikh Sufiyan, a TMC leader from East Midnapore, told HT that party workers have zeroed in on three to four houses where the chief minister will decide the strategy for the polls.Senior leaders of the BJP have said they are confident about a clean sweep from the Nandigram seat in the upcoming assembly election in West Bengal and that its candidate will defeat Banerjee by 50,000 votes.Fear of violence has already cast a shadow on the upcoming polls in the state. Several clashes between the workers of the BJP and the ruling party have led to the loss of lives and injuries over the past couple of years. West Bengal assembly elections will be held across eight phases starting March 27. Elections will be held on April 1, April 6, April 10, April 17, April 22, April 26 and April 29 for the rest of the phases. The votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/west-bengal-assembly-election/tmc-releases-first-list-of-291-candidates-for-west-bengal-assembly-polls-101614934239385.html
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||Akali MLAs suspended for budget session for disrupting Punjab CM’s speech||Shiromani Akali Dal members were on Friday suspended from the Punjab assembly for the rest of the budget session for creating a ruckus and disrupting chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s reply to the governor’s address twice. Speaker Rana KP Singh suspended all Akali legislators for the next three days of the session after they created chaos in the Vidhan Sabha that led to two adjournments of the House. Asking the assembly marshals to keep the SAD MLAs out of the House, the Speaker adjourned the assembly for 15 minutes in a bid to restore order. The second adjournment was ordered soon after the chief minister resumed his speech. The SAD members termed the chief minister’s speech a bundle of lies and stormed into the well of the House. The ruling party members were also seen raising slogans against the opposition Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party for joining hands to disrupt the CM’s speech. The Speaker announced the suspension of the SAD MLAs as they started raising anti-government slogans when Capt Amarinder Singh castigated the role of SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal over justifying farm laws when the Centre was preparing to bring the Bills in Parliament. All efforts by the Speaker to calm the Akali members down were in vain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akali-mlas-suspended-for-budget-session-for-disrupting-punjab-cm-s-speech-101614933836248.html
05-03-2021||Noida||#VocalForLocal: Rural artisans showcase women power at this crafts festival in Noida||“My husband told me he wouldn’t help me with my business; I joined this self-help group with a few thousand rupees I borrowed from family, and now I’m financially independent,” says Saraswati Devi, one of the 300 rural women from various self-help groups (SHGs) who are displaying their skills at the Saras Aajeevika Mela, ongoing at Noida Haat. The mela promotes local artisans, keeping in mind PM Narendra Modi’s clarion call of #VocalForLocal. Organised by the Ministry of Rural Development and National Institution of Rural Development & Panchayati Raj (NIRDPR), it features a curated collection of handloom and handicrafts such as Andhra Pradesh’s Kalamkari work, Mekhla chadar from Assam and tribal jewellery from Jharkhand. Showcasing Chhattisgarh’s famous Kosa sarees, Malamati, an artisan, says, “It takes us a lot of time to prepare each saree, and they get sold for anything between ₹6,000 to ₹12,000. I’m happy to be here since there had been no exhibition for almost the whole of last year due of the pandemic. We can hopefully make up for our losses now by showcasing at this event.” A range of natural food products such as spices, mixes and desserts are also on sale for visitors. Reena Chandel from UP’s Hamirpur has a stall featuring papaya burfi made without oil or additives. “We have 80 women working in our SHG, who prepare these sweets that are sold across the country. Aise events pe hum logon ko apne products ki jankari de paate hain. We also get better access to wider markets, and can share our stories with the world,” says Chandel. Visitors can also enjoy the varied cultural performances that are scheduled every evening, at the venue, which is hosting this event for the first time ever. And apart from crafts, a range of cuisines made by traditional local female chefs from states across India are also on offer to satiate the taste buds of foodies visiting this mela. Sharbina, an artisan from Kerala, while prepping delicacies such as Chicken Kallikkod and Malabar Chicken Biryani, tells us: “We are happy that people in the North can also enjoy these popular dishes from the South. Thanks to this platform that have allowed us to offer what we have and popularise our cooking skills!” Catch It LiveWhat: Saras Aajeevika Mela 2021 Where: Noida Haat, Sector 33A, Noida City Centre On till: March 14Timing: 11am to 8pm Nearest Metro Station: Noida City Centre on Blue Line Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/vocalforlocal-rural-artisans-showcase-women-power-at-this-crafts-festival-in-noida-101614933188668.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Man accused of cyber fraud gets bail in Mumbai||A sessions court in Mumbai on Thursday granted bail to a 25-year-old man, accused of making crores through cyber fraud across the country, a month after he was arrested for allegedly duping a Mumbai businessman in December 2019. Police said Badri Jeevanlal Mandal faces eight cyber fraud cases in Mumbai and many more across the country. “He has made crores of rupees from the cyber fraud activities and has bought a bungalow, cars, bike from the fraud money. He also splurged money on his girlfriend,” said inspector Raja Bidkar of Mumbai’s DB Marg police station.Mandal was arrested from his native Jharkhand for allegedly posing as an executive from an e-wallet service provider, accessing the businessman’s phone to dupe him of ₹1.70 lakh on the pretext of updating his Know Your Customer details.Also Read | SC tells states to install CCTVs in police stations, probe agencies in 5 monthsThe prosecution opposed Mandal’s bail application citing his history of cyber fraud. Mandal’s lawyer, Sunil Pandey, argued there is no substantial piece of evidence against his client. “Other co-accused in the case have already got bail in the case,” Pandey said.Mandal was granted bail in lieu of ₹25,000 personal bond and surety of the same amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-accused-of-cyber-fraud-gets-bail-in-mumbai-101614931435925.html
05-03-2021||Pune||Pune: Bombay HC asks media to not give unnecessary publicity to woman's death||The Bombay High Court has asked the media not to give unnecessary publicity to an incident where a woman allegedly committed suicide in Pune and her suspected illicit relations with a man, according to an order made available on Friday.A division bench of Justices SS Shinde and Manish Pitale gave the directive on Thursday while hearing a petition filed by the woman's father against news articles on his daughter, her death and her alleged relationship.Senior counsel Shirish Gupte, appearing for the woman's father, told the court the petitioner had learnt that his daughter fell from the balcony of her flat in Pune on February 8 and was declared dead at the hospital.Soon after the incident, various news reports in print and electronic media emerged alleging the 23-year-old woman was in an illicit relationship with a man, Gupte said, dubbing the reports as defamatory and derogatory.Around 12 audio clips of alleged conversations of the petitioners daughter with some unknown person were circulated by political parties and the media, Gupte argued.Gupte referred to a high court judgment delivered on a petition against media trial in the death case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput that laid down guidelines to be followed by the media while reporting on sensitive cases.The bench, in its order made available on Friday, noted that it found prima facie substance in the petitioners argument and directed the media to scrupulously follow the guidelines issued by the HC.And not to publish or give any unnecessary publicity to the incident of death of the daughter X of the petitioner and further alleged illicit relationship of the daughter X with Y, the court said.The court posted the matter for further hearing on March 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-bombay-hc-asks-media-to-not-give-unnecessary-publicity-to-woman-s-death-101614931022758.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||HC refuses pre-arrest bail, says offences under Trademark Act cognisable||The Bombay high court has refused to grant pre-arrest bail to a man booked for selling substandard goods using the name, trademark and license number of a reputed company that manufactured high density polyethylene pipes used for irrigation purposes. The court held that as the accused had blatantly violated trademark and copyright provisions, had also resorted to cheating by getting sub-standard goods manufactured and inducing people into buying them by passing them off as that of a reputed company, his custodial interrogation was necessary.A single judge bench of justice Sarang Kotwal while hearing the anticipatory bail application of Piyush Ranipa was informed that the applicant had been booked by Mohol police station at Solapur for offences punishable under various section of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Copyright Act, 1957, and Trade Marks Act, 1999, in December 2020. The complaint was lodged by the zonal manager of the pipe manufacturing company after he intercepted a consignment of pipes and found that the name, trademark and even license number of his company were used to market sub-standard pipes.Also Read | Bombay HC asks authorities to reply to PIL against removal of cash lanes at toll plazasWhen the application came up for hearing, the lawyer of the accused argued that the offences under which he was booked were bailable.The bench sought the help of advocate Aniket Nikam as amicus curiae to ascertain whether the offences under which the accused was booked were bailable or non-bailable offences.After hearing the submissions, the court observed, “In this case whether there is infringement of Copyright Act attracting punishment under section 63 of the Act; is a matter of investigation, but certainly there appears to be infringement of the trademark registered in the name of the informant’s company. Therefore, commission of offence punishable under section 103 of the Trade Marks Act is clearly made out. The accused have falsely applied the informant’s trademark to their own products and have attempted to sell those products...By their act, the public were induced or an attempt was made to induce the public to buy these products under the impression that they were manufactured by the informant’s company.”The court held that custodial interrogation of the accused was required and hence rejected the anticipatory bail application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-refuses-pre-arrest-bail-says-offences-under-trademark-act-cognisable-101614930955794.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Bombardier to make coaches for Mumbai’s Metro-4 and 4A routes||Canadian company Bombardier has been awarded the contract to manufacture 234 coaches or 39 trains for the Metro-4 (Wadala-Thane-Kasarwadavali) and Metro-4A (Kasarwadavali-Gaimukh), the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) said on Thursday. A Chinese firm had also shown interest in manufacturing the rakes in July 2020. However, according to officials, the Chinese firm, CRRC Corporation Ltd, did not qualify for the bids.MMRDA on Thursday tweeted, “The first prototype train is expected to be delivered after 84 weeks from today. After MRSI contact to M/s BEML, this second contract is also going to achieve & Make in India tag for its Rolling Stocks.”The Bharat Earth Movers Limited (BEML) was awarded the contract for manufacturing rakes for Metro-2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro-7 (Dahisar E-Andheri E), under the Make-in-India initiative. In January 2021, HT had reported that the 234 coaches will be produced at Bombardier’s Savli and Maneja sites near Vadodara. The trains will also be designed at their engineering centre in Hyderabad.Also Read | Bombardier, Siemens among 23 firms keen on running private trains in IndiaThe 32.3km-long corridor will connect the city to neighbouring Thane and is being built at a cost of ₹14,549 crore. The extension to this corridor is a 2.7km-long stretch till Gaimukh along the Ghodbunder Road. In November 2020, a German funding agency, KfW, had approved a loan worth ₹4,000 crore for the procuring rolling stock, implementing the integrated ticketing system and multimodal integration for the two lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombardier-to-make-coaches-for-mumbai-s-metro-4-and-4a-routes-101614930175741.html
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||Illicit liquor racket busted in Amritsar, 11 held with 58-tonne ‘lahan’||Four days after an illicit liquor racket was busted in Ajnala sub division of Amritsar district, police unearthed another such mini distillery and arrested 11 people, including a woman, after recovering 58 tonnes of ‘lahan’ (raw material used for making the liquor) at Lakhuwal village early on Friday. The Amritsar district rural police teams conducted the early morning raids and also recovered 4.61 lakh ML illicit liquor, nine live stills, 41 drums, six LPG cylinders, 22 kg of opium plants and 10 tarpaulins from the village. Those arrested were identified as Rajan Singh, Avtar Singh, Radha, Paramjit Singh, Abhi, Samsher Singh, Sonu, Sandeep Singh, David Masis, Sunny and his father Amar Singh, all from the same village. Police have identified four more accused and raids are on to arrest them. The accused had been producing illicit liquor on a scale of a mini distillery by installing stills in their houses. Police teams conduct raids after tip-off Senior superintendent of police (SSP), Amritsar rural, Dhruv Dahiya said that the raids were conducted after a tip-off about the accused. He said teams were set up under the supervision of DSP (detective) Gurunderpal Singh, assistant superintendent of police (ASP), Majitha, Abhimanyu Rana, DSP, Ajnala, Vipan Kumar and DSP, special branch, Sukhraj Singh to conduct the raids. The entire village was cordoned off during the raid. The SSP said that all accused have been booked under the Excise Act. He said investigation was on to find their links. 4 days ago, liquor unit was busted in Ajnala The raids come four days after the Punjab excise department busted an illicit liquor manufacturing unit being run at Khiala Kalan village of Ajnala. Nearly 110 tonnes of ‘lahan’ and 1,780 litres of illicit liquor were recovered. Eight people, including three women, were arrested. Six stills, 62 drums of 200 litres each, six LPG cylinders, 31 plastic cans of 100 litres each, two water tanks of 500 litre capacity, two plastic drums of 50 litres each, 11 plastic cans of 35 litres each and tarpaulins were recovered by the excise department team with the help of the police. Amritsar rural and Tarn Taran police have been working on the illicit liquor trail since last July’s hooch tragedy that left more than 130 people dead in the border districts of Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illicit-liquor-racket-busted-in-amritsar-11-held-with-58-tonne-lahan-101614930115837.html
05-03-2021||Other||Pune’s event calendar: March 6 to 11 March, 2021||Women’s day specialTheatreSwatantra Theatre presents a Women’s Day Celebration with Vijay Tendulkar’s plays, featuring prominent female characters – “Khamosh Adaalat Jaari Hai” and “Panchi Aise Ate Hain”. When: March 7 6.30 pm - Khamosh Adalat Jaari Hain- 90min8.30 pm - Panchi Aise Ate Hain - 90minWhere: Open-Air Theatre, Inside SMJV, next to BMCC, off FC Road, Deccan Donor passes available @ Ticketkhidkee.com and Bookmyshowwww.swatantratheater.com +91-9767178857, 8329696186Film festivalSymbiosis Law School Pune, a constituent of Symbiosis International (deemed university) is celebrating Women’s Day by screening the movie “Nil Battey Sannata”.When: March 8, 10amPanel discussion on “Women in Cinema” from 12:30pm Women’s day exhibitionANSH presents a women’s day special exhibition When: March 6 and 7Where: Gandhi Bhavan Ground, Dahanukar Colony, KothrudWomen’s Day: Bookoholics BookClubBookoholics BookClub will talk to some accomplished female writers and get to know their journeys.When March 6, 4pmWhere: Marshall’s Book Cafe, Aundh.Fill a Google form to confirm your presence at the event.https://forms.gle/yz4NgetRYtuRA5Av7Women’s adventure campThis camp is designed to uniquely challenge every camper to step out of her comfort zone, build confidence, and make friends that will last a lifetime.When: Mar 6, 6pmWhere: Nisargshala, Nisargshala Velhe MH, India, Pune, India-------------------------------------------------------Fluid Art workshop Janhavi Ramsinghani: Dive into the therapeutic world of colours as Janhavi guides you through a fun interactive session.Where: The High Spirits Cafe When: March 6, 4pm to 6pm Fees: Rs1,250 Contact: +91 70834 86784/9881222495 Deccan College’s bicentenary online lecture seriesSpecial lecture on Deccan College --- “From Vishrambag Pathshala to a University”, with speaker Prof K Paddayya When: March 5, 3:30pm Google Meet Link: meet.google.com/oar-qnbu-pxbYouTube Link: https://youtu.be/kGfOQ6CCb-MSangeet Sangoshti Swaramandal Foundation, along with South-Central Zone Cultural Centre, Nagpur, and Ministry of Culture, Government of India, has organised a two-day musical programme called “Sangeet Sangoshti”. When: Saturday, March 6 and Sunday, March 7Where: Garware College Hall, KarvenagarNEF Trail RunNational Education Foundation (NEF) a Pune-based NGO active in the field of adventure sports and informal outdoor education brings to you its second Edition of te NEF Trail Run.When: March 6 Categories:• Men: 15km & 25km• Women: 15km & 25kmTotal prize money: ₹ 24,000/-Every finisher will get a medal and a certificate of appreciation.Contact: 8698 656 565Visit: www.nefenduro.com/nef-trail-run/MaahirMaahir brings the magical voice of Pandit Sanjeev Abhyankar for the first time in Pune. Being a “Maahir” in the arena of Hindustani Classical vocals, the concert will be a treat for fans.When: Sunday, March 7, 5:30 pmWhere: Bhimsen Joshi Kalamandir, Pune, Maharashtra, India 411007, PuneBake a cake SG Cakes presents a one-day workshop on how to bake the perfect eggless cakes, from basic to advanced Prior registration is compulsory.When: March 7, 10am - 7pmWhere: Camp, Pune.Contact: 8149201259 – WhatsApp for detailsPoetry sessionA special edition of a poetry meetup by The Yellow Room, for those of any age who are able, or willing to, express themselves. When: March 7, 5pm to 7pmWhere: The Soundtrack Cafe, New DP Rd, Akshaynagar Society, Vishal nagar, Pimple Nilakh, PCMC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punes-event-calendar-march-6-to-11-march-2021-101614929815018.html
05-03-2021||Other||Slam dunk: India, the next frontier in global basketball... Key ingredients to improve basketball talent||PUNE By any measure of popularity in the 21st century, the sport of basketball likely ranks among the top three most popular global sports. Followed by an estimated 2.5 billion people, the game has grown by leaps and bounds (pardon the pun), now featuring 107 international players in the NBA, the world’s most competitive basketball league. A large part of this burgeoning growth of the NBA can be attributed to Yao Ming being drafted with the first overall pick by the Houston Rockets. With this pick, the NBA instantly became attractive to the Chinese market as Chinese fans flocked to learn the game of basketball at a higher rate than ever before. Currently, it is believed that 300 million basketball players play the sport recreationally or competitively in China. Being the world’s 2nd largest current population, India is the next country that could see an explosive growth in the popularity and talent level of the sport of basketball. Indeed, with the NBA currently having one of its seven international basketball academies based in New Delhi, steps are already being taken to contribute to the talent level and growth of basketball in the country. Additionally, the NBA launched the first NBA Basketball School in Mumbai in April 2017, to further educate players, parents, coaches and organisations on the process of improvement and development. While these steps have served to increase the popularity of the game even further, there are a few things that could be done to enhance the talent level and spearhead the meteoric rise of the sport to mirror the basketball talent level of China. Likely, the most essential piece of this operation would be to create the infrastructure required to play basketball recreationally around the country. With basketball requiring a hoop, a ball and a concrete or wooden playing surface, the biggest step governing bodies could make would be to increase access to the game to more people. This would mean having more areas throughout the country in various communities with courts and basketballs available for game play. In return, there would be a higher amount of recreational interest in the sport, which would raise the competition level for all basketball players in the country. Currently, the sport is limited in competition due to the lack of easy access to the game for the majority of people. An increased competition level will certainly result in better basketball talent coming out of the country which would have a multiplier effect on the motivation of young players to improve their talent. Currently, India has not experienced its watershed moment of having a player drafted in the first round of the NBA Draft, something that would undoubtedly catapult the popularity of the sport and motivation of Indian basketball players. However, there is a steadier talent pool of Indian players being exposed to play at the highest level of youth competitive basketball. Currently, Princepal Singh is the first Indian player to play competitive basketball beyond the university level in America. Singh is a graduate of the NBA Academy system, and is a talented player who joined the rising stars NBA G-League Ignite Team, which is currently competing in the NBA G-League bubble in Orlando. While he has not seen many minutes yet, his growth and steady progression in learning the nuances of competitive basketball will make him a player that is necessary to keep an eye on for the future. With the original pioneers for Indian basketball players in America being outliers in size such as big men like Satnam Singh, the success of players like Princepal Singh in playing competitive basketball clearly shows that the talent level and popularity of the sport continues to improve in India, setting it up well to be the next country where the sport of basketball takes a meteoric leap.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/slam-dunk-india-the-next-frontier-in-global-basketball-key-ingredients-to-improve-basketball-talent-101614929755027.html
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||Can’t deny maternity leave to woman if she’s mother through surrogacy: HC||A woman employee cannot be denied maternity leave even if she has become a mother through surrogacy, the Himachal Pradesh high court has held in an order passed on Thursday. A division bench, comprising justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and justice Sandeep Sharma, passed these orders on the petition filed by a woman language teacher working on contract in Kullu district. She became a mother on September 9, 2020, through surrogacy but when she applied for maternity leave, her application was rejected. Hearing her petition, the court observed that it’s no longer res integra (a case without a precedent) that a woman contractual or ad hoc employee is entitled to maternity leave on a par with a regular woman employee on grounds of fair play and social justice and there cannot be any discrimination. The court further observed that once the respondents admit that the minor child is that of the petitioner, then she is entitled to the leave akin to others who are granted leave in terms of the leave rules. ‘Motherhood doesn’t end at birth of child’ “Even in the case of adoption, the adoptive mother does not give birth to the child, yet the necessity of bonding of the mother with the child has been recognised by the central government,” the court said. To distinguish between a mother who begets a child through surrogacy and a natural mother, would result in insulting womanhood and the intention of a woman to bring up a child begotten through surrogacy, the court added. It said that motherhood never ends on the birth of the child and a commissioning mother cannot be refused paid maternity leave. A woman cannot be discriminated against, as far as maternity benefits are concerned, only on the ground that she has obtained the baby through surrogacy. A newborn cannot be left at the mercy of others as it needs rearing and that is the most crucial period during which the child requires care and attention of his mother. Creating bond of affection between mother and childThe Bench also referred to Article 42 of the Constitution, which provides that the state shall make provision for securing just and humane conditions of work and for maternity relief as it was long felt that working women were unable to depute their time towards their children due to exigencies of service. Hence, the concept of grant of childcare leave was introduced to ensure the welfare of the child to enable the mother to avail leave whenever she feels that the child needs the care, said the court. It said that maternity leave is provided for creating a bond of affection between the two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cant-deny-maternity-leave-to-woman-if-she-s-mother-through-surrogacy-hc-101614925915512.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Follow guidelines while reporting death of Pune woman: HC tells media||The Bombay high court on Thursday restrained four news channels from reporting the death of a Pune woman on February 8 after the latter’s father complained that the print and electronic media were maligning the reputation of his family and the image of the deceased.The court also directed the media houses to strictly abide by the guidelines laid down on January 18 by the HC bench headed by chief justice Dipankar Datta in a public interest litigation which sought restraint on media trials being conducted in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. The petitioner’s lawyer told the division bench of justice S S Shinde and justice Manish Pitale that on February 8, the petitioner was informed that his daughter had lost her balance and fallen from the balcony of a first floor flat. She was rushed to the hospital where she was declared dead on admission.Also Read | Bombay HC asks Amazon to take down film over actor’s defamation caseSoon after her death, news of the woman having been in an illicit relationship with Y surfaced in print and electronic media which was defamatory and derogatory, said the petition. The lawyer submitted that the news was based on 12 audio clips containing an alleged conversation between the deceased and some unknown person. These clips, he said, were circulated by some political parties and the media to defame the deceased and also her family. .The media houses said they would exercise restraint and would not publish any objectionable content and would “scrupulously follow the guidelines” laid down by the division bench of the high court.In the January 18 order that the court referred to, the chief justice had held that the dignity of an individual even after death was protected under Article 21 of the constitution and hence media houses should follow various guidelines for reporting on “sensitive criminal matters, including death by suicide”. The order had also restrained the media from showing photographs of the deceased and reconstructing the incident while investigation was underway. The order had warned of strict action in the form of criminal contempt against errant media houses. While directing the respondents to not “to publish or give any unnecessary publicity to the incident of death of the daughter of the petitioner and further alleged illicit relationship of the daughter with Y,” the court issued notices to the Central and state government, Press Council of India, News Broadcasters Association and the four news channels who were made party in the petition to respond before the next hearing on March 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/follow-guidelines-while-reporting-death-of-pune-woman-hc-tells-media-101614924835105.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s Miranda House to start training course for aspiring women politicians||From April, Delhi University’s Miranda House is planning to start a three-month certificate programme for training young women interested in joining politics at the state and national levels. Principal Bijayalaxmi Nanda confirmed that the college was planning to offer the course to all interested students from the next academic session and will be the first one to do so.“We plan to pre-launch a pilot course by April and the course will be offered to all interested students from the next academic session. The programme will focus on training and capacity-building of young women at all levels from gram panchayat to urban municipal bodies,” Nanda said.While Miranda House will work on the curriculum, She Leads, a week-long virtual leadership training programme designed to support aspiring women political leaders, will work as resource partner of the college and function as co-creators, Nanda said.Also Read | European Union sets itself jobs, training and equality targets for 2030She Leads is a project led by non-governmental organisation Stree Shakti, The Parallel Force with the support of Chevening Alumni Project Fund (CAPF) in collaboration with Indian School of Democracy (ISD). The training for the first cohort of women leaders, being conducted by Stree Shakti currently, will culminate on March 8 at the India International Centre in New Delhi.“We plan to give all the necessary and training to young women interested in joining politics at any stage. Though the programme was conceptualised for in-person classes, we plan to offer it in blended (online as well as in-person) mode so that the colleges adopted by us under the university’s Vidya Vistar scheme can also avail the course,” Nanda said. The college is currently working with experts to finalise the curriculum and will hold a series of meetings beginning Monday to brainstorm on it.Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader and Miranda House alumna Brinda Karat, who graduated from the college in 1966, welcomed the move. “As part of the alumnae, I am glad to know that my old college is taking such an initiative. The whole aspect of women’s rights is linked to women’s rights in decision-making bodies. Women in India at different levels have taken important initiatives to show the relevance of women’s participation in political processes and it is good that our students should study the experience of women, particularly in panchayats,” said the leader.Bharatiya Janata Party leader Shazia Ilmi also pointed out that having more women political leaders in decision-making processes would lead to policies which take into account the challenges women face. “When it comes to policy and legislation, women are equal stakeholders. There have to be ways and means to make things easier for more women to join politics. For instance, Twitter and Facebook make it ugly for women and there have to be necessary checks and balances to protect them from specific abuse and trolling,” she said.Ilmi added, “Being in politics is challenging for women, especially for those who don’t have any sort of backing and are here on their own merit. Young women have to be taught to be determined because naysayers will doubt or question them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-miranda-house-to-start-training-course-for-aspiring-women-politicians-101614923515120.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Anurag Kashyap, Taapsee Pannu paid price of speaking against Centre: Saamana||Shiv Sena on Friday criticised the Centre over the income tax raids on filmmaker Anurag Kashyap and actor Taapsee Pannu,saying that they are facing action because they backed farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws passed by the government.An editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana said incidents like these, the arrest of environmental activist Disha Ravi, and the “silent and dirty campaigns” against actor Deepika Padukone, show the country in a bad light.Offices and homes of Kashyap, Pannu, film director Vikas Bahl, distributor Madhu Mantena, and others were raided by the income tax department on Wednesday in Mumbai and Pune. The next day, officials said they found discrepancy and manipulation of income during the searches at various places linked to Pannu, Kashyap and his partners at the now defunct production house, Phantom Films. There was also a huge suppression of income compared to the actual box office collections, they said.ALSO WATCH | Anurag Kashyap, Taapsee Pannu’s properties raided by Income Tax l Who said what“Taapsee Pannu and Anurag Kashyap put forward their opinion frankly. This brings us to the question if the remaining transactions in Bollywood are fair and transparent, and irregularities are only with Taapsee Pannu and Anurag Kashyap... They are among the handful of people who stood by the farmers’ agitation. They are paying the price for it,” the editorial said.Also Read | Raj Thackeray party takes credit of closing Karachi Bakery; not true, say othersQuestioning why only these few people were raided, it said, “Do the crores [of rupees] being circulated in Bollywood come from the Ganges?”It pointed out that the raids came the same day as the Supreme Court ruled, in another case, that criticising the government does not amount to sedition.The editorial alleged that a campaign was launched against actor Deepika Padukone following her visit to Jawaharlal Nehru University campus in January 2020. “Similar things happened after Deepika Padukone visited JNU to meet the students [to express solidarity with them after they were allegedly attacked by a mob]. There was a silent agitation against her, dirty campaigns started against her, her film was targeted.“Who are these people who carry out such acts and to which ideology they belong is a separate issue but our country’s image is definitely not getting better with such acts. Modi government was criticised globally for the manner in which environment activist Disha Ravi was arrested. Such incidents impact the country’s reputation,” it said.BJP was yet to react to Saamana’s editorial at the time of filing of this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anurag-kashyap-taapsee-pannu-paid-for-speaking-against-centre-saamana-101614923035085.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||Woman kills her children, hangs herself following quarrel with husband in Delhi||An argument with her husband led to a woman killing her four-year-old son and toddler daughter and then hanging herself from the ceiling fan of her home in north-west Delhi’s Shakurpur, the Delhi Police said. Usha Rangnani, deputy commissioner of police (north-west), said that a quarrel took place between the couple over the woman visiting her village in Bihar for a religious ceremony. “On Thursday morning, hours before the deaths, the couple had argued about the woman’s wish to go to her village in Madhubani to attend a mundan (head tonsure) ceremony,” said the DCP. Also Read | 22-yr-old dies as Mercedes rams car at Delhi’s Dwarka crossingWhen the husband returned home around 10.30pm from a restaurant where he works, he found the house locked from the inside. When his efforts to get in failed, the police were informed and they arrived at the scene to find the 22-year-old woman and her two children hanging from the ceiling fan. The DCP said that since the marriage took place less than five years ago (less than seven years), a magisterial enquiry would be conducted. The officer said that there were no immediate plans to arrest the husband or even book him before the magisterial enquiry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/woman-kills-her-children-hangs-herself-following-quarrel-with-husband-in-delhi-101614921774873.html
05-03-2021||Patna||Bihar: Evaluation of intermediate exam papers begin||The Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) has started evaluation of intermediate exam copies from Friday across 130 evaluation centres in the state, and it will continue till March 17 . More than 13.84 lakh students appeared in the exams across 1,473 centres held from February 1 to 13.The state education department held a video conference with all the district education officers in this regard on Thursday. The officials have been instructed for fair copy checking and centre superintendents have been directed to maintain tight security arrangements.The board has also issued a direction to invoke CrPC Section 144 (prohibitory orders) within a radius of 200 meter of every evaluation centre, to prevent entrance of any unauthorised person.BSEB officials said the copy evaluation work will be carried out in two shifts for subjects like English, Hindi, geography and mathematics, considering the large number of candidates who appeared in exams for these subjects.“Evaluators will have to check around 75 to 100 copies per day. A supervisory team consisting one head examiner and 12 assistant examiners has been constituted at each evaluation centre. After copy evaluation, subject-wise marks will be uploaded digitally on the same day for speedy result processing,” said an official.BSEB’s Matric examination’s copy evaluation will begin on March 12 and conclude on March 24. The board has scheduled re-examination on March 8 for social science for 8.46 lakh students, while 2,380 students will take the re-exam for English paper at Bangra High School, Umashankar High School and Anugraha Narayan Umashankar Singh Mahila Mahavidyalaya in Siwan district on March 9. Social science paper conducted in the first sitting on February 19 was cancelled due to paper leak in Jamui, while the English paper examination conducted on February 20 was postponed at three exam centres in Siwan due to unavoidable reasons.Also Read: Mohankrishna Bohara wins Bihari PuraskarPU to start first semester PG classesRegular classes of postgraduate first semester students in all the departments of Patna University (PU) will commence on Friday with 50% strength amid Covid-19 safety protocols. PU has also notified that all pending admissions in its undergraduate and postgraduate courses will be completed latest by March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-evaluation-of-intermediate-exam-papers-begin-101614920764127.html
05-03-2021||Other||Third PIL against MP’s anti-conversion law; HC issues notice to state govt||MP high court’s principal bench at Jabalpur on Thursday issued notice to the state government even as a third public interest litigation (PIL) was filled against the provisions of MP Freedom of Religion Ordinance 2020, which came into effect on January 9 this year. Bhopal resident Azam Khan’s March 4 PIL follows those of law student Amratansh Nema and civil society member LS Hardenia. All the PILs will be clubbed together.Also Read | HC issues notice to MP govt on petition against anti-conversion lawThe high court’s double bench comprising chief justice Mohammad Rafiq and judge Vijay Kumar Shukla issued notice to the chief secretary and principal secretary of law department. Petitioner Khan said, “The ordinance is a gross violation of constitutional rights of a citizen. Recently, two cases have been registered by women under MP Freedom of Religion ordinance after 2-4 years of their marriage and levelled allegations on their husbands for forcing them for conversion. The ordinance is being misused to target people.” The ordinance has a provision of up to 10 years’ imprisonment and a minimum fine of ₹1 lakh for religious conversion by way of allurement, fraud, threat or marriage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/third-pil-against-mp-s-anti-conversion-law-hc-issues-notice-to-state-govt-101614919374537.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi borders remain closed, traffic diverted||Singhu and Tikri borders continue to remain completely blocked due to the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws. While the Chilla border is completely open for traffic, the Ghazipur border is open only for traffic from Delhi to Ghaziabad.Motorists travelling towards Delhi from Uttar Pradesh cannot cross the Ghazipur border and the Delhi Traffic Police have advised them to take alternative routes which pass through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni and Apsara borders. Commuters can also use the Chilla border which was opened late January after several weeks of remaining blocked by farmers.Also Read | Women leaders to lead farmers’ protests on March 8The entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Saboli and Mangesh borders, continue to remain closed.The traffic police have advised motorists to travel via alternative routes such as Lampur, Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders. The police have been diverting traffic from Mukarba Chowk and GTK road.Motorists also have the option of choosing longer routes via the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad borders to travel between the two states.Farmers have been protesting at the Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu borders since November last year, for over three months now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-key-delhi-borders-remain-closed-traffic-diverted-101614916614118.html
05-03-2021||Lucknow||Village watchmen to help UP cops in peaceful conduct of panchayat polls||Ahead of panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh, police are taking the help of the village watchmen to keep an eye on miscreants and for curbing rumours that could lead to violence or unrest. The watchmen will also inform the police about bootleggers active in their respective areas, said police officials. The state police have also activated its informer network, cyber cell and social media cell for online monitoring.Village watchmen have traditionally kept the police updated of developments in their villages including rumours and troublemakers. Ahead of the panchayat polls, police have again asked the village watchmen to help identify bootleggers for crackdown on use of illegal-hooch in the poll season.A meeting of cops and village watchmen was held at the Soraon police station on Wednesday in this regard. The watchmen were told to stay alert and share information about troublemakers, suspicious persons in the villages, manufacturing, storage and transport of illegal liquor. They were also asked to create awareness among people to stay away from hooch as it may contain substances including methyl alcohol which is extremely harmful to health.Also Read: Man detained for Taj Mahal hoax bomb call, may have mental health illness: CopSP (trans-Ganga) Dhawal Jaiswal said a list of village watchmen was prepared and their mobile numbers were noted down. He added that the police and watchmen have been asked to work in coordination for the peaceful conduct of panchayat polls and to curb the menace of illicit liquor. Soon watchmen of other areas will also be alerted, he said.There are at least 4,739 watchmen in the four districts of the Prayagraj range, which include Prayagraj-921, Pratapgarh-2000, Kaushambi-714 and Fatehpur-1114.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/village-watchmen-to-help-up-cops-in-peaceful-conduct-of-panchayat-polls-101614914862130.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||22-yr-old dies as Mercedes rams car at Delhi’s Dwarka crossing||A 22-year-old man was killed, and his cousin was badly injured after a Mercedes collided with their Ford Figo car in West Delhi’s Dwarka in the early hours of Thursday, the police said. The two men, Akash Rana and Rahul Rana, who worked for a life insurance company, were returning from a party hosted by their employers at a prominent hotel around 1am, when the accident occurred at a traffic junction between Sector 6 and 7 of Dwarka. “The two cars collided with each other at the traffic junction. There is no CCTV footage of the accident, so it is difficult to say at this stage which of the two drivers was at fault,” said Santosh Meena, deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka). Also Read | Civil defence volunteer accidentally shoots himselfWhile the Mercedes driver absconded, the two cousins were rushed to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital where Akash was declared brought dead and Rahul is in a serious condition. They belong to Sonepat in Haryana.A police case, of causing death due to negligence, was registered against the driver of the Mercedes. “The Mercedes belongs to Ajay Kumar Singh, a businessman from Jharkhand whose family lives in Dwarka. His driver was behind the wheel. We are trying to trace him,” said the DCP.Since the Mercedes driver is absconding and the medical reports of the cousins were yet to arrive, the police weren’t able to determine if either of the men behind the wheels of the two cars was drunk at the time of the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi22yrold-dies-as-mercedes-rams-car-at-dwarka-crossing-101614914454045.html
05-03-2021||Lucknow||Early end to UP’s budget session leaves opposition miffed||The Uttar Pradesh legislature was adjourned sine die on Thursday about six days ahead of schedule after both the state assembly and the legislative council gave their nod to the state Budget for 2021-22. The state’s first paperless budget was presented with the largest-ever outlay of ₹550,270.78 crore on February 22. It has new schemes worth ₹27,598.40 crore.On Thursday, the assembly passed five bills, including the Uttar Pradesh Appropriation Bill-2021 that allows the state government to draw ₹5.85 lakh crore from the consolidated fund and a legislation to repeal 61 redundant laws, after protests, slogan-shouting and walkouts by members of the major Opposition parties.While the Opposition expressed unhappiness over the session ending ahead of schedule, parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Khanna cited precedent, asserting that it was not a new tradition. He also referred to the upcoming panchayat elections as well as the World Health Organisation and Niti Aayog’s observations on the fight against Covid-19.Hours after the assembly was adjourned sine die, the Upper House of the bicameral state legislature, too, followed suit on completing the listed business, passing several amendment bills by voice vote.The budget session began on February 18 and was scheduled to end with the passing of the budget on March 10. In its 15-day session, the state assembly held 10 sittings and conducted business for 65 hours and 31 minutes. Soon after the assembly’s sitting began for the day at 11am, Khanna urged speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit that all the items relating to the state budget be taken up and passed on the day.In his attempt to convince the Opposition members, Khanna said, “Five-day debate, admissible on the state budget, will be complete on Thursday. Panchayat elections are underway. Many members have to be in their constituencies to file objections about reservation of constituencies.”Opposition members staged a walkout when listed business was being taken up and alleged that the state government was violating all democratic norms. The second walkout came when the state government moved the Uttar Pradesh Repeal Bill 2021 to do away with 61 laws that have become redundant.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had spoken in the assembly on Wednesday and replied to issues raised by leader of opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary, BSP leader Lalji Verma and Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Aradhna Mishra ‘Mona’.Chaudhary (SP) said the state government had given the programme of the House till March 10. By bringing down the number of sittings, the state government was violating democratic norms and curtailing the rights of the members, he alleged. Verma quoted chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s statement made in 2017. He said the CM had talked about having more than 90 sittings of the House every year and the state government was backtracking on these words. He said this was for the first time that the question hour was not being held to make way for passage of the budget. The CLP leader said the state government’s move would deprive new members of the experience of cut motions on departmental budgets in the House.Khanna, however, said there was a lot of difference between the words and deeds of the Opposition. He said on March 12, 1991, the then minister for parliamentary affairs had moved a proposal to get the budget passed in one go. In 2009, the House met only for 13 days and a similar motion was moved on February 20, 2009 with the then minister for parliamentary affairs Lalji Verma, quoting the precedence of March 11, 1991 to make his point. Khanna said this was repeated again on March 11, 2006 in the House.The assembly also passed the Uttar Pradesh Fundamental Rule 56 (Amendment and Validation) Bill 2021 to retrospectively validate the retirement of state government employees on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he/she attains the age of 60 years. The House also gave its nod to the Uttar Pradesh Sheera Niyantran (Sansodhan) Vidheyak 2021 (control of molasses amendment bill 2021) to confer on the state government the powers of determining the rate of administrative charges on transfer, selling and supply of molasses by the sugar factories.It also passed the Uttar Pradesh Public Services (Reservation for Physically Handicapped, Dependents of Freedom Fighters and Ex-Servicemen (Amendment) Bill 2021 to give representation to ex-servicemen in subordinate services and provide 5% reservation on Group B posts.Also Read: Man detained for Taj Mahal hoax bomb call, may have mental health illness: CopIn the council, the pre-lunch session witnessed walkouts by the SP, BSP, and Congress members over several issues. SP members were dissatisfied with the government's response on the issue of alleged hoarding and black-marketeering of some essential commodities. BSP members walked out over the issue of alleged police atrocities.Congress members claimed there were "363 incidents of self-immolation outside UP Vidhan Sabha in the last seven months". They also protested over the law and order situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/early-end-to-up-s-budget-session-leaves-opposition-miffed-101614913588844.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Air quality poor, temperature could reach 35°C by Monday||Delhi’s air quality continued to remain in the “poor” category on Thursday, with the hourly average air quality index (AQI) at 7am recording 268.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed that on Wednesday the overall AQI had deteriorated to 278, categorised as “poor” in the AQI scale.On Tuesday, the overall AQI in Delhi was 175, in the “moderate” category.Also Read | Local sources behind high pollution in north, east DelhiIndia Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said that this deterioration in air quality was because of lowered wind speed and ventilation. The AQI is expected to remain the “poor” zone in the next two days. Meanwhile, IMD scientists have also forecast the continuation of a spike in temperature in the coming days. The maximum temperature could reach around 35 degrees Celsius by Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-air-quality-poor-temperature-could-reach-35-c-by-monday-101614913493310.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||MPI: NDMC ranks 1st, says it sought 'outstanding' quality of life for citizens||NDMC chairman Dharmendra on Thursday attributed the New Delhi Municipal Council's top ranking in the Centre's Municipal Performance Index to the civic body's continued endeavour to "provide its citizens an outstanding quality of life".The NDMC topped the 'Municipal Performance Index 2020' in the 'less than million' population category out of a list of 60 corporations.Also Read | Ease of Living Index 2020: Bengaluru, Shimla adjudged best citiesThis year's ranking comes as a remarkable jump from the NDMC's 65th spot in the 2019 MPI."Since its launch in 2019, the NDMC has been participating in the MPI across all five sets of verticals - Services, Finance, Planning, Technology and Governance. The NDMC endeavour has been to improve and provide its citizens an outstanding quality of life."Active participation for improving MPI over the year has provided us good insight and learning opportunities to improve and scale the quality of municipal services in the NDMC area," Dharmendra said.He added that in the 'Services' and 'Governance' verticals, the civic body had taken several initiatives through "technology intervention for strengthening of e-governance and m-governance to improve efficiency and effectiveness in providing civic services in an equitable, non-discretionary and a transparent manner".Some of these initiatives include the 311 mobile app, online bill tracking system, and QR-based response mechanism in public toilets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mpi-ndmc-ranks-1st-says-it-sought-outstanding-quality-of-life-for-citizens-101614912219128.html
05-03-2021||Lucknow||Will win UP elections next year, says SP chief Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav said on Thursday that his party will win the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections next year with a big margin and then will work on abolishing voting through electronic voting machines (EVMs). Predicting his party’s victory on 350 seats in the assembly elections, Yadav said no one trusted the EVMs. At a training camp for party workers in Jhansi, Yadav said that even in a country like the United States, the presidential elections were held through ballot papers and the counting lasted for several days. Also Read | Budget passed in UP Assembly; House adjourned sine die“Everyone trusts voting through ballots but it cannot be brought back as of now. We will win UP first and then Samajwadi people will be the first to discard the EVMs,” he told reporters. He did not elaborate on how his party would convince the election commission on the issue.Yadav said the farmers did not want the three farm laws, yet the Central government was adamant on enforcing them. “The farmers will become labourers on their own fields,” he said, adding that the laws were passed forcibly in Rajya Sabha where the BJP did not enjoy a majority. He alleged that the BJP government forcibly passed the farm laws in the Rajya Sabha despite the fact that it did not have majority there. “BJP wants to kill democracy. In UP also, in the legislative council, where the SP has majority, the government ignored it and got the bills passed there,” he said.Akhilesh said the contest in UP elections would not be as close as in Bihar, but one sided. The grand alliance was set to form the government but the BJP did not allow this to happen. In UP, he said, the BJP would face a debacle. “SP will win 350 seats,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/will-win-up-elections-next-year-says-sp-chief-akhilesh-yadav-101614912833328.html
05-03-2021||Lucknow||RLD’s Jayant Chaudhary asks BJP leaders to join farmers’ stir or lose polls||Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) leader Jayant Chaudhary on Thursday called upon the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders to join farmers’ protest against the three farm laws, warning they would otherwise be taught a lesson in the upcoming panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh. Chaudhary also continued his attack on the Union government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi while addressing a kisan panchayat in Jahangirabad town of Bulandshahar district.He said BJP leaders should break the shackles of “slavery” and join the four months long farmers’ movement. He then appealed to the gathering to show the BJP leaders the “might” of vote in the forthcoming panchayat elections.He said that the movement's effect was quite visible on BJP's posters, which earlier had photos of party leaders and now carry photos of Chaudhary Charan Singh and farmer leaders.The RLD leader further said that youth were attending farmers’ gatherings in big numbers which indicated their mindset to oust the Modi government from power. He alleged that while ignoring the pain and plights of farmers, the Modi government was intent on benefiting a handful of corporates, and called upon farmers to show their unity to the government trying to “disgrace and defame” the movement.In what appeared to be a rejoinder to PM Modi’s ‘andolanjeevi’ (compulsive protestors) jibe, he said farmers, who provided food to people could never suck blood of others like a 'Parjivi' (parasite).Also Read: Delhi HC directs UP police to give post mortem report of farmerJayant also said that the three contentious farm laws passed by the Parliament would destroy farmers and farming and accused the government of spreading “lies” that they would be advantageous to farmers.He said, "Our battle was to protect farmers and farming while they (the government) were protecting interests of corporate", and added that the movement would continue till the government agreed to repeal the farm laws and legalise the minimum support price regime (MSP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rlds-jayant-chaudhary-asks-bjp-leaders-to-join-farmers-stir-or-lose-polls-101614911807367.html
05-03-2021||City||Man held for bomb scare at Taj Mahal that led to closure||At least 1,000 tourists inside the Taj Mahal complex in Agra were evacuated on Thursday following a bomb call which turned out to be a hoax, the police said.The caller, identified as Vimal Kumar Singh, was detained in Firozabad and appeared to be mentally unstable, additional director general (ADG) of police, Agra zone, A Satish Ganesh said.Singh called the 112 emergency response number of the Uttar Pradesh Police at around 9am and claimed that a bomb was kept inside the 17th-century monument.The UP Police informed the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) who launched anti-sabotage checks at the Taj Mahal premises. Nothing suspicious was found, and the monument was reopened about two hours later, the ADG said.“Prima facie it seems that he (Singh) is mentally unstable and is probably under treatment... The family members of the accused also claimed that he was under treatment for his ailment We are probing why he made such a call,” Ganesh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-held-for-bomb-scare-at-taj-mahal-that-led-to-closure-101614898364902.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||461 bullets, 4,000 tear gas shells used by cops to quell Delhi riots||Policemen fired at least 461 bullets in the air and used nearly 4,000 tear gas shells to quell the Hindu-Muslim clashes that erupted in parts of northeast Delhi a year ago, according to Delhi police’s report on the riots.The numbers of bullets fired and tear gas shells used were the highest in recent years, several mid-level police officers said. To be sure, while tear gas is commonly used to quell protests, instances of police resorting to aerial firing are not common. “Before the riots, while police may have used hundreds of tear gas shells during violent demonstrations such as the violence outside Jamia Millia Islamia during the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests, police in Delhi hardly have to resort to aerial firing. It happens only once in a while and in a few cases,” said an officer who did not wish to be identified.At least 53 persons died while 581 others were injured when riots broke out in northeast Delhi between February 23 and 27 last year. The analysis on the use of force by police also mentions that “police did not use excessive force despite extreme provocation, with the first casualty in the riots being a policeman”.Police have said that while rioters carried pistols and other types of weapons, all their officers fired only aerially and not at any rioter on the road. “...However, if police had resorted to direct fire, to disperse the protestors, the casualties would have been enormous and could have further fuelled the riots. The police used tear gas, lathi charge and aerial firing to control the crowd. The force used was neither excessive nor less but was commensurate to the demands of the situation,” the report reads.Tear gas and lathi charge are the first steps used by police in handling riots.Of the 53 people who died, postmortem reports later revealed that at least 13 of them had died of gunshot wounds. One of the defining images of the riots was that of a northeast Delhi resident, later identified as Shah Rukh Pathan, holding a pistol, also pointing it at a police officer, in the middle of the violence. Police investigations revealed that many rioters bought weapons from parts of western Uttar Pradesh before the riots began. In Shah Rukh’s case, the pistol he used (later recovered) was bought from Munger, Bihar. He bought it from an employee of an illegal gun factory in Munger.According to the police report, the highest number of bullets fired and tear gas shells used were in the first 36 hours of the violence. It mentioned that before 2020, the 1992 riots in northeast Delhi were concentrated in areas under three police stations, while in 2020 the violence was spread across 12 police stations and two police districts: northeast and Shahdara.Police mentioned that most of the casualties last year were reported in the interior areas north of Wazirabad Road, which had no previous history of communal riots. The mobs, according to the report, gathered in large numbers at many places simultaneously and when they were controlled or dispersed from one place, they continued rioting at the other places.“The intensity and scale of violence can be gauged from the fact that 4,458 PCR calls were received on February 24, 2020 and 9,308 calls the following day,” the report said.As an attempt to restore calm during and after the riots, police records show that between February 22 and March 21, 2020, a total of 471 peace committee meetings were held in the area, many of which were chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and police commissioner SN Shrivastava.As part of their investigation, police have till date arrested 1,753 persons, which includes 820 Hindus and 933 Muslims. Of the 1,753 persons, at least 544 alleged rioters who were involved in specific incidents of rioting and arson are currently out on bail.Local politicians Tahir Hussain and Ishrat Jahan, student activists Umar Khalid, Gulfisha Fatima and Sharjeel Imam who are among 21 alleged main conspirators are still behind bars. Police have booked the 21 persons on charges of sedition and under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/461-bullets-4-000-tear-gas-shells-used-by-cops-to-quell-delhi-riots-101614896937298.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||Civil defence volunteer accidentally shoots himself||A civil defence volunteer accidentally shot himself in his knee at his home in South Delhi’s Neb Sarai but cooked up a story that he was shot by motorcycle-borne men, the police said.The accused man, 30-year-old Sujeet Kumar, remains hospitalised and the police are waiting for him to recover before they pursue “suitable action” against him.“We are also questioning his wife who hid the gun on his behalf,” said Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south).Kumar, who also works as a driver, is an accused in two murder cases and one of Arms Act and has spent time in Dasna Jail in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/civil-defence-volunteer-accidentally-shoots-himself-101614895465711.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||Court warrant against MCD union members||The Delhi high court on Thursday issued bailable warrants against the secretary and president of one of the unions of sanitation workers for evading the proceedings of the court, despite several communications, on a plea filed by the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) against the strike of sanitation workers.A bench of justice Vipin Sanghi and justice Rekha Palli also asked the members of the striking union to not put under siege the municipal corporation or throw garbage on the streets. This direction came after the judges were informed by advocate Manu Chaturvedi, standing counsel for the EDMC, that unions have sent a notice for resuming their strike, demanding salaries despite all salaries being cleared till January.The EDMC also sought action against “miscreants” who were “illegally waylaying garbage removal trucks, threatening drivers and dumping garbage openly on the roads and streets”.The court issued bailable warrants of ₹20,000 each against the president and secretary of MCD Swacchta Karamchari Union while noting that they have not joined the proceedings despite several communications to do so.The bench, during the proceedings, told Mukesh Kumar, representing All Municipal Corporations Staff Union, that while the court is passing orders to ensure timely disbursal of salaries, it cannot allow them to take law into their owns hands and spread “anarchy”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/court-warrant-against-mcd-union-members-101614895174458.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||MBA in family business helping people across India, says Sisodia||Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday said that his government’s decision of introducing an MBA programme in the family business and entrepreneurship to the state-run Delhi Technical University (DTU) will not only enhance the family businesses in the national capital but also across the country.The Delhi government had launched this course in DTU in 2019. Addressing the gathering on the occasion of the inauguration of an auditorium in DTU’s east campus, Sisodia said, “The introduction of MBA in Family Business and Entrepreneurship at DTU will enhance family businesses of not just Delhi but of the entire nation. Their children need not seek employment in other companies. Rather they can use their learning from the course to better their business and create more job opportunities. It is my dream that this course becomes the best entrepreneurship course in the world and compete with Babson college of the US, which is renowned for its family business and entrepreneurship course.”Sisodia also interacted with students enrolled in the course to know their experiences. Abhishek Mohta, a second-year student, said, “My father has a business of stone crusher manufacturing. In India, we seem to lack succession planning within families, and hence, most children don’t inspire to be a part of family businesses. Being a student of MBA Family business and entrepreneurship really opened up my mind to new ideas, which I incorporated within my family business and saw great success.”Another student Aman Gupta said, “My family has a construction business and two years back, we also opened a restaurant. But with the onset of Covid pandemic, we lost so much of our money the effort that we had put in it. After learning new ideas here, I have been able to revive our restaurant business.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mba-in-family-business-helping-people-across-india-says-sisodia-101614894921548.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||Local sources behind high pollution in north, east Delhi||Road dust, open garbage burning and high vehicular movement on internal roads were the primary culprits that pushed the air quality in east and north Delhi to be the worst this winter season, residents of the area said.Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) on Wednesday had released a winter analysis of air quality in Delhi and NCR this winter compared to the previous years. The analysis highlighted that east and north Delhi recorded the worst levels of PM 2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres), while air quality monitoring stations in west Delhi were relatively cleaner compared to the rest of the city.Residents and business owners in north Delhi’s Jahangirpuri, which recorded the worst air quality in the city with a seasonal average of 256μg/m3, said that road dust was a primary factor in adding to the pollution levels here.Ramesh Thakral, a shop owner near the Jahangirpuri metro station, said that broken roads and constant movement of vehicles has turned the area into a perpetual dust bowl. The situation worsens during winters, he said.“The roads are so riddled with potholes; how will you even ply mechanical sweepers here? Garbage here lies around for days before it is picked up. Since it is not picked up regularly, some residents and shop owners set it on fire at night. If you come here at night you can see smoke billowing from piles of garbage,” Thakral said.Open burning and abandoned old vehicles have also become a prominent source of pollution in east Delhi. Residents complained that despite strict order by government and municipal agencies, garbage and dried leave are often set on fire in areas around Acharya Niketan, Laxmi Nagar, Pandav Nagar, Patparganj and Krishna Nagar. Since these incidents are often reported from residential neighbourhoods that are away from the main roads, these instances seldom come to the notice of authorities, residents said.Sehmat Alam, general secretary of joint residents’ welfare association of Pandav Nagar lane eight, nine and ten, said that local construction work carried out by residents without following the pollution norms is also a problem.“Every year when construction is stopped you can see piles of cement and construction debris lying around on roads, which are then blown around by vehicles moving,” he said.CSE in its analysis said that wide local variations among monitoring locations indicated higher impact of local pollution and micro-climate.“This analysis has helped us understand the regional patterns as well as the local variations. Even though there is considerable regional variation, peak pollution episodes increased and synchronised within the region. The uneven rise across monitoring locations, even contiguous locations, brings out the impact of local pollution,” said Avikal Somvanshi, programme manager in CSE’s urban lab team of the sustainable cities programme.Jai Prakash, north Delhi mayor, said that all efforts of the municipal agencies this winter were focused to control local pollution sources.“We ensured that mechanical sweepers were deployed in all areas under our jurisdiction and a close watch was also kept on controlling garbage burning and dumping cases. We were also deploying water sprinklers to settle local dust,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/local-sources-behind-high-pollution-in-north-east-delhi-101614894680594.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||Police claim to foil plot for murder of riots accused in Tihar jail||The Delhi police’s special cell in January had foiled an alleged attempt on the life of two men lodged in Tihar jail for their role in northeast Delhi riots. Police said that the murder plot was hatched by a convict who had also roped in two other lodged in the same prison to eliminate the duo and planned to kill them by administering them mercury through food.No Delhi police officer commented on the incident on record, but senior police officers aware of the development said on condition of anonymity that the two men who were on the target, are lodged in Tihar for their role in the northeast Delhi violence. The convict, Shahid, who had planned the kill, is also serving sentence for his role in a gang rape and murder case of 2015. The man had planned to administer the two men with mercury in their food, they said.The conspiracy came to fore during the first week of January when following a tip off, the attempt to smuggle the mercury inside the jail in a perfume bottle, was foiled by a team of special cell.“Aslam was arrested following information before he could supply the mercury. During questioning, he disclosed the conspiracy to kill the two men by adding mercury in the food,” said a police officer requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-claim-to-foil-plot-for-murder-of-riots-accused-in-tihar-jail-101614894447202.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||Earthmover accidentally dumps soil, kills 14-year-old boy in Shahbad Dairy||A 14-year-old boy died after being buried under a heap of mud dumped by an earthmover working at a drain construction site near his home in outer Delhi’s Shahbad Dairy on Wednesday afternoon, the police said.Like several other curious onlookers, the boy too was watching the earthmover in action when the mishap took place, the police said.Rajeev Ranjan, deputy commissioner of police (outer north), said the earthmover driver fled the spot immediately after the mishap. “We have identified the driver and are making all efforts to arrest him,” said Ranjan.On Thursday, the family of the dead boy placed his body on the road outside Ambedkar Hospital and staged a protest.The boy, Vikram Das, lived with his parents and siblings in Shahbad Dairy. His father has been ill and out of work for the past many months.According to the police, the crane was hired by a private contractor to whom the drain construction work near the boy’s house was outsourced by a civic agency.It is learnt that the crane, during its operation, hit the boy, causing him to fall into the drain. According to the police, the crane then went on to dump the dug-up mud on him, completely burying him.Vikram’s father, Madhusudan Das, told a news outlet that the crane operator fled the scene immediately after the accident. “It took us 15 minutes to dig my son out. Had the crane operator been around to help, my son could have been quickly rescued and he would be alive right now,” he said.After being pulled out of the mud, Vikram was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead.The police have registered a case of causing death due to negligence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/earthmover-accidentally-dumps-soil-kills-14-year-old-boy-in-shahbad-dairy-101614894253407.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Life in an auto-rickshaw||It looks like a pillow, so delicate—as if it were the magic cushion of some fairy tale princess. But of course it is auto-rickshaw driver Krishna Kumar Gupta’s little cushion, the one that he always keeps on his seat.“Few drivers have such a gaddi (cushion),” he admits while gazing upon the little fluffy thing. (Just looking at it gives one the feeling of comfort.) “But every driver should have one,” he continues. Mr Gupta talks about the particular difficulties posed by the nature of his job. “It’s a fact that many auto drivers suffer from bawasir (piles)... this is caused by prolonged sitting... and the driver’s average seat is usually a hard surface.”And that’s why he protects himself by using this cushion, he concludes.The gentleman is waiting for customers this evening in a central Delhi lane. A quick survey of his auto reveals that it’s much better groomed than most. A colourful mask, a spare one, is hanging from a side mirror. A plastic sanitiser bottle is fitted by the steering handle. And the bottom portion of the front view glass is painted in beautiful fonts with the names of Gods, including Lord Krishna. In fact, Mr Gupta hails from the land most identified with Krishna, Mathura.Mr Gupta, 60, has been driving his auto around Delhi for 40 years. “I’ve been in this line for so long that I know a bit about what we drivers most suffer from... many of us are addicted to smoking—but not me! And almost all of us suffer more frequently than other people from jhukham-khasi (running nose and cough) and breathing problem. This is because we are continually exposed to the pollution, I think, absorbing all the bad air of the city from morning to night.”Considering the possibility of quitting this occupation, he observes that “one of the good things of being an auto driver is that all your income is made in hard cash. No borrowing, no lending, no depositing in the bank. You get your money instantly.”Mr Gupta lives with his family in Sangam Vihar. His late father used to run a small grocery shop in Mathura. He feels he ended up being lucky. “My two daughters are married and settled in their homes... my son is in 12th standard. Next year he will try to get a job as a peon in the government.”As for himself, he accepts that ageing auto drivers keep driving into their advanced years “as long as hands and arms and eyes are on our side.” But he’s planning to give this line up in a year.“I have other plans. I want to open a small shop in Delhi, after retiring from auto-giri.” And then he will, at long last, do what his father did.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-life-in-an-autorickshaw-101614892325360.html
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||Don’t agree with term ‘love jihad’, says Haryana Dy CM||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said on Thursday that he did not agree with the term “love jihad” used by state home minister Anil Vij with reference to the proposed Freedom of Religion Bill being tabled in the state assembly, where the budget session is scheduled to begin on Friday.Vij has frequently called the proposed legislation as a law against “love jihad”, a term used by right-wing groups alleging a conspiracy by Muslim men to convert Hindu women to Islam by way of marriage.Speaking to NDTV, the deputy chief minister said that his Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), an ally of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, will support the move to enact a law for stopping forced religious conversion. “But if someone is willing to convert on his own, there should not be a bar,’’ he said.Chautala’s disagreement on Vij’s “love jihad” label for the Freedom of Religion Bill came against a backdrop of growing discord between him and the home minister, particularly in the wake of various inquiries initiated in excise-related matters allegedly at Vij’s behest. The excise and taxation portfolio is held by the deputy chief minister.Vij last week said the state government was planning to introduce a bill to curb “love jihad” in the coming assembly session. The proposed legislation is called the Haryana Freedom of Religion Bill.The home minister on November 6 last year told the state assembly that the government was deliberating on enacting a law to check forced religious conversion. Vij had said the state government was also compiling information about instances where forced religious conversion took place to give effect to interfaith weddings.Chief minister ML Khattar had also said the state government had decided that a freedom of religion bill would be passed to stop forced conversion. Khattar had told HT that there were complaints regarding forced conversions and marriages from many districts in the state. “People are free to adopt any religion in an informed manner but using coercion, allurement to force religious conversion, is a matter of concern. Such incidents vitiate the atmosphere of society. We are studying similar laws enacted by other states and will accordingly take a call,” Khattar had said.Similar laws have been enacted by BJP governments in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh to penalise religious conversions by use of threat of force, coercion, marriage or by any other fraudulent means.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dont-agree-with-term-love-jihad-says-haryana-dy-cm-101614891369645.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||Most cities low on economic ability||Which city in India is the best to live in?The Ease of Living Index 2020 report released by the housing and urban affairs ministry on Thursday ranked 111 cities on the basis of a score for ease of living. The 111 cities selected for the analysis were those identified under the Smart Cities Mission, state capitals, and cities with a population of over one million. The report does not include West Bengal as the state decided against participation in the rankings.The cities were ranked on the basis of scores on four pillars with different weights: Quality of Life (35%), Economic Ability (15%), Sustainability (20%), and Citizen Perception (30%). The last, which has a weight of almost one-third in the rankings, is a completely subjective parameter.The four pillars were divided into a total of 14 categories, such as education, health, housing, etc. under the quality of life pillar. Scores on these categories were themselves generated on the basis of a total of 49 indicators, such as household expenditure on education, literacy rate, etc. for the education category.Here are four charts that explain the major findings of the analysis, apart from the rankings.West, South perform better than North, EastThe cities that have scored the best on the ease of living index (EOL) are predominantly from the southern and western regions of the country, while the worst performers are predominantly from the eastern and northern states. This is reflected in the average scores for different regions. The report identifies this disparity as a cause for concern. “Since the turn of the century, the northern and eastern regions have lagged behind the rest of the country in terms of economic growth and development. Despite efforts to correct the imbalance, the gap is only widening,” the report says. According to the report, the top five states by per capita income were 145% richer than the bottom states in 2000s. This gap increased to 289% in 2010-11 and 338% in 2017-18. (See Charts)To be sure, the report makes a distinction between cities of different sizes for a fair comparison. Making such a distinction shows that there was less regional disparity among cities with population less than a million (or less than million cities) than among the million plus cities. This is because a majority of large metropolitan cities are located in the southern and western regions. “Since these cities are leading in urban development, they leave the eastern and northern regions far behind. This is why greater disparity is visible among Million+ cities,” the report says.Economic ability is the worst performing pillarThe average score of the 111 cities is the least on the economic ability pillar. The average score on this pillar is 13.17 compared to 51.38 for quality of life, 53.63 for sustainability, and 76.1 for citizen’s perception. It is also the pillar where the metropolitan cities are much more ahead of the rest of cities. Bengaluru, for instance, has a score of 78.82 on this pillar. This pushes the average or mean score up to 13.17, even as half of the cities have a score below 9.9, the median score. A comparison of mean and median scores shows that the mean is 33% ahead of the median for economic ability, while it is only 0.1% and 0.24% ahead of the median for sustainability and citizen’s perception. For quality of life, the median is 0.84% ahead of the mean.Statistically speaking, mean is a simple average of all scores, while median is the middle value in a distribution. The low difference between mean and median in pillars other than economic ability shows the average on those pillars is less skewed by outliers.What is the reason for a large number of cities scoring low on economic ability? Economic ability was measured under two categories. One category is economic development. The report argues that since the indicators used for this category are based on factories per lakh population and per capita wages, cities whose economic activity is not manufacturing dependent might unfairly perform low. This is the reason why Tiruppur in Tamil Nadu; a known apparel manufacturing cluster scores the highest on this count among cities with a population of less than a million. Bengaluru, known for its IT services, also performs well in this category, which highlights its ability to attract industries along with high-end services. The report says the low scores in the economic opportunities category is a cause for concern. “The goal of financial inclusion has clearly not permeated beyond these major cities..., and can affect the growth of these cities into potential economic hubs, the report says.Citizens in better performing cities have higher expectationsAn interesting aspect of the report is that citizen’s perception of the ease of living does not always match the city’s score on the first three pillars that are outcome based rather than perception based. The cities that performed the best on citizen’s perception, such as Bhubaneswar in Odisha or Davanagere in Karnataka, are not the leaders in the average score of the first three pillars. On the other hand, the cities that performed the best on the average score of the first three pillars -- such as Bengaluru, Pune, and Ahmedabad — do not lead in their citizen’s perception.To be sure, the relation between these two sets of numbers is not exactly inverse. “Nevertheless, it can be definitely deduced that residents in worse performing cities have a lower benchmark of evaluation, whereas residents in better performing cities have a higher benchmark and greater demands from the city. Inversely, it can also be said that a higher benchmark of evaluation by citizens push the city administrations. Cities in North-east India have the strongest feel-good factor to reform their policies and strive for improvement in developmental outcomes,” the report says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/most-cities-low-on-economic-ability-101614888906994.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||₹650 crore discrepancy found in accounts: I-T department||The Income Tax Department continued its search and survey operation against film-maker Anurag Kashyap, actress Tapsee Pannu, production house Phantom Films, and two talent management companies even as Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the department was targeting those who spoke up for farmers — a reference to the three-month long farm protest that is still ongoing.Without taking any names, but referring to the now dissolved Phantom, Kashyap’s production house, Surabhi Ahluwalia, Commissioner of Income Tax and official spokesperson for the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), said in a statement that “company officials have not been able to explain discrepancy of around ₹300 crore. Also, evidence related to manipulation and undervaluation of share transactions of the production house among the film directors and shareholders, having tax implication of about ₹350 crore has been found...”The statement added that evidence of cash receipts by the actress amounting to ₹5crore has also been recovered. It also said “non-genuine/bogus exp-enditure to related concerns by the leading producer/director having tax implication of about ₹20 crore has been detected. Similar findings have been made in the case of the leading actress also.”The raids began on Wednesday at several locations in Mumbai and Pune. Kashyap and Pannu were also questioned. On Wednesday, state minister Nawab Malik said the raids were an attempt to muzzle those who speak out against the Narendra Modi government.“At the office premises of the two talent management companies , huge amount of digital data has been seized in the form of emails, WhatsApp chats, hard disk etc. All these are being scrutinised as investigation continues,” the statement said.The two talent management firms referred to are Kwan and Exceed.Kashyap, Pannu and the two firms were not available for an immediate response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rs-650-crore-discrepancy-found-in-accounts-i-t-department-101614888399451.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Power tariff for residential consumers to reduce from April 1||Amid the government’s back and forth on resolving the issue of inflated power bills during lockdown, tariffs for residential consumers across utilities will reduce by 0-2% on an average starting April 1.While tariff for residential consumers of the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking (BEST) will remain largely unchanged, for low-end consumers (0-100 and 100-300) of the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL), it will reduce by 2%. BEST has around 1 million residential consumers in the island city and MSEDCL supplies power across the state and some parts of Mumbai.Tata Power consumers in the 0-100 unit category will see a 4% reduction. High-end consumers of Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited (AEML) will see a 1% reduction in rates. Tata Power supplies electricity to 0.7 million residents in the city, while AEML has close to 2.7 million consumers in the city.The Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) had passed its multi-year tariff order on March 30 last year. Based on the order, tariff will be revised every year starting April 1 till the year 2025. Power consumers in the city and state have been stressed since a year with the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government going back and forth on providing relief to consumers who received inflated bills during the lockdown. While MSEDCL had started disconnecting power supply for those who had not paid their dues, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar in the on-going budget declared that there will be no disconnection of electricity supply for farmer and local residents who failed to pay their bills until the issue of non-payment of the outstanding bills is debated in the session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-power-tariff-for-residential-consumers-to-reduce-from-april-1-101614887926936.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||Mohankrishna Bohara wins Bihari Puraskar||Mohankrishna Bohara will be awarded the 30th Bihari Puraskar Award for his critical work ‘Taslima: Sangharsh aur Sahitya’, the KK Birla Foundation said in a statement on Thursday.The Bihari Puraskar is one of the three literary awards instituted by the KK Birla Foundation in 1991. Named after the famous poet Bihari, the award carries a cash prize of ₹2.5 lakh, a plaque and a citation.The award is given every year for an outstanding work published in the last 10 years by a Rajasthani author in Hindi or Rajasthani. The recipient is chosen by a selection committee, whose present chairman is Om Thanvi. After considering the works published during 2010-2019, ‘Taslima: Sangharsh aur Sahitya’ by Bohra was selected for the Bihari Puraskar, 2020.Born on July 27, 1939 in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur, Bohara has written critical pieces across mediums in a literary career spanning decades. He has a master’s degree in Hindi and English from SM College, Jodhpur.In ‘Taslima: Sangharsh aur Sahitya’, published in 2016, Bohara reflects on the personal life and literary career of author Taslima Nasreen, giving details of both her personality and works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mohankrishna-bohara-wins-bihari-puraskar-101614887480666.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Covid vaccination phase 3: 16K get 1st shot in Mumbai on Thursday||The city saw 16,092 citizens get inoculated as part of the vaccination drive on Thursday. A total of 14,892 senior citizens and 1,200 citizens above the age of 45 years with comorbidities got their first shots. This was the fourth day of the third phase of the vaccination drive in the city. So far, a total of 32,818 senior citizens and 3,128 citizens above 45 years with comorbidities have been vaccinated in Mumbai. On Thursday, a total of 2,83,288 beneficiaries were vaccinated, including healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs), across 43 centres in the city. While 1,10,316 HCWs received their first dose of the vaccine, 33,668 HCWs received their second dose. The first dose was also administered to 1,03,313 FLWs. The 19 private hospitals participating in the vaccination drive administered shots to 4,128 beneficiaries on Thursday. A total of 10,145 beneficiaries have received vaccines at private hospitals so far. Six more hospitals registered with the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana and will join the vaccination drive from Friday, said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in a statement. These are Lion Tarachand Bapa Hospital in Sion; Sapna Health Care Centre in Ghatkopar; Millat Diagnostic in Jogeshwari; Balaji Hospital in Malad; Dr Meena’s Multispecialty Hospital and Dr Bhatia’s Hospital in Bhandup. Breach Candy Hospital Trust, Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospital and Masina Hospital will also join the drive. After incidents of overcrowding on the first two days, many private hospitals released a standard operating procedure for beneficiaries to follow. Instructions include maintaining a distance of a minimum of six metres between people in a queue. In a statement issued on Thursday morning, Fortis Hospital in Mulund urged beneficiaries to avoid crowding and requested cooperation with the authorities. Those coming for vaccinations have also been asked to check with their doctors about the possibility of side effects and allergic reactions to the vaccine. On Thursday, six people reported minor side effects, such as dizziness, following vaccination. They were kept under observation for 30 minutes and then discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-vaccination-phase-3-16k-get-1st-shot-in-mumbai-on-thursday-101614887746918.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Ease of Living Index: Centre’s report ranks Greater Mumbai at 10||One way to read the Ease of Living Index 2020 (EoLI) in a way that makes the glass seem half full is this: three cities of Maharashtra, Greater Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Pune form part of the top 10 ranked cities among 111 cities, including Smart Cities and those with a population of more than a million. If you stretch it to the top 20, another four cities from this state enter the list, including Thane and Solapur. Apart from that, many cities in the state such as Thane, Navi Mumbai and Pune score high on some of the parameters on which the cities have been ranked. For instance, Pune emerges as a top performer on sustainability; Navi Mumbai scores fairly high on recreation and quality of life; and Thane on mobility.Launched by Union ministry for housing and urban affairs, the EoLI and the accompanying Municipal Performance Index (MPI) examine the quality of citizens’ lives in 111 cities across four main pillars: economic ability, sustainability, citizens’ perceptions and quality of life. Expanded, these pillars cover 14 different categories such as housing, economic opportunities, green spaces, and even city resilience. Now for the glass half-empty approach.The pillars that Greater Mumbai fares worse in than it should are also what makes the city one of the most sought-after metropolises and what Greater Mumbai prides itself on: mobility, which includes public transportation (noteworthy: the suburban train network is often called the city’s “lifeline”) ; and economic ability, which includes both economic opportunities and economic development. It is some consolation – though it shouldn’t be -- that economic ability is the worst performing pillar across all 111 cities, with a wide score range of 0.55 to 78.82 (Bengaluru). Greater Mumbai scores 32.12. Delhi, Pune and Ahmedabad score higher than Greater Mumbai. To be sure, the indicators measuring the level of economic development are based on factories per lakh of population, and per capita wages, which would thus favour industrial hubs focused on manufacturing rather than cities where economic activity is driven by trade and services. That would explain why a majority of the cities attained a low score on this pillar. Besides Bengaluru, Pune, Thane and Navi Mumbai were positive outliers in this category. As far as economic opportunities are concerned, the indicators focused on credit accessibility and skill development. Greater Mumbai is one of the positive outliers in this category. Aaditya Thackeray, state environment minister and guardian minister for Mumbai, said, “Let me go through the report and its basis. We are working on upgrading ease of living. But it’s not a hidden fact that the ease and joy of living in Mumbai is actually the highest, irrespective of this ranking, (else) so many people wouldn’t call it the City of Dreams.” Urban development experts said that Greater Mumbai’s ease of living cannot improve unless larger infrastructural issues that face housing and transportation in the city aren’t tackled first. Madhav Pai, executive director at WRI Ross Center (India) for Sustainable Cities, said, “While we have to look at the indicators, it is very clear that Mumbai is not able to attract talent because housing and commute are major issues. The Metro network will solve at least one of these issues.”Three indicators were used to rank the cities in terms of mobility: availability of public transport, transport-related fatalities, and road infrastructure. In a city of more than 20 million residents, at least 8 million passengers would travel by local train network – that’s 1,774 trains on the Central Railway and 1,367 trains on the Western Railway – everyday, in pre-pandemic times. However, the report lists Chennai as the best performing city in this pillar.Greater Mumbai scores little above 60 -- the national average is 79 out 100 -- in the category of housing and shelter. Metropolitan cities including Delhi, Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad, as well as satellite cities like Thane, Vasai-Virar, Kalyan, Navi Mumbai score better than Greater Mumbai. Pankaj Joshi, principal director, Urban Center, pointed that the report needed to be clearer in terms of the methodology and parameters employed. “Even in 2019, we had stated that the ministry needs to be clear on what are the parameters on the basis of which cities are being ranked and what are the indicators based on which cities can do better? It is also unfair to classify all cities in India as either more than a million or less than a million population. A Delhi cannot be compared to an Indore or a Nanded.” Joshi’s point bears out. In the first EoLI report released in 2018, Greater Mumbai scored a first rank for public open spaces and mixed land use – a fact that took experts by surprise as it did not square with the ground realities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ease-of-living-index-centre-s-report-ranks-greater-mumbai-at-10-101614887686916.html
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||Crackdown on dissent worrisome, dangerous: Akal Takht acting jathedar||AMRITSAR Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Thursday said that crackdown on the people dissenting amid the farmers’ stir is worrisome and dangerous.In a written statement, he said, “The people who have dissenting opinions and don’t agree with the government are being detained and arrested in large numbers in the country. The trend is worrisome.”“Freedom of speech and expression is an important part of democracy and arrests against this freedom are against the ethos of the democracy,” he said.The jathedar further said, “This is very shameful that cases are being registered against those who speak against the government, under serious charges of sedition and Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). This trend is deadly for democracy. Adopting uncivilised and violent means to stop anyone from exercising freedom of speech and expression is inhuman.”He also asked those who like democratic ethos to come forward to save the ethics of democracy. “Keeping silent will lead to suicidal consequences. These consequences will prove to be very dangerous in the coming days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/crackdown-on-dissent-worrisome-dangerous-akal-takht-acting-jathedar-101614887509585.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Man kills wife, confesses to neighbour in Nallasopara near Mumbai||Tulinj police on Thursday booked an autorickshaw driver from Shirdi Nagar in Nallasopara (East) for allegedly murdering his wife. According to police, the accused, Rupesh Shyamrao More, 35, had a fight with his wife Vanita, 30, as she refused to give him money for drinks. In a fit of rage, More first slit her throat with a kitchen knife and then hammered her head.“More then called his neighbour Umesh Jadhav and confessed to the murder, following which Jadhav called us,” said senior inspector Rajendra Kamble, Tulinj police station. The accused then fled the spot in his auto. Police later found the auto abandoned a few kilometres away along with the weapons used. As per preliminary investigation, the couple were married for eight years and would often have fights over More’s alcoholism. On Wednesday, the couple had a similar fight as More demanded money for drinking, which Vanita refused. “We have registered case of murder against More. Vanita’s body has been sent for post-mortem and its report is awaited. We are investigating further,” said Kamble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-kills-wife-confesses-to-neighbour-in-nallasopara-near-mumbai-101614887506574.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Ease of Living Index: Greater Mumbai ranks 11 among 49 cities on sustainability||The Union ministry of housing and urban affairs’ (MoHUA) latest Ease of Living Index (ELI) survey ranks Greater Mumbai at 11th place – out of 49 Indian cities with million-plus populations – on sustainability practices. This rank, the report says, indicates a city’s capacity to “build resilience and develop sound infrastructure and services to swiftly tackle emerging environmental issues.” The ELI assigns a normalised score (between 0 to 100) to 111 cities on the basis of four parameters, or “pillars” – sustainability, quality of life, economic ability and citizen perception. The final score for each city is the average across these parameters. Greater Mumbai was assigned a normalised sustainability score of 61.74, higher than the national average of 53.63, but lower than the highest score of 75 awarded to Pune. Other cities with better scores include Visakhapatnam, Pimpri Chinchwad, Ahmedabad, Gwalior, Raipur, Prayagraj, Surat, Navi Mumbai and Indore. These cities, MoHUA’s report suggests, have fared better than Mumbai at providing citizens with green spaces, promoting green buildings and efficient energy consumption, and have better quality of natural resources such as air and water. It also says these cities are better equipped to withstand natural disasters. Sustainability has a weight of 20 percent in the city’s final EoL score, and is evaluated based on four sub-parameters including: environment, green space and buildings, energy consumption and city resilience. However, individual scores for the four sub-categories have only been indicated, and not specified in absolute terms. While Greater Mumbai ranked high on ‘city resilience’, it fared poorly on the other three. For example, the report states, “Findings reveal Pune as the best-performing city in terms of green spaces and buildings. The performance swiftly begins to decline significantly after Karnal (Haryana)... Greater Mumbai, Kochi, Hyderabad, Delhi, Indore, Lucknow, and Thiruvananthapuram do not particularly showcase exceptional performance... It indicates a deficiency that has accumulated in urban cities concerning conscious planning to mitigate the risks associated with climate change and the current ecosystem.” Experts, meanwhile, expressed concern over the methodology. They said it has not been adequately explained in MoHUA’s report. “It’s a bit parochial to compare a large metro city like Mumbai with a much smaller one like Pune on any indicator. The Ease of Living Index does not provide raw survey data, or adequately explain the structure of their survey, which makes it hard to take these numbers at face value,” said Pankaj Joshi, principal director of the Urban Centre Mumbai. He said a more appropriate way to compare sustainability across cities would be through a carbon footprint analysis. “If one can calculate the per capita carbon footprint of two cities, say Mumbai and Pune, then it becomes easier to say which city is more sustainable. It’s a well established method. Comparisons made in the Ease of Living Index are not predicated on such clear baseline indicators. There is value in comparative analysis, but only when the methods are robust and transparent,” he added. Avick Sil, urban studies specialist and director at Enviro Policy Research India, said, “The ease of living, or quality of life, in a particular city needs to be assessed based on the needs of its citizens. In India, development control regulations are not uniform across cities precisely because the requirements are vastly different. For example, some cities may have poor public transport but may be more sustainable due to less population load. You need a methodology that factors in these differences, instead of reducing your assessment to such simple numbers.” Citizens, too, said they were wary of the report’s indications. “It is a bit hard to see Mumbai ranked so high because the situation on the ground is precisely the opposite. We are more sustainable than most cities because we have a good public transport system, but that’s about it. In terms of waste management or water security, for example, the situation is clearly unsustainable. We dump untreated sewage into the ocean and are trying to decentralise waste management 20 years too late,” said Debi Goenka, executive trustee, Conservation Action Trust. “Given that Mumbai is spending ₹13,000 crore on a coastal road project that will uproot ecosystems and only benefit a sliver of the overall population, I am inclined to say that we are among the least sustainable cities in India,” Goenka added. Moreover, experts also point out that despite the Ease of Living report’s objective – which is “to help cities assess their level of development and identify existing gaps that obstruct their growth” – the report does not actually provide any concrete measures for city administrators based on their ranking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ease-of-living-index-greater-mumbai-ranks-11-among-49-cities-on-sustainability-101614887387162.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Allegations in Jalgaon case false: Deshmukh||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday said the allegations that police officials forced women at a hostel in Jalgaon to strip and dance were false.Speaking in the state assembly, Deshmukh said, “They visited the hostel, spoke to other residents of the hostel, took their statements, checked the register and found the allegations as unfounded. No policemen entered the hostel premises.”According to media reports, some women from the hostel complained that people from outside and policemen were allowed to enter the facility on the pretext of a probe and some of them were forced to strip and dance.The woman complainant is mentally unstable, the home minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/allegations-in-jalgaon-case-false-deshmukh-101614887183055.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC permits re-release of Telugu film after objectionable part removed by makers||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday permitted over-the-top (OTT) platform Amazon Prime to re-telecast the Telugu film V after the filmmakers informed the court that they had deleted the scene which depicted a photo of Bollywood actor and model. On Tuesday, the court had directed Amazon Prime to stop telecasting the film within 24 hours of the order and only start the telecast after the objectionable scene was deleted and the court approved the same. The court also directed the filmmakers to file affidavits in response to the application filed by the actor seeking imposition of costs on the filmmakers for using her photograph without her permission. The next hearing is scheduled on March 25. A single-judge bench of justice GS Patel was hearing the interim application in the defamation suit filed by the actor against Venkateswara Creations Pvt Ltd and the producers of the film had sought imposition of costs for using her photograph, which was part of her 2017 portfolio, in the film to depict a commercial sex worker without her permission. The film was released in September 2020 and was available on Amazon Prime. On March 2, the court had directed the filmmakers to delete the objectionable scene and asked Amazon to stop telecasting the film within 24 hours of the order being passed and telecast it only after getting permission from the court. On Thursday, after the filmmakers informed the HC that they had deleted the actor’s image, Amazon Prime sought permission to re-release the film, which the court allowed. The filmmakers, however, submitted that the agency which had provided them the photograph of the actor should be held responsible as they had assured that it could be used legitimately. Justice Patel granted liberty to the actor to take action as per law against the agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-permits-re-release-of-telugu-film-after-objectionable-part-removed-by-makers-101614887266596.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC asks zone 11 DCP to probe delay in investigation into 2018 case||The Bombay high court (HC) on March 1 directed the deputy commissioner of police of zone 11 to conduct an inquiry against an investigating officer from Borivli police station who failed to take any action in a case registered against four persons in 2018. The four had allegedly prepared a power of attorney in 2006 in the name of a woman who died in 1999. The court issued the directions while hearing the petition of the four seeking to quash the first information report (FIR) against them as the power of attorney was not used anywhere to misappropriate the property owned by the deceased woman’s husband who died in 2000. The petitioners submitted that as no inquiry had been done by the police and no charge sheet was filed for three years, the FIR should be quashed.The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing the petition filed by Maruti Upare, Taramati Kolate, Ravindra Upare and Jayram Bhandari, was informed by advocate Vishal Saxena that the FIR had been registered at the behest of Shantaram Upare, brother of Maruti Upare. Saxena told the court that the power of attorney executed in the name of Shobha Ganpat Upare in 2006 was actually executed by Kolate, the second wife of Ganpat Upare. While Shobha died in 1999, Ganpat passed away in 2000. Additional public prosecutor AS Pai, on instructions from investigating officer sub inspector Yogesh Patil of Borivli police station, told the court the probe was almost complete and the investigating officer was in process of filing the charge sheet.After hearing the submissions the court observed, “We direct the deputy commissioner of police to cause inquiry into the matter and file his personal affidavit within two weeks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-asks-zone-11-dcp-to-probe-delay-in-investigation-into-2018-case-101614887266092.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||Centre not utilising vaccine doses adequately: Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Thursday questioned the Centre over the rationale behind restricting Covid-19 vaccines only to people above 60 years of age or above 45 with serious co-morbidities, and observed that the government wasn’t adequately utilising doses made available by manufactures.It also asked the Centre why it was donating or selling Covid-19 vaccines to foreign countries at a time when the drive to inoculate Indian citizens was not optimised.“We are not utilising Covid-19 vaccines fully. We are either donating it to foreign countries or selling it to them, and are not vaccinating our own people. There has to be that sense of responsibility and urgency,” the bench of justice Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli told additional solicitor general Chetan Sharma, who was representing the Union government.The court also directed the Centre to file an affidavit giving the rationale behind restricting people by creating age categories for who can be vaccinated, and the rationale behind defining co-morbidites that make people above 45 eligible.At the same time, the bench asked the two firms that make the vaccines administered in India — Serum Institute of India, which makes Covishield, and Bharat Biotech, which makes Covaxin — to put on record their maximum manufacturing capacities.The two companies, represented by their counsel, told the court that they had excess vaccines available for supply, but could only make them available based on permissions by the Union government.The bench then told the firms to furnish details such as their daily, weekly and monthly manufacturing capacity; how much of the current capacity was going unutilized; and if the capacity could be scaled up further.The bench was hearing a suo motu (on its own) case on the premise that judges, court staff and lawyers should be considered as frontline workers, and hence, should be vaccinated on priority.The hearing comes at a time when experts have been calling for teachers to also be included as frontline workers irrespective of their age since schools have reopened in several states, and are on the verge of reopening for all classes in several others.So far, India has provided over 46.1 million vaccine doses to several countries around the world, both as grants and commercial supplies.“There is no shortage of Covid-19 vaccines in the country; in fact, the supply chain is phenomenal. What the focus will be on is optimum utilisation of the current vaccination capacity, and gradually scaling up to vaccinate the target population,” siad Dr NK Arora, member, National Task Force on Covid.On Wednesday, when it first took up the matter, the bench said there were chances of infections rising once physical hearings resume in the Capital on March 15, and sought the presence of counsel for the Centre and the vaccine manufacturers.During Thursday’s hearings, apart from asking for affidavits from the Centre and the two firms, the court also directed the Delhi government to carry out inspection of medical facilities in courts, and to create infrastructure for vaccination of people connected with the judicial processes, including advocates.The Centre said in its response that lawyers were indeed frontline workers, and the issue of vaccinating them will be discussed with the concerned ministry.The matter will be now heard on March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-not-utilising-vaccine-doses-adequately-delhi-hc-101614886691391.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Ease of Living Index: Despite edge, Greater Mumbai gets middling score||The country’s financial capital has ranked eighth in terms of economic ability in the Ease of Living Index released by the Central government’s ministry of housing and urban affairs. According to the report, which was released on Thursday, seven cities, including two from Maharashtra, have higher levels of economic development and opportunities than Mumbai. The parameter on economic ability looks at the level of economic development in a city, the economic opportunities it offers and the inequalities encountered by citizens in terms of economic development. The parameter has a weightage of 15% in the overall ranking, in which Mumbai has ranked 10th. According to the Ease of Living Index, the country’s “economic ability is the worst performing amongst all the pillars, with an aggregate score of 13.17”. In terms of economic ability, among cities with populations of over a million, Mumbai has scored 32.12 on a scale of 100, falling behind cities like Pune (ranked 3) and Thane (ranked 5), which have scored 48.8 and 40.52 respectively. Topping the list is Bengaluru with a score of 78.82, followed by Delhi (50.73), Pune (48.88), and Ahmedabad (48.19). The Ease of Living Index also observed that urban growth lags in cities as the centres of economic activities have been limited to industrial hubs “that have traditionally developed as pivots of finance and services”. While Mumbai’s score is above the national average score of 13.17, the country’s financial capital being ranked eighth comes as a surprise and may be an indication of problem areas in terms of its urban infrastructure. Dhaval Desai, vice president, Observer Research Foundation, said, “It is a surprise to know Mumbai has been ranked so low in terms of economic ability. However, this report is a mirror to Mumbai, that it is failing to attract young talent owing to the poor quality of life and unaffordable housing.” Experts pointed to housing, high cost of living and traffic congestion as some of the factors that may have contributed to Mumbai’s low ranking. Madhav Pai, executive director, World Resources Institute (WRI), India Ross Centre, said, “While we have to look at the indicators, it is very clear that Mumbai is not able to attract talent because housing and commute are major issues. While the Metro network will solve one of these issues, housing is something that needs to be looked at seriously.” Among the factors worth noting is the wide range of economic activity in Mumbai, with industries from various formal and informal sectors — ranging from manufacturing to services — having thrived in the city. Pankaj Joshi, executive director, Urban Design Research Institute (UDRI), pointed out that it isn’t clear exactly how the Ease of Living Index has computed its scores. “If we look at per capita tax collection itself, Mumbai will have an edge over other cities. The ministry needs to be more transparent on the basis of these rankings,” said Joshi. Aaditya Thackeray, state environment minister and guardian minister for Mumbai suburbs, told HT in a text message, “We are working on upgrading ease of living.” He also said that he believed “ease and joy of living in Mumbai is actually the highest, irrespective of the norms for this ranking”. While the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has previously said it is working towards increasing job opportunities in the city and the metropolitan areas with growth hubs and increased connectivity, metropolitan commissioner RA Rajeev said he did not wish to comment on the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ease-of-living-index-despite-edge-greater-mumbai-gets-middling-score-101614886906950.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Ease of Living Index: Access to public transport hikes Greater Mumbai’s rank||When it comes to availability of public transport, transport-related infrastructure, and road infrastructure, Greater Mumbai scores a little over 40, taking it above the national average of 28.05 in the Ease of Living Index 2020 brought out by the Centre. The parameter of mobility was measured across three indicators: availability of public transport, transport-related fatalities and road. According to the report, 60% of the cities in the index scored below the national average. The high scores in terms of road infrastructure have positively enhanced the scores of these top-performers in the Mobility category ... including Greater Mumbai,” the report stated. At present, Mumbai has a total road network 2,050 kilometres. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) total budget outlay for the roads, traffic, bridges and coastal road department in 2021 is ₹6,519.70 crores. In 2020, revised estimates show the outlay to be ₹4,361.28 crores. BMC is converting 160 kilometres of roads to concrete roads in 2021 as they are more durable. This will require further road work and traffic diversions in the city in the coming months. Vivek Pai of Mumbai Mobility Forum pointed out that ongoing work on roads hampers commuter experience, adding to congestion and lowers the overall quality of life. “There is constant infrastructure work going on in the city. But this is an indicator that we are upgrading our infrastructure,” said municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal. Among the factors that helped raise Mumbai’s mobility score was ease of access to public transport, Pai said. “Mumbai has good access to transport. The city always has some form of safe transport available 24x7.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ease-of-living-index-access-to-public-transport-hikes-greater-mumbai-s-rank-101614886666687.html
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana budget session: Cong to bring no-confidence motion||Senior Congress leader and Leader of Opposition in the Haryana assembly, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, said on Thursday that the party will table a no-confidence against the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party - Jannayak Janta Party (BJP-JJP) government in the state on Friday.“The Speaker would decide when the House will discuss the motion and vote on it,” Hooda told mediapersons.The budget session comes at a time when the ruling combine is grappling with too many dissensions and conflicts amid the ongoing farmers’ protests against the Centre’s new farm laws.Saying that the no-trust vote will make it clear who is with the farmers, the opposition will also take on the government over unemployment, law and order and the price of cooking gas and other essential commodities.The Congress legislature party (CLP) leader said that BJP-JJP cabinet lacked capability and coordination. “The fact is that personal agendas and not public interest dictate the functioning of this coalition,’’ Hooda said.Hooda said they also plan to bring an adjournment motion to draw the attention of the government to multitude of problems faced by the people of the state.“We will seek answers on issues such as farmers’ neglect, rising unemployment, changes in domicile regulations, rising crime, paper leaks, liquor and registry scams,” he said.Hooda said the slogan of 75% reservation in private jobs was the biggest fraud with the youth of Haryana because the government has provided an exemption clause in the law for employers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-budget-session-cong-to-bring-no-confidence-motion-101614886448215.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 8,998 fresh Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra on Thursday reported 8,998 new infections, taking the tally to 2,188,183, while the toll touched 52,340 after 60 new deaths. Mumbai’s saw 1,104 infections pushing its tally to 329,846. More than ten days after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray spoke about the potential lockdown if people showed lacklustre approach towards Covid-19 protocol, state officials said on Thursday that lockdown was not on the cards anytime soon. Highly placed officials in the chief minister’s office said the government wants people to follow the SOP and guidelines very strictly. “In districts like Amravati, whole families are getting infected, indicating the high infection rate. The district administrations have been directed to ensure the protocol is strictly followed so that a lockdown was averted. Even after warning to take a call on lockdown in eight days, the CM has delayed it, as the government is still closely monitoring the growth, infection and positivity rate,” said an official from Mantralaya. The state reported a significant jump in the turnout for vaccination as 75,452 beneficiaries were inoculated at 1,047 centres on Friday. 6,709 beneficiaries with comorbidities in the age group of 45-60 were vaccinated taking their cumulative number to 16,675 in four days after inoculation for the third phase of the vaccination began on March 1. A total of 38,765 elderly people above 60 years were inoculated, taking the total number of inoculated elderly to 106,431. At least 736,232 health care workers and 412,420 front line workers have been vaccinated so far in Maharashtra. After Mumbai, other key cities Pune and Nagpur continued logging high number of cases at 933 and 904, respectively. Pimpri-Chinchwad and Amravati reported 492 and 389 cases, respectively. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region clocked 2,103 cases as infection graph in Thane and Kalyan-Dombivli moved northward on Friday. Of the 60 deaths reported on Friday, highest 11 were from Amravati district (including 4 in Amravati city), followed by 5 each in Mumbai and KDMC, 4 each in Pune city and Yavatmal. State’s case fatality rate stands at 2.39%. The state’s recovery rate has dropped to 93.66% as the number of active patients jumped to 85,144 from about 43,000 three weeks ago. With 17,522, Pune has highest number of active cases, followed by Thane (9,142) and Mumbai (9,041).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-8-998-fresh-covid-19-cases-101614886546004.html
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||ED arrests key accused in Nature Heights Infra scam||JALANDHAR The enforcement directorate (ED) teams from its zonal office, Jalandhar, arrested Rajiv Rattan Dhingra, one of the key accused in the alleged multi-crore Nature Heights Infra scam spread across Punjab, on Wednesday late evening from Abohar. The ED produced the accused before a Mohali court and was sent to judicial custody at Patiala jail. Dhingra’s is the first arrest in the case while ED is also making efforts to arrest the main accused Neeraj Thatai alias Neeraj Arora, his wife Doll Thatai, and another director of company Amit Kukkar, who were allegedly backed by a powerful politician. The special PMLA court judge, Harinder Kaur Sidhu, on February 1 had issued non-bailable warrants against Dhingra and others on the basis of the charge-sheet filed by the ED in the October 2020 against 20 individuals and firms. The ED sources said during the probe, several illegal properties of the firms involved in the scam were found to be registered in the name of Dhingra. In June 2020, the ED has attached properties worth ₹24 crore belonging to a real estate firm for allegedly duping hundreds of investors of crores of rupees in various parts of Punjab. The firm, Nature Heights Infra Ltd, was being run by Abohar-based Thatai couple and another director of company Amit Kukkar. Neeraj and Kukkar figure as accused in 31 FIRs filed by the investors in various police stations of the state and were declared proclaimed offenders in 2017. In June 2019, ED had attached properties worth of ₹22.24 crore of Nature Heights, which was confirmed by the adjudicating authority in New Delhi. MG Gold Realtors Private Ltd, a sister concern of Nature Heights, was also involved in the fraud. The ED had started probing the case in 2017. During the course of the probe, it received 491 more complaints from investors and 497 complaints from various consumer courts of the state. Investigations revealed that Neeraj, in a pre-determined way, tried to launder investors’ money for personal benefits, ED officials said. ED investigations so far have revealed that the firm’s promoters had duped investors to the tune of ₹50 crore on the pretext of allotting properties at different locations in Punjab. So far, firm’s properties worth ₹46.5 crore have been attached. “Investigations are on to trace the remaining amount of proceeds of crime which may lead to attachment of more properties of Nature Heights Infra Ltd,” ED officials said. An investor said the company had circulated brochures inviting investments in colonies to be developed in Chandigarh, Talwara, Anandpur Sahib, Gobindgarh, Mohali, Zirakpur, Ferozepur and other locations in Punjab. The company allegedly collected crores of rupees from customers before shutting down all branch offices across the state and the promoters vanished in thin air. Investors neither got possession of properties nor their money was returned, officials said. “The firm used to offer cheaper plots at prime locations. Later, it surfaced that most of the colonies awaited approvals from the departments concerned. The company neither allotted plots nor returned the money. Even, the cheques issued by the company were dishonored,” said another investor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ed-arrests-key-accused-in-nature-heights-infra-scam-101614886427203.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Harassment at Maharashtra hostel: Claims found to be untrue, says home minister||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday said the investigation into the incident, wherein women were allegedly forced to strip and dance by policemen at a government-run hostel in Jalgaon, found the claims to be untrue. The six-member women committee of senior officials found the allegations baseless and in its report said the policemen did not even enter the hostel. According to Deshmukh, the content of a video of a cultural programme organised by residents of Ashadeep Hostel was twisted out of context in a complaint by a woman, who is mentally challenged. Ashadeep is run by the state women and child development department, for destitute, mentally challenged women and survivors of sexual abuse.It was earlier reported that some women from the hostel complained that people from outside and policemen were allowed to enter the facility on the pretext of a probe and some women were forced to strip and dance. The incident allegedly took place on February 2. The issue was raised by the BJP MLA from Chikhali, Buldhana, Shweta Mahale in the state Assembly on Wednesday and she demanded action. She said a video of the incident had also surfaced.“A six-member committee of senior women officers, comprising a psychiatrist, police officer and others, were formed. They visited the hostel, spoke to other residents of the hostel, took their statements, checked the register and found the allegations unfounded. No policemen entered the hostel premises as they don’t have permission to do so because it is a women’s hostel,” Deshmukh told the state Assembly on Thursday. He said that the members of the hostel organised a cultural programme on February 20. While performing a garba, one of the women started feeling uncomfortable and she removed her frock. It was also found that the complainant is not mentally stable, according to her husband who had earlier requested that she be hospitalised for treatment, Deshmukh told the lower House.After demands were made by the legislators, the home minister also assured action against the journalist who reported the incident without verifying the facts. “We will investigate the person who wrote the story and will take action against him,” he said.Congress legislator Nana Patole and women and child development minister Yashomati Thakur demanded action. “This has not only defamed that particular institution, but also women residents. They will have to face the social stigma and thus those responsible should face action,” the women and child development minister said.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar asked people to be careful before raising any such matter in future. “The incident has defamed only the government but also the women residents of the hostel, district and the state. We have no objection over raising any such issues, but we need to be careful and verify the facts before raising them in public,” he urged.The opposition, however, is not satisfied with the probe. BJP legislator and spokesperson Atul Bhatkhalkar said the state is facing a black rule. “How come the probe is completed in just a day? Was the probe video recorded? The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government termed the complainant as mentally unstable. This is nothing but a black rule,” Bhatkhalkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/harassment-at-maharashtra-hostel-claims-found-to-be-untrue-says-home-minister-101614886425888.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Clean up marshal arrested for kidnapping, extortion||The Mumbai crime branch has arrested a cleanup marshal employed by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for allegedly posing as a policeman and kidnapping a man who was caught spitting in public. Under the pretext of taking him to the police station, the accused marshal allegedly took him to an isolated spot, threatened him and extorted ₹5,000 from him.Police said the incident took place on February 22, when the accused Amit Tawde, 29, a cleanup marshal with the G-South ward, caught Zubair Kayyum Khan, 22, spitting in public. Tawde told Khan that he would be penalised for spitting in public and asked him to sit on his two-wheeler to take him to the police station.After riding for some time, Tawde stopped the bike and started threatening Khan, pushed him and demanded ₹10,000 to release him. Khan paid him ₹5,000 and set himself free.On Tuesday, Khan lodged a police complaint and also submitted to the police a video he had captured of Tawde’s bike registration number.Crime branch unit-9 carried a parallel probe and nabbed Tawde on Wednesday. He was handed over to Mahim police station for further action.“The identity card of cleanup marshal found in his possession is genuine. He has been arrested on charges of impersonation, kidnapping and extortion,” said Vilas Shinde, senior inspector of Mahim police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaiclean-up-marshal-arrested-for-kidnapping-extortion-101614885946387.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Centre’s duties, taxes more than cost of fuel, says Ajit Pawar||The Centre’s duties and taxes on a litre of petrol are more than the original cost of the fuel, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and state’s finance minister said in the legislative Council on Thursday. The minister said while the crude oil price and other processing charges bring the cost to ₹32.82 per litre, the Centre’s duties add another ₹32.90 litre. Pawar said the prices of cooking gas, too, have increased over the past few months and the Centre must immediately take steps to lower the prices and provide relief from inflation. “The original cost of petrol, after its processing cost, is ₹32.82, and on that ₹32.90 has been levied as [various] tax [and duties] by the Centre. These taxes are more than the original price. The state government, too, has put tax on petrol. Since our government came to power, we have not thought about increasing the tax; the ones that the previous government had levied have been kept,” he said. “As of February 28, the petrol price was ₹97.57 in Mumbai. The state’s VAT [Value Added Tax] was ₹28.17 and Centre’s was ₹32.90. On per litre of diesel, state’s VAT was ₹19.57 and Centre’s taxes were ₹31.80. Due to these taxes and duties, the prices have gone up,” Pawar said. The deputy CM said the Centre must immediately provide relief on inflation, especially in the backdrop of pandemic. “In times of Covid, it has become difficult for people to survive. If prices increase in such a manner, where should people look for help?” Explaining further, Pawar said, “When Dr Manmohan Singh was the prime minister, the crude oil prices were US$ 106.85 per barrel and petrol was priced at ₹70. Today, the per-barrel rate of crude oil is US$63 and petrol prices are almost ₹100 [per litre]. Some time ago, the prices of [crude oil] had dipped to US$ 1, but then too the prices of petrol and diesel were not reduced.” Responding to opposition Bharatiya Janata Party’s claim that the Centre gives back 41% of the duties it collects, Pawar said, “On petrol, the Centre has put duties worth ₹32.90, but the 41% component is from the ₹1.40, and the remaining money goes to the Centre.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtracentres-duties-taxes-more-than-cost-of-fuel-says-ajit-pawar-101614885826417.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Muslim ministers should resign over Maharashtra CM’s remarks: Abu Asim Azmi||A day after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said his party was proud to have been associated with the demolition of the Babri masjid, trouble was witnessed within Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi. Samajwadi Party leader Abu Asim Azmi demanded that Muslim ministers belonging to Congress should resign immediately, while Congress leader Sanjay Nirupam asked if the chief minister’s remarks were part of the common minimum program, the basis of the formation of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government.Thackeray in his reply to the governor’s address on Wednesday had said that while everyone else ran away after the demolition of Babri Masjid, his father and Shiv Sena founder late Balasaheb Thackeray owned up to it. “He had said that if the Shiv Saniks have demolished the structure, he was proud of them,” Thackeray said.Azmi, who had supported the MVA government when it was formed in November 2019, raised strong objection to the speech. “Thackeray’s statement and political speech in the Assembly are highly objectionable. He should not forget that the government was duty-bound to follow the CMP on which the government was formed,” he said in the Assembly on Thursday.Nirupam slammed the leaders from ruling parties for keeping mum over the statement. “While Thackeray made the remarks, the Congress, NCP ministers and MLAs sitting next to him kept enjoying it. Which common minimum program is this,” he tweeted in Hindi.Congress and NCP ministers chose to not react to it. Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole said that he would not comment on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/muslim-ministers-should-resign-over-maharashtra-cm-s-remarks-abu-asim-azmi-101614885586613.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||BJP cautions MVA government over President rule in Maharashtra||The Maharashtra government is planning to hold the election for the post of Speaker, which fell vacant following Nana Patole’s resignation last month, early next week, amid the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party’s threat that President’s rule may be imposed over the delay.Insiders said that the ruling three parties in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi — Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress — have informally agreed to hold the election by Tuesday, a day after the budget is presented in the state legislature.The position of speaker fell vacant on February 4, as Patole resigned to take up the new responsibility as the state Congress president.BJP legislator and former finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar said the post was never left vacant for so long in the past. The delay would be a mistake and may lead to the imposition of President’s rule in Maharashtra, he cautioned. “According to the Maharashtra legislative assembly rules, the Speaker’s position should not be left vacant and the election for the same should be held as early as possible. In the past 50 years, the post was not left vacant for more than seven days. But this time it is vacant for a month,” Mungantiwar said. “I request the state government to hold the election or we are staring at a situation like February 17, 1980, when the then Indira Gandhi government dismissed Sharad Pawar-led Maharashtra government for not following constitutional provisions. You (MVA government) cannot violate constitutional provisions. Do not cry, if President’s rule is imposed,” he warned.In response, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said the Speaker’s position was vacant in the BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh for a year. “From March 24, 2020 to February 22, 2021, the post was vacant in Madhya Pradesh and the deputy speaker was holding its charge. So what is objectionable in Maharashtra,” Pawar asked.“We have decided to hold the election for the Speaker’s post by Tuesday. With 154 seats, the MVA government is in a strong position and there is no reason to worry. A perception is being created that the government is afraid of holding the election, which is not true. However, the Congress is yet to decide the name of its candidate,” said a senior minister, requesting anonymity.State Congress chief Nana Patole said that the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led BJP government in the Centre has started making attempts to impose President’s rule over vague reasons. “Mungantiwar is going in the direction chosen by the Modi government,” Patole told reporters on the Vidhan Bhavan premises.Earlier, governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari had directed the Maharashtra legislature to hold elections for the post of Speaker in the first week of the budget session. Coalition leaders were wary of holding the election immediately as it needs to be held through a secret ballot. MVA leaders were wary that the BJP may encourage cross-voting to defeat their nominee, which would mean the collapse of the Thackeray government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-cautions-mva-government-over-president-rule-in-maharashtra-101614885226468.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Governor accepts forest minister Sanjay Rathod’s resignation||Amid pressure from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Maharashtra government sent the resignation of forest minister Sanjay Rathod to governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. The government accepted the resignation of the minister, whose name surfaced in the death of a woman in Pune on February 7, within hours. A statement from Raj Bhavan said Koshyari has accepted the resignation sent to him at 4pm and has given permission to hand over the charge of Rathod’s department to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. “The resignation has been accepted by the governor. On request by the chief minister, he has been allowed to keep the additional charge of forest department with him,” the statement from Raj Bhavan stated. Leader of Opposition in the legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis and other BJP leaders Ashish Shelar, Sanjay Kute have been repeatedly criticising the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government, questioning why the resignation, which was submitted on Sunday, has been kept with Thackeray. The BJP has been alleging the audio clips that went viral on social media clearly prove the involvement of the minister. Kute had said resignation was just a farce and the Thackeray government was shielding its minister. According to the officials from the chief minister’s office, Thackeray is expected to keep the department with him until the next reshuffle of the state cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-governor-accepts-forest-minister-sanjay-rathod-s-resignation-101614885046240.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: JEE Mains aspirants object to answer key released by NTA||Two days after the National Testing Agency (NTA) released the answer key to the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Mains exam held in February this year, students have objected to several questions and answers.“While the exam was easy for most candidates this year, many students have objected to the responses as mentioned by NTA in their answer key. Students have already started registering their challenges on the NTA website,” said Nandkumar Jadhav, a tutor at a city-based coaching institute that prepares students for competitive exams. A student can challenge a question or its response through the NTA website by paying ₹200 per objection or challenge that they raise. “In most cases, the responses in the mathematics section are wrong and we are sure the NTA will accept our challenges,” said Anupam Gupta, a candidate who appeared for the JEE Mains exam on February 26.Earlier this year, the Union government decided to conduct JEE Mains in four cycles between February and May. The decision was taken to ensure that students don’t miss out on the entrance exam if the date clashed with other competitive exams. With the window for challenging questions or responses closed now, students are expecting the NTA to release the results anytime soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-jee-mains-aspirants-object-to-answer-key-released-by-nta-101614884866235.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Taxi meters in Mumbai not recalibrated yet, association has another demand||Four days after the implementation of the new taxi tariff, the process to recalibrate meters is yet to begin. The recalibration of a few autorickshaws started on Wednesday. Increased fares of autorickshaw and taxis were implemented from Monday in the city. The fare hike was announced by Maharashtra transport minister Anil Parab on February 22. One of the reasons for the delay in the process of recalibration is the demand by the Autorickshaw Taxi Meter Association for increasing the charges for recalibration of meters. The association met transport department officials on Thursday, however, they failed to arrive at a consensus. “Due to coronavirus, every business is suffering. We have asked the transport department to increase the prices of the calibration as it is difficult for us to manage. The fare hike has happened after 2015 and has to be completed in two months. This means we can only earn for the next two months. The transport department does not appear to listen to us,’’ said Gafoor Nerekar, Mumbai chairperson, Maharashtra Autorickshaw Taxi Meter Repairing Association. Further, many autorickshaw and taxi drivers have also not yet started using tariff cards. Taxi unions have stated that the recalibration of meters is likely to take time and drivers are not aware of it.“There are many drivers who are not aware of the increased fare. The recalibration of meters is only likely to start by March 20,” said AL Quadros, leader, Mumbai Taximen’s Union.Regional Transport Office (RTO) officials have stated that the recalibration process has started, but no vehicle has come for a road test. “Vehicle recalibration has started. The vehicles are likely to come for road testing from Friday,” said an RTO official. The Maharashtra government has given time till May 30 to recalibrate taxi and autorickshaw meters in the city. There are nearly two lakh autorickshaws and 40,000 taxis operating in the city. The minimum autorickshaw fare (for 1.5 km) is now ₹21 as opposed to ₹18 and the minimum black and yellow taxi fare is now ₹25 as opposed to ₹22. The per km rate for taxis has increased to ₹16.93 from ₹14.84. The minimum autorickshaw fare during the night is now ₹27 and the minimum taxi fare is now ₹32. Thereafter, its per-kilometre rate has increased to ₹14.20 from the earlier ₹12.19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/taxi-meters-in-mumbai-not-recalibrated-yet-association-has-another-demand-101614884686157.html
05-03-2021||Other||Street Vendors’ Act: 5 years on, GMADA approves eight vending sites in Mohali||Over five years after the municipal corporation started identification of vendors in the city, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has approved eight of the total 14 vending sites proposed around the city.These will be handed over to the civic body on March 8, which will pave the way for implementation of the Street Vendors’ (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014. The eight sites were earmarked following a joint survey by MC and GMADA a few months back.The Act is aimed at registering and rehabilitating street vendors and also saving them from exploitation at the hands of enforcement officers. It also calls for proper rationing of urban streets and spaces.A senior GMADA official said the chief administrator will accord the final approval by Friday, following which they will hand over the eight sites to MC by March 8.“Once we get the space, we will begin the process of developing them and allotting sites to vendors, which will take around two months,” said MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg.In the absence of implementation of the Act, illegal vendors have been thriving at several main markets of the city, especially in Phases 7, 3B1, 3B2, 9, 10 and 11.“For years, we have been urging the authorities to take action against illegal vendors, but to no avail. The parking lots are left with no space due to encroachments by them,” said Jatinder Pal Singh, president, Phase 3B2 Market Welfare Association.Identification process started in 2015 At least 993 vendors were identified in an MC survey that was initiated in 2015. A private firm hired by MC to carry out the survey had initially shortlisted at least 2,295 vendors, but the MC House found anomalies in the survey and ordered a fresh one. In 2017, the civic body had concluded there were 993 moving and stationary vendors.In January last year, MC had decided to implement the Act first in Phase 7, where as many as 139 vendors are registered. The MC commissioner had even asked the agency that conducted the survey to mark vending space in the parking areas, but the plan had fallen flat following objections by the market welfare association and area councillor.Thereon, MC issued identity cards to 200 of the 993 vendors, but they were never given designated spaces to carry out their trade.Approved sitesSector 54, near Bassi TheatreSector 55, near Phase-1 barrierSector 56, UT-Mohali borderSector 68, near Temple of KnowledgeSector 77, near waterworksSector 77, near Akal Ashram ColonySector 78, near fire stationSector 79, near Housefed flats||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/street-vendors-act-5-years-on-gmada-approves-eight-vending-sites-in-mohali-101614884626326.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: MUHS releases SOPs for final-year MBBS exams||Days after several final year students approached the state medical education minister Amit Deshmukh and Aaditya Thackeray, state minister of tourism and environment, requesting that their upcoming exams either be postponed or conducted online, the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) released circular stating rules of conduct for examinations starting Monday. Through the circular, the university has clarified that exams will be conducted offline as per schedule, and keeping social distancing and routine health checks in place for the safety of staff and students.“In a meeting of the exam committee conducted on March 3, a host of rules and regulations have been formulated to bring clarity for the upcoming exams,” said a circular released by MUHS on March 4. It further lists 15 pointers that need to be followed during the exams.Answering concerns of several final year students who have reportedly tested positive for Covid-19 days before their exam, the MUHS has clarified that only such students will be allowed to apply for re-examination. “Such students will have to make an application through their dean or principal of the concerned college with an attested copy of the Covid-19 test report. In case of anyone remaining absent on any other grounds will not be considered by the authorities,” said the circular.Earlier this week, students had written to MUHS as well as the state government hoping for a change in exam schedule or mode of examinations, especially due to rising Covid-19 cases in the state. While the MUHS has previously released circulars postponing all final year medical and dental examination from January to February and now March due to the same reason, it refused to postpone exams any further.This decision has left students dejected. “Some of us have been at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19 and the least we expected was for the authorities to consider our health and safety as well. Since we are now left with no choice, we will have to appear for the exams as per schedule,” said a final year MBBS student, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-muhs-releases-sops-for-final-year-mbbs-exams-101614884566257.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Mercury at 38.1 degrees Celsius, warmest day of season||The city witnessed its warmest day of the season so far on Thursday. The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) Santacruz weather station recorded a maximum temperature of 38.1 degrees Celsius at the automatic weather station in Santacruz, up from 37.3 degrees Celsius a day prior. Thursday’s reading was 5 degrees Celsius above normal and surpassed last year’s maximum reading of 37.5 degrees Celsius (on March 17).Officials once again attributed the spike in Mercury to dry, warm winds blowing at a low altitude over the city - at about 900 metres above mean sea level - coming from an anticyclonic circulation over central India. “Persistent influence of these winds over the last two days has caused the temperature to rise,” said Shubhangi Bhute, a scientist at IMD, adding that a heatwave may be announced if temperatures remain 5 degrees above normal for a second day. The minimum temperature at Santacruz was recorded at 20.6 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, which was at normal, and only slightly higher than the previous day’s reading of 20.4 degrees Celsius.In Colaba, on the other hand, the maximum temperature was recorded at 33.8 degrees Celsius (down from 34.5 degrees a day prior), while the minimum temperature was recorded at 23 degrees Celsius (up from 22.3 degrees Celsius a day prior).As per the IMD’s seven-day forecast for Santacruz, Friday and Saturday may see higher daytime temperatures, touching as much as 39 degrees Celsius. The minimum reading is predicted to remain at least 21 degrees Celsius over the week. Mainly clear skies will prevail.Meanwhile, according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), air quality on Thursday settled just short of the very poor category, with the air quality index (AQI) at 293, up from 208 the day prior. The forecasted AQI for Friday is 259.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mercury-at-38-1-degrees-celsius-warmest-day-of-season-101614884326672.html
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||Hundreds of teachers protest at Panjab University over pay scales||Hundreds of university and college teachers held a protest rally at Panjab University on Thursday against the decision of the Punjab government to delink their pay scales from those of the University Grants Commission (UGC).Teachers of PU; Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar; Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana; Punjabi University, Patiala; and other colleges of Punjab and Chandigarh participated in the rally under the banner of Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (PFUCTO).On Thursday, the teachers were on mass casual leave and had boycotted the conduct of examinations to press on their demands. The principals’ associations of non-government colleges of PU, GNDU and Punjabi University extended their support to PFUCTO’s call. The teachers also submitted a memorandum to the speaker of Punjab assembly.Teachers are up in arms against the decision of the state government to delink the pay scales of assistant professors of universities and colleges of Punjab from the UGC 7th Pay Commission scales.While addressing the teachers, Dr Jagwant Singh, general secretary, PFUCTO, said, “The moves are ill-conceived and a serious setback to the gains made by decades of teachers’ struggles. The system of higher education in Punjab shall stand completely alienated from the national system.”Mritunjay Kumar, president, PUTA, said, “Teachers will keep on fighting until the Punjab government concedes to the genuine demands of the teachers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hundreds-of-teachers-protest-at-panjab-university-over-pay-scales-101614884206506.html
05-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Congress objects to Ram Mandir donation drive||The Congress party on Thursday raised objections to an ongoing campaign to collect donations for the construction of the Ram Mandir at Ayodhya. State Congress chief and legislator Nana Patole said in the state Assembly that when he had refused to give a donation, he had been threatened by the person collecting the amount. On Thursday, Patole told the Assembly, “A person named Manohar Kulkarni approached me and sought donations for construction of the Ram Mandir at Ayodhya. When I refused, he threatened me. Who has given them the contract to collect donation and charity in the name of Lord Rama? Did Lord Rama give them a contract?” “We are ready for a debate in the state Assembly on the issue, if they wish to hold it. Those involved in extortion will never understand the importance of [making an] offering,” said leader of Opposition and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis in response. Following this, proceedings in the Assembly had to be adjourned for 10 minutes following an uproar by BJP legislators in response to Patole’s comments. Chants of “Jai Shri Ram” were also raised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-congress-objects-to-ram-mandir-donation-drive-101614883606137.html
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh house grab case: DSP Ram Gopal’s role under scanner, brother held||Making the third arrest into the Sector-37 house grab case, police on Thursday nabbed Satpal Dagar, the younger brother of Chandigarh deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Ram Gopal.The arrest comes two days after journalist Sanjeev Mahajan and realtor Manish Gupta were apprehended for forcibly grabbing the house, owned by 48-year-old Rahul Mehta, the only surviving heir of his family. DSP Ram Gopal is also under the scanner as the FIR details that a meeting regarding the deal of the house was held at his office and he helped manage documents for it. Satpal will be produced before the court on Friday, when accused Sanjeev and Manish will also be produced after expiry of their previous police remand. Police had booked nine men on charges of kidnapping and torturing Rahul in April 2017 to secure the general power of attorney (GPA) of his 338 square yards house and selling it to Manish’s brother Saurabh Gupta for ₹2.9 crore in March 2019. Besides Satpal, Sanjeev and Saurabh, others named in the FIR are businessman Khalendra Singh Kadyan and liquor contractor Arvind Singla, to whom the GPA was transferred; slain bouncer Surjit Singh; Ashok Arora; Shekhar and Daljit Singh, who purportedly acted as witnesses in the sale of the house. Satpal initially purchased the property After joining investigation, Arvind Singla told the police that he was first offered to purchase the Sector-37 property in April 2017, but he had turned down the deal.Later, he was informed that Sanjeev had sold the property for ₹2.5 crore to Satpal, brother of a DSP. Arvind, then, along with Ashok Arora, who was a witness in the GPA, had met DSP Ram Gopal at his office and discussed about the house deal. Thereafter, Arvind, Ashok and Satpal met at his office in Sector 40, where he offered to become a 50% shareholder in the deal, but Satpal allowed him only 33%. After this deal was finalised, Arvind issued a cheque for ₹5 lakh in the favour of house owner Rahul and gave it to Satpal. On April 26, 2017, he also transferred ₹11 lakh to the account of Khalendra through an online payment, on the directions of Satpal. On April 27, 2017, Ashok and Satpal called him to the deputy commissioner’s office in Sector 17 to get the GPA registered. There, Sanjeev and Khalendra were also present and introduced him to a man, claiming he was Rahul, the house owner. The GPA was executed in the favour of Arvind and Khalendra, following which Satpal provided Sanjeev a cheque for ₹67 lakh in favour of Rahul. According to Arvind, he approached Sanjeev, Ashok, Satpal and Khalendra to get the registry of house, but they did not respond, prompting him to seek refund of his money with interest. He also arranged a meeting of Ashok and Satpal with his realtor friend, Manish Gupta, who later met Sanjeev and finalised the deal of the house. Hereon, the accused managed the required documents through DSP Gopal to get the sale deed of Rahul’s house executed in favour of Manish’s brother Saurabh Gupta, and the GPA in the name of Arvind and Khalendra was cancelled.Journo’s financial trail Digging into journalist Sanjeev Mahajan’s financial trail, police have traced a hotel, a house in Sector 37 and a flat owned by him or his family members. The police investigation also found out that despite having an annual income of less than ₹10 lakh, he had paid off a car loan of ₹25 lakh in five months. “His investments, expansion of business interests, and moveable and immoveable properties are much more than his known sources of income. We are tracing how he arranged money for all this,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh. Police also conducted searches at the house of Manish in Sector 38.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-house-grab-case-dsp-ram-gopal-s-role-under-scanner-brother-held-101614883485500.html
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh slips to 29th rank in Ease of Living Index||From the fifth most livable city in 2018, Chandigarh is now not even in the top 20 in the country.According to the ranking of 111 cities on the Ease of Living Index 2020, released by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs on Thursday, Chandigarh is placed at a lowly 29th position out of 49 cities with million plus population.The index is an assessment tool that evaluates the quality of life and the impact of various initiatives for urban development.In the inaugural 2018 report, Chandigarh was fifth when all 111 cities were part of a composite ranking. For the 2020 rankings, the cities have been divided into two categories: those with population more than a million and those with less than a million. If the score of all these cities were to be considered, Chandigarh would have ranked 45th out of 111 cities.Bengaluru emerged as the top performer in the million+ category, followed by Pune, Ahmedabad, and Chennai. In the less-than-million category, Shimla is ranked the highest, followed by Bhubaneshwar, Silvassa, and Kakinada.Notably, Chandigarh scored marginally more than in the previous rankings. In 2018, it scored 53.16 out of 100, which has gone up to 54.4 in 2020.Poor economic ability drags city downOf the four parameters of the index, the city has performed the worst under economic ability, scoring just 9.9 marks out of 100, with a rank of 34 among 49 cities. It got only 7 marks for the level of economic development and 12.99 for economic opportunities – the two sub-categories of this parameter. Not surprisingly, in the latest ease of doing business report too, the city was ranked at the bottom. Bengaluru, the topper in this parameter too, has a score of 78.82.In citizen perception (residents’ view on the services provided by the administration), Chandigarh has scored 72.8 and a rank of 35. Bengaluru has scored 78 with a rank of 20.Consolation: City’s education best in India Chandigarh’s overall quality of life, third parameter under the index, has been ranked 20th with a score of 54.42. In terms of quality of life, the best city is Chennai with a score of 60.33.However, in education, a sub-category, the city tops the country with a score of 83.27. It is followed by Indore, Bengaluru and Amritsar.In the fourth parameter – sustainability, which includes sub-categories of environment, green space and buildings, energy consumption and city resilience – Chandigarh’s score is a modest 60 with rank of 12. In city resilience, it scored 100 marks, while in green space and buildings, it scored the lowest 24.Nothing to cheer about in municipal performance tooIn the newly launched Municipal Performance Index 2020, too, the city has fared poorly. It is 23rd among 51 cities with million plus population included in the list. Indore tops the index.This index was launched as an accompaniment to the ease of living. It seeks to examine local government practice in municipalities across areas of services, finance, policy, technology and governance.The Chandigarh MC, which has for long struggled with its finances and will start the coming fiscal with a deficit of more than ₹700 crore, has been ranked 37th when it comes to the finance parameter. In planning, it is ranked a lowly 43.‘Matter of serious introspection’“It is a matter of serious introspection for the UT administration, municipal corporation and Chandigarh Smart City Limited. Of special concern is the poor ranking of 32 in citizen feedback. This shows residents don’t see in positive light the services provided by the administration,” said Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations.Chandigarh Congress president Subhash Chawla said: “We have been consistently saying that the city’s governance is on a downward spiral. The BJP has miserably failed to deliver on multiple fronts: jobs, health and infrastructure development. It has only burdened people with taxes.” “We will analyse the report and see what lessons can be learnt, so that the city can improve its performance,” said Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said.UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “We will examine the rankings and try to improve on different parameters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-slips-to-29th-rank-in-ease-of-living-index-101614882766948.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||NDMC best civic body among municipalities serving less than a million population||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has ranked as the best among 111 municipal corporations catering to areas with less than one million population in the Municipal Performance Index released by the Union housing and urban affairs minister on Thursday. The North and East corporations ranked 48th and 42nd, while the South corporation got 28th position.While the NDMC was assessed in the category of less than one million population with 60 corporations, the South, East and North corporations were part of the million-plus population category with 48 other corporations.The municipal corporations were assessed on five parameters such as governance (20% weightage), services (30%), technology (15%), finance (20%) and planning (15%). The municipal corporations have been divided into two categories based on the population: corporations with a million-plus population and corporations with less than a million populations.The Municipal Performance Index is an outcome of the Ease of Living Index 2020, which was also released by the housing ministry on Thursday, as it assesses the inputs or enabling factors while EoLI emphasises on outcomes of developments.While the NDMC stood first among 60 cities in the overall ranking, it was at the fifth position in the services category. Education, health, sanitation, permits and registrations and civic infrastructure were the key categories under the services parameter. Bilaspur topped the category followed by Tirupati, Gandhi Nagar and Vellore.NDMC, which is one of the smart cities in the country, stood at 6th position in the technology category that was assessed on the parameter of digital governance, digital access and literary.Among the small municipal bodies, besides NDMC the other 9 top performers are Tirupati, Gandhinagar, Karnal, Salem, Tiruppur, Bilaspur, Udaipur, Jhansi and Tirunelveli.NDMC chairman Dharmendra said, “In the field of services and governance, NDMC has taken several IT-based initiatives through technology intervention for strengthening of e-Governance and m-Governance to improve efficiency and effectiveness in providing civic services in an equitable, non-discretionary and transparent manner.”The North and East corporations, both ruled by the BJP for the past 14 years, were ranked below Ghaziabad (20th rank), Meerut (29th rank) and Faridabad (40th rank) municipal corporations.North Corporation mayor Jai Prakash admitted that there is a need to do a lot of work. “The assessment gives us an idea of where we stand. There is a need to do a lot of work. Our biggest problem is finances; we are working towards improving it. In this current financial year, we have tried to improve our revenue collection from house tax,” said Jai Prakash.Among the three corporations, the South civic body fared well on parameters such as services, technology, municipal planning, finances and governance.The North and East corporations have been facing a huge financial crunch. The financial situation of North corporation, officials say, is better than East corporation. But the east corporation’s performance is better than the North and South in some categories.For instance, in the municipal governance category, East is ranked at 30th position while North corporation and South corporation at 48th and 44th positions respectively. Likewise, in the technology category also the East (43th rank) has fared better than the South and North corporations which stood at 45th and 47th position.Nirmal Jain, mayor of East Corporation said, “We have been trying to do our best in the limited resources available with us. It is not just financial issues, a big problem before us is the area under our jurisdiction. We largely have slums and unauthorised colonies. We have been making efforts to take services on the digital platform, but it will take some time for it to happen.”In terms of delivering services, South corporation was among the top five civic bodies at the fourth position.Rajat Kathuria, director and chief executive, Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations (ICRIER), “The New Delhi Municipal Council is one of the richest municipal corporations. It is easier to provide essential services for the NDMC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ndmc-best-civic-body-among-municipalities-serving-less-than-a-million-population-101614882466402.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||More diversions at Ashram for underpass construction||The Public Works Department (PWD) has asked the Delhi Traffic Police to increase diversions around the Ashram intersection from Friday onwards so that they can hasten work on a 750-metre underpass connecting Nizamuddin Railway Bridge and CSIR Apartments on the Mathura Road.Hindustan Times had on Tuesday reported how the simultaneous construction work at and around the Ashram intersection, from where every day over 3.5 lakhs vehicle pass during peak traffic hours, is likely to cause a traffic nightmare for commuters.The Public Works Department (PWD) last month started work on extending the Ashram flyover on Ring Road, even as work on a 750-metre Ashram underpass is going on after already missing its deadline. These two projects running simultaneously has made one of the Capital’s most crucial intersections — one that connects south and central Delhi, and virtually serves as the connection for two NCR cities Noida and Faridabad — a nightmare for commuters.Delhi traffic police on Thursday said that in order to speed up work on Ashram underpass, the PWD had requested them for closure of way for vehicles going straight towards Lajpat Nagar on the Ring Road and those taking a right turn from below the flyover to go towards Nizamuddin. The movement of vehicles on the Ashram flyover will not be impacted while this diversion plan is in place, the traffic police clarified.“Due to the ongoing construction work of an underpass on Mathura Road at the Ashram crossing, the flow of traffic remains heavy, especially in the peak traffic hours. As a result, road users have been facing hardships while travelling through this stretch,” a statement issued by the traffic police on Thursday read.It added, “To speed up the project work, the construction agency (PWD) has increased its resources and is now closing the straight and right turn passage for traffic coming from Sarai Kale Khan and Delhi-Noida-Direct Flyway under the Ashram flyover.”The traffic police said that starting Friday, commuters will have to make a mandatory left turn onto the Mathura Road and take a U-turn from the New Friends Colony traffic signal to come back to the Ashram intersection in order to go towards Lajpat Nagar on the Ring Road or towards Nizamuddin on the Mathura Road.“There is no diversion for straight moving traffic on the Ashram flyover on both carriageways. General public is hereby advised to plan their travel accordingly,” the traffic police said.Traffic police had started diverting traffic on a trial basis on Wednesday and Thursday for a few hours during non-rush hours of morning and evening to assess the impact of the new route on vehicular traffic. This was also done as an assessment to finalise the new traffic diversion plan for the extension of the Ashram flyover, police confirmed.The Delhi traffic police are also working on a diversion plan for the extension of the Ashram flyover. The PWD has already placed barricades on the Kilokri side and on the Maharani Bagh side of the Ring Road, which has further thinned down space for traffic movement. Senior traffic officials said that the final traffic diversion plan for the upcoming project is likely to be finalised in two weeks.“We had raised this concern with the PWD that simultaneous digging around the Ashram intersection will lead to a major traffic chaos. If this is the last leg of construction of the underpass then once the intersection is cleared, we can work on the diversion plan for the Ring Road,” a senior traffic official said.Traffic police and PWD officials confirmed that the construction agency had sent a request to divert traffic on the Ring Road in January this year, to initiate work for the extension of the Ashram flyover.In their permission request the PWD had stated that the construction work of the underpass at the intersection was in its final leg, and before any major digging work begins on the Ring Road, the barricades placed on the Mathura Road will be cleared and this can act as a diversion for traffic. The current deadline for the completion of the underpass is April 31.Ashram intersection is one of the busiest intersections of the city, from where every day over 3.5 lakh vehicles pass during peak traffic hours.Experts said that the PWD is “biting more than it can chew” and this will ultimately result in long and mismanaged traffic on the stretch. The impact of this is also likely to spillover to adjoining roads, including Sarai Kale Khan, Noida Link Road, Meerut Expressway, and the Ring Road.Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning at the School of Planning and Architecture, said that things were bad even when the Ring Road was acting as an alternative route to Mathura Road, where digging work has been going on since December last year. Now, he said, the intersection will get harder to negotiate.“The Mathura Road and Ring Road are crossing each other on the intersection, and if simultaneous work is initiated, then there would be no clear route for traffic to move,” he said. “Even if the initiation of the flyover extension has to be postponed a little, the way to go is to wrap up work on one road first and then move on to the other. This will make traffic management easier for the agencies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/diversions-around-ashram-to-increase-as-pwd-pushes-to-finish-underpass-construction-101614882465854.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||CM Kejriwal, L-G Baijal, Union finance minister Sitharaman get Covid jabs||Delhi’s vaccination drive on Thursday saw chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, the lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, and Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman taking their first shots against Covid-19.There were 14,328 people over the age of 60 and 2,175 between the ages of 45 and 59 years with comorbidities who took the vaccine on Thursday. Overall, Delhi saw a record 27,959 people getting immunised on Thursday, as Delhi increased the number of vaccination sites from 308 to 402.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal took the vaccine at Delhi government’s largest 2,000-bed Lok Nayak hospital along with his parents.While the chief minister’s parents were administered the vaccine under the 60+ age category, the 52-year-old chief minister was administered the shot as he has a history of diabetes and hypertension. “The CM has had diabetes for over ten years along with hypertension. Both his blood pressure and sugar are under control using medicines,” said a senior doctor from the hospital.Kejriwal, after receiving a Covishield shot, urged others who are eligible to get the shot. “I, along with my parents, have received our first doses of Covid-19 vaccine today. As you all can see we are perfectly healthy and are facing no complications. We are fortunate that we now have a vaccine to tackle the Covid-19 vaccine. I want to appeal to everyone to get the vaccination done,” he said.Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Lok Nayak hospital said that his presence motivated the healthcare workers and others to get the shot. On Thursday, the hospital immunised 49 people over the age of 60 and 12 people between the ages of 45 and 59 with comorbidities.Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, who is over 70 years of age, received his shot at the charitable Tirath Ram Shah hospital near Tis Hazari metro station. “Received the first dose of COVID-19 #vaccine at Tirath Ram Shah Hospital. Appeal to all eligible persons to come forward and get vaccinated to finally defeat the #COVID19 pandemic,” he said in a tweet. It was not immediately clear if Baijal received a Covishield or Covaxin shot.Sixty one-year-old Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman also took her first dose of the Covaxin Covid-19 vaccine in Fortis hospital, Vasant Kunj. “Got my first dose of the vaccination against COVID-19 this morning. Thanking sister Ramya PC, for her care and professionalism,” she said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cm-kejriwal-l-g-baijal-union-finance-minister-sitharaman-get-covid-jabs-101614882465265.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi scores high on education, housing||Delhi ranked 13th among 49 cities with million-plus population in the Ease of Living Index 2020 (EoLI 2020) released by the Union housing and urban affair ministry on Thursday. Parameters such as housing, economic opportunities have helped the national capital improve its overall score — Delhi ranked 65th among 111 cities in the first Ease of Living Index in 2018 --- but it was still far behind Bengaluru, Chennai and Navi Mumbai.While Delhi performed well in education, housing and shelter and economic ability categories, it stood at 44th position of the 49 cities surveyed in the citizens perception category. The overall ranking of the capital in this category among 111 cities was 95.With Prime Minister Narendra Modi emphasising the ease of living, along with the ease of doing business, as a key policy priority, the rankings of cities have assumed significance in shaping government policies and determining expenditure priorities. A total of 111 cities participated in the assessment exercise that was conducted in 2020.The well-being of citizens living in 111 cities was assessed on four main parameters: quality of life (35% weightage), economic ability (15%), sustainability (20%) and citizens perception survey (30%). The ministry assessed these parameters based on 49 indicators in 14 categories such as education, health, safety, level of economic development, economic opportunities, housing, mobility, etc. The 111 cities were divided in two broad categories: those with a population of million-plus, in which there were 49 cities, and cities with less than a million population, in which 62 cities were bracketed.A senior housing and urban affairs ministry official said that they assessed the services provided by local bodies and how it impacted the quality of life of people living the cities and also people’s perception about it.Delhi was ranked 35th among the 49 cities in the quality of life parameter which was assessed based on the education, health, housing, waste management, mobility, safety and security, and recreation. While Chennai topped the list, cities such as Ghaziabad, Pune, Bengaluru were ahead of Delhi. The Capital’s quality of life score is 51.22, slightly below the national average of 51.38.Delhi secured the second position under the economic ability parameter followed by Pune and Ahmedabad. Bengaluru topped the list under this parameter in the category of million-plus population cities. The parameter was assessed on two categories: economic opportunities and level of economic development. “Delhi is the only positive outlier in this category with a perfect score, followed by Bengaluru and Hyderabad,” according to the report.Rajat Kathuria, director and chief executive, Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations (ICRIER), said, “It is not surprising that Delhi is one of the top cities under economic abilities category. There are a lot of employment opportunities in the national capital. A lot of people come here from different parts of the country in search of jobs.”The city has also performed well in the housing and shelter category. Delhi, along with Thiruvananthapuram, Puducherry and Bhopal has emerged as perfect positive outliers in the housing category. According to the report, all households in these cities have electrical connections, and all identified beneficiaries are covered under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY).However, Delhi performed badly on parameters of safety and security, mobility, stormwater drainage, green spaces, etc.According to the report, Delhi, Faridabad, Indore, Gwalior, Ranchi are among 13 million-plus cities which have performed below the national average in the safety and security category. Among the 49 cities, Delhi was ranked at 40th position in terms of safety and security.In the mobility category, too, Delhi is among the cities such as Bengaluru, Pune, Navi Mumbai, Ahmedabad where the availability of public transport per lakh population was not up to the mark. Delhi ranked 28th in the list. According to the report, “Firstly, the public transport system is not efficient enough to support the population of respective cities; and secondly, these cities may be ‘automobile-dependent’ for increased mobility fostered by rapid economic growth that encourages private vehicle ownership.”Kathuria said while Delhi attracts a lot of people due to better economic opportunities, it also adds to the pressure on the city’s resources. “A lot of people which come to the city due to the economic opportunities. This also puts a lot of the city’s infrastructure, as the population is increasing. The city is always playing catch-up in providing essential services. In transport, for instance, the public transport infrastructure has not kept pace with the increase in population. Metro has provided some relief, but it is not enough. There is a need to now plan the cities in such a way that people live closer to workplaces and can use public transport for commuting.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ease-of-living-report-city-of-opportunities-delhi-scores-poorly-on-safety-and-public-transport-101614882407932.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||AAP says people have rejected BJP for failure to govern the MCDs||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday trained guns at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleging that the party has failed in governing the three municipal corporations (MCD) of the city and that is why people had not let them win on even a single seat in the recently concluded municipal bypolls in five wards.The BJP, however, hit back saying that the AAP should focus on “analysing” why they are losing their Muslim voter base, citing example of Chauhan Banger ward, which the Congress won by a huge margin.The AAP on Wednesday had won four out of the five wards in the municipal bypolls in Delhi. The Congress won one seat and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is the ruling party in the three municipal corporations for 14 years now, drew a blank.The AAP’s chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said, “People of Delhi are angry due to BJP’s dirty politics in the MCDs. They have failed in governance. So, people did not let them win a single seat in the bypolls. People have understood that the BJP is continuously ranting about shortage of funds and blaming the AAP as part of their strategy to hide their failures. Even their traditional voter base of traders, especially in wards such as Shalimar Bagh, have voted for the AAP.”Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “For us the loss in Shalimar Bagh seat was a setback, but we will make a comeback in the 2022 municipal polls. The AAP, on the other hand, should rather focus on analysing why they are losing their traditional Muslim voter base. Losing the Chauhan Banger seat to the Congress was shameful for them. Muslims have rejected them.”Out of the five seats that went to the bypolls on February 28, the AAP retained three seats, which it won in the 2017 municipal polls, while gaining one more from the BJP. They, however, lost the Chauhan Banger seat to the Congress. Essentially, the AAP was in power in four out of these five seats and they continue to be in power in four – only with change in one seat.The bypoll results have come as a huge setback for the BJP, as the party lost all the seats with margins varying from 2,700 to 7,000 votes, indicating people’s dissatisfaction with the performance of the party in the civic bodies.Delhi goes to the municipal polls in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-says-people-have-rejected-bjp-for-failure-to-govern-the-mcds-101614882406659.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||School files complaint against parent for ‘forging’ Covid-19 report||A school in north Delhi on Thursday filed a police complaint against the parent of a student for “forging” Covid test report and showing their child to have tested positive after attending in-person classes earlier this week.The parent of the student, however, have strongly denied the allegations levied by the school.“The school did not follow social distancing guidelines and is now shifting the blame on us. We will produce all documents. My child is sick and in quarantine now. We have been following all Covid norms,” said the parent.Parent groups had claimed that the class 11 student had contracted the infection due to negligence of officials at Queen Mary’s School in Tis Hazari – an allegation denied by the school.On Monday, a group of parents also protested at the school demanding that the in-house examinations scheduled to begin on Tuesday be conducted digitally instead of offline mode. Following the agitation, the school management announced closure of the school for next six days.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse confirmed that the police station had received a complaint. “We have received a complaint from the school,” he said.Parents have been protesting outside different schools throughout the week after reports surfaced of school-going children testing positive for Covid-19 in Delhi and nearby areas. The major demands of protesting parents include conducting online internal exams for class 9 and 11 students, instead of in-person tests.“The school is reopening on Monday and the decision on whether exams will be conducted on online or offline mode will be taken later,” an administrative official at Queen Mary’s School said, requesting anonymity. Despite calls and messages, principal Ritu Solomon did not comment on the matter.On Thursday, the Queen Mary’s School, which is a government-aided institution, also wrote to the district deputy director of education (DDE) on the matter. “Instead of informing the school authorities, she [the parent] circulated the medical report on the parents’ WhatsApp group with an intention of instigating them and claimed that her child had contracted the virus due to negligence of school authorities thus misled the parent community,” the school principal Ritu P Solomon wrote in a letter to DDE North.Officials at the directorate said they had not received the letter by Thursday and were not in a position to comment.“School department verified the said Covid-19 test report from the said hospital and on verification it was found that the said report is forged and fabricated,” Solomon wrote in the letter, adding that school authorities have made a police complaint in Subzi Mandi.On Tuesday, Venkateshwar International School in Dwarka – where a student had allegedly tested positive for Covid-19 – allowed students to appear for their exams in online mode, if they wished to do so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/school-files-complaint-against-parent-for-forging-covid-19-report-101614882405359.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||Green score in Delhi hit by persistent poor AQI||Consistent poor air quality and high levels of microscopic particulate matter pollutants have got Delhi 42nd rank in the environment category among 49 cities with a million or more population in a survey by the Union housing and urban affairs ministry for the Ease of Living report that was released on Thursday.Environment was one of the metrics under the Sustainability Pillar on which Delhi scored 56.02, slightly above the national average of 53.63, securing the 28th rank. According to the report, for ranking the cities on environment indicators such as water quality, total tree cover, hazardous waste generation and air quality index (measuring SO2, NO2, and PM10) were considered.Despite steps by local and central agencies, Delhi’s city’s air quality takes an annual plunge every winter, with the air quality hitting ‘emergency’ levels on the AQI scale, especially between December and January. The cold conditions and low wind speed often contribute to worsening the pollution levels. A CSE analysis released on Wednesday showed that in 2020 even though the severity and duration of smog episodes were lower, the seasonal average levels of PM 2.5 was higher.“Infrastructural capacity, economic opportunities and welfare services are already under tremendous pressure with rapid expansion of urban spaces. Yet, looming threats arising due to climate change have the potential to cause irreversible damage to the world as we know it. For India, the impact may be even higher,” the report read.Pune, with a score of 75.74 topped the list of cities in the Sustainability category, followed by Visakhapatnam, which scored 65.18 and Pimpri Chinchwad, whose score was 65.09.Environmental experts said that the city still needs to do a lot of work in the fields of water and waste management and providing a green urban infrastructure to its citizens.The Institute for Management Development (IMD), in collaboration with Singapore University for Technology and Design (SUTD), had released the 2020 Smart City Index last year, which showed that Delhi’s global rankings had dropped from 68 in 2019, to 86 last year.“Cities in India (New Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru) suffer significant drops this year. This can be attributed to the detrimental effect that the pandemic has had where the technological advancement was not up to date,” the report said.It added that apart from the problem of air pollution, Delhi needed to tackle the issues of “basic amenities”, such as the provision of clean water to all.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said that Delhi was particularly lagging in its efforts towards solid waste management.“Work has been done in the field of pollution control and we are seeing that every year, Delhi is managing to bring down its pollution curve but a major area where work is lagging is solid waste management, there are still areas where door-to-door waste collection is not happening. Recycling is not the focus and dumping at landfills is continuing; all these areas factor in to make a city more sustainable,” Roychowdhury said.The report said that cities such as Delhi, Greater Mumbai, Kochi, Hyderabad, Indore, Trivandrum and Lucknow showed poor performance in developing green spaces and buildings.Green spaces and buildings include indicators of availability of green spaces, whether the city incentivises green buildings, and the presence of green buildings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ease-of-living-report-delhi-ranks-poorly-in-sustainability-and-environment-categories-101614882405983.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi is second among 5 worst cities in terms of public transport availability||When it comes to public transport and mobility, Delhi has fared poorly on Ease of Living Index, 2020, the rankings of which were released by Union ministry of housing and urban affairs on Thursday. In fact, the lack of adequate public transport options put Delhi second on a list of five worst performing cities.To rank cities on mobility, one of the primary criteria for ascertaining the quality of life, three crucial indicators were assessed —availability of public transport, transport-related fatalities and road infrastructure.The findings of the report show that Delhi was among cities that had a low availability of public transport modes per lakh population. Featuring second on a list of five worst performing cities, Delhi’s figures for the ‘availability of public transport’ was 1,688.50 per lakh population (PLP). Ahmedabad, according to the rankings, fared the worst with only 638.63 transportation modes per lakh population.The national capital was followed by Navi Mumbai with 2,037.81 PLP, Pune with 2,585.54 PLP, and finally Bengaluru, which had 4,409.62 PLP.The best performing city in this category was Chennai with a public transport availability rate of 92,017.96 per lakh population, followed by Visakhapatnam with 21,212.92 per lakh populationOn the worst performing cities, the report said, “Firstly, the public transport system is not efficient enough to support the population of respective cites. Secondly, these cities may be ”automobile dependent” for increased mobility fostered by rapid economic growth that encourages private vehicle ownership.”This worrying trend was also highlighted in a study released by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) in December last year, which showed that the ridership in public transport modes such as buses and the Delhi Metro was witnessing a decline, while the use of private vehicles was seeing a spike.The CSE analysis also warned of commuters shifting to private vehicles after Covid-19, which could undo years of work in the city to promote public transport, and as a result increase snarls on the road.According to latest government data, Delhi has around 11 million registered private vehicles, while Delhi has a fleet of around 6,000 public buses. This is nowhere near enough to cater to the 20 million-plus population, say transport experts. The capital city needs around 11,000 buses to bridge the gap between passenger requirement and availability.Amit Bhatt, director of integrated urban transport at World Resources Institute (India), said a major area where the city is lagging is the integration of its bus fleet with its extensive Metro system.“There were proposals for increasing the bus fleet of Delhi but probably because of the pandemic, these are yet to be reach the roads. Inadequate availability of buses is a problem being faced by all cities. We had conducted a study, which had showed that India needs around 2.5 lakh buses. In Delhi, along with a shortage of buses, the problem is also that the bus routes are not integrated with the Metro. If that had been done, it could have provided seamless transit options to commuters,” he said.The report said over 60% of the cities participating in this index, including the national capital, have scored below the national average of 28.05. Chennai emerged the only positive outlier with a score of 79.80, followed by, after a significant gap, Thane (48.40), Bengaluru (48.40), Bhopal (48.01), and Guwahati (47.73).However, the report also highlighted that transport-related fatalities were much lower in Delhi.“The incidents of transport-related fatalities were much lower in cities such as Amritsar (4.84), Ahmedabad (5.92), Surat (6.47) Pune (7.12), Bengaluru (7.32), Delhi (12.43) and Hyderabad (12.98) per lakh population,” the report read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-is-second-among-five-worst-cities-in-terms-of-public-transport-availability-101614882346387.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||Share evidence with dead farmer’s kin: HC||The Delhi high court on Thursday directed the city police to share the video of the post mortem and the inquest report with the family of a 25-year-old farmer, who had died after his tractor allegedly overturned during the tractor rally on Republic Day.Justice Yogesh Khanna was informed by advocate Rahul Mehra, standing counsel of the Delhi government (criminal) representing the police, that he does not have any objections in sharing the videography of the post-mortem examination and the inquest report.An inquest report is made primarily to look into the causes of unnatural death.Mehra also agreed to show the CCTV footage of 12 cameras that they had seized in connection to the incident to the deceased’s family or counsel, but said he would not share a copy of the footage with them.The judge asked the police and the counsel for the dead farmer’s family to mutually decide on the time and place when they can see the CCTV footage.Advocate Vrinda Grover, who had filed the plea on behalf of the grandfather of the deceased, Navreet Singh, then sought the video of the post mortem exam and inquest report.As Mehra stated that they have no objection in giving those to the petitioner, the high court said, “Let the needful be done.”The court was hearing a plea claiming that the victim Navreet had suffered gunshot injuries to his head. His post mortem was conducted at Rampur district hospital in Uttar Pradesh.Both the Delhi and Uttar Pradesh Police, in a previous hearing on February 26, told the court that the victim did not suffer any gunshot wounds.During the hearing, the judge also asked Uttar Pradesh Police to provide original X-ray plate and video of the post-mortem exam of the farmer to the court. It said that both the documents would be given to the investigating officer on March 5, who shall keep it in safe custody.Delhi government standing counsel (criminal) Mehra, representing Delhi Police, told the court that even though they have requested the Uttar Pradesh Police to give the original X-ray plate and post-mortem exam video, the officials of Rampur police and hospital refused to do it until ordered by the court.Advocate Garima Prashad, representing the Uttar Pradesh Police and the CMO of the hospital, said they do not have X-ray report and they only have the X-ray plate and the post-mortem report which they are willing to hand over to the Delhi Police on the date and time fixed by the court.She said the original post mortem and inquest reports have already been handed over to the Delhi Police.Grover also said once the original X-ray plate is received from the Uttar Pradesh Police, the court can ask AIIMS or any other forensic department to prepare a report out of the X-ray plate for their perusal.Delhi Police had earlier said that according to the post-mortem report, the young farmer died due to a head injury sustained in the accident .It had said that the protesters instead of taking Navreet to the hospital immediately, kept his body on the road for five hours and then spread rumours that he was killed in police firing.The Uttar Pradesh police, in its status report, had stated that no FIR has been registered by it in connection with the death as claimed by the petitioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-tells-police-to-share-post-mortem-video-inquest-report-with-family-of-farmer-killed-on-jan-26-101614882345856.html
05-03-2021||Delhi||Two Afghani women held with $76,500 at Delhi airport||Two Afghani women were arrested by the customs from the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) on Wednesday for allegedly trying to smuggle out $76,500 (about ₹55.6 lakh). Officials said the currency was concealed in sweet boxes and the women were apprehended during the security checks.Officials from the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) on Thursday identified the women as Mahmooda Sediqi and Estorai Qayomi, both from Afghanistan. The crime came to light around 1.30pm when a CISF personnel deployed at the security hold area of Terminal 3 spotted a suspicious image of a hand baggage belonging to a woman travelling to Kabul by a Kam Airlines flight.“Her bag was selected for manual screening and during checking, $40,000 in four bundles were found neatly concealed inside soan papdi (sweet) boxes. Another pouch recovered from the same woman had $6,500 concealed in it,” the CISF said in a statement issued on Thursday.The woman was later identified as Mahmooda Sediqi. CISF said, “Later, on checking CCTV footage, another Afghani woman passenger, later identified as Estorai Qayomi, also bound for Kabul by the same flight, was intercepted near the boarding gate area. She was also asked to cooperate for a detailed baggage check during which $30,000 were recovered from her. Since both the women could not produce any valid document to carry such a huge amount of foreign currency, the matter was reported to the customs. Both women along with the recovered $76,500 were handed over to custom officials for further probe,” the statement said.A senior customs officer from Delhi airport said the two women were arrested and the recovered cash was seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-afghani-women-held-with-76-500-at-delhi-airport-101614882345279.html
05-03-2021||Chandigarh||Shimla ranks first in ease of living index||Shimla, the erstwhile summer capital of India, has ranked first among 62 cities with a population under a million in the 2020 Ease of Living Index.The report that was released by Union minister of housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri stated that Shimla had scored an aggregate 60.9 points in four broad verticals to emerge at the top of the leaderboard.As many as 111 cities participated in the survey. Cities were slotted into two categories — those with a population of more than a million and those with a population under it.Shimla had ranked 92nd in the 2018 Ease of Living Index. However, the cities had not been categorised on basis of population in the last report.The index evaluated the wellbeing of the citizens in the surveyed cities according to different parameters comprising four pillars — quality of life, economic ability, sustainability and citizen’s perception survey— that were split into 14 categories and 49 indicators.Also dubbed as ‘Queen of Hills’, Shimla scored 53.05 points in quality of life; 23.39 in economic ability; 69.16 in sustainability; and 83.30 in citizens’ perception survey.Shimla is a safe city, say MC commissioner Shimla municipal corporation commissioner Ashish Kohli said the hill-town was better than the other capital cities when it came to safety and security.“The crime rate in Shimla is considerably low as compared to other capital cities or big towns. Shimla scored over 80 points in safety and security,” he said, adding that the city had also done well in housing and shelter. “Under the Rajiv Gandhi Aawas Yojana, 112 houses were proposed to be built, of which 96 have already been constructed and 16 are under construction,” he said.Shimla also won accolades for water management. In 2018, the city had experienced an acute water crisis that had left residents reeling. Most of the city had received water only once in eight days. There were long queues at public taps, and many residents waited for hours for water tankers. Now, Shimla draws 51 minimal liquid discharge (mld) of water per day. During the crisis, the water supply had dipped to an all-time low of 18 mld.“After the Shimla Jal Pradhan Nigam plugged all leakages, the price of water has also come down from ₹117/kiloliter to ₹90/kiloliter,” Kohli said.Urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj said that Shimla’s top ranking in the ease of living index was a manifestation of the development made by the state government in different fields. “The state has made unprecedented progress in the fields of education, health and road construction while there has been a decrease in crime in the state,” he said.“We are glad that Shimla has topped the ease of living index survey. We at the municipal corporation and local bodies have tried to implement the schemes of the Government of India. The credit goes to local representatives, the state government and authorities. We will strive to ensure that all stakeholders are benefitted,” said municipal corporation councillor Kimi Sood.Dharamshala ranks 37th Meanwhile, Dharamshala, the only other town in Himachal to be evaluated, has ranked 37th in the list.Dharamshala scored 51.51 points overall. It scored 53.58 points in quality of life; 60.77 in sustainability; and 67.40 in citizens perception survey. However, its score in economic ability merely 2.55. The hill-town had ranked 56th in the 2018 index.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shimla-ranks-first-in-ease-of-living-index-101614864583665.html
