06-03-2021||Delhi||College of Art clarifies: Students to get DU degrees||The College of Art on Saturday clarified that its current batch of students would receive their degrees from Delhi University (DU).On Tuesday, the Delhi Cabinet had merged the college, formerly affiliated to DU, with Ambedkar University Delhi (AUD). All three institutions are state-run.Soon after, students raised concerns on their degrees and DU officials had called it “illegal and arbitrary”.The college’s officiating principal BS Chauhan on Friday said in an order: “...the students already enrolled and presently studying in the College of Art would continue to be governed by University of Delhi and would receive their degrees from University of Delhi.”The same day, Delhi University wrote to the government asking it to follow “due process” before removing the affiliation of the college. “Delhi government cannot de-affiliate any college fully funded by it from DU without taking proper approval from the university’s statutory bodies--- academic and executive councils. We are waiting for their response,” said DU Dean of Colleges Balram Pani.A senior Delhi government official responded, “The College of Art is fully funded by the Delhi government and the decision to bring it under AUD does not need any approval from DU.”Chauhan’s order was also sent to all faculty members of the college with a copy of another earlier order from the Delhi government’s Directorate of Training and Technical Education stating that AUD will takeover the admissions process in the college from the next academic session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/college-of-art-clarifies-students-to-get-du-degrees-101615054147686.html
06-03-2021||Delhi||AAP accuses North MCD of ₹546 cr irregularities in Rani Jhansi flyover project||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday, citing audit reports, accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled North Delhi Municipal Corporation of irregularities to the tune of ₹546 crore in the construction of Rani Jhansi flyover in north Delhi.The BJP dismissed the allegations as “baseless” and hit back at the AAP, accusing the Delhi ruling party of making “manipulative” statements.The cost escalation in a project that was delayed by over 20 years was not a scam, nor was it in the control of the north municipal body, the BJP argued.The project, which was conceived by the north Delhi civic body in 1998, had gained notoriety over the years as one of the most delayed infrastructure projects in the national capital. Work on the 1.6km-long flyover, which starts near St Stephen’s Hospital and runs till Filmistan Cinema, finally started in 2008 and was finished in 2018. The flyover was to decongest several areas in north and central Delhi.“MCD audit report exposes a scam of ₹546 crore in the construction of Rani Jhansi flyover -- a project that was estimated to cost ₹175 crore but was completed at a cost of ₹724 crore. Whereas the Shastri Park flyover, estimated to cost ₹302 crore was constructed in ₹250 crore by the Delhi government. The Shastri Park flyover was completed in one and a half years. The Rani Jhansi flyover, on the other hand, took 24 years,” said the AAP’s in charge of municipal affairs Durgesh Pathak.Pathak further said, “I want to challenge the Delhi BJP president to read this audit report in front of the media so that the people of Delhi and the country get to know about the real face of the BJP. Instead of acquiring the land for construction of the flyover through a government agency, in adherence to the rules, the BJP leaders did personal dealings with the people to spearhead corruption in the project. Around ₹10 crore was spent without any approval. No approval was taken from any official or agency to spend these extra finances.”While the AAP is in charge of the Delhi government, the BJP rules all three municipal corporations. Delhi goes to the municipal polls in 2022.Responding to the allegations, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “These are baseless allegations. Durgesh Pathak’s statement calling the cost escalation in the Rani Jhansi Road flyover project “a scam” shows that he indulges only in manipulative politics to malign the MCDs. Everybody knows that due to court cases, compensation claims and other humanitarian reasons, this flyover project – started in 1998 and scheduled to be completed by 2000 -- got delayed by 20 years. The two-decade delay escalated the cost of construction from the planned ₹175 crore to ultimately ₹724 crore. This is a cost escalation due to reasons beyond the control of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation and not a scam.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-accuses-north-mcd-of-546-cr-irregularities-in-rani-jhansi-flyover-project-101615054027705.html
06-03-2021||Gurugram||Vaccination centres open advance booking till March-end on Co-Win platform||Residents of the city can now book their appointment for Covid-19 vaccination days in advance as private and government hospitals on Saturday opened the schedule for the entire month on Co-Win portal. District health department officials, however, said that private hospitals will have to equally cater to people for on-spot vaccination.“Slots for advance appointments for March can now be seen on CoWIN portal for government and private health facilities, so that people can select the date and location for taking the vaccine jab. Considering the high turnout for walk-in registration and vaccination in government facilities, only 30-40 per cent of vaccines will be kept aside per day for advanced self-registered beneficiaries,” said chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Virender Yadav.Private hospitals will have to keep all slots open for walk-in beneficiaries, Yadav said, adding, “They have to plan 100 per cent open slots for walk-in beneficiaries. Therefore, they cannot limit doses only for those who have taken advance appointments.” Being the first week of Covid-19 inoculation for people above 60 years and those between 45 and 59 with existing illness, many people faced difficulties in registering themselves online for the vaccination.Meanwhile, even though an advance appointment of 24 hours before the vaccination started on March 3, on March 4, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had directed facilities to plan sessions on Co-WIN in advance of at least for 15 days to a month so that beneficiaries can book their slots — with choice of date and location — online.Surijit Singh, manager for Covid-19 vaccination, Park Hospital, confirmed that the advance schedules are available on the portal. “We are getting calls from people for confirmation on advance bookings. Since many people have been reaching hospitals directly for vaccination, we are asking them to at least get themselves registered on Co-WIN to streamline the process,” said Singh. At least 2,744 people above the age of 60 years, and 305 of ages between 45 and 59 took the vaccine jab in 30 private hospitals on Saturday. Currently, private hospitals can conduct vaccination from Monday to Saturday, while government hospitals can conduct vaccinations on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday.From March 8, vaccination will be extended to 45 private and 22 government hospitals after the state health department on Friday accepted applications of 19 private hospitals to run the vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/vaccination-centres-open-advance-booking-till-march-end-on-co-win-platform-101615053907693.html
06-03-2021||Delhi||Civil defence volunteer shot dead in Bawana, police suspect local rivalry||A 22-year-old civil defence volunteer was shot dead by a few unidentified men in outer Delhi’s Bawana in the early hours of Saturday. Police said the murder took place because of personal enmity between two groups and multiple teams have been formed to identify and arrest the gunmen.The victim Shashi Kadyan was a resident of village Katewara in Bawana. The man was a civil defence volunteer and was attached to an additional district magistrate in outer Delhi as a driver.Deputy commissioner of police (outer north) Rajiv Ranjan said the deceased had sustained multiple gunshot wounds. “Prima facie, the motive behind the killing appears to be personal enmity and local rivalry. A case of murder has been registered and multiple teams have been set up to identify and arrest the accused,” Ranjan said.Police said around 5.30am, the police control room received a call reporting that a man was lying dead near Jogi Wada Chowk in Bawana. A police team was rushed to the spot and it shifted the man to a hospital where he was pronounced brought dead.“Initial inspection of the spot revealed that at least 20 rounds were fired at him. The doctors have confirmed that the man was shot at least 10 times. His family members were informed and the body was sent for a postmortem examination,” said a police officer who wished not to be named.The officer said, following preliminary probe, it has come to light that the man was killed following enmity between two groups over hegemony in Katewara village. “It has been learnt that the shooting took place around 1.30am and was reported four hours later. The man is believed to be associated with one of the two rival groups in the village. The officer said they have also recovered some footage of the shooting and efforts are on to trace the assailants. We are also checking if the two groups are associated with criminals in the area,” he said.Police said Kadyan did not have any criminal antecedents . “Efforts to establish the timeline of his movements are being made. His phone call records will also be checked to see who he was in contact with, just before being murdered,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/civil-defence-volunteer-shot-dead-in-bawana-police-suspect-local-rivalry-101615053908201.html
06-03-2021||Gurugram||100 days of protest: Farmers observe ‘Black Day’||Farmers protesting at Jaisinghpur Khera and Sunehra-Jurehra at the Haryana-Rajasthan border near Nuh on Saturday observed ‘Black Day’ in solidarity with fellow farmers who have been camping at Delhi borders for the past 100 days. Flaunting black flags and bands, farmers present at the spot criticised the government for its negligent attitude towards farmers. Sanjay Madhav — a member of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, which is the umbrella body of farmer unions protesting at Delhi borders and the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan — said that the government had subjected farmers to trials and tribulations in the past 100 days. “There are so many farmers who died during the course of the agitation. This loss could have been avoided if not for the government’s arrogance. The government has taken steps that will destroy farmers. We have continued the agitation over the past several months and will never forget the treatment that the government has meted out to farmers,” said Madhav. He said that the farmers’ agitation had transformed into a countrywide movement that has received support from different sections of the society who stood by the farmers. Farmers across the country have been agitating against the three contentious farm laws, which were passed by the Centre in September last year, for the past several months. They fear that the new laws will leave them at the mercy of big corporations and end the minimum support price (MSP) for important crops. While the protests at the Delhi borders have completed 100 days, farmers have been protesting at Shahjahanpur and Jaisinghpur Khera at the Haryana-Rajasthan border for the past 83 days. Farmers are also protesting at Sunehra-Jurehra under the banner of Mewat Kisan Morcha for the past 54 days. Rashid Ahmed, a protestor from Nuh, said that the protesting farmers have decided to amplify the movement and hold a gathering on March 15, on the death anniversary of Hasan Khan Mewati, an important figure in the region. “We observed Black Day and recalled the sacrifices of those who have lost their lives in the course of the agitations. Farmers in Mewat have also been protesting daily for over 50 days and we will continue to agitate till the laws are rolled back,” said Ahmed. BJP Haryana spokesperson Jawahar Yadav said that the popular support for the farmer protests had died and only politically motivated people were carrying on with the agitation. Yadav said that people will eventually understand that the farm laws were in the interest of farmers. “The real farmers have returned. Slowly, more people will understand the importance of these laws,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/100-days-of-protest-farmers-observe-black-day-101615053849443.html
06-03-2021||Delhi||Muthoot group chairman falls to death from fourth floor, probe launched||Muthoot group chairman MG George died on Friday night after he allegedly fell from the fourth floor of his house in southeast Delhi’s East of Kailash. George was 72-years-old. Police do not suspect any foul play behind the death, senior officers said.Muthoot Finance is one of the largest gold loan non-banking financial company (NBFC) in India.Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena said information was received at 9.21 pm on Friday at Amar Colony police station that George had fallen from the fourth floor of his residence.“A team was rushed to the spot and he was taken to Fortis Escort Hospital where he succumbed during treatment. On Saturday, a postmortem was conducted at AIIMS. No foul play is suspected behind the death and inquest proceedings has been initiated,” Meena said.The DCP said that a crime and forensics team was also sent to inspect the spot. “A detailed enquiry is being conducted and statements of some people have been recorded. Footages from CCTV cameras have also been checked,” Meena added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/muthoot-group-chairman-falls-to-death-from-fourth-floor-probe-launched-101615053848903.html
06-03-2021||Gurugram||Heavily congested Krishna Chowk to get smart traffic signalling system||Work on installing smart traffic signals on Krishna Chowk — a key intersection at Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road — is likely to commence from next month onwards, said Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) officials said on Saturday.The intersection is crucial because traffic coming from the directions of sectors 21 and 22 converge with traffic on Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road, making it a chaotic spot in the absence of a signal. The intersection is also located just a kilometre away from the Kapashera Border, which sees a high volume of traffic. Due to the industries that are located nearby, a large number of pedestrians and cyclists also access this intersection.Due to the absence of a traffic signal, Gurugram police officials are often seen at the spot during the peak traffic hours managing traffic manually. Hence, to ensure automatic management of the traffic, GMDA officials have decided to finally install a signal on the stretch.“Krishna Chowk is one of the most congested stretches in the city and a big reason for this is the absence of a traffic signal. Realising this as well as its importance in terms of the volume of traffic, GMDA is installing a smart signal at the stretch on a priority basis,” said JS Sindhu, engineer, GMDA (traffic, mobility wing).Sindhu said that a tender for installing the smart signal was floated last month and bids for finalising a contractor will be opened next month. Sindhu further said that the concessionaire will be given exactly three months to complete the project from the date of allotment.As per GMDA officials, the project is expected to cost around ₹10 lakh. Sindhu also said that due to the difference in the volume of traffic, GMDA has opted to install a smart signal at the intersection instead of a conventional one.“As per our study, the traffic volume on the Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road is almost twice that of the Sector 22/23 Road. Hence, it was vital to ensure a smart mode of signal so that the traffic signal turns green or red depending on the volume of traffic. This would also help commuters to wait for the least amount of time,” said Sindhu.Sarika Panda Bhatt, co-founder of the Raahgiri Foundation, said that the matter of installing a signal at the intersection was taken up by the foundation with the GMDA last month.“During the meeting, we highlighted the difficulties caused due to the absence of a signal at the intersection both in terms of traffic management as well as for the pedestrians and cyclists who were facing a major difficulty in crossing the stretch. GMDA has now started the process for changing the same and we will be working with them for identifying more such junctions and intersections in the city where such a change is required,” said Bhatt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/heavily-congested-krishna-chowk-to-get-smart-traffic-signalling-system-101615053788341.html
06-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC directs 3499 undertrials to surrender from March 7||The Delhi high court has directed 3,499 undertrial prisoners, who were granted interim bail to de-congest jails in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, to surrender from March 7 at the expiry of their bail terms.A bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh said it was “not inclined” to further extend the period of interim bail granted to prisoners under various criteria laid down by the high power committee in its several meetings.“It is therefore directed that all the 3,499 undertrials granted interim bails under various criteria laid down by the high power committee — who have not obtained regular bails from their court concerned or any other superior court concerned — shall surrender before the jail superintendent upon expiry of the period of their interim bail commencing from March 7,” the bench said in its order passed on March 3 and made available on Saturday.It added that as the 3,499 undertrials were given interim bails on different dates, so the period of their interim bails will expire with efflux of time on different dates and there was no requirement to fix any specific date for their surrender.The decision of the court was based on the recommendation of the high powered committee constituted on the direction of the Supreme Court to decongest jails to prevent the spread of Covid-19.The high court while refusing to extend the interim bails considered the observations and recommendations made by the committee, the improved situation of Covid-19 in Delhi-NCR and the resolution passed by the committee on February 17 of not recommending further extension of interim bails to 3,499 undertrials.It also took into consideration a March 1 direction of the Supreme Court, whereby 2,318 prisoners granted interim bails by trial courts and 356 prisoners granted bail by high court were asked to surrender within 15 days.It also directed the director general (prisons) to ensure that this order is conveyed to all the 3,499 undertrials by telephone and all other available modes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-hc-directs-3499-undertrials-to-surrender-from-march-7-101615053787629.html
06-03-2021||Gurugram||Engineering student killed as truck rams into scooter||A 22-year-old college student was killed and his friend injured when a speeding dumper truck allegedly hit their scooter, while they were crossing Subhash Chowk on Sohna Road on late Friday night. The police said both of them were rushed to a private hospital in Sector 38, where doctors declared one of them as dead on arrival and admitted another for treatment. The truck driver fled the spot after the incident and is yet to be identified, said the police. The police said the victims were returning to Badshahpur from a friend’s place in Sector 7, when they met with the accident. The police registered a case against the unidentified truck driver on Friday night. The injured, Danison Davis (22), an engineering student, and a resident of Sector 83, was returning home around 2 am with his friend Nitesh Raghav. “We had gone to a friend’s house for group studies and were returning to Raghav’s place. We were driving slow due to the crossing but the speeding truck rammed into us and did not even stop. The driver fled from the spot fearing police action. I could not note down the number due to dark,” Davis said. The police said passersby informed the police control room, following which a team of Sadar police station visited the spot and took them to a private hospital in Sector 38. “Both of them fell on the road and suffered severe injuries all over the body including head due to the impact,” said Dinesh Kumar, station house officer(SHO) of Sadar police station. Kumar said doctors declared Raghav brought dead and admitted Davis for treatment A case under sections 279 (rash driving), 304A (death by negligence), 338 (voluntarily causing hurt), and 427 (mischief causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) was registered against the unidentified driver on Friday night, said the police. Kumar said they are scanning CCTV footage to identify the truck.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/engineering-student-killed-as-truck-rams-into-scooter-101615053728162.html
06-03-2021||Gurugram||One held for operating fake call centre in Sector 50||The police on Friday night raided a fake call centre, which had been operating in Nirvana Courtyard in Sector 50 for the past few months. The police arrested the owner and allegedly recovered data regarding US citizens, a laptop and a mobile phone from his possession. The police said at least 14 tele-callers, including four women, were found making calls to US residents during the raid.KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that on Friday night, they received a tip-off that a fake call centre was operational and that the owner was present at the spot. “When the team reached the building, a few of the executives were seen taking calls and offering technical support for repairing printers. We listened to their calls and realised that they were duping them on the pretext of offering technical support. The call centre was fully operational. When we asked the owner to explain the work, he got frightened and tried to mislead us,” he said. The police identified the owner as Aayush Kumar of Panipat. He lived in a rented accommodation in Nirvana Country in Sector 50, the police said. Rao said, during investigation, Kumar revealed that he was a graduate and had worked at a call centre in Delhi’s Okhla between 2004 and 2019. Later, he joined another company in Saket that used to provide online services for printers. “He met a person through a social media platform, who offered him a business partnership, and told him that he can provide inbound calls for US process and will also provide a gateway for the same,” he said. The police said Kumar was told that they could make a fortune in a short time by setting up a call centre and duping US citizens. He got the company registered and took an office on rent with 10 tele-callers to begin with. The tele-callers used to offer USD 200 for fixing printers and used to collect information, such as names, mobile numbers, e-mails and later sent them a voice mail. “Kumar’s partner used to keep 45% of the earnings and used to give him rest the 55% to run operations and pay salaries,” said Rao. The police has busted six such call centres over the last two months and has also carried out a mapping of the areas from where illegal call centres have been found to be operating across the city. A case under sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using forged document as genuine) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 43, 66D and 75 of the IT Act was registered at Cyber Crime police station in the wee hours of Saturday. The police said suspects did not possess any valid OSP (Other Service Providers) licences from the Department of Telecommunications or any other agreement or MoU related to their work. The police said the suspect was produced before a local court on Saturday and was taken on a one-day police remand for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/one-held-for-operating-fake-call-centre-in-sector-50-101615053727634.html
06-03-2021||Gurugram||Man flees with merchandise without paying; booked||An unidentified man was booked for allegedly fleeing with apparel from a shop in DLF Phase-1 market on Friday evening. The police said the suspect purchased apparel worth ₹15,000 from Arjun Marg, DLF Phase -1 and presented his debit card, which was declined. Karan Goel, assistant commissioner of police (DLF), said that the suspect tried three times and later requested the shop owner to send his sales boy with him till the parking area. “The suspect said he had forgotten his wallet in the car and would hand over cash once he reaches the car. After he reached his car, he sat on the driving seat and started looking for something in dashboard. Within seconds, he accelerated the engine and fled the spot,” he said. The police said the sales boy thought he was reversing the car and must be parking on the roadside. So he waited for a few minutes but the suspect did not return. Sanjay Bakshi, shop owner, said that this was the fourth such incident reported in the last one month in the area. “The man spent more than half an hour in the shop, picked up a pair of jeans, T-shirts, and shirts and asked us to pack them. He took out his card and tried to swap his card thrice but, due to an incorrect PIN code, the transaction failed. He then asked to send the helper to his car, where he said he would pay in cash, but fled instead,” he said. The shopkeeper has given CCTV footage to police but he is yet to be identified. Goel said they are trying to identify the suspect based on CCTV footage. “We are also scanning other footage from other markets from where similar incidents have been reported. We have registered a case and are conducting the investigation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/man-flees-with-merchandise-without-paying-booked-101615053667631.html
06-03-2021||Noida||Air quality improves, mercury to soar in Noida||Noida: The air quality of Noida on Saturday improved to ‘moderate’ levels after oscillating between ‘poor’ and ‘very poor’ categories for the past three days, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Also, the city is likely to witness a rise in mercury by around two degrees Celsius over the next few days.According to the CPCB, the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Saturday was 182 against 250 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 204 against 310 a day earlier, while Ghaziabad recorded an AQI of 213 against 276 a day earlier. An AQI level up to 100 is considered ‘good’, between 101 and 200 is ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Delhi-NCR may see thundery development on Sunday leading to cloudiness and drizzle in some areas due to a feeble western disturbance. However, due to the low intensity of the western disturbance, the rise in mercury will continue, IMD said. “The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to rise across NCR, including Noida, by two degrees Celsius,” said an official at IMD.On Saturday, the maximum and minimum temperatures for Noida were recorded at 30.9 degrees Celsius and 17 degrees Celsius respectively, against 30.5 and 16.7 degrees a day earlier. The minimum and maximum at Safdarjung observatory, considered average for Delhi-NCR, were recorded at 15 degrees Celsius (two degrees above the season’s average) and 30.5 degrees Celsius (three degrees above the season’s average).“There are low chances of rains over Delhi-NCR on Sunday though there will be thundery development and partly clouded sky with slight chances of drizzling at isolated pockets. Temperatures will increase further for the rest of the month as mercury to rise slightly due to change in wind directions and shift in cloud covers prior to any western disturbance. Temperatures will thus keep rising and could only drop slightly by two-three degrees over the span of two days on March 9 and 10 due to another upcoming western disturbance,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet.According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the air quality is likely to improve further. “Surface winds are high and south-westerly and forecasted to change in direction towards easterly. AQI is forecasted to further improve and in the moderate to satisfactory category for 7th March and marginally deteriorate to moderate to poor category on 8th and 9th March,” said a SAFAR statement on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/air-quality-improves-mercury-to-soar-in-noida-101615053187620.html
06-03-2021||Noida||Gang robbing passengers on expressways on pretext of giving lift arrested||Noida: Three men were nabbed Friday night by the Noida police who allegedly used to rob people travelling on expressways on the pretext of giving lifts.The suspects were identified as Javed (the alleged mastermind), Manoj and Arun, all from Gautam Budh Nagar. According to the police, the gang has allegedly been active for the past four years at least.“They mostly operated around the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway and portions of the Yamuna Expressway where they would pick up solitary passengers, offer them a lift and then rob them at gunpoint of their valuables including cash, ATM cards and jewellery, before letting them go. Members of the gang would already be sitting in the vehicle in a show of legitimacy of the service,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.The three were nabbed following a chase with the Expressway police near Sector 168. A Hyundai car, five number plates, ₹11,000, a countrymade pistol and knives were recovered.Police said more people are associated with the gang and a search is on for them.“They have more vehicles as well which they used in rotation to avoid detection. They have been involved in such incidents which took place near the Mahamaya flyover, Pari chowk, etc., as well, along with areas in Delhi such as Anand Vihar, Sarai Kale Khan and Palwal in Haryana,” said a senior police officer, requesting not to be named.Noida police has identified at least 11 cases in Noida and Greater Noida in which the suspects were allegedly involved and nearly two dozen against each suspect in districts including Aligarh, Delhi, etc. Police officers said the suspects have served time in jail on previous occasions.The three were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gang-robbing-passengers-on-expressways-on-pretext-of-giving-lift-arrested-101615053127587.html
06-03-2021||Noida||Farmhouse raided in Noida Sector 135, unauthorised party busted||Noida: A farmhouse located in the Yamuna floodplains near Sector 135 was raided by a joint team of the excise and the police department on Friday night where an unauthorised party was allegedly taking place. Three people were arrested while nine bottles of foreign liquor and 30 bottles of beer were seized, said the police.Explaining why the party was deemed an unauthorised affair, officials of the excise department said: “In order to serve alcohol in farmhouse parties, organisers are required to take a temporary one-day license. But that was not followed here. Moreover, the liquor which was being served at the party was for sale in Delhi only and not in UP, which further made serving it an illegal act. We have registered a case and due action will be taken against the responsible parties,” said RB Singh, district excise officer.According to police officers, the action was taken based on a tip-off late Friday about an unauthorised party allegedly taking place at the farmhouse.“There are a lot of farmhouses in the area but very few of them are given out for commercial activities. A joint team from the Expressway police station and the excise department reached the spot and found a party taking place there. The men and women at the gathering were let go after questioning but the three organisers of the party were taken into police custody,” said a senior police officer, requesting not to be identified.The arrested suspects were identified as Kapil Kumar and Praveen Rathi, both residents of Delhi, and Lalit Kumar, a Noida resident. Police officers said that the owner and manager of the property were allegedly aware of the gathering at the farmhouse and have also been booked, and that efforts are on to trace them.The suspects were booked under relevant sections of the Uttar Pradesh Excise Act at the Expressway police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/farmhouse-raided-in-noida-sector-135-unauthorised-party-busted-101615053067568.html
06-03-2021||Noida||Armed dacoity at bizman’s house in Ghaziabad: Three Bangladesh nationals among six arrested||Ghaziabad: At least six persons, including three Bangladesh nationals, were arrested Friday over their alleged involvement in a dacoity at a businessman’s house in Ghaziabad’s Raj Nagar.While Mohammad Khairul (46), Mohammad Sadiq Seikh (29) and Mohammad Montu Mulla (30), who are from Bangladesh, were arrested by the Delhi Police, Rajiv Srivastava, who allegedly used to provide cars to the gang, his alleged accomplice Shivam Singh, and a woman, who’s name has not been revealed, were arrested by the Ghaziabad police. On February 27, businessman Pawan Garg and his family had been held hostage at gunpoint by four masked robbers inside his house in Sector 6 of Raj Nagar and jewellery and cash worth ₹12 lakh were looted. The Delhi Police was tracking the gang in connection with several cases of robberies in the NCR, the Ghaziabad police said. They said that gang leader Khairul, Mulla and Sheikh, along with another accomplice, had allegedly entered Garg’s house. “The three arrested by the Ghaziabad police were stationed outside. Srivastava brought the gang to the spot in his car, an i-20, and used the same to help the gang flee,” said Nipun Agrawal, superintendent of police (city 1). The officers said that after the incident the gang leader allegedly went to a house at Mamura in Noida, while some members went to Delhi. The Ghaziabad police said that through electronic surveillance, started tracking the suspects and nabbed three of them near Raj Nagar Extension late Friday, when they allegedly came for another robbery in the area. The Ghaziabad police initially lodged an FIR under section 392 (robbery) at Kavi Nagar police station while the it was changed to IPC section 395 (dacoity) when involvement of more suspects came to the fore.In a statement, the Delhi Police said on Saturday that the prime suspects Khairul, Mulla and Sheikh were arrested by the crime branch from near Lado Sarai in Delhi. The Delhi Police said Srivastava allegedly used to provide rented houses and cars to the gang which they used in crimes. The police said that the gang members would allegedly target houses in posh colonies and mostly entered houses after cutting window grilles, and they used the same modus operandi during the dacoity at Garg’s house in Ghaziabad. “During interrogation, it was revealed that all the (three) suspects are Bangladesh nationals and involved in several cases of dacoity and burglaries committed in NCR. Khairul is the gang leader and has been committing crimes since 1997. He and Mulla illegally entered India through Satkhira Border, West Bengal, in October 2020. Sheikh also illegally entered India and was residing in Kolkata with his family,” the Delhi Police said in the statement, adding that Khairul allegedly met Srivastava in 2012. Police said Khairul has 15 criminal cases against him while Mulla and Sheikh have 19 and two cases, respectively, against them at police stations across NCR. “One of our teams went to Delhi to bring the three prime suspects on transit remand for more questioning in the Raj Nagar incident. We recovered the car used and ₹26,600 from the three suspects arrested by us,” the Ghaziabad SP (city 1) said. The Delhi Police recovered gold and silver jewellery and expensive wrist watches from the suspects arrested in Delhi. Victim Pawan Garg said he identified jewellery items and watches which belonged to his family. “But I have opted not to identify the suspects as all of them were covering their faces during the incident,” Garg said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/armed-dacoity-at-bizman-s-house-in-ghaziabad-three-bangladesh-nationals-among-six-arrested-101615053007618.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body plans to build Suvidha centre in Dharavi for better sanitation||In Asia’s largest slum Dharavi where 80% of locals depend on community toilets, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has planned to set up a ground-plus-two storey Suvidha centre. The centre will have 111 toilets along with other facilities such as laundry, water ATM. Citizens will also be given education on sanitation at the centre.BMC has planned the centre under corporate social responsibility with a private firm. The aim is to provide citizens with better sanitsation facilities and educate them on personal hygiene. It will offer a holistic approach to the issues of personal hygiene, lack of laundry facilities, lack of safe drinking water and poor sanitation that plague the slum cluster.According to BMC officials, the Suvidha centre will be built on a 2,600-square metre plot in Dharavi, and the target is to have it ready by October 2, 2021. The centre will be one of the biggest community toilets in Mumbai with over 100 clean flushing toilet seats for women, men and children and accessible toilets for people with disabilities. It is being designed with safety in mind with separate entrances for women and girls. Specific toilets will open at night to help reduce the risk of violence, which is prevalent at many slum toilets.The civic body in a statement said, “The centre will also provide laundry facilities with detergent to help members of the community save time, energy, and money. The clothes will be already 60% dry after washing. This is expected to be provided at a cost which, however, will be lower than market cost. Water will also be provided at a nominal cost of ₹1 for one litre. While at ₹150 for a month a family of five could access the toilets. Children will have free access to the toilets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-plans-to-build-suvidha-centre-in-dharavi-for-better-sanitation-101615052888844.html
06-03-2021||Noida||GB Nagar admin seeks government’s permission to attach personal properties of builders||The Gautam Budh Nagar administration on Saturday sought the Uttar Pradesh government’s approval to go after the personal property of promoters of builder companies against whom the state’s real estate regulatory authority (UP Rera) had issued recovery challans.District magistrate (DM) Suhas LY, said that since they often failed in making recoveries from the builders as they declare themselves bankrupt. According to rules, the district administration can attach only those properties against which the UP Rera had recommended action for failing to deliver promised flats to buyers.“The defaulters would have shifted their money into personal property but we cannot move against that. So we have sought the government’s nod to move in that direction,” he said. “We don’t have the power to e-auction the property through the revenue courts either. We requested the government to either invest the powers to the district revenue officers or get the Noida Authority, which is the land owning agency, to do it and recover the money.” The request was made at a meeting of builders, buyers and district authority before the UP chief secretary R K Tiwari on Saturday.Ritu Maheshwari, the chief executive officer of Noida Authority, said, “Chief secretary directed us to set up camps to carry out registry of flats. He also wanted a forum to address homebuyers’ issues.” RK Arora, the chairman of Supertech Group and the president National Real Estate Development Council (UP), who also attended this meet, said that they sought that land rates be decided on recent Supreme Court judgment. Namit Gautam, president of apartment owners’ association of Prateek Fedora sector 61, said that ever since the Noida authority has announced not to issue completion certificate, till the sports complexes are completed in sector 150 and other sports’ city, it has created panic among the buyers. “We raised the point that if any builder violates the terms and conditions, only he/she should be banned or blacklisted for further projects. There must be an exclusive cell/ department of officers and staff, under the UP Apartment Act, to address the disputes related to builders and buyers in Noida Authority,” he said. The chief secretary said that he has noted the points of all the parties. “After a discussion on all the points, we’ll take the decision,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-admin-seeks-government-s-permission-to-attach-personal-properties-of-builders-101615052889298.html
06-03-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad hospital sees long vaccine queue as staff ‘late’ by an hour||Ghaziabad: Long queues ensued at the Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital on Saturday for the Covid-19 vaccine. It was the only government facility in the district administering the shots on Saturday. Beneficiaries said the staff arrived around 10am even though vaccination was supposed to start at 9am.Vaccination for senior citizens and those having co-morbidities (category 3) is on and the district, during the past three sessions on March 1, 4 and 5, saw 6,749 people take their first dose out of a target of 93,480 for the month. “The staff generally comes around 8.30am. On Saturday, however, they arrived at 10am. There were serpentine queues of beneficiaries who were not maintaining social distance. I requested them to observe precautions,” said Vinod Malhotra, 72, who came with his wife for her vaccination. “Many senior citizens are not used to the Co-WIN portal, so they are registering on the spot. On Friday, the staff provided tokens to beneficiaries for their turn but on Saturday, no token was given,” he added. When contacted, Dr Sanjay Teotia, the chief medical superintendent of the hospital, said: “The staff who administers the vaccination is not from our hospital and has been provided by the chief medical officer (CMO).”District CMO Dr NK Gupta said that the vaccination drive at the hospital has been running for six days while other government health facilities were directed to operate for three days – on Monday, Thursday and Friday.“We will direct staff to ensure there is no delay, and that all Covid-related protocols are observed strictly. Generally, they come early but may have faced some delay on Saturday. I will ask them to ensure the vaccination begins timely. We have observed that attending to a beneficiary sometimes takes as long as 15-20 minutes. This is because about 50% of our 25 centres do not have computers and staff have to access the Co-Win portal on their mobile phones,” he added. According to officials, vaccination is being taken up at 20 private hospitals and 25 government healthcare facilities in the district, including the one at Sanjay Nagar. “During a conference with state health officials on Saturday, we were directed that walks-in should preferably be vaccinated at government facilities while private hospitals should preferably entertain only those who pre-register. They (private hospitals) should entertain walk-ins only if they have slots left,” CMO added. According to officials, at least 19,269 healthcare workers took the jab out of about 25,000 (77.07% coverage) while 14,480 of the 19,269 took their second dose as well till March 5. Of the 18,897 frontline workers, 10,592 (coverage of about 56.05%) took their first dose while 747 of 10,592 took their second dose till March 5 in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-hospital-sees-long-vaccine-queue-as-staff-late-by-an-hour-101615052827590.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Pocso court sentences man to 5-year rigorous jail for molesting minor||In a speedy trial, a special Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) court on Friday sentenced a 52-year-old man to five years of rigorous imprisonment, about two-and-a-half months after he molested a 7-year-old girl residing in his neighbourhood.This is the second instance in a week wherein special judge MA Baraliya has concluded a trial in child abuse case in two-and-a-half months. The special judge had on Monday sentenced a 48-year-old man to three years of rigorous imprisonment for flashing a 13-year-old girl on several occasions in October 2020.In the case that concluded on Friday, the man was booked by Deonar police for inappropriately touching a 7-year-old girl in his house. As per the prosecution case, on October 23, 2020 around 4pm, the girl was playing with a boy in the neighbourhood when the accused called her to his house. When the girl went to his house, he gave her ₹5 and moved his hands all over her body. The girl felt uncomfortable and left crying.She narrated the incident to her mother. The mother then lodged a complaint with Deonar police.Public prosecutor Sulbha Joshi examined four witnesses, which included the child, her mother and two investigating officers, to bring home the guilt of the accused. The accused had claimed that he was implicated in a false case by the child’s mother due to previous disputes and quarrels between them. The accused also claimed that the incident was not possible as both his son and his son’s friend were present in the room at the specified time and no such incident took place.The prosecution, however, pointed out that there was no quarrel between the accused and the minor’s mother so as to implicate the accused in a false case. The prosecution argued that the victim was so afraid of him that she did not like to see the accused when she was asked to identify him. “She was shying and concealing her face. Her behaviour proves that she had been sexually molested by the accused,” Joshi had contended.The court, after hearing both sides, held, “Notably, the reaction of the prosecutrix (victim), during recording her testimony, when she was asked to identify the accused, cannot be ignored. She was not ready to see him. When the accused was brought by opening slightly the door of the chamber, she concealed her face in her palm. It was her spontaneous reaction when the turn of identification of accused was there. Her such a reaction indicates that she faced wrong acts by the accused.”The court further negated the defence of the accused that the incident could not have taken place in front of his son and son’s friend. The court observed, “Obviously, accused’s son and his friend were present in the same room, who according to the prosecutrix were busy on mobile. It is possible that they both either didn’t notice what the accused was doing with the prosecutrix or didn’t have courage, even noticing to desist the accused from doing that. So, presence of both didn’t make any difference for the accused to sexually assault upon the girl.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-pocso-court-sentences-man-to-5-year-rigorous-jail-for-molesting-minor-101615052709485.html
06-03-2021||Delhi||104-year-old takes Covid-19 vaccine at Delhi's hospital, urges all to take shot||A 104-year-old citizen, Tulsi Das Chawla, a resident of Delhi got vaccinated at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital on Saturday.The hospital authorities felt enthusiastic while administering the COVID-19 vaccine dose and said that this 104-year-old octogenarian was successfully vaccinated for Covid-19. No adverse effects were witnessed at the hospital today.As per the official records, Tulsi Das Chawla was born on November 1, 1917, and is a resident of Patel Nagar in New Delhi. Previously, he was an Indian Foreign Service (IAS) from where he retired in 1975.He was successfully vaccinated with the first dose of the 'Covishield' vaccine and even at this age, does not suffer from any major comorbidities.The octogenarian told ANI, "I urge everyone who is eligible to come forward and get themselves administered with COVID-19 vaccine. It is totally safe."Dr DS Rana, Chairman, and Head of Department of Nephrology at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital told ANI: "We are witnessing huge enthusiasm among more than 60 years of age group to take their vaccine shot. Chawla is an inspiration to all of us, and inspires us to come forward without any hesitation for vaccination drive.""Today 476 people were vaccinated at this hospital," Rana said.The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16, 2021, and the vaccination of the Frontline Workers (FLWs) started on February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced on March 1 for those who are over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/104yearold-takes-covid-19-vaccine-at-delhi-s-hospital-urges-all-to-take-shot-101615052515461.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||NCB charge sheet based on inadmissible evidence: Rhea Chakraborty’s lawyer||A day after the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) filed its charge sheet in the drug case that the agency probed in connection with untimely death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, actor Rhea Chakraborty’s lawyer advocate Satish Maneshinde on Saturday said that it appears to be based on inadmissible evidence. NCB has named Chakraborty and 32 others in the charge sheet. “Entire NCB from top to bottom was deployed in unearthing the purported drug abuse in Bollywood, but there is hardly any material against any known faces who were paraded during the investigation,” Maneshinde said, commenting on the 11,700-page charge sheet.NCB has, in the charge sheet, said that Rhea procured and financed narcotic substances for Rajput with the help of her brother Showik. In this regard Maneshinde said, “The court has found no prima facie material, at the stage of bail, of alleged financing drugs etc.”“The charge sheet is a damp squib standing on the foundation of inadmissible evidence and statements recorded under section 67 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act even after the Supreme Court judgement in Toofan Singh’s case,” he said, adding, “We will have the last laugh.”NCB, in the charge sheet, has heavily relied on the statements given by 33 accused before the officer. The statements would be corroborated with other evidence such as chats, audio messages exchanged, and relevant bank account entries. The central agency has also claimed that Chakraborty has taken delivery of drugs at her residence, and thus drugs were stored at her house. She has allegedly provided fund for purchase of drugs; thus she has financed an activity related to illicit drug dealings, NCB has claimed. In view of this, NCB said that Chakraborty has facilitated a channel of supply of drugs with Showik’s help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-charge-sheet-based-on-inadmissible-evidence-rhea-chakraborty-s-lawyer-101615052528985.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Board aspirants deal with new challenges as exams approach||Over the last few days, 15-year-old Santosh Shirke has been chatting with his class teacher over the phone almost every day. Santosh, a Class 10 student at an aided school in the city, migrated to his hometown in Lanja, Ratnagiri in April 2020 after his father lost his job in a private manufacturing unit in Bandra. A diligent student who has almost always topped his class in the past, Santosh could not attend online classes due to poor connectivity in his hometown. With state board exams drawing close, he now relies on phone calls to teachers and his friends to get his last-minute queries addressed. “I could barely attend a few classes and despite studying hard, some concepts are still difficult to grasp for me. Thankfully, my teachers have been a call away to solve my issues all this while,” he said. With the disturbances caused due to the pandemic and the resultant lockdown, children who are set to appear for their Class 10 and 12 board exams are anxious. With schools moving online, their methods of study have also changed significantly. Group studies with friends, doubt solving sessions with teachers, personal tuitions and in person exams are replaced with endless video and phone calls, online exams and peer support over WhatsApp. Vivaan Shah, a Class 10 student at Campion School in south Mumbai, said it has been a difficult year for students like him who are set to write their board exams this year. “To begin with, we cannot make a distinction between home life and school life with school moving online now. This means there are a lot of distractions at every point. If you pick up your phone to attend a class or solve a test, you end up browsing the internet or replying to text messages. Besides that, the breaks that a physical school environment provides by allowing us extracurricular activities is something that we all miss in a home learning environment,” he added. Even as physical meetups are not feasible considering the associated risks, students are finding their way around with the help of technology. For instance, Aashima Soni, a Class 10 student from Hiranandani Foundation School in Thane, said that over all these months, she has relied on online coaching and her friends and school chat groups for academic support. “It is always nice to call or text a friend in case of a query. We have these conversations in person in school but now that schools are online, it is best to take our conversations online too. We solve tests, do revisions and a lot more and keep each other in the loop all the time,” added Soni. At Sanjay Nagar slums in Jogeshwari (East), nearly 50 students are appearing for their Class 10 and 12 exams this year. Local activist Durga Gudilu started conducting guidance sessions for these students and also drew up a daily routine for studying in the common hall of the community. “Children have gone through a lot during all these months — many have lost relatives, many parents have lost jobs or livelihood sources. Our aim was to give these students a boost so that they forget all their anxieties for a while and focus on their exams. We hope that by studying together, they can motivate each other. Our tutors help address their queries too, which adds to their confidence, she added. The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) will conduct the HSC (Class 12) examinations between April 23 and May 29, 2021 and SSC (Class 10) examinations between April 29 and May 31. CBSE will hold its board exams between May 4 and June 10. While for Council For Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) board students, ICSE (Class 10) exams will be held between May 5 and June 7, and ISC (Class 12) exams will be held between May 5 and June 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-board-aspirants-deal-with-new-challenges-as-exams-approach-101615051808543.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||₹1.2-crore gold recovered from an aircraft at Mumbai airport||The Mumbai airport customs on Thursday found gold worth over ₹1.2 crore in an aircraft. The gold packages were found behind the metal plate in the toilet mirror of the flight that landed in Mumbai from the Middle East. Even with international borders being sealed, smuggling seems to be ongoing in the limited flights operating from few countries. Airport sources confirmed that the air intelligence unit of Mumbai airport customs found three packages of gold from Etihad Airways EY 206 after the flight landed at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) on March 4. A senior airport official said, “These packages had gold bars and wet gold dust weighing 3,136 grams, worth a total of ₹12,381,865. The packages were concealed behind the metal plate behind the washroom’s mirror.” According to sources, the gold was recovered on the basis of specific inputs received by intelligence officers. A customs official requesting anonymity said, “The recovery was made on the basis of tip-off and so we were sure of the gold being hidden in the aircraft. However, the modus was one of its kind; so, it was difficult to find the smuggled metal.” Another officer close to the investigation said, “It was only after prolonged search operation that the gold was found in the aircraft’s toilet. There have been many cases in the past where smugglers hide it under the toilet seat, but this was the first case where gold was hidden behind the mirror, giving negligible chance of being caught.” A senior customs official said, “We have been making cases since September, even when the international borders are yet to open. We are investigating the matter, but it is difficult to reach the smuggler in such cases as the airport staffers who have access to all these areas do not usually get caught.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/12crore-gold-recovered-from-an-aircraft-at-mumbai-airport-101615051628827.html
06-03-2021||Pune||Marne held by Pune rural police under MPDA||Gajanan Marne (44), a gangster released from Taloja jail after acquittal from two murder cases on February 15, was arrested by Pune rural police on Saturday. He was detained under the Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities (MPDA) Act. “Today (Saturday) Gaja Marne is detained under MPDA act under detention order issued by Pune collector Rajesh Deshmukh on proposal sent by Pune rural police. He was detained with the help of Satara police at Medha in Satara,” said Abhinav Deshmukh, Superintendent of Pune rural police. Marne was sent to the Yeravada Central Jail where his rival, Nilesh Ghaywal, was also detained and sent to in the past week by the Pune rural police. Ghaywal and Marne’s rivalry was part of a gang war that ensued in the city in the early 2010s. They had both been arrested then and acquitted in murder cases in 2020 by various courts. While Ghaywal was sent to two years of externment from Pune within months of his release, Marne was booked under eight cases by various police forces for participating in a rally with scores of cars to celebrate his release from Taloja jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/marne-held-by-pune-rural-police-under-mpda-101615051207528.html
06-03-2021||Dehradun||Chamoli tragedy: Month later, rescue continues; experts say 'no lessons learnt'||After a month of Uttarakhand's Chamoli tragedy that struck on February 7, many questions remain unanswered while the rescue work at Topavan hydel project is still going in.Several studies in the past month, including that by the International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development (ICIMOD), have said that the tragedy was because of man-made reasons. The Defence Geo-Informatics Research Establishment - a research body under the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) - claimed that human activity was not an immediate cause of the disaster.Experts said that such a tragedy happened primarily due to the presence of humans in vulnerable areas on account of various projects and population surge that has brought people close to the door of the tragedies, and when such natural events happen, they become sitting ducks.Many alleged that the attitude of policymakers to such events over the years shows no sense of urgency even after the 2013 Kedarnath tragedy.Delhi-based activist Ajay Gautam said he had even filed a PIL in the aftermath 2013 Kedarnath tragedy to push the state government to monitor the glaciers. He said he has been fighting legally in the High Court that glaciers like Gangotri should be monitored to ensure there is no recurrence of tragedies like the 2013 Kedarnath one.Also read: BJP holds emergency meeting amid speculation of leadership change Uttarakhand“I will share my own experience on the government’s attitude towards such sensitive issues. In 2017, I filed a PIL in Uttarakhand High Court pointing out that an artificial 1500x250 metre glacial lake had formed at the mouth of the Gaumukh glacier due to piling up of the nearly 30-metre-high debris at the mouth of the stream and if is not cleared in time, another Kedarnath-like disaster could happen,” he said.Gautam said in July 2018, the HC directed the state government to rope in the Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) and the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology to study the status of the glacial lake after every three months and present the reports to the court. “But nothing like that was done, forcing me to approach the HC again last year and following the court’s strong comments, the state government suspended the executive director of Uttarakhand Disaster Mitigation and Management Centre for non-compliance with the court directions,” he said.After the Chamoli tragedy, the state government has taken or announced many steps concerning disaster mitigation in the state, like setting up siren based water level warning system at Raini village in Chamoli, announcing it will rehabilitate people from disaster-prone four districts to safer places, approving ₹45 lakhs for 15 earthquake sensors and so on. But many are questioning why it took so many years even after a major disaster like the 2013 Kedarnath tragedy, in which over 3,000 people are still missing, to take such initiatives.“The most tragic part is that nobody seems to be owning the responsibility for the Chamoli tragedy. Initially, when the tragedy struck, there was urgency from all sides, but now, as time passes, that urgency seems to be missing. And I fear people will soon forget Chamoli tragedy and go about their business as usual,” said Anoop Nautiyal, founder of Dehradun-based think tank Social Development for Communities.Nautiyal said immediately after the Kedarnath tragedy, the state government should have started work on moving people from vulnerable areas, set up early warning systems and finetune their policies with regard to seeking a balance between development and environment in the fragile Himalayas.Also, a month after the tragedy, 132 people are still missing. The rescuers have so far recovered 72 bodies, including 14 from the Tapovan dam tunnel and 42 body parts, samples of which have been taken for DNA testing to ascertain their identity.Many experts are pointing out the fact that it remains unanswered why in the first place are such hydel projects being built up so close to sensitive glacial regions.Hemant Dhyani, member of the Supreme Court-appointed expert body that studied the impacts of hydropower projects on environmental degradation post the 2013 Kedarnath tragedy, said, the main question Chamoli tragedy puts and which is being brushed aside is why such projects were built so close to glaciers, endangering the lives of people.“The people responsible for this tragedy should be held accountable and proceedings as per law should be initiated against them,” he saidDhyani said in 2014, an expert body (EB) had recommended that hydel power projects should not be built in disaster-prone Himalayan valleys north of the Main Central Thrust (MCT). “But those recommendations were not adopted. Even Rishiganga valley is located in the region north of the MCT, which is highly prone to landslides, flash floods and earthquake. The inter-ministerial group (IMG) had also recommended in 2014 that the Rishi Ganga should be left pristine," he said.Some like Congress have questioned why despite all technological means and so many agencies involved in rescue ad search operations, the digging of the tunnel couldn’t be expedited.Uttarakhand Congress president Pritam Singh said the government has failed to expedite the search operation. “Even after monitoring from the top level and involving so many high-tech means, 132 people are still missing. We fear that like in the case of the Kedarnath tragedy, many bodies may not be found at all. The government should take responsibility for what has happened in Chamoli,” he said.Swati Bhadoriya, district magistrate who has been coordinating the rescue and search operations, said, it is wrong to say that the search operation has been slow. “The rescuers are facing very difficult challenges, like water flowing into the muck and big boulders coming their way, which makes digging very difficult. Despite all odds, the rescuers have dug around 200 metres,” she said.Timeline of Chamoli disaster:Feb 7: Snow avalanche and rockfall in Chamoli district caused flash floods. Two under-construction hydel power projects- Rishi Ganga and NTPC's Tapovan washed away. Water flowed over the dams causing havoc, with muck and debris also entering dam tunnels. The SDRF and local police reached the spot to start the rescue operation, The ITBP and the Army join from nearby bases. Recover 5 bodies and rescue 12 from a tunnel in the NTPC Tapovan project. About 200 reported missing. CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, DGP Ashok Kumar and other officials reach the spot. Launch helpline numbers.Feb 8: Massive rescue operation launched to rescue about 35 workers trapped in a 1.7-km tunnel at NTPC dam project site. Union power minister reaches the spot, claims ₹1,500 crore loss to NTPC dam at Tapovan. Total 26 bodies recovered, about 180 still missing.Feb 9: Rescue workers fail to progress beyond 100 metres inside the tunnel to rescue 35 workers trapped. Face the challenge of heavy muck and boulders. The CM visits affected villages, provides relief material. Total 32 bodies recovered, 174 still missing.Feb 10: Rescue workers use drones for laser scanning of the tunnel to spot trapped workers. No breakthrough. Total 34 bodies recovered, 170 still missing after agencies revise figure of total missing to 204. Police start collecting DNA samples of bodies for identification.Feb 11: Rescue workers start drilling vertically down to reach to slit flushing channel 13 metres below the floor of the main tunnel to find out the status there as 25 to 35 workers still said to be trapped. Total 35 bodies recovered, 169 still missing.Feb 12: Total 38 bodies recovered, 11 identified while 27 unidentified.Family members of survivors protest at Tapovan dam site, alleging delay in rescue operations to find out their loved ones.Mar 6: 72 bodies recovered and 132 people still missing. Tapovan tunnel-digging reaches around 200 metre||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/chamoli-tragedy-month-later-rescue-continues-experts-say-no-lessons-learnt-101615049755362.html
06-03-2021||Bhopal||Bhopal MP Pragya Thakur complains of uneasiness, flown to Mumbai for treatment||Bhopal MP and BJP leader Pragya Singh Thakur was on Saturday airlifted to Mumbai for treatment after she complained of uneasiness, her aide said.Thakur complained of uneasiness around 3 pm and was taken to the airport from her residence here and rushed to Mumbai in a state aircraft, her aide Sandeep Shrivastava told PTI.She was being admitted to Kokilaben Hospital in Mumbai, he added.Thakur, an accused in the 2008 Malegaon blast case, had recently got exemption from daily appearance in the court in Mumbai on the grounds of ill-health and security issues.She had been admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi for some health issues after the recent Parliament session concluded and returned to Bhopal on March 1, Shrivastava said.Her lawyer J P Mishra told PTI in Mumbai that she was being admitted to a hospital in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/bhopal-mp-pragya-thakur-complains-of-uneasiness-flown-to-mumbai-for-treatment-101615046684154.html
06-03-2021||Pune||Non-covid deaths higher in 2020 despite drop in road fatalities||The year 2020 was a pandemic year for Pune with Covid claiming over 4,600 deaths, however, the tally of non-Covid deaths were still higher compared to the previous two years. The fatalities in road accidents were lower as the city remained under restrictions for a large period of the year. In 2020, a total of 33,581 persons died in Pune due to non-Covid reasons while Coronavirus that causes Covid claimed 4,613 lives, taking the overall tally to 38,194, according to statistics released by the birth and death registration department of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). In comparison, 2019 saw 32,353 deaths in Pune due to various reasons while in 2018 a total of 31,570 people lost their lives. Experts suggest that during the lockdown, many patients could not visit hospitals and doctors failed to keep a track of comorbidities which worsened their situation and resulted in deaths. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president of the Indian Medical Association, Maharashtra state while speaking on the high numbers for 2020, said that due to lockdown last year, many patients avoided consulting doctors. “Many patients with comorbidities could not meet the doctor to test themselves regularly. Due to transport restrictions, many could not visit doctors as well. The high-risk patients stayed indoors without regular follow up which worsened the conditions of many and resulted in fatalities,” said Dr Bhondwe. He also added that as Covid cases increased last year, doctors were instructed to accommodate only patients with serious issues. Vivek Velankar, a city-based activist said that last year, not many patients could come to Pune city for treatment due to the lockdown while at the same time lockdown kept most in their homes, a reason for a drop in death count in 2020. “As there were travel restrictions, there were almost no road fatalities. This was a good sign but many patients who regularly visited Pune for treatment could not come to the city. This has increased complications in many patients,” said Velankar. As per data shared by Pune police, as many as 143 two-wheelers and pillion riders lost their lives in 2020 compared to 206 two-wheeler and pillion riders who died in 2019. Due to lockdown, there was a spike in cases of distress call received by the Connecting Trust, an NGO that works in suicide prevention. “There has been an increase in distress calls. The top three reasons for distress were relationship issues, unemployment and dealing with mental health issues. We also saw an increase in distress emails. We received distressed emails as well during the lockdown. The emails increased to 20 distress emails every month during the first few months of the lockdown. This could be because confidentiality could have been an issue at the time. The idea is for people to know that they are not alone. Emotional support is available whether it is a call or an email,” said Liyaan Sataravala, CEO of Connecting Trust. Dr Kalpana Baliwant, spokesperson and assistant chief of the health department, PMC said that the data reflects people who died in PMC limits. “Many patients were unable to travel to Pune for treatment. Also, deaths from outside Pune are not reflected in the PMC numbers,” said Dr Baliwant. BOx-- Year--Male--Female--Total-- Due to Covid 2020--21756--16438--38194--4613 2019--19002--13351--32353 2018--18544--13026--31570 *Source: Health department, PMC Road Fatalities (two-wheeler riders and pillion) 2020: 143 deaths 2019: 206 deaths 2018: 193 deaths 2017: 212 deaths||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/noncovid-deaths-higher-in-2020-despite-drop-in-road-fatalities-101615047788612.html
06-03-2021||Pune||Man arrested for forging RTO-related documents for money||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police crime branch, on Friday, arrested one person and seized forged documents from a cyber cafe in Kalewadi. The arrested man was identified as Rahul Prasad Gaund (33), a resident of Rupinagar, Nigdi. The arrested man allegedly produced forged copies of RTO fitness certificate, tax receipts, vehicle insurance, police clearance certificate, according to the police. He was remanded to police custody by a local court. The raid was conducted on Thursday around 8:15 pm. “The man collected information about the people he was making documents for; the information was incorporated in the format in which these documents are generally made. He then made colour printouts and added or tweaked the serial numbers, photo, and stamps on it before sending it to the concerned person through WhatsApp,” said Vitthal Kubade, senior police inspector of social security squad of Pimpri-Chinchwad police crime branch. He charged money before sending the document and received payments through Google Pay. The police are now investigating who else is involved with him in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-arrested-for-forging-rto-related-documents-for-money-101615047789233.html
06-03-2021||Pune||State government passes gunthewari bill to regularise illegal structures until December 2020||The state government on Friday passed a “gunthewari scheme” bill to regularise unauthorised small plots up to December 31, 2020, which will legalise constructions for 20 years under the scheme, a move largely going to benefit recently merged villages in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits. Earlier, the state government introduced gunthewari on January 1, 2001, under the Maharashtra Gunthewari Developments (Regulation, Upgradation and Control) Act. In the month of January, the state government took a decision in the state cabinet meeting that the state will revive the scheme in a new format and regularise gunthewari construction up to December 31, 2020. Gunthewari is known as a method invoked to measure land as per the gunthewari act, the practice of creating small plots of agricultural land in multiple gunthas (1,089 sq ft area) was illegal and hence, carrying out constructions on gunthewari land was also illegal. The passage of the bill is also being seen as a step keeping in mind the upcoming civic elections. Maharashtra urban development minister Eknath Shinde tabled a resolution in the state assembly session to amend the Maharashtra Gunthewari Developments (Regulation, up-gradation and Control) Act, 2001. The state has continued gunthewari in Maharashtra Gunthewari Developments (Regulation, Upgradation and Control) Act passed in 2001 and only changed the date to December 31, 2020. Sunil Tingre, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) of Vadgaonsheri constituency said, “People cannot afford houses due to high prices. Therefore, they construct houses on small plots. It is not as per corporation rules and regulation. They are always under the fear of action because as per corporation norms it is illegal. Now, the government has given them the opportunity to give them legal status. It is a welcome move.” Merged villages to get maximum benefit?With the passage of the bill, the recently merged 11 villages and proposed 23 villages in PMC limit will receive the maximum benefit from this scheme. According to PMC officials, more than 50 lakh square feet area can be regularised under the scheme. In the 2001 gunethwari scheme, the range of regulation cost of construction on gunthewari land was ₹8,000 to 15,000 depending on the areas and the amount of construction. As per PMC statistics, the civic body received 71,449 proposals for sanctioning. Of those, the PMC sanctioned 60,559 proposals from which the corporation received revenue of ₹32.14 crore from gunthewari. There are 10,888 proposals pending for not submitting necessary documents excluding two court cases. Rajendra Raut, superintendent engineer of the building construction and development department said, “We will have to set up a system after we get a notification from the state government. The rate of gunethwari will be decided by the standing committee. The department will send a proposal to the standing committee and the committee will decide per square feet rate to regularise residential and commercial structure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-government-passes-gunthewari-bill-to-regularise-illegal-structures-until-december-2020-101615047787821.html
06-03-2021||Pune||PMC says no to “unnecessary” CCTV installations||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) received requests from elected members proposing budgetary allocation for CCTV and electric pole installation work, however, the civic body has decided to only carry out those works in places where it is necessary. PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne presented the annual budget for the year 2021-22 on March 1st. With elections on the corner, some elected members proposed installing CCTV cameras and electric poles in their respective wards. PMC electric department head Srinivas Kandul said, “It is true that many members proposed CCTV and electric poles erecting works but, PMC will not give permission blindly. We would install the CCTV cameras only at those places which are suggested by local police. Even the police would need to take responsibility to monitor it. Only then the PMC administration would allow these works.” Kandul said, “It is true that PMC has covered almost all areas by street lighting. We will not allow a new installation. Only if there is a replacement required, then it is okay. For the last few years, we are avoiding installing decorative poles.” According to Kandul, it has become routine practice for elected members to propose decorative poles unnecessarily. “The media and activists have criticised the move on why PMC is spending money on works supposed to be carried out by the Maharashtra State Electric Distribution Limited (MSEDCL).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-says-no-to-unnecessary-cctv-installations-101615047787318.html
06-03-2021||Dehradun||'All is well': BJP holds emergency meeting amid speculation of leadership change in U'khand||The ruling BJP in Uttarakhand hurriedly convened its core committee meeting in Dehradun on Saturday amid speculations that many MLAs are not happy with the CM’s style of working. The meeting was held even as the budget session of the state assembly was on in Gairsain.The meeting was attended by party central observers Raman Singh and Dushyant Gautam. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat flew from Gairsain in the afternoon to Dehradun to attend the meeting. Members of Parliament from Uttarakhand - Ajay Bhatt, Naresh Bansal, Mala Rajya Laxmi were also present.It was speculated that several ministers were not consulted before declaring Gairsain as the third administrative division of the state, leaving many disgruntled.Also read: Chamoli floods - Rise in overall temp in 40 years could have led to rock collapseBJP state president Bansidhar Bhagat said the meeting with the two central observers was called by the party high command. “This meeting is being held to discuss and take important decisions with regard to the working committee meeting of the state BJP to be held here on March 13 and 14. The state-wide functions with completion of four years of the state government on March 18 will also be discussed in the meeting,” he said.On the speculations that many legislators and ministers were not happy with the CM, Bhagat said there was no such agenda to be discussed in the meeting.After Rawat left for Dehradun, many BJP MLAs also left the assembly session abruptly to attend the meeting.A ruling party MLA, on the condition of anonymity, said, “The CM had held an emergency meeting on Friday till late night with his close aides including a senior cabinet minister.”“Following the meeting, the CM left for Dehradun on Saturday by a helicopter after being called for the core committee meeting. All the ruling party MLAs have also been called for the meeting, many of whom have left by a chopper. Something big is going to happen in the state politics with just a year left for the next state assembly elections,” said the MLA.A senior minister also hinted towards a likely big development. “This was brewing for the last several months as many party MLAs and leaders have been expressing their unhappiness with the style of CM’s work,” the minister said wishing not to be named.“Not only MLAs but several ministers were also unhappy as often in many big policy decisions, he didn’t consult them. Also, many times, he doesn’t listen to the issues of party leaders,” said the minister.Last year, BJP MLA Umesh Sharma Kau from Dehradun had written to party president JP Nadda about his constituency being neglected as far as development work is concerned. The letter followed a similar allegation made by another party legislator Bishan Singh Chuphal, who had alleged that the bureaucrats were disregarding the elected lawmakers.Another BJP MLA Puran Singh Fartyal is also not happy with the government’s decision to re-allocate the construction work of Tanakpur-Jauljibi (TJ) road to the same contractor who was blacklisted after a probe in 2017. Fartyal was served a show-cause notice for working against party discipline and was also summoned by BJP state president Bhagat in August last year.After the meeting concluded, the leaders ruled out a change in leadership and said all was well within the party. “Only some party issued were discussed. No change in state leadership was on the table,” said Raman Singh, the party’s state in-charge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/all-is-well-bjp-holds-emergency-meeting-amid-speculation-of-leadership-change-in-ukhand-101615044949970.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||BJP MP Narayan Rane demands President's rule in Maharashtra||BJP MP Narayan Rane on Saturday demanded the imposition of President's rule in Maharashtra alleging "failure" of the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in maintaining law and order and its "inept" handling of the COVID-19 crisis.Rane, a bete noire of Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray, said he would write to President Ram Nath Kovind and Union Home Minister Amit Shah demanding dismissal of the state government."The law and order in the state has collapsed, crime against women is on the rise and the economy is in a complete mess. The state government is unable to handle the situation. The state has reported the highest number of COVID-19 deaths," the Rajya Sabha MP alleged.The BJP has sharpened its attack on the MVA government in view of recent controversies, including alleged link of Sena MLA Sanjay Rathod to the death of a woman. Owing to pressure, Rathod resigned last month as a state forest minister.Senior BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar recently attacked the state government over the post of Assembly Speaker, which has been lying vacant since the resignation of incumbent Nana Patole of the Congress."The election schedule (for Speaker's post) must be announced immediately otherwise there would be President's rule," the BJP leader had said.Recently, the mysterious death of Mansukh Hiren, the purported owner of the vehicle with explosives parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house, triggered a war of words between the opposition BJP and the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government headed by the Shiv Sena.Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis of BJP on Friday demanded a probe by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) into the incident.On Saturday, Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil alleged that suspicious death of Hiren is prima facie a murder.President's rule was imposed in Maharashtra in November 2019, after no political party was able to prove majority in the legislative assembly after elections, on a recommendation by Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari.Later, the Shiv Sena joined hands with the NCP and Congress to form a coalition government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-mp-narayan-rane-demands-president-s-rule-in-maharashtra-101615040165114.html
06-03-2021||Lucknow||Free entry for women at Lucknow's historical monuments on Women's day||The District Magistrate of Uttar Pradesh's Lucknow on Saturday announced that women will be given free entry at the historical monuments in the district on the occasion of International Women's Day on March 8.According to a notification issued by Lucknow's DM Abhishek Prakash, this step has been taken under 'Mission Shakti' campaign."On the occasion of International Women's Day on March 8, women will be given free entry to Chhota Imambara, Bada Imambara and Picture Gallery in the city," the notification read.International Women's Day is celebrated worldwide every year on March 8 to recognise the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women across the globe.This year, the theme for International Women's Day 2021 is 'Choose To Challenge'||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/free-entry-for-women-at-lucknow-s-historical-monuments-on-women-s-day-101615040186013.html
06-03-2021||City||'Jagan government borrowed ₹1.55 lakh cr in 20 months': TDP||As the Andhra Pradesh state assembly is getting ready for the budget session in the last week of March, the ruling YSR Congress party and the main opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) have locked horns, accusing each other of being responsible for the mounting debt burden of the state.In a statement on Friday, Telugu Desam Party politburo member and former state finance minister Yanamala Ramakrishnudu said the Jagan Mohan Reddy government resorted to indiscriminate borrowings to the tune of ₹1.55 lakh crore in the last 20 months of its rule.Quoting a Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) report and details obtained from the state finance department through a Right to Information (RTI) query, Ramakrishnudu said the Jagan government had incurred debts to the extent of ₹46,503.21 crore through various budgetary proposals in 2019-20 and another ₹73,912.91 crore during 2020-21 till January end.Also read: Maoists kill man branding him as police informer in Andhra’s Vizag forests“Another ₹34,650 crore was raised through non-budgeted borrowings by various state government corporations. In all, an amount of ₹1,55,066.12 crore was raised in the form of loans in a span of 20 months. Despite raising such massive loans, the Jagan government had not taken up any developmental works,” the former finance minister said.He pointed out that the previous TDP regime headed by N Chandrababu Naidu had borrowed ₹1,30,146.98 crore in five years (60 months). The maximum amount of loans taken was ₹38,282 crore in 2018-19.While several developmental works and infrastructure projects were taken up during the TDP regime, the present YSRC government incurred wasteful expenditure in the name of welfare schemes, he said.“Even this so-called welfare is disruptive and dishonest. For example, Jagan is giving ₹10,000 each to autorickshaw drivers under the Vahana Mitra scheme, but he increased the state cess on diesel and petrol. Similarly in the name of house sites scheme, the YSRC leaders embezzled ₹6,500 crore,” the TDP leader alleged.He pointed out that the Jagan government had done away with several welfare schemes launched by the TDP government, such as Anna Canteens, insurance for farmers, loan waiver for farmers, festival gifts to various communities, subsidising foreign education and unemployment allowance.State finance minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy admitted that the Jagan Mohan Reddy government had gone in for huge borrowings in the last 20 months but also defended the same saying it had to borrow more funds because of the crippling of state finances due to the Covid-19 pandemic.“The debts availed by the government indeed are more than the budget estimates but it is not confined to Andhra Pradesh. Every state in the country had to face the situation due to Covid-19,” he said.He said the state’s revenue had come down drastically due to the pandemic and the state had to spend huge money to control the disease.Reddy said the government had taken a conscious decision to continue the welfare schemes despite negative growth. “While the Chandrababu Naidu government had spent borrowed funds on unproductive works, our government has taken loans only to implement welfare schemes for the poor,” Reddy said.He said the direct cash transfer schemes had only increased the purchasing power of the people so that the money would come back into the state economy. “Apart from loans, the state government had an increase in non-tax revenue, apart from grants-in-aid by the Centre,” he said.The minister claimed that the revenue deficit was brought down from minus 12.9 per cent in the first quarter of the 2020-21 financial year to minus 3 per cent by the fourth quarter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jagan-government-borrowed-rs-1-55-lakh-cr-in-20-months-tdp-101615042296024.html
06-03-2021||Other||PMC to use volunteers from NGOs to help smoothen vax drive||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will seek to take the help of non-government organisations and various other institutes to boost the vaccination numbers in the city.Citizens face various problems enrolling their names for the vaccine. Some still have doubts about the vaccine.Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agrawal said, “It is true that the vaccination process is not streamlined. There are some technical errors when registering names.”Volunteers from various organisations will help citizens at vaccination centres register their names and documents.Agrawal said, “Organisations will also raise awareness among citizens about the vaccine and its safety.”The Bharatiya Jain Sanghtana and Force Motors have already come forward to help the PMC with the vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-to-use-volunteers-from-ngos-to-help-smoothen-vax-drive-101615041906842.html
06-03-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19 vaccination at 3,000 centres from Mar 8 as Karnataka aims to jab 1.5 lakh people each day, says health minister||Vaccination against Covid-19 will be done at about 3,000 centres including PHCs, Taluk Hospitals and District Hospitals from March 8, and the target is to vaccinate 1.5 lakh people each day, Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Saturday.Stressing the need to avoid crowding and agitations at least for the next one month aimed at controlling Covid cases, he said not more than 500 people will be allowed at large gatherings and necessary steps will be taken in this regard.The minister today held a meeting to review the Covid-19 situation and progress of vaccination drive in the state.Pointing out that there will be 3,000 vaccination centres from Monday, the minister urged people to come forward in large numbers to take the shot, his office quoted him as saying in a release.Further noting that since the last several weeks about 200-250 cases were being reported in Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP-city corporation) limits each day, which has suddenly increased to 400 yesterday, Sudhakar said 12 clusters have been identified in BBMP limits and testing will be increased to 40,000 per day from the current 30,000.Contact tracing will also be made more robust and the Centre has directed to trace 20 primary and secondary contacts for each positive case, he said. All these 20 contacts will be subjected to Covid-19 test, the minister said.Citing the high caseload in the neighbouring states of Kerala and Maharashtra, he said along with strict measures at borders, restrictions on large gatherings will also be tightened.Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will hold a video conference with district administrations of districts where the positivity rate is high, Sudhakar said.Since there are more inter-state travellers to Mangaluru, testing will be ramped up there, the minister said.Instructions have been issued to Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada, Mysuru, Chamaajanagara, Udupi, Kodagu, Belagavi and Tumkuru authorities to be more vigilant, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-vaccination-at-3-000-centres-from-mar-8-as-karnataka-aims-to-jab-1-5-lakh-people-each-day-says-health-minister-101615039184535.html
06-03-2021||Other||Average positivity rate in Pune up from 5.8% in Jan to 15% in March||PUNE The rate of infection of Covid-19 in the district has been rising, evident from the positivity rate. This has forced the administration to restrict movement and also reintroduce micro-containment zones. Officials believe that rising cases in the district is because of the careless behaviour of citizens, which has led to such a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases.The average positivity rate for the last week of January in the district was 5.8%. This has now gone up to 15%. Apart from the city, a large number of cases are being reported from PCMC too. On Friday, PCMC conducted 3,118 tests and reported 602 new cases - which is a 19.30% positivity rate for the day. The positivity rate is the number of new cases reported for every 100 samples tested. To keep a check on the rising cases the district administration introduced a night curfew in Pune. The municipal corporation, which declared no containment zones in the city on January 1, 2021, has now demarcated 40 micro-containment zones, of which 19 are specific buildings and 21 are housing societies. The most number of cases currently are being reported from Hadapsar, Bibwewadi, Aundh and Kothrud. On Friday, when the city reported 830 new Covid-19 cases, the civic body traced 15,705 contacts of earlier positives, of which 3,124 were high-risk contacts and 12,581, low-risk contacts. To tackle the rising positives the civic body is reopening Covid care and swab centres, which were earlier shut. Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “We will restart the Covid care centres at Rakshak nagar with 200 beds, and Dalvi hospital with 50 beds, including ICU beds, as cases are rising. Also, we will be reopening three swab collection centres to increase testing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/average-positivity-rate-in-pune-up-from-5-8-in-jan-to-15-in-march-101615040526718.html
06-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi logs over 300 new Covid-19 cases for second straight day, daily infections continue to rise||Delhi witnessed more than 300 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for the second consecutive day with and one related death in the last 24 hours, taking the city’s infection tally to 640,815 and fatalities to 10,919, the health department’s bulletin showed on Saturday. However, the national capital’s active caseload remained at 1,779, the same as the previous day, data also showed. Also, 320 patients recovered on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 628,117, the bulletin said.🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 6th March 2021🏥#DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/DTfUH9YuMXThe city had tested 53,062 samples on Saturday comprising 28,685 RTPCR/CBNAAT/ True Nat tests and 24,377 Rapid Antigen tests. Total tests conducted in Delhi reached 12,734,503 and the tests per million count stand at 670,237 tests. The cumulative positivity rate, considering the total tests done and the total positive cases found, stands at 5.03 per cent and the case fatality rate (CFR) stands at 1.7 per cent, as per the latest data. The city currently has 879 patients on home isolation and 562 containment zones, as per the latest data.Also read | Return to ‘test, track, treat’ fundamentals: Centre to states reporting Covid-19 resurgenceThe Union ministry of health and family welfare said earlier in the day that Delhi has been witnessing a surge in the number of daily Covid-19 cases along with Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana. Officials from the Union health ministry had met with state health officials from Delhi and seven other states and Union Territories. The ministry noted in the meeting that nine districts in Delhi continue to be a cause of concern “as these districts are seeing a decrease in total tests being conducted, low share of RT-PCR tests, increase in weekly positivity and a low number of contact tracing of the COVID positive cases”.Watch | Dalai Lama gets Covid vaccine jab; urges people to get vaccinatedMeanwhile, 526,827 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in Delhi of which 468,847 beneficiaries have received the first dose and 57,980 have received the second dose, as of 8am on Saturday, according to the latest data from the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-logs-over-300-new-covid-19-cases-for-second-straight-day-daily-infections-continue-to-rise-101615039276234.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports over 10,000 Covid-19 cases for second consecutive day, total infections breach 2.2 million mark||Maharashtra reported more than 10,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the span of 24 hours for the second day in a row, according to the state’s health department bulletin on Saturday. The fresh spike of 10,187 Covid-19 cases has taken the state’s tally past 2.2 million, according to the bulletin. There were 10,216 new cases on Friday, which was the highest single-day jump since October 17 last year. With 47 fatalities reported in the last 24 hours, the state has witnessed the death of 52,440 patients of the viral disease so far. Recoveries from the infection have also gone up with 2,062,031 people discharged from hospitals or recovered in home isolation. The state’s capital of Mumbai logged 1,188 new cases in the last 24 hours, data showed, which have taken the city’s tally to 332,208. Five people died of Covid-19 in Mumbai during the same period.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here Following the rise in Covid-19 cases since the last month, the central government has sent a high-level team to the state to assist the Maharashtra health department to review surveillance, control and containment measures in the state. The teams will visit the hotspot areas to check the reasons for the jump in cases in recent days. Maharashtra is among the five states that contributed to 82% of the new cases reported by Saturday morning, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Other states reporting a high number of cases are Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.A health ministry report, cited by news agency ANI, has attributed the upsurge in cases due to “COVID inappropriate behaviour” and gatherings due to recent gram panchayat elections, wedding season and the increased crowd in public transport. "While the exact causes of the surge are not known - since laxity in COVID behaviour is not specific to the state - the possible factors are COVID inappropriate behaviour due to lack of fear of disease, pandemic fatigue; miss outs and super spreaders; and enhanced aggregations due to recent gram panchayat elections, marriage season and opening of schools and crowded public transport," ANI quoted the report. The report also suggested that the state health machinery may have become lax following a dip in the cases of the coronavirus disease after September 2020. Suggesting measures to break the chain of transmission, the report said, "District/state-wise participative plan, engaging the community may yield better results rather than knee-jerk reactions. Revenue machinery needs to take full charge."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-over-10-000-covid-19-cases-for-second-consecutive-day-total-infections-breach-2-2-million-mark-101615040048714.html
06-03-2021||Lucknow||SP to initiate 'cycle yatra' against BJP's 'oppression' of Azam Khan||The Samajwadi Party will take out a 'cycle yatra' to highlight the "continued oppression" of senior party leader Azam Khan by the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh, a party spokesperson said on Saturday.The yatra will begin from Rampur, the home district of Azam Khan, on March 13 and conclude on March 21 in Lucknow, party spokesman Rajendra Chaudhary said in a statement issued here."The purpose of this yatra is to register public anger over the actions of the BJP government against the founder of Mohammad Ali Johar University and SP MP Mohammad Azam Khan and draw people's attention over it,'' Chaudhary said.Yadav will reach Rampur on March 12 and address a press conference at the Mohammad Ali Johar University and will also speak at a public meeting there, Chaudhary said, adding that on March 13, state unit president Naresh Uttam Patel will flag off the 'cycle yatra' from Ambedkar Park, Rampur.Passing through Bareilly, Shahjahanpur, Lakhimpur and Sitapur, the 'cycle yatra' will reach the party headquarters in Lucknow where the party president will address workers, Chaudhary said, adding that senior leaders will flag off the yatra at different places all through the route."Mohammad Azam Khan is an MP and former minister, his wife Tanzin Fatima is an MLA yet they have been framed in cases. Azam Khan's son Abdullah Azam has also been made an accused and ever since the BJP came to power, this family is facing continued problems. They are being framed in fake cases,” Chaudhary alleged.The SP has been supporting Khan since the beginning, he said.The Lok Sabha MP has set up the Johar university and taken steps towards spreading higher education and improving the lives of the youth but he is being humiliated and harassed by the government, the spokesman alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sp-to-initiate-cycle-yatra-against-bjp-s-oppression-of-azam-khan-101615036737923.html
06-03-2021||West||BJP names 57 candidates for first two phases of Bengal assembly elections. Check full list here||Days ahead of the first phase of the assembly elections in West Bengal, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday announced its first list of candidates for the first two phases of the high-stake polls. The state is set to see an interesting battle between Trinamool Congress leader and chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her former aide Suvendu Adhikari, who recently switched to the opposition BJP. The list comes a day after the ruling TMC announced its candidates for the polls. On Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be holding a mega rally at Brigade Parade Ground in Kolkata. This will be the Prime Minister’s first rally after the Election Commission of India announced the poll schedule. The state goes to polls in eight phases—March 27, April 1, April 6, April 10, April 17, April 22, April 26 and April 29. The results for the 294 assembly seats will be declared on May 2. Check the full list of 57 candidates contesting in the first two phases of Bengal assembly polls:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/west-bengal-assembly-election/bjp-names-57-candidates-for-first-two-phases-of-bengal-assembly-elections-check-full-list-here-101615038424480.html
06-03-2021||Chandigarh||Migrant worker kills two sons of his neighbour in Ludhiana, hangs self||Ludhiana A 22-year-old factory worker barged into the room of his neighbour and killed his two sons aged 8 and 6 by slitting their throats, before hanging himself from the ceiling fan in the same room in Rajiv Gandhi colony here on Saturday morning. The accused, identified as Shailendra Kumar of Bihar, was allegedly trying to allure the mother of the brothers to have a relationship with him for about a year. Shiv Shankar Tiwari, 26, said Shailendra had on Friday evening passed indecent remarks at his wife following which they threatened him of lodging a police complaint and getting him evicted from the room. They also took up the matter with Shailendra’s maternal uncle with whom he was putting up. Both of them apologised with Shailendra promising not to repeat such behaviour, it is learnt. On Saturday morning, Shailendra barged into the room of his neighbour, bolted the room from inside and slit the throats of the brothers with a sharp weapon, before hanging himself from the ceiling fan. At the time of the incident, the father of the children was away at work and mother was washing clothes outside. Hearing the shrieks of the brothers, locals gathered and broke open the door after much efforts. The brothers were taken to a hospital where they were declared brought dead. Focal Point SHO inspector Davinder Sharma said they received information about the crime around 11.22am from the police control room and rushed to the spot. “The maternal uncle of the accused is also missing. We are trying to trace him for recording his statement,” the SHO said. Hapless mother tried in vain to save sons Once the accused bolted the room from inside where the brothers were, their hapless mother, Meenu, begged in vain to save their lives. After the tormenting 15 minutes when locals managed to break open the door, she fainted seeing her sons panting. Meenu said she could hear the accused saying “Ab chakhata hu maza’ (now I will teach you a lesson)”. The family had migrated from Uttar Pradesh four years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/migrant-worker-kills-two-sons-of-his-neighbour-in-ludhiana-hangs-self-101615038728067.html
06-03-2021||Kolkata||Actors, sportsmen to writers in TMC's star-studded candidate list for polls||Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee on Friday released a star-studded candidate list for 291 assembly seats for the upcoming West Bengal elections. While the chief minister has dropped the names of at least 27 sitting MLAs, several new faces, including actors, sportsmen, ex IPS officers and writers, have been given a chance.Here's taking a look at some interesting candidates.Manoranjan ByapariThe award-winning Bengali Dalit writer was born in East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) in a Dalit family and had migrated to West Bengal when he was three years old. He had even served a jail term for his alleged Naxal links. Raised in refugee camps, the writer never received a formal education. Later, he started pulling rickshaws in Kolkata and even worked as a cook in a school for more than two decades. In 2020, he was made the chairman of the Dalit Sahitya Academy set up by chief minister Mamata Banerjee. He has been pitted from Balagarh in Hooghly, a seat reserved for SC.Ratna ChatterjeeThe estranged wife of Sovan Chatterjee, former mayor of Kolkata Municipal Corporation, has been fielded from Behala Purba, the same constituency from where Sovan Chatterjee had won with a TMC ticket earlier. The spat between the couple made headlines when it came to the public domain. Sovan Chatterjee was once a favourite of TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee but the rift between the mayor and the CM widened over problems in Chatterjee’s personal life, causing an embarrassment to the TMC. Later, Sovan and his friend Baisakhi Banerjee joined the BJP. Sovan has already expressed his willingness to contest from Behala Purba with a BJP ticket.Also read: Suvendu Adhikari is BJP’s choice against CM Mamata Banerjee on Nandigram seatSayoni GhoshShe joined the TMC along with a slew of celebrities on February 24. The actress was recently embroiled in a controversy over her remarks against the BJP and subsequent trolling. Veteran BJP leader and former Governor of Tripura and Meghalaya Tathagata Roy filed a complaint against Ghosh accusing her of hurting his religious sentiments. Later, she was backed by Mamata Banerjee. A BJP MP also made derogatory remarks against Ghosh and her family for which the BJP later apologised.“I am grateful to Didi (Mamata Banerjee) that she has shown her faith in me. She said that we have young blood and hence we need to work hard. I would stay amidst the people and work for them,” Ghosh told media persons soon after her name was announced as a TMC candidate from Asansol Dakshin. Union minister Babul Supriyo had won the Asansol Lok Sabha constituency in 2019.Humayun KabirA former IPS officer, Kabir had quit as the police commissioner of Chandannagar in January 2021, just three months before his scheduled retirement. He joined the TMC in February. His wife Anindita Kabir is already with the Trinamool Congress. He had made the headlines, a few days before quitting, when he ordered the arrest of three BJP workers for raising ‘Goli Maro’ slogans in a public rally. Kabir started his career as a school teacher soon after completing his masters. He has also authored books and even directed a short film ‘Aleya’. He has hit the headlines several times in the past for arresting some of the most notorious criminals in the state and investigating some of the controversial cases. The TMC has fielded him from Debra, his home turf.Raj ChakrabortyA noted Tollywood director, Chakraborty joined the TMC in February along with a host of other celebrities. On Friday, TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee announced the candidate list fielding Chakraborty form one of the toughest constituencies, Barrackpore. Heavyweight BJP MP Arjun Singh won from Barrackpore.Chakraborty’s challenge is however two-fold. While on one hand he has to face the BJP MP who has much sway in that area, on the other hand being a newcomer in TMC he also has to face the TMC supporters, a section of whom, have already voiced their disgruntlement. Chakraborty, however, sounded confident of his victory and said that he would win the seat and gift it to the TMC supremo. As for the disgruntlement, he said, "Initially some small differences may crop up. But once I visit the constituency, start working with the people and speak to them, I am sure everything would be sorted out".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/actors-sportsmen-to-writers-in-tmc-s-star-studded-candidate-list-for-polls-101615038237031.html
06-03-2021||Other||Blood banks unable to meet plasma demand with shortage of donors||PUNE With a rising demand for plasma in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, blood banks are facing a crunch, given shortage of plasma donors.The demand for plasma has increased from the third week of February after the surge in Covid cases. On Friday, 1,767 people tested positive in Pune district, which takes the tally of total active cases 18,401.“We are again getting 50 to 60 calls per day, for the last 20 days. Demand was almost nil in January and early February, but suddenly we are getting many calls. Finding donors is the biggest problem for us as many don’t have the amount of antibodies required to donate plasma, while a few are not willing to give,” explained Dr Rachana Deshpande, Indian Serological Institute, Sadashiv peth.Blood banks are also struggling, as they have got many such names on their list of persons that have been healed from the Covid-19 virus eight months ago. Such persons cannot become plasma donors as antibodies do not stay in the body for such a long time.A recovered Covid-19 patient can donate plasma between 28 days and three months of full recovery.“We are only able to meet 50 per cent of the demand, as we are short of plasma,” said Dr Shankar Mosalagi, blood transfusion officer at Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH), where there are 20 calls per day for plasma.Between January and the second week of February YCMH used to only get two-three calls per day.“We are making calls to people every day, but very few are showing an interest in donating plasma,” added Dr Sarika Patil, Aadhar blood centre, Dhankawadi.Plasma dontation in PMC/PCMC as of March 5Number of blood banks providing plasma: 21Total donors: 3,719||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/blood-banks-unable-to-meet-plasma-demand-with-shortage-of-donors-101615038366648.html
06-03-2021||Lucknow||3-year-old girl dies due to medical negligence in Prayagraj, UP initiates probe||Authorities in Uttar Pradesh’s Prayagraj district have initiated a probe into the death of a three-year-old girl, who died due to alleged medical negligence as her parents could not afford money for her treatment, reports said on Saturday. A post-mortem has been conducted and the report along with the findings of the probe will be submitted to the district magistrate, Prayagraj’s chief medical officer said.“Taking cognisance of the video, the district magistrate had formed a team to probe the matter. The report will be given to the DM. The probe is underway. Postmortem is being done,” the chief medical officer was quoted as saying by ANI.The incident came into light after the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) wrote to the collector of Prayagraj after it received reports of the girl’s death after her parents could not deposit the money required for her treatment at United Medicity Hospital in the city. The hospital allegedly sent the girl and her parents away after her surgery because they could not deposit ₹5 lakh needed for the procedure, according to a report by ANI.The child rights body has asked the district collector to conduct an inquiry into the case and also recommended strict action against the doctors and staff of the hospital. It further asked the district collector to lodge a first information report (FIR) under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, while asking that the kin of the child be also compensated.Satpal Gulati, the vice chairperson of United Group, denied the charges and said the family were not charged money since they were poor. “She was admitted to United Hospital for 15 days. When her condition worsened she was operated on and was kept under observation. The family was not charged any money since they were poor. She was referred to Medical College after she did not recover. Her family took her out the next day,” Gulati was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“Stitching was done but I think she was being treated somewhere else, they may have checked it and the stitches may have opened up. Maybe stitches were cut open for checking,” Gulati added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/3yearold-girl-dies-due-to-medical-negligence-in-prayagraj-up-initiates-probe-101615032950673.html
06-03-2021||Chandigarh||Night curfew in Jalandhar, SBS Nagar, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur to check Covid-19 spread||Amid rising cases of Covid-19, night curfew was imposed in the Doaba region of Punjab, comprising Jalandhar, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur districts, from 11pm to 5pm with immediate effect. Jalandhar deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori , who also holds the additional charge of Kapurthala, said: “In public interest, night curfew has been imposed from March 6 till further orders.” During the curfew, the district administration has given relaxation to factory workers with 24-hour shifts, medical emergency cases, traffic on national highways and travellers. The districts of Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar in Punjab’s NRI belt are among the top eight districts with the highest number of active cases. Jalandhar district reported 177 new Covid-19 cases on Friday as against 242 cases on Thursday. Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, formerly Nawanshahr, reported 921 positive cases, the highest across the state so far this year. These include more than 400 government school students and 58 government schoolteachers. There were 561 active cases in Kapurthala district on Friday, the sixth highest in the state.SBS Nagar deputy commissioner Shena Aggarwal, who holds the additional charge of Hoshiarpur, said that there were 485 active cases in the district on Friday.Increased testing has led to detection of more cases: Officials Officials said that the health department has increased testing across the district, especially in schools, due to which more cases have been detected. District officials said that directions have been issued for strict compliance of the Covid-19 protocol, while police have been keeping a check on violators. According to the health department, Jalandhar district has reported 22,256 positive cases and 719 coronavirus deaths so far, while there are 841 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/night-curfew-in-jalandhar-sbs-nagar-to-check-covid-19-spread-101615033446965.html
06-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s Jalandhar, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar impose night curfew||Authorities in Punjab’s Jalandhar and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar on Saturday imposed a night curfew to contain the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the districts. "Observing the hike in the COVID-19 cases in Jalandhar district, night curfew has been imposed from 11 pm to 5 am from March 6 and will be applicable till further notice," a notice issued by the office of Jalandhar district magistrate Ghanshyam Thori said.The district administration, however, has exempted factories where work is carried out in shifts through the day (24 hours) from the night curfew. Essential services, travellers and traffic on national highways have also been allowed during the period.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar district, which has reported 921 active cases of Covid-19, the highest across the state till Friday, has also imposed a night curfew. This year, more than 400 students and 58 teachers of government schools tested positive for the disease. After Jalandhar, SBS Nagar, which was the first Covid-19 hotspot in 2020, is the second district of the Doaba region to have imposed the night curfew. The northern states reported a sudden spike of infections this week with the daily tally of Covid-19 cases surpassing 1,000 for the first time in five months. The last time Punjab reported more than 1,000 cases was on October 5, 2020. Though the single-day tally came down to 818 on Friday, the state led by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has stepped testing especially in Jalandhar, which logged 242 new cases on Thursday and 177 the following day. Officials said the health department had enhanced testing across the district, especially in schools, due to which detection of Covid-19 cases has gone up. People were already directed to strictly comply with Covid-19 guidelines and informed that violators would be fined, they added.As Punjab is witnessing a fresh spike, the central government has sent a high-level team to the state to assist the state health department in Covid-19 surveillance, control and containment measures.The team led by Dr SK Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), New Delhi, will visit the hotspot areas and find out the causes for the upsurge. They will report back their observations and remedial measures to be undertaken by the state health authorities.According to figures released by the Union health ministry on Saturday morning, Punjab had 6,661 active cases and as many as 5,898 people have died of the viral disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-jalandhar-emerging-as-covid-19-hotspot-authorities-impose-night-curfew-101615031340631.html
06-03-2021||Dehradun||Chamoli floods: Rise in overall temp in 40 years could have led to rock collapse||Heavy precipitation in the Chamoli region from February 4-6 and an overall rise in temperature in Uttarakhand in last four decades could have led to the rock collapse which triggered the deadly flash floods in the state last month, according to a study by the International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development.The report by Kathmandu-based ICIMOD, which was released on Friday, found that a crack had formed prior to the incident at the site where the rock detachment led to a rockslide from the Raunti peak.The rockslide brought along with it mounds of earth and snow which could have triggered the flash floods. With a straight slide line of 1.6 km (5500 to 3900 masl), the kinetic energy during the fall generated enough heat to melt the ice.As the debris moved downstream in the Rishiganga river, it pushed running river water ahead of it, including water from small ponding structures along the river path.So far 72 bodies and 30 human body parts have been recovered from different places in the avalanche-hit areas, out of which 41 bodies have been identified. As many as 132 persons are still missing.The ICIMOD is a regional organisation that works on different aspects in the Himalayan-Hindukush region. It has eight members --- India, China, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Myanmar, Bangladesh, Bhutan and Nepal.At the same headwall of the Raunthi peak, a large ice avalanche was previously released somewhere between 19 September and 9 October 2016, which deposited ice and more bedrock in the valley below, the report states.“The resulting destabilisation of the rock due to the lack of ice cover (glacial debuttressing, stress-release fracturing), and increased exposure to solar radiation and hence an increased freeze thaw cycle, in combination with a large snowfall event preceding the event of February 7, 2021 and rapid melt water production, may have favoured the fracturing of rock,” the report states.“This can, however, not explain the depth of the fracture (150 metres), which must have evolved over a longer period of time,” the report states.The ICIMOD report further states that a strong western disturbance passed across Kashmir and northwest India from February 4-6. It was fully charged with convective instability that may have contributed to the heavy precipitation. The Uttarakhand tragedy occurred on February 7.“Numerical simulation of some of the attributes have been carried out which depict strong evidence of heavy precipitation contributing to high flows downstream,” it said.The numerical simulation on February 4 shows heavy precipitation over the region. The western disturbance travelled with relatively slower speed and its stagnancy produced concentrated precipitation, the report states.“Precipitation data derived from Global Precipitation Measurement (GPM) Mission suggests that there were continuous precipitation events from February 3-5 which resulted in approximately 58 mm of cumulative precipitation. Most of the precipitation in the high altitude areas of Chamoli would have occurred as snowfall,” it states.The temperatures are also rising in Uttarakhand, the report states, saying maximum temperature in the Chamoli area has increased at the rate of 0.032 degrees C per year between 1980 and 2018.Furthermore, January 2021 was the warmest January on record in Uttarakhand for six decades, the report states.“While a hazard event like the flood at Chamoli cannot be directly attributed to climatic changes, the increased thaw-freeze cycle of permafrost could have partially contributed to the event,” it states.A report by the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG) also stated that the collapse of a massive rock, which brought down a large amount of earth and snow, may have triggered the flash floods.The debris also blocked the mouth of a stream in the upper reaches of the Rishiganga river. This led to formation of a glacial lake which is being monitored continuously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/chamoli-floods-rise-in-overall-temp-in-40-years-could-have-led-to-rock-collapse-101615027269627.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||Milind Ekbote opposes building of Haj house, calls Kondhwa 'Mini-Pakistan'||A case has been registered against Samast Hindu Aghadi president Milind Ekbote by Pune Police for allegedly making a video with the intent to disturb communal harmony as he called Kondhwa a 'Mini Pakistan'.In a video that has surfaced on social media, Ekbote opposed the Pune Municipal Corporation's decision to allot money for building Haj House in the Kondhwa area."Pune Municipal Corporation's decision to build Haj House in Kondhwa is unfortunate. The decision of the PMC will endanger the life of the people, the central intelligence agency's report says Kondhwa is 'Mini Pakistan' and it has a sleeper cell of terrorists and under the grab of building a cultural place, the administration is violating the Supreme Court's order which restricts building a religious place without approval from the administration," Ekbote purportedly said in the video.Also read: Startup mantra: Women entrepreneurs who hacked the glass ceiling... and beyondHe also said that his organisation would do every possible thing to make sure this Haj house is not built in the area with ₹four crore of public money that the Municipal corporation is likely to spend."Complainant Satish Kale, who is a leader of the Sambhaji Brigade organisation, has claimed that Ekbote's statement not only disturbs the communal environment in the city but also provokes a particular community against others," as mentioned in the FIR.A case under section 153,153(a),153(b),295(a),500,501,502,120(b) and 505(1)(C),505(2) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with several other relevant sections has been registered with Kondhwa Police Station.Ekbote was accused in the Bhima Koregaon violence case and was booked on charges of inciting violence in that case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/milind-ekbote-opposes-building-of-haj-house-calls-kondhwa-minipakistan-101615010374145.html
06-03-2021||Jaipur||Schools, colleges in Rajasthan will have to close due to Covid-19 cases surge: Minister||Rajasthan transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said on Saturday schools and colleges in the state would have to be closed due to the increased spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Khachariwas said he would further speak to chief minister Ashok Gehlot and place a request for the closure of all educational institutions in Rajasthan.“Corona is spreading fast, schools and colleges will have to be closed because children are coming positive in many schools. I will talk to chief minister Ashok Gehlot and request for closure of schools, colleges and universities,” Khachariyawas said while speaking to reporters.The transport minister’s comments came in the backdrop of 25 students and three staff members of a government boarding school in the Udaipur district testing positive for Covid-19. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dinesh Kharadi told Hindustan Times on Friday that the infected students had been placed under isolation and pointed out that tests for 80 students and 10 staff members were conducted after a teacher was found out to be infected.कोरोना तेज़ी से बढ़ रहा है, स्कूल और कॉलेज बंद करने पड़ेंगे क्योंकि बहुत स्कूलों में बच्चे पॉजिटिव आ रहे हैं। मैं मुख्यमंत्री अशोक गहलोत से बात करके स्कूल, कॉलेज और यूनिवर्सिटी बंद करने का अनुरोध करूंगा: प्रताप सिंह खाचरियावास, राजस्थान के मंत्री #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/WURVF4CHdMSchools, colleges, universities were closed in Rajasthan in March 2020 during the initial period of the pandemic. Due to an improvement in the overall situation, authorities allowed for the reopening of colleges, universities and schools for Classes 9 to 12 in January this year with all Covid-related norms in place. While on February 8, students of Classes 6 to 8 were allowed to attend physical classes. However, junior classes continued to remain closed.Rajasthan on Friday added 195 fresh cases of Covid-19 and one more death, which pushed the infection tally and death toll to 321,123 and 2,789 respectively, according to the health department’s bulletin. Nearly 317,000 people have recovered till now, while 1,584 patients continue to remain under treatment.With several neighbouring states witnessing an uptick in their coronavirus disease cases, the Rajasthan government made it mandatory for travellers coming from Punjab Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat to produce a negative Covid-19 test report not older than 72 hours before entering the state. This decision was taken at a review meeting chaired by CM Gehlot. The government also said that Anganwadi centres and schools for students up to Class 5 will remain closed till March 31.Gehlot said during the meeting that people were being negligent in following Covid related norms and directed the departments of local self-government, and information and public relations to again accelerate campaigns for creating awareness about the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/schools-colleges-in-rajasthan-will-have-to-close-due-to-cases-surgeminister-101615026699389.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||Pune-based Hindutva leader booked for 'promoting enmity'||A case has been registered against Hindutva leader Milind Ekbote, prime accused in the Bhima- Koregaon violence case, for allegedly promoting enmity between groups through his remarks made recently, a Pune police official said on Saturday.Satish Kale, a leader of Maratha Seva Sangh, Sambhaji Brigade, lodged a complaint against him at Kondhwa police station in Pune city.Ekbote, who is the executive president of Samasta Hindu Aghadi, objected to the construction of a religious place for a minority community in Kondhwa and passed objectionable remarks that may "promote enmity between different groups", the complaint against him said.Based on the complaint, a case was registered against him, the police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/punebased-hindutva-leader-booked-for-promoting-enmity-101615021150690.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||'Damp squib': Rhea Chakraborty's lawyer on NCB chargesheet in Sushant Singh case||Advocate Satish Maneshinde, the lawyer of Rhea Chakraborty has termed the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB)'s 12,000-page charge sheet in a drug-related case having links with late actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death as 'damp squib'.The charge sheet filed by NCB has named names 33 accused including actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik Chakraborty, sources said.Maneshinde who also represents Showik Chakraborty, in a statement, said the 12,000-page charge sheet was expected."All efforts of NCB have been directed towards Rhea Chakraborty to somehow rope her in. The entire amount of "Narcotic Substances" "Recovered" against 33 accused are nothing compared to what even a constable in Mumbai Police or Narcotics Cell or the Airport Customs or other agencies recover from one raid or trap," he said."The entire NCB from top to bottom was engaged in unearthing drug angle in Bollywood... There's hardly any material against any known faces who were paraded during the investigations, I wonder why? Either the allegations were false or Only God Knows the Truth," he added.According to the lawyer, the charge sheet is "a damp squib standing on the foundation of inadmissible evidence and statements recorded under section 67 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.""The HC has found no prima facie material at the stage of Bail of alleged "Financing Drugs Trade". We will have the Last Laugh," he added.The NCB filed a case in August 2020 after it received official communication from the Enforcement Directorate (ED), in which there were various chats related to drug consumption, procurement, usage, and transportation.The ED had on July 31, 2020, registered an Enforcement Case Information Report in the late actor's death case after a First Information Report (FIR) was filed by Rajput's father KK Singh against Rhea Chakraborty in Bihar on July 28, last year.Rhea Chakraborty was in a relationship with Rajput at the time of his death on June 14, 2020, when he was found dead in his bedroom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/damp-squib-rhea-chakraborty-s-lawyer-on-ncb-chargesheet-in-sushant-singh-case-101615020247967.html
06-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi to have its own school education board: CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Saturday that like other states, the national capital will also have its own school education board. Approval for the formation of the Delhi board of school education was passed during the cabinet meeting.Talking about the government’s plan, Kejriwal said that in the academic session 2021-22, around 20-25 schools will be included in the education board. “There are around 1000 government schools & 1700 private schools in Delhi. All government schools and most private schools here (in Delhi) are affiliated with CBSE. In academic session 2021-22, we will include 20-25 schools in this board,” Kejriwal said.Watch: Delhi to have its own school education board: Kejriwal explains the goalsThis means that the CBSE affiliation of the schools will be scrapped after which the schools will be affiliated to the Delhi board of school education.On the method of selection of schools for the new board of education, chief minister informed that the schools will be selected after discussion with principals and teachers of the schools. He added that the government hopes that within the next 4-5 years, all schools will voluntarily get affiliated to the board.About the constitution of the board of school education, Kejriwal said that the board will have two bodies and will be headed by a CEO. One will be the governing body which will be chaired by Delhi's education minister and the other will be the executive body which will look after the day-to-day functions.Kejriwal added that both the governing and the executive body will have experts from the education sector, bureaucrats, and principals of both government and private schools.Last year, the Delhi government had constituted two committees to prepare the scheme and framework for the formation of the state education board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-have-its-own-school-education-board-cm-kejriwal-101615017795741.html
06-03-2021||Chandigarh||Thakur presents Himachal budget, aims to revive Covid-hit economy||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur presented the budget for the 2021-22 in the Himachal Pradesh assembly on Saturday. The fourth budget of the BJP government aims to revive the economy of the state that has been hit by the Covid-19 pandemic. “The world economy was hit and India and Himachal weren’t left untouched. India’s economy shrunk to -23.9% in the first quarter of this financial year. However, the steps taken by the Centre have put the economy back on track with India seeing a V-shape recovery,” Thakur said. According to estimates, Himachal Pradesh’s economy will register a negative growth of -6.2%, which is 1.5% better than the national average, he said. The per capita income is likely to be ₹1,83,286, which is ₹56,318 higher than the national per capita income, said Thakur. Announcing ₹9,405-crore outlay for development works, the chief minister said that the state planning department will be known as Niti Vibhag. The grant received from Nabard under the rural infrastructure development fund for MLA priority schemes has been enhanced from ₹120 crore to ₹135 crore. The MLA Local Area Development Fund, suspended after the Covid-19 outbreak last year, would be fully restored from April 1. It has been enhanced from ₹1.75 crore to ₹1.8 crore. Salaries and allowances of legislators, cut by 30% in wake of the pandemic, will also be restored. Given the success of the Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA) sponsored crop diversification scheme in five districts, the state government has decided to extend it to all 12 districts. The ₹1,055-crore scheme will be started in 2021-22. A sum of ₹20 crore has been proposed for natural farming.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/thakur-presents-himachal-budget-aims-to-revive-covid-hit-economy-101615017006159.html
06-03-2021||Other||Startup mantra: Women entrepreneurs who hacked the glass ceiling... and beyond||PUNE Stepping into business, managing personal life, scaling the business is easier said than done. Women are challenged with subtle discrimination while dealing with clients, investors and other stakeholders of their business ecosystem. On the occasion of International Women’s Day, on March 8, HT spoke with women entrepreneurs from startups, and the information technology sector to highlight their experiences on their entrepreneurial journey, their plans for this year and their message to other women entrepreneurs.--------------------------Hemangi VartakFounder, Gifts Galore; and founder, Jungle Belles (wildlife club and tours exclusively for women)“I quit my full-time job after my second daughter in 2008 and did not want to get back into it. I wanted to give equal attention to my home and girls. This is when I got into business in 2009 and started my own company ‘Gifts Galore’. Gifting was a very competitive business - right from large setups to gift shops, were my competitors. It was initially difficult to survive due to low margins in this business. That’s when I started with this novel idea of birthday wishing. This was a unique one which really worked.These had been hard times in 2020 for most of us from the business fraternity and with advertising costs soaring. So, to survive in the competition one needs to find ways to reach new customers as well build a bond with existing customers, as that’s the best way to keep ahead in the competition. And this is exactly where Gifts Galore scores above every other medium.I always had support of my family and my husband when I started. I feel a good backbone system at home is very essential for any woman who steps out for work. After starting the business, it took four years to break even. In recent times, I found an investor as they found potential in my work. I plan to take the Birthday Wishing (bonding with stakeholders) concept to the next level. Message to other women entrepreneurs“There is no limit to what we as women can accomplish”, said Michelle Obama. I would like to say that believe in yourself, find time for your passion that keeps you going and you can accomplish anything under the sun. The achievements might be different for all, but they will surely satisfy the soul.”-------------Renu SalgarkarCo-Founder, Classboat“After working internationally, I realised that I wanted to work on some bigger purpose and contribute to the Indian education system, and towards a student’s life from an early age. So, I came back and started our own venture to create an impact in millions of students’ lives.“Having a supportive family around is a privilege and this gives you energy to navigate every up and down. Me, and my husband, working together towards our life and company mission gives us enormous energy and makes us understand the challenges, as well as successes, of this journey very well. We were always lucky that both of our parents respected our aspirations. However, I think the most important part of being an entrepreneur is your belief in what you are doing. If you believe in what you are doing, everyone will start supporting you and respecting your decision. “Our venture, Classboat, has turned profitable from the first year of operation and has used its positive cash-flow for expansion into 160+ cities of India. Sometime unforeseen changes like Covid have impacted business, but that I consider as a blessing in disguise, to take a step back and think of adding more product lines to add value in our students lives directly and indirectly. Backed by strong data over the last four years, Classboat is now building India’s first artificial intelligence (AI)-based courses platform. This platform is in beta phase and has shown transformation in 300+ students already in the last four months.Message to other women entrepreneurs“I urge all women to realise their dreams and start chasing them. There will be many people who will tell you it won’t happen, but just ask yourself how can it happen? If you be very focused towards your goal, then all the hard times and obstacles become unimportant.”---------------------------------------------------Purva SurseFounder, KYRA Natural Salon“Honestly, I never thought I would enter the beauty business world, specially having done Engineering and a Master’s degree in Computers. I believe my mom has a major role in influencing me to fall in love with beauty and Ayurveda. When I first told my parents about the salon idea, my mom was supportive, but it took me a few months to convince my dad. I showed him how my salon would be different and the ways it can help other people. Finally, when they were on board, I got their full support.“I recently completed formal education in cosmetics from a UK-based school and became a certified organic skincare formulator. Accessing finance was difficult initially, but I started with a small investment. I took a loan from a bank to start my business. I had a pretty good experience with the bank. I would really encourage women entrepreneurs to take the support from banks since they have reduced interest rates for women entrepreneurs. “The recent lockdown was a major turning point in my business. I learned a lot about managing finances. During the lockdown, I started consulting customers online for free and making online videos in order to help them with DIY recipes. I also made fresh, natural, customised skin and hair kits for my clients and started delivering it in the city. This helped me bring in a little revenue, with which I was able to pay my staff. I have now decided to start my own beauty line of natural and organic products that will help people solve their skin and hair related issues.”Message to other women entrepreneurs“If you truly believe in your idea and you are sure that your idea is going to solve people’s problems, then go for it. You will face lot of problems dealing with finances. Being a women entrepreneur is not easy, but fighting against the odds will make you a super business woman. Always aim high and be prepared to work extra hard. Enjoy and live the process. It’s worth it.”------------------------------------------------------------------Snehal LondheManaging director, Payod Industries; Maharashta head of women’s wing of the Dalit Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industries (DICCI)“I used to work while completing my education. After marriage in 1996, I continued to work and became aware of women’s-related issues as my work profile demanded that we travel to different parts of the country. In 2008 my husband and I, both left our highly-paying jobs and returned to our village Hingangaon in Sangli district of Maharashtra, with the thought of starting our own company. “Convincing our parents was not at all easy. No one was happy with our decision as we took the risk of doing business. It wasn’t easy to avail of finance. Our factory location was in a rural area, we were first generation entrepreneurs and above that, our product was also new. So, we didn’t get any response from block-level banks. So, we decided to bootstrap our venture and took credit from friends, sold our property and used our bank deposits, personal funds, investments for setting up our business.“In 2011, we got chance to present our products at a CII conference held in Pune. A handshake with Ratan Tata is one of our most memorable moments of our entire business journey and we never looked back after that. Recently, the development commissioner of Industries of Maharashtra, sanctioned our Hand Gloves Cluster. We are supporting rural enterprises to grow and I’m happy to share that now 100 of our 500 women employees have become employers. Also, we are thinking about setting up a Gloves Museum so that everyone will get information regarding all types of gloves. We want to create industrial tourism here as well.Message to other women entrepreneurs“Increase your network and speak-up wherever necessary. Trust people and be a solution for someone. Never restrict yourself from doing the right things. Leave your ego aside to achieve your goals. Have a clear vision of your goals. Have patience and be passionate about your Work. Build the people, and the people will build you.”-------------------Sujata SalviCOO, Eviox TechAfter marriage, I decided to explore the entrepreneurial spirit in me. This shift of mindset from being an employee to being an employer was a piece of work initially. My family and husband have been supportive throughout. Proficiency becomes a bit challenging when you have the power to run an organisation, because you get to decide everything. That’s the real test of yourself I would say. “Life workwise has always been a good experience so far. There are a few bad experiences, but they only make you strong and seasoned at the end. One good experience I would truly love to share is that of working on big data project for TCS. It catapulted the best out of the entire team handling multiple teams across the globe. I personally learned a lot.“2021 will be a huge breakthrough as I will be working on my upcoming books and also on business expansion in India.” Message for other women entrepreneurs“A woman must recognise herself and the boundless willpower she is gifted with. She can be a success story in everything she does. Never submit to any failure easily. We build our empire on our own terms so be brave enough to start at any time it’s never too late.”-----------------------------------------------------------Pranoti NandurkarLead, Women Tech Makers, Google Developer Group “In my early college days, around 2005, when social media and learning resources were very limited, we used to travel to Pune from Ahmednagar just to attend seminars or sessions on different technologies. Small cities did not have enough facilities, infrastructure or mentors. There was a huge gap between what is needed by the industry and what we were learning. There I realised the need of a tech community where we can share experiences and help each other grow. And that’s how my journey started.“GDG (Google Developer Group) and WTM (Women tech makers), both are tech communities backboned by Google, where we focus on the latest trends in the industry, workshops and hands-on on new technologies. Women tech makers focuses on diversity in tech. We provide a platform for women to showcase their skills and provide resources which help them to grow in their career. We connect them with women leaders in tech industry, arrange various talks and workshops. This helps our community members to be skilled with the latest technology, and to be motivated in the workforce for longer time.“One of the turning points in my life was getting an invitation and sponsored tour of Google’s headquarters in Silicon Valley. Moreover, I got a chance to meet and interact with Sundar Pichai in person, which is a dream for every techie.“We have panned our International Women’s Day celebration on March 20 and 21. It will be online event you can register on https://iwdindia.inMessage for other women techies“Learn things which are the need of the industry. Showcase your skills and talent. Create and join groups of likeminded people, where you can discuss your new learnings and get feedback. To grow in your career, don’t rely on others to stand up for you because it’s your road, others can walk with you but no one can walk for you.”-----------------------------------------------------------Sneha Sahasrabuddhe Founder, Kovid Bio Analytics (A boutique service provider in healthtech, bioinformatics, edtech and data storage domains)“I am a bioinformaticist by education and love working on projects that challenge my knowledge as well as skill sets from the very beginning of my career. After six years of experience in the IT industry, I felt that my mettle would be better tested while running my own business and it would give me enough challenge and opportunities. “I was two years into my marriage when I founded Kovid BioAnalytics and it was a mutual and well-planned decision between my husband Mandar and I. He was still working to ensure that our income stayed stable, while I stepped into the uncertainty of a start-up venture. Both our parents and our family were extremely supportive of the decision and encouraged, helped and mentored our venture in their respective roles.“I had decided that we would go the bootstrap way, and would fund the business from my own savings, to begin with. When KBA stabilised around 2015, Mandar also joined me as a co-founder. The biggest challenge that we faced as a team was around the middle of 2019, when our US-based clients had to halt their projects owing to some regulatory and business challenges that they faced. This was a major set-back for us. This also gave us the time and opportunity to work on our own cloud-based platform – eDhanvantari, a virtual clinic management system designed specifically for clinics and hospitals in India. eDhanvantari helped us convert the pandemic into a turning point for ourselves, thanks to an excellent team of skilled, brilliant and hard-working folks. “We coursed through the lockdown months working seven-days a week, on service projects as well as two new in-house products – Cloud It and Skool Up. This enabled us to venture outside the healthtech domain into edutech and data storage. Message for other women entrepreneurs“Never Say No!, has been my mantra from day one. The present conditions in India are highly favourable for technology startups. Gone are the days when setting up your business was a challenge for women. We are seeing a lot of entrepreneurial efforts in the hyper-local service space as well. And women can be seen at the fore of these efforts everywhere. My message to them is to go ahead at full throttle, and persevere through the challenges without ever losing hope or spirit. True efforts are always rewarded.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/startup-mantra-women-entrepreneurs-who-hacked-the-glass-ceiling-and-beyond-101615016585347.html
06-03-2021||Bhopal||MP: President arrives in Jabalpur as part of two-day visit||President Ram Nath Kovind arrived here on Saturday as part of his two-day visit to Madhya Pradesh, an official said.The president is scheduled to inaugurate the All India State Judicial Academies Directors's Retreat at a function to be held at Manas Bhawan in the city before noon, he said.On his arrival at Dumna Airport here, Kovind was accorded a warm welcome by Madhya Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel and Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, the official said.In the evening, he will attend the Narmada aarti at Gwarighat on the banks of the river and participate in a cultural programme organised in the Madhya Pradesh High Court premises here, the official said.After a night halt in Jabalpur, Kovind will leave for Jalhari village in Damoh district at 9.30 am on Sunday, from where he will go to Sangrampur village to attend 'Janjatiya Sammelan' organized by MP Tribal Welfare Department.He will leave for New Delhi around 3.20 pm on Sunday, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-president-arrives-in-jabalpur-as-part-of-two-day-visit-101615014902198.html
06-03-2021||Bhopal||MP CM announces ₹1 crore aid to kin of jawan killed in Chattisgarh||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has announced ₹one crore financial assistance to the family of a security personnel from the state, who was killed in Chhattisgarh two days back in a blast of IED planted by Naxals, officials said on Saturday.The jawan, Laxmikant Dwivedi, was a security personnel with the 22nd battalion of the District Reserve Guard (DRG) of Chhattisgarh. He was martyred on Thursday in the blast of a pressure improvised explosive device (IED) planted by Maoists.The chief minister also announced a government job to a family member of Dwivedi, whose body was brought to Rewa, his home district in MP, on Friday, the officials said.Chouhan also announced that his family would be given a house, they added.Dwivedi's last rites were performed at his native village Barchha Kakahra, located arond 150 kms from Rewa district headquarters, on Friday.MP Minister of State Ram Khilawan Patel also paid tributes to Dwivedi by reaching his village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-cm-announces-rs-1-crore-aid-to-kin-of-jawan-killed-in-chattisgarh-101615009262227.html
06-03-2021||Chandigarh||Dalai Lama turns down offer to get vaccine jab at home, goes to dispensary||Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama stepped out of his home after a year on Saturday to get first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.The 14th Dalai Lama, Tenzin Gyatso, 85, who lives at McLeodganj, was given the shot at Zonal Hospital, Dharamshala, early in the morning.Earlier, the district health authorities had planned to vaccinate the Dalai Lama at his home after the Indian government permitted provisions to inoculate the spiritual leader along with his core staff at his residence. “However, His Holiness said he would take the injection at the place where the common people were being inoculated,” said Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati. “It was his decision. We were arranging to vaccinate him at his home,” he added.Escorted by his security and staff, the Dalai Lama arrived at the hospital in Dharamshala at 7am in a motorcade. His followers lined the streets from McLoedganj to the Zonal Hospital to catch a glimpse of their spiritual leader and seek his blessings.Urges people to get vaccinated In a video message after taking the injection, the Dalai Lama said his friends, including doctors, suggested he get inoculated as a preventive measure. “This injection is very helpful. Others should also take it for greater benefit,” he said, adding “I took it, and more people should have the courage to take the injection, too.”He was put under observation for half an hour after being given the shot.The Dalai Lama’s last public appearance was in January 2020 when he attended a five-day Buddhist teaching session at Bodhgaya in Bihar.Following the Covid-19 outbreak, the Dalai Lama cancelled all public engagements in February 2020 but resumed virtual teachings in May.The Dalai Lama fled Tibet in 1959 after a failed uprising against Chinese occupation. He moved to McLeodganj in 1960.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dalai-lama-administered-first-shot-of-covid-19-vaccine-101615009505769.html
06-03-2021||Bangalore||BJP MLA backs Ramesh Jarkiholi, say it is a case of blackmail, conspiracy||MP Renukacharya, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator and chief minister B.S Yediyurappa’s political secretary, on Friday said the allegation of sexual exploitation against former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi was a case of “blackmail and political conspiracy”.Speaking to reporters outside the Vidhan Soudha in Bengaluru on Friday, Renukacharya said, “She (the unidentified woman in the case) is not a victim. This is a conspiracy.”Jarkiholi, who resigned from the cabinet demanding an investigation, has been given an injunction against publishing any material related to the incident.“This is neither a sexual harassment nor a rape case...,” said Renukacharya, who himself was accused of sexual harassment by a nurse in 2007.The statements from the MLA came even before the investigation in the case could begin, as police said they are trying to get details on the unnamed woman to verify the complaint.Case filed by ministers?A case was filed by six people on Friday at the city civil court in Bengaluru under the names of six cabinet ministers of the Karnataka government.Though the six names are of incumbent ministers, it remains unclear if the ministers moved the cases on their own or if any other persons did.All six have moved the court in what appears to be a move to restrict the media from publishing or broadcasting defamatory content against them.The six persons whose names are listed as petitioners include Shivaram Hebbar, Dr K Sudhakar, Byrathi Basavaraj, B.C Patil, ST Somashekar and Narayana Gowda, according to the original suit filed at the Additional City Civil and Sessions Judges in Mayo Hall in Bengaluru. All six ministers who have been named as petitioners could not be reached for comment and text messages seeking a response went unanswered.The filing of the case comes days after their ministerial colleague, Ramesh Jarkiholi, was forced to resign from B.S.Yediyurappa-led cabinet after a complaint of alleged sexual exploitation was filed against him.The case has 68 defendants, including all major Kannada and English TV news channels, newspapers among others. The list of defendants also includes Google and other social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter and YouTube.Hindustan Times has viewed the copy of the case that has been filed even though there is no clear mention of the exact prayer sought by the petitioners.The names of the petitioners are of the six out of the 17 who had helped the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) form the government by defecting the H. D.Kumaraswamy-led Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S)-Congress coalition government in 2019.Jarkiholi, considered the catalyst of the defection drama, had also helped others to jump ship to the BJP that brought Yediyurappa to power. After the allegations on Jarkiholi, there were unverified reports of similar videos and other sex scandals against other cabinet ministers.The case has been posted for orders on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bjp-mla-backs-ramesh-jarkiholi-say-it-is-a-case-of-blackmail-conspiracy-101615008933446.html
06-03-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru’s BBMP said no potholes on 74 roads. Court ordered survey finds 437||A crackdown by the Karnataka high court following the death of a 19-year-old medical student, and hearings of Public Interest Litigations (PILs) have revealed that there are at least 5,435 potholes, bad roads or bad footpaths in Bengaluru.The data was revealed in a report submitted by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) to the Karnataka high court. However, these 5,435 may well be a sampling. KSLSA arrived at these numbers by conducting a surprise inspection of 25 roads in the city on the basis of information collected from volunteers.A city-wide survey is expected to show more bad roads and footpaths, and potholes.The report came after the Karnataka high court, in February 2020, directed KSLSA to conduct a survey using volunteers, while hearing a petition filed by Vijayan Menon and others, seeking the court’s intervention to improve the condition of the roads in the city.KSLSA then requested citizens to send photos and videos of the potholes and broken footpaths in their localities.The results contradicted Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) claim, in February, that there were no potholes on 74 roads in the city.KSLSA volunteers chose 25 of these 74 roads for their inspection. The report pointed out that of the 5,435 responses from citizens and the survey, 437 cases were related to potholes and bad roads. The remaining 4,998 cases were related to footpaths. Of the 4,998 footpath-related inputs, 3,531 were about blocked footpaths, 1,443 were about damaged footpaths, and the remaining 24 were about the very absence of a footpathH Shashidhara Shetty, member secretary at KSLSA said during the inspection the committee found at least four roads in Bommanahalli that were not motorable.The HC had come down heavily on BBMP’s inaction following the death of a 19-year-old medical student while trying to avoid a pothole. Tasdeeq Bushra died after her scooter was hit by the truck belonging to BBMP while she was trying to avoid craters on Lingarajapuram-Hennur main road. She died on the spot.On February 8, the Karnataka high court bench pulled up the BBMP regarding Bushra’s death. “Imagine people dying because of potholes on roads. Imagine the plight of the family,” a division bench of Justice BV Nagarathna and Justice MG Uma said during the hearing of a public interest litigation.“Although several orders have been made in this writ petition, the fact remains that potholes are still festering on streets of Bengaluru not only on major arterial roads but even in other smaller roads. It is public knowledge that riders of two-wheelers, as well as four-wheelers, have died during the course of avoidance of potholes while proceeding on roads,” the bench observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengalurus-bbmp-said-no-potholes-on-74-roads-court-ordered-survey-finds-437-101615005776959.html
06-03-2021||City||Owner of SUV found outside Ambani’s house with explosives dead in Thane||Mansukh Hiren, the man who came forward to say the SUV found with some explosives near billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence, was a vehicle he had reported stolen on February 18, was found dead in Kalwa creek on Friday morning, hours after his family reported he was missing.The police have claimed he died by suicide, but the circumstances and the timing of Hiren’s death are curious.Hiren’s body was spotted stuck amid the silt of the creek by a fisherman at 10.30 am on Friday. The police established his identity only late in the afternoon.Hiren was a resident of Ambedkar Nagar and owned the Classic Motors shop in Naupada. On February 26, a SUV he reported missing on February 18 was found with 20 gelatin sticks, and a threatening note addressed to Ambani and his wife. Hiren came forward soon after the incident to confirm that the SUV was his.He was called for questioning by different agencies since then, claimed his family.On Friday, leader of the opposition in the Maharashtra assembly, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said it was curious that police officer Sachin Vaze, the first on the scene when the explosives were found, was made in charge of the investigation, and then, days later, removed. He added that the person who filed a stolen SUV complaint had been in touch with Vaze.Vaze, who is attached to criminal intelligence unit of the Mumbai crime branch, said he was not aware of what Fadnavis said, but clarified that he was not the first person to reach the spot where the SUV was found. He added that he knew Hiren because the latter resided in Thane but clarified that he did not meet Hiren recently.“I came to know that Hiren has given written complaint to Thane police commissioner and Mumbai police commissioner two or three days ago that some police officers and reporters were allegedly calling him repeatedly and he felt harassed. I don’t know anything more about it,” Vaze added.The family of Mansukh Hiren refused to accept that he has died by suicide and demanded investigation into his death. His wife, Vimal Hiren, 45, said, “He left home on Thursday evening, informing us that he has got a call from a crime branch official asking to meet him at Ghodbunder Road. He was co-operating with the police and was not stressed over the case. His phone is unreachable since 10.00 am [Friday]. There was no reason for him to take this drastic step. We want an investigation into his death.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/owner-of-suv-found-outside-ambani-s-house-with-explosives-dead-in-thane-101614982082288.html
06-03-2021||City||Nine get death penalty, life term for four in 2016 Bihar hooch case||A local court in Bihar’s Gopalganj district on Friday awarded death penalty to nine people and life sentence to four women for their role in the 2016 hooch case in which 19 people were killed and two lost their vision. The court also slapped a fine of ₹10 lakh on each of the accused.The death penalty to nine persons in the hooch tragedy in Gopalganj is the first such instance when capital punishment has been given to so many accused in any hooch tragedy.The 13 surviving accused in the August 2016 case were convicted by additional district judge Luv Kush Kumar. The accused were held guilty under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the Excise Act of 2016.“They are accused of manufacturing, smuggling and selling liquor,” said public prosecutor Deo Vansh Giri.Nineteen people died in the Khajurbani locality of the district on August 16, 2016 after consuming spurious liquor, four months after the Nitish Kumar government banned sale and consumption of alcohol across the state on April 5, 2016.During a raid in Khajurbani locality, officials recovered more than 500 litres of alcohol.The then District Magistrate ordered imposition of “collective fine” on the locality in a bid to deter the residents, all involved in the illicit liquor trade, from continuing with the trade.The main accused in the case, Rupesh Shukla alias Pandit, meanwhile, is absconding and the court has issued a Red Warrant against him, said Giri. Red warrant is issued when a person named as accused in a case is absconding.In total, 14 persons were named in the FIR after the hooch tragedy but later in the course of investigation, names of four others were added. While Rupesh Shukla is absconding , three others named in the case during investigation are in judicial custody, said Giri.The court also issued a non-bailable warrant against two of the accused and ordered that their properties be attached since the two did not appear before the court on Friday, Giri added.According to special public prosecutor Ravi Bhushan Srivastava, 14 people were named as accused in the illicit liquor case. One of the accused died pending trial.Twenty-one policemen, including three sub-inspectors, five assistant sub-inspectors and 13 constables, of Town police station were dismissed in June 2020 in connection with the hooch tragedy.The Patna high court, however, ordered the reinstatement of five police personnel. On January 6 this year, a bench of Justice Chakradhari Sharan Singh set aside the order of the Gopalganj DGP , Gupteshwar Pandey, granting relief to the personnel.Another high court bench of justice Ashutosh Kumar also granted relief to 10 other police personnel on February 4, this year, ordering their reinstatement.There have been eight major tragedies in the state in last few years. The state government has taken a decision in principle that Station house officers ( SHOs) would face suspension and even dismissal from service incase there is a hooch tragedy in their respective area. The excise department has intensified checkings at all state highways and national highways.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nine-get-death-penalty-life-term-for-four-in-2016-bihar-hooch-case-101614981802941.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 10K new Covid cases for the first time in 2021||Maharashtra on Friday saw 10,216 new Covid cases in a day, crossing the 10,000-mark for the first time this year. While the case tally touched 21,98,399, the toll climbed to 52,393 with 53 new deaths. Dr Tatyarao Lahane, head, Director of Medical Education and Research, said there was no need to panic. “The deaths have not risen, so we need to exercise caution such as increasing the number of tests and also focus on contact-tracing,” said Lahane. He said if the surge does not subside after four weeks, it would be indicative of a second wave of Covid-19. The number of cases started increasing to 8,000-plus from February 24 onwards. The number of active cases in the state touched 88,838, with Pune leading with 18,401 active cases. Nagpur has 11,552 active cases, followed by Thane and Mumbai with 9,579 and 9,055 cases, respectively. Pune is facing restrictions such as night curfew and enforcement of penal action in case of not wearing of masks. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last Sunday said it was up to people to decide whether they wanted another lockdown or not. He said if people continued to adopt a casual approach, he would be forced to order a lockdown. The authorities have ramped up the vaccination drive; 91,103 citizens were vaccinated on Friday across the state, of which 48,937 were senior citizens above 60 years and 8,274 those in the age group of 45-60 with comorbidities. A majority of beneficiaries (75,051) were administered the first dose, while the rest 16,052 were given the second dose. The total number of people who have been vaccinated in the state has now reached 15,99,118 citizens. Nilesh Jain, a businessmen dealing in automobile spare parts in Nana Peth, said, “People are very casual in their approach and there is no social distancing. The markets are full.” A lockdown has already been imposed in Amravati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-10k-new-covid-cases-for-the-first-time-in-2021-101614973860908.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||‘70 species of waterfowl found at 99 sites along Maharashtra coast’||A two-year study by researchers at the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) has recorded a total 70 species of waterfowl, including nine threatened species, at 99 monitoring sites, spread over Maharashtra’s 702-kilometre coastline. Between 2017 and 2019, BNHS conducted a study with the state forest department’s mangrove cell to assess the migratory routes and habitat preferences of water birds wintering along the Maharashtra coast. The study also categorised Maharashtra’s coastal wetlands, which make up 10% of the state’s total wetland area, based on the number of birds observed during the study period. “Of the 99 sites monitored, seven supported over 1,000 water birds, six supported 500 to 1,000 water birds and six others supported 300 to 500 water birds during one or more survey periods,” says the report, a copy of which is with HT. The list of recorded species includes nine from the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) red list of threatened species. These are the Great Knot (which is the only endangered species in the survey); the Asian Woollyneck and Indian Skimmer (categorised as vulnerable); the Black-tailed Godwit , Curlew Sandpiper, Black-headed Ibis, Eurasian Curlew, Eurasian Oystercatcher and Lesser Flamingo (categorised as near-threatened). The study recommends continuous monitoring of all sites “in order to understand the seasonality of use of these sites”. Virender Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests (mangrove cell), described BNHS’s findings as “pertinent” and said, “The wildlife department has tabled a proposal with the state to monitor not just coastal wetlands, but all wetlands in the state. The budget for this second study is ₹2.77 crore. We are awaiting in-principle approval.” Of the sites, Akshi beach in Raigad is described as “very important” for “staging and wintering migratory shorebirds” since over 5,000 shorebirds have been counted here. The Great Knot was sighted at Akshi. All monitoring sites outside of the Mumbai bay area recorded consistent numbers during the study period. At monitoring sites located within the Mumbai bay area, researchers recorded substantially larger flocks of water birds, but their counts varied drastically over the course of the study period. For example, Panje wetlands recorded about 2,500 water birds in December 2017, but no birds were recorded in October 2018 “due to high water level and disturbance”. Then, in December 2018, the count rose to over 12,000 water birds. Researchers have attributed these fluctuations to causes originating in human activity, like fishing or land reclamation. At Sewri jetty, for example, the number of visiting birds was impacted by the construction of the trans harbour link, which began during the study period. Coastal wetlands in Maharashtra are important habitats for water-birds migrating along the Central Asian Flyway, an umbrella term that comprises multiple migratory routes spanning 30 countries between Siberia (in the north), west and south Asia, and the British Indian Ocean Territory. “Inland and coastal wetlands of Maharashtra act as refuelling stations for birds that migrate further south and also during their return migration to the breeding sites... As they are the critical bottleneck sites for migratory birds, protecting such sites is of immense importance,” the report states. Researchers at BNHS who worked on this study were not reachable for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/70-species-of-waterfowl-found-at-99-sites-along-maharashtra-coast-101614973441147.html
06-03-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The soul of the burger||This is a job that needs confidence. To reach out to people. To talk smartly, and without awkwardness. To be prepared to be snubbed. To answer various queries. And it needs the employee to be well versed in the art of persuasion. And yes, a nice smile is a bonus.Raghav Kumar Jha has a brilliant smile, in fact, that glows about his entire face like a luminous halo. This evening he is stationed beside a zebra crossing in Connaught Place, standing amid a continuous motion of shoppers going about in all directions. Despite the crowd, he is easily noticeable in his uniform. Working in the “sales and marketing” of a burger shop, he is wearing a giant burger about him. Is it styrofoam, or cardboard, or what?Mt Jha simply smiles in response. At 22, this is his life’s second job. “After getting compartment (sic) twice in 9th standard, papa suggested that maybe I should do something else.” So he got a job in a bag-making factory and started bringing his contribution to the family income—his father, he says, sometimes works as a kalakaar (artist) in weddings and similar events. Soon afterwards Mr Jha landed up in his current job. “I was earning very well before the (coronavirus-triggered) lockdown,” he discloses matter-of-factly, without showing any disappointment on his smiling face.Doesn’t he sweat in this attire?He shakes his head.Does he enjoy his job?He answers—“Wherever you happen to be, give your full heart into it.” He explains that his primary task is to walk up to the pedestrians, tell them about the burger, and try to convince them to head to the shop he’s working for.“As I stand, I keep singing songs in my mann (thoughts). That makes me happy. When I’m happy, I gain confidence. Which gives me strength to approach people, who are otherwise complete strangers to me.”And does Mr Jha have any dream? Or does he wish to stay in this “line” for years to come? “Desires and dreams only make a person dukhi (sad),” he says with a smile. And with that unchanging smile, he turns to the crowd, perhaps planning which person to approach next. He will return home, in Kishenganj, at 9pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-soul-of-the-burger-101614973115084.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Bank staff dupes 73-year-old, flees with ₹1.3 crore||Andheri police launched a manhunt for a female employee of a private bank for allegedly cheating a 73-year-old man to the tune of ₹1.3 crore by befriending him after she realised that he had substantial amount invested in fixed deposits with her bank. A first information report (FIR) was registered on Friday, three months after the senior citizen submitted a written application to the police.According to the police, the complainant Jeron John D’Souza, a resident of Malwani in Malad, alleged that a woman named Shalini Singh befriended him and after promising to marry him, she cheated him of ₹1.3 crore.D’Souza claimed that his father’s plot near domestic airport at Santacruz was sold to a builder in 2010, and he had received 20% of the sale price which amounted to ₹2 crore. He said he had invested the amount in four equal parts in different banks in fixed deposits. He met Singh while visiting the private bank where she worked. In 2019, D’Souza collected a huge amount by way of interest on the fixed deposits. “Singh thereafter befriended D’Souza and soon the two started meeting in restaurants for lunches and dinners,” said a police officer.In September last year, Singh met D’Souza and proposed marriage. She told him that she would start a business with D’Souza’s money and invest it so that they could divide the profit between them. After this, D’Souza transferred ₹1.30 crore to her in December last year. After receiving the money, the woman stopped meeting D’Souza and answering his calls, according to the complaint.D’Souza realised that he had been cheated and wrote an application to Andheri police as the bank she worked for was located within their jurisdiction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaibank-staff-dupes-73-year-old-flees-with-1-3-crore-101614973021099.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||After IndiGo, SpiceJet opts for electric taxiing to save fuel||SpiceJet this week became the second low-budget airline after IndiGo to deploy the electric taxiing system, a technology for taxiing in and out of runways without engine power. Experts say the electric taxiing system helps reduce emissions, save fuel and improve efficiency of ground operations. On Wednesday, SpiceJet announced its tie-up with WheelTug which will provide the system. The airline asked WheelTug to reserve 400 production slots for electric taxi system. This will enable the airline to save fuel and reduce carbon dioxide emissions and noise levels. “By inducting WheelTug into its Boeing 737 operations, the company aims to reduce the fuel burn during taxi. SpiceJet gate and stand operations will be faster and more dependable helping the airline eliminate unexpected long delays affecting the schedule on any given day,” said a SpiceJet spokesperson. The WheelTug system places high-torque motors in the nose wheels of the aircraft. Pilots control the aircraft, perform ground operations without requiring tugs for manoeuvres. Since jet engines are turned off, the electric taxiing system lowers the aircraft’s emissions. A former engineer with a full-service carrier explained that with this system, neither the jet engines nor a tow tractor needs to be used. Last February, IndiGo had signed a letter of intent reserving 1,084 WheelTug systems. A former Airports Authority of India (AAI) official said, “Use of tugs will allow a substantial amount of fuel to be saved. However, giving an exact percentage of fuel consumption will be difficult at the moment.” He added, “Utilisation of aircraft will definitely be better with these electrical tugs.” Electric taxiing is expected to enable aircraft to move in and out of gates faster, which will help optimise the limited tarmac availability at Indian airports. Airlines would be able to run more efficient ground operations and reduce delays caused by ground equipment, which should make it possible for operations to be run more tightly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-indigo-spicejet-opts-for-electric-taxiing-to-save-fuel-101614972900850.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad 2021: Sharjeel Usmani moves Bombay HC to quash FIR||Sharjeel Usmani, former Aligarh Muslim University student leader who was booked by Swargate police at Pune on February 2, has approached the Bombay high court (HC) seeking to quash the first information report (FIR). Usmani was booked under section 153A of the Indian Penal Code for his alleged provocative speech at the Elgar Parishad 2021 conference on January 30. In his petition Usmani claimed the FIR was a political gimmick by advocate Pradeep Gawade, regional secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), youth wing of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). On February 2, Gawade had submitted a written complaint to Swargate police station against Usmani’s speech, and after a preliminary probe, the police booked Usmani for allegedly making offensive statements against the Hindu community, Indian judiciary and the parliament. In the petition filed through advocate Aditi Saxena, Usmani claimed that the content of his speech was already available in public domain in academic literature. It further stated that a select few statements made by him were taken out of context to lodge the complaint. “The petitioner in his speech has identified a problem in the social construct of this day, and has concluded with a solution to the problem,” says the petition with which the speech is annexed. He submitted that the gist of his speech was to fight hatred with constant dialogue with people who do not share the same ideological views. Refuting the allegations made in the FIR, the petition states, “The FIR does not disclose intention to cause disorder or incite people to violence to attract offence under section 153A of IPC. FIRs of this nature are a protracted modus operandi of misrepresenting what is said beginning with social media and culminating by initiating the criminal justice system.” “This is largely designed to vitiate communal harmony in society and, in effect, curb free speech and in effect by initiating the juggernaut of the criminal justice system redefine the contours of acceptable free speech,” states the petition. In light of these averments, Usmani sought not only to quash the FIR but also sought a stay on the investigation arising out of the said FIR. He has also asked for protection from coercive action pending hearing of the petition. Due to paucity of time the petition which was to be heard by the division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale on Friday will be taken up in due course.Elgar Parishad 2021 was organised by Bhima-Koregaon Shaurya Din Prerna Abhiyaan to observe the birth anniversary of Rohith Vemula, a Dalit research scholar of the University of Hyderabad, who had died by suicide in 2016. Apart from Usmani, retired HC judge BG Kolse Patil and retired IPS officer SM Mushrif along with author Arundhati Roy, former IAS officer Kannan Gopinathan, Dalit activist Satyabhama Suryawanshi from Latur and journalist Prashant Kanojia had attended the conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-2021-sharjeel-usmani-moves-bombay-hc-to-quash-fir-101614972720838.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Sanjay Raut refutes allegations by Kalina woman||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Friday refuted the allegations of stalking and harassment made against him by a Kalina-based psychologist and informed the Bombay high court (HC) that the petitioner was like a daughter to him. He further added that the allegations were levelled against him because she thought that he was siding with her husband in their matrimonial dispute. The psychologist had filed a petition seeking directions to the Mumbai Police to take action on three cases registered by her in 2013 and 2018 and to investigate Raut’s role in a 2020 incident wherein the National Commission of Women (NCW) had directed the deputy commissioner of police, zone 8 to take action but nothing was done. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing the psychologist’s petition, was informed by advocate Abha Singh that her client was living in constant fear for safety due to inaction by police in the three first information reports (FIRs). The first FIR was filed in Mahim police station in May 2013 after she was assaulted by unknown persons and the second one in June 2013 at Vakola police station after another attack on her. The third FIR was registered in 2018 at Vakola police station after a man was arrested for stalking her. The petition has alleged that the Shiv Sena leader had time and again threatened her and also resorted to harassment by tapping her phone and kept track of her movements by using security guards and the police. The petition also alleged that her social and professional life was disrupted as her husband was told to harass her and later divorce her while her friends and acquaintances were told to distance themselves from her or face dire consequences. Singh submitted that though the NCW had directed the police to register an FIR in 2020, nothing had been done. She also said that it had been eight years since the two FIRs were registered, but no action was taken, and hence the court should issue directions to the police to investigate the matter. Singh submitted as the police did not take any action even after the NCW’s direction to register an FIR against Raut and others, she had to move the HC. Chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakare for the state submitted that a charge sheet had been filed in one of the complaints and A-summary reports were filed in the two other cases, therefore further investigation was not required and the petitioner’s plea was not maintainable. While refuting the allegations in the petition, senior counsel Prasad Dhakephalkar submitted that the petition was baseless and misconceived. He raised a preliminary objection that if the complainant wanted, she could have approached the magistrate before whom the reports were filed, instead of raising allegations against his client before the HC. Dhakephalker further submitted that the petitioner had made a plea before NCW and she could take further recourse there. “I have no problem against any inquiry being conducted. The charge sheet has been filed. She is a family friend and like a daughter to me. I know the family very well. She and her husband are having matrimonial disputes. She thinks I am siding with her husband, so she is making allegations against me,” Dhakephalkar submitted on behalf of Raut. After hearing the submissions, the bench directed Thakare to give a copy of the charge sheet to the petitioner within two days. “Pending hearing, both sides shall restrain themselves from making allegations outside,” said the bench and posted further hearing to March 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sanjay-raut-refutes-allegations-by-kalina-woman-101614972540666.html
06-03-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder announces enforcement directorate to check illegal mining||Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday announced the constitution of an enforcement directorate, mining, under the command of a senior police officer with adequate police force at his command to take action against illegal mining. Slamming the previous SAD-BJP government for not only patronising illegal mining during his reply to the motion of thanks on the governor’s address, the CM said his government had spent the last four years in setting in order the mining revenues, which the erstwhile regime had allowed to be frittered away.When his government took over, the revenue from mining was as low as R .35 crore annually, which has been enhanced to ₹250 crore - an increase of ₹215 crore, said the CM. Asserting his resolve to bring to book all those involved in the sacrilege and police firing incidents of Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura, Amarinder informed the House that on the recommendations of the commission, constituted by his government to investigate the cases, he informed the House that so far, five police/ civil officials had been identified / nominated for legal action, while five persons had been convicted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-announces-enforcement-directorate-to-check-illegal-mining-101614972420891.html
06-03-2021||Chandigarh||Green initiative: Abohar MC to ban plastic-bottled beverages||The sale of plastic bottled beverages, including soft drinks and juices, is likely to be banned within Abohar city limits from March 13 as manufacturers have failed to adhere to the green rule of Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) provision notified by the local body.As per Plastic Waste Management Rules (PWMR), 2016, of the ministry of environment, forest and climate change, plastic waste generators are liable to pay a plastic user fee to the local bodies.Abohar became Punjab’s first local body that framed a bylaw in October last year to charge compensation for segregation and disposal of plastic waste.Municipal commissioner Abhijeet Kaplish said on Friday that two notices were served to the manufacturers but it did no invoke a response.“The new rule covers online retailers to liquor vends and traders, etc. Companies were asked to share data of their supplies in Abohar to enable us to assess transparent plastic user fees. It is moral jeopardy for the corporation as we impose a penalty and confiscate plastic bags used by small-time vendors, but the corporate sector cold-shouldered its responsibility to pay for safe disposal of plastic generated by them,” said a 2015-batch IAS officer, who has been tasked to improve sanitation levels of Abohar that was ranked the third dirtiest city of India in Swachh Survekshan -2020.He said a notification was issued on Friday stating a ban on the sale of all beverages packed in pet bottles from next week. Similar action will be initiated against other sectors for not adhering to the green rule, he added.“It is mandatory for plastic generators to pay a nominal cess for plastic waste management such as a collection of waste or operation of the disposal facility. The MC needs compensation to improve hygiene standards in the city and the EPR provision will be implemented strictly,” said Kaplish.As per the rule, for the sale of goods in multilayer plastic packaging such as soft drinks, packaged food items with a sale price of more than ₹5, Abohar MC will charge Re 1 to dispose of their plastic waste.Similarly, charges of ₹5 per delivery would be levied online the retailers, food aggregators and courier companies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/green-initiative-abohar-mc-to-ban-plastic-bottled-beverages-101614972240473.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||From September 2020 to February 2021, 1,480 tested positive for Covid-19 at Mumbai airport||From September 2020 to February this year, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) has conducted more than 220,000 tests for Covid-19. Of these, 1,480 proved to be Covid-positive. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test counters were set up at CSMIA on September 6 last year for passengers arriving in Mumbai and 1,776 tests were conducted that month. In October, this facility was extended to departing passengers as well as non-passengers who were visiting the airport to drop off or pick up family and friends. CSMIA also rolled out an express test that provides results in 13 minutes. In February, CSMIA registered over 80,923 tests in February. Currently, the airport hosts three facilities in Terminal 2 — at Level 2 arrival exit near Gate B; Level 2 airside corridor; and Level 4 Departure on the curbside opposite Gate 2 — and has over 30 counters of testing facilities for international and domestic passengers. These include molecular testing facilities that offer passengers the option to get test results within 13 minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/from-september-2020-to-february-2021-1-480-tested-positive-for-covid-19-at-mumbai-airport-101614972180579.html
06-03-2021||City||BJP fields Pon Radhakrishnan in Kanyakumari Lok Sabha bypolls||Tamil Nadu's ruling party, the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), has allotted 20 assembly seats and a Lok Sabha by-poll seat in Kanyakumari to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as per the poll pact agreement signed between the two parties on Friday night. BJP has announced Pon Radhakrishnan as its candidate for the Kanyakumari Lok Sabha bypoll.The agreement was signed by AIADMK party coordinator O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator Edappadi Palaniswami along with Tamil Nadu BJP state president L Murugan and state election in-charge CT Ravi. The AIADMK will work for the BJP candidate in the Kanyakumari Lok Sabha seat, the release said.Also read: Congress will fight for respectable number of seats from DMK - Veerappa MoilyThe seat fell vacant after Congress MP H Vasanthakumar passed away due to Covid-19 last year. In the 2019 parliamentary polls, BJP veteran Pon Radhakrishnan lost to H Vasanthakumar.The list of constituencies is yet to be decided for the 234 assembly seats and the lone by-poll seat in a single phase on April 6.The AIADMK has already allotted 23 seats to the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) and talks with other parties in the alliance are underway.The party also released its first list of six candidates on Friday which included Palaniswami and Paneerselvam who are seeking to be re-elected from the stronghold constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-poll-pact-agreement-aiadmk-allots-20-assembly-seats-to-bjp-101614971209273.html
06-03-2021||Chandigarh||Amritsar double suicide: Dismissed woman SI issuing threats from jail: Victims’ kin||The family of a couple, who committed suicide following alleged harassment by a woman sub-inspector (SI) of Punjab Police (now dismissed), have alleged that they were being threatened to withdraw the case. A jeweller, Vikramjit Singh (35), committed suicide by hanging himself in a hotel room in Amritsar in October last year. In his suicide note, and video and audio messages, he had accused sub-inspector Sandeep Kaur and her accomplices of harassment and blackmail. He alleged the accused had extorted around ₹18 lakh from him. The SI was posted at Mehta police station in the Amritsar-rural district. A day after Vikramjit’s death, his wife Sukhbir Kaur (32) ended her life at her residence in Navapind village.Two separate cases were registered against the SI and some other accused in Amritsar city and Amritsar rural police stations. Despite the registration of the cases, no action was taken against the accused for a few days.The police swung into action after the couple’s only minor daughter talked to chief minister Amarinder Singh over phone. Following, this, the CM directed the inspector general (IG-border range) SPS Parmar to take “strict action”. Later, the woman cop was arrested and subsequently dismissed. Victim Vikramjit’s brother Harpreet Singh sent an e-mail to Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta on February 26 accusing dismissed woman cop Sandeep Kaur of issuing threats from the jail. Sawinder got the reply on Thursday from the DGP’s e-mail address citing “acknowledgment of the compliment by the IG”. Sawinder alleged that on January 25, Sandeep Kaur called from the jail the mobile number of her brother Samsher Singh, who is also a constable in the Punjab Police. He said Sandeep asked them to take back the case or be ready to face dire consequences. He said another accused Navreet Sandhu, who was suspended as a constable, has also been threatening not to give any testimony in the court. Navreet was accused by Vikramjit, in his suicide note, for posing as a DSP to extort money. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruv Dahiya said, “I haven’t got any complaint in this regard so far, but we have adopted zero tolerance against any such act. Strict action will be taken if any accused is found to be involved in threatening the family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amritsar-double-suicide-dismissed-woman-si-issuing-threats-from-jail-victims-kin-101614971939785.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||Raj Thackeray travels without mask to Nashik amid Covid-19 surge||Amid the surge in Covid-19 cases across the state, Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray travelled without wearing a mask and even asked former Nashik mayor Ashok Murtadak to remove his mask when he came to greet him.Thackeray, who is on the two-day visit to Nashik, arrived at the event on Friday morning and came out of his car without a mask. When MNS leader Ashok Murtadak, who was wearing a mask, came forward to offer a bouquet, Thackeray signalled him to remove the mask. In addition, there was no social distancing as MNS leaders stood near each other while welcoming their leader.In an interaction with media last Saturday, Thackeray was asked why he was not wearing a mask, to which he had replied, “I will not wear a mask.”Nashik is facing a surge of cases since the past two weeks and authorities are fining citizens ₹1,000 for not wearing masks.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar took potshots at the MNS leader in the legislative council and said, “Some people directly say they will not wear the mask. You will not get Covid-19 but others may get infected because of you. What about them?” Pawar also taunted leader of opposition at the council and BJP leader Pravin Darekar, who was previously with MNS, saying, “How come your former leader is behaving like this?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/raj-thackeray-travels-without-mask-to-nashik-amid-covid-19-surge-101614971880800.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||Phase 3 of vaccination: Mumbai crosses 50,000-mark in 5 days||The city crossed the 50,000 mark for Covid-19 vaccinations after 22,158 citizens were vaccinated on Friday, taking the total count of beneficiaries from the general public to 58,104 citizens. Of the total, 52,777 are citizens above 60 years old and the remaining 5,327 are aged 45 years and above with comorbidities. Overall, 312,775 citizens, healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) have been vaccinated so far. The vaccination drive for HCWs started in the city on January 16 and vaccination of the general public began five days ago. On Friday, the centralised app Co-WIN, which is monitoring the vaccination drive, once again developed glitches at around 3pm. Several vaccination centres saw large number of people queuing for walk-ins in addition to those with appointments. Some, like Malad resident Tapan Joshi, who accompanied his 70-year-old mother, were not able to get vaccinated despite having appointments. “We were given an appointment at SK Patil Mahanagarpalika General Hospital and we reached at around 1pm on Friday. There was complete chaos and only around 200 tokens were issued. The rest were told to visit the next day for vaccination. With me, around 50 people returned home without vaccination. People were made to wait in stuffy tents without fans and water, which is not comfortable considering they are senior citizens,” said Joshi. Milin Jeste, dean of SK Patil Mahanagarpalika General Hospital, said, “We have to handle walk-ins and those registered with appointments. But we have the overall capacity of vaccinating only 200 or 250 citizens in a single day. Due to this, we have to ask some beneficiaries to come the next day. We are trying to augment our capacity and I have put up a proposal for adding one more booth [at present there are two booths]. In the coming days, our handling capacity will increase.” Meanwhile on Friday, 1,174 new cases of Covid-19 were recorded as well as four deaths. Mumbai’s Covid death toll stands at 11,495 and the total case tally is 331,020, with 9,055 active cases. The city’s recovery rate is 93.52% with 309,591 recoveries and mortality rate is 3.47%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/phase-3-of-vaccination-mumbai-crosses-50-000-mark-in-5-days-101614971460423.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Panel gets more time to submit report on privilege motions filed against Goswami, Ranaut||The Legislative Assembly and Council on Friday extended the time given to the breach of privilege committee to complete the proceedings and submit its report in the breach of privilege motions filed against Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and actress Kangana Ranaut. The proposals were passed by both houses unanimously without any discussion.The committee is hearing the motion moved by Shiv Sena member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) Pratap Sarnaik on September 7 against Goswami for his derogatory and objectionable remarks against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and other ministers. The motion against Ranaut is for her comparison of Mumbai with Pak Occupied Kashmir. Goswami was summoned by the committee to present his side on a couple of occasions since then.Similar motions were moved by Manisha Kayande and Bhai Jagtap in the legislative council. Both the houses extended the time to the committee till the end of the monsoon session expected to be held in July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaipanel-gets-more-time-to-submit-report-on-privilege-motions-filed-against-goswami-ranaut-101614971160290.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Cricket academy using Oval Maidan despite ban, claim residents||The Churchgate residents have complained that a sports academy has been continuing its operations at Oval Maidan, despite a letter from the deputy-director of sports, on Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) orders, to discontinue all sporting activities on all maidans. Residents requested the Oval Maidan Trust to allow walkers and joggers to access the ground as well, as a sports academy was already using the ground.On February 21, BMC observed a high level of occupancy at Oval Maidan at Churchgate. Given an increasing number of Covid cases, it asked the trust to close the ground. On February 26, the Oval Maidan Trust received a letter from deputy director for sports to close down the maidan.Following such complaints, the Oval Maidan Trust approached the municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, requesting him to take action against the Vengsarkar Academy.According to the letter written to the Oval Maidan Trust by the deputy-director of sports and youth services, the trust was asked to close the ground except for sports activities for up to 10 to 15 people. The Vengsarkar Academy said it has been following all standard operating procedure, as per a similar letter issued to all sports academies in the city, by the government, via the Mumbai Cricket Association.Nayana Kathpalia, a trustee of Oval Maidan Trust, said, “We closed the ground on February 26, as per orders from BMC. All gates were closed. One small side entrance was kept open for cleaning purposes, and the academy used this entrance to access the ground. Residents who routinely use the ground approached the trust requesting us to allow walkers and joggers to access the ground as well since sports activities are being allowed. So we approached the municipal commissioner in this regard.”Kathpalia said, “The academy is taking advantage of the clause that allows up to 15 people to practice on the ground. We told the municipal commissioner if cricketers are going to be permitted it will be very difficult for our security to control the general public from entering the ground. Also, in such a case, can the maidan be opened for other cricket pitches too?”Residents also pointed to the trust that the Oval Maidan is used as a crossing, so pedestrians don’t have to go around the entire perimeter outside the maidan to get on the other side.Phiroze Jhaveri, 73, a resident of Churchgate said, “We have been using the maidan for morning walks for many decades now. All senior citizens of our building also go there for walks, many walk their dogs there, and simultaneously cricketers practice there. Now, where will we take our walks? A ground is safer than the road for senior citizens.”Dilip Vengsarkar, managing trustee of Vengsarkar Foundation said, “We have a letter by the state government and they have told us to follow SOPs that not more than 15 people will be permitted in one group. We do not know what kind of concerns residents have raised. We received this letter through the Mumbai Cricket Association. I am running the academy for the past 27 years, and we have produced many cricketers for India and the state. Many kids come from slums. I am giving back to the game and this is the infrastructure we need to do so. All kids wear masks, sanitise their hands, and all SOPs are strictly followed.”Kathpalia pointed out that when the Oval Maidan Trust approached BMC’s A ward office with jurisdiction over the area, they were directed to approach the office of the deputy director of sports for action against the academy.A senior civic officer who did not wish to be named said, “As per the letter, up to 15 sportspersons are allowed to practice on any ground. This is not the BMC jurisdiction as the letter was issued by the deputy director of sports.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-cricket-academy-using-oval-maidan-despite-ban-claim-residents-101614971040436.html
06-03-2021||Patna||More staff, SOPs in line to get senior citizens to vaccination centres in Bihar||Bihar struggled to get senior citizens and those with co-morbidities between 45 and 59 years of age to the Covid-19 vaccination centres. It could inoculate less than 1 per cent of the target group on the first four days of the third phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive.The low footfall has prompted the state health department to mobilise more technical manpower through districts so that senior citizens were not made to wait for long for verification purposes before taking the vaccine shot. The government is also planning SOPs for elderly women who come to get vaccinated on International Women’s Day (March 8).What also added to the disenchantment of the elderly was the delay in the verification on the CoWIN portal due to technical glitches and connectivity issues, which made the elderly wait for long.“It takes less than a minute for the jab, but 3-5 minutes for verification on the CoWIN portal,” said a health official who did not wish to be named.Also read: 'India wants normal ties with all neighbours, including Pakistan' - MEAThere is one person to verify the documents to authenticate the identity of the beneficiary and upload the medical certificate at a session site. It is this number that the health department plans to increase at session sites so that the vaccination turn-over time is reduced, the officer said.The health department would rope in trained data-entry operators through district magistrates from the primary health centre level and use them for verification purpose to speed up the process at vaccination centres, he added.At few session sites on Thursday, like the one at Patna’s Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH), the drive was organised on the first floor, making it difficult for the elderly beneficiaries to climb the stairs. However, the same was shifted to the ground floor on Friday.“We realised the difficulty some senior citizens had to face in climbing the staircase and I instructed my team to shift the session site for senior citizens on the ground floor,” said NMCH superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh.The department was likely to issue instructions that session sites for senior citizens and those with co-morbidities be organised on the ground floor, while for healthcare and frontline workers it may be held on other floors.The health department also encouraged healthcare workers to get their elderly parents and relatives for vaccination while also planning to offer some SOPs to elderly women who come to take the jab on March 8, International Women’s Day.“We have asked all our healthcare workers to get their parents and elderly relatives for the vaccination. We are also planning to give token gifts to elderly women who want to take a jab on International Women’s Day,” said Dr Singh, NMCH.Out of 1.09 crore target group of 60 years and above, Bihar had inoculated 17,749 beneficiaries, which was 0.16 per cent achievement between March 1 and 4. Similarly, out of 16 lakh people with co-morbidities in the 45-59 years age bracket, it managed to vaccinate 3,440, which was 0.21 per cent of the target at the end of day four of their vaccination on Thursday.Efforts to reach Manoj Kumar, executive director of Bihar’s State Health Society, proved futile as he did not respond to phone calls or text messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/more-staff-sops-in-line-to-get-senior-citizens-to-vaccination-centres-in-bihar-101614969364415.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra economic survey: Agriculture sector sees 11.7% growth||While all other sectors faced a massive hit owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown, agriculture sector is expected to report a whopping 11.7%growth in 2020-21, from 6.1%in 2019-20. The growth is attributed to more than average rainfall, rise in agricultural production and availability of water, electricity and manpower due to the lockdown that affected other sectors. While Maharashtra’s economic growth is expected to be -8% (from 5% in 2019-20) this financial year, the agricultural growth assumes significance. The economic survey of Maharashtra, tabled in both the houses on Friday, has attributed the growth to satisfactory rainfall (113.4% of normal rainfall) and overall increase in agricultural production. “Crop sector is expected to grow by 16.2%, livestock by 4.4% and forestry and logging by 5.7%,” it has stated. The production of cereals, pulses, oilseeds, cotton and sugarcane is expected to increase by 60, 14, 28, 33 and 40%, respectively. The state had reported highest agricultural growth rate of 21% in 2016-17, while it was second highest in the past 10 years in 2010-11 at 15.6%, followed by 12.3 % in 2013-14. Experts from the agricultural sector have attributed the growth to the favourable atmosphere during the lockdown imposed in March, after the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak last year. Due to the closure of industrial and commercial units during the lockdown, electricity and water was available to the agriculture amply. The reverse migration to rural areas also resulted in easy availability of manpower, they said. Rajan Kshirsagar, state working committee member of Communist Party of India and farm expert, said, “The marketing of agriculture produce was done easily and effectively. While transportation and mobilization of resources was tough for other sectors, there were no restrictions on agriculture sector, helping it grow freely. It was a natural growth and the government should not pat its back.” Kshirsagar said farmers did not get the benefit of the growth as market prices of the produce were low and wages too were reduced during the lockdown. Mumbai University’s economist Neeraj Hatekar said when there were restrictions on all other sectors, agriculture sector was operational, facilitating the growth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-economic-survey-agriculture-sector-sees-11-7-growth-101614970200492.html
06-03-2021||Chandigarh||Recruitment exams: Ex-SSC official, auditor get 3-yr jail for irregularities||The special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Friday awarded three-year jail to former Staff Selection Commission (SSC) deputy regional director Naveen Sehgal and Satish Kumar Ahlawat, former senior auditor, Principal Controller of Defence Accounts (PCDA), Sector 9, Chandigarh, in a case registered in April 2012 following irregularities in written exams for various posts in central police organisations.“Corruption by public servants has now reached a monstrous dimension in India. Its tentacles have started grappling even the institutions created for the protection of the republic,” said Sushil Kumar Garg, special judge, CBI court, Chandigarh, while pronouncing the sentence.The court also imposed a fine of ₹4.5 lakh on Sehgal and ₹2 lakh on Ahlawat. The CBI had booked the two along with 10 others, who were acquitted by court on March 3.Seeking strict punishment for the duo, public prosecutor KP Singh said: “Public servants have a moral obligation to serve the country and its citizens with utmost honesty. Taking a lenient view in such like matters sends a very wrong message.” Agreeing with the public prosecutor and dismissing the duo’s prayers of leniency, the CBI court said: “Undue sympathy to impose inadequate sentence would be more harmful to the justice system to undermine the public confidence in efficacy of law.” Terming corruption as “cancer” and “plague” in a civilised society, court said: “Proliferation of corrupt public servants could garner momentum to cripple the social order if such men are allowed to continue to manage and operate public institutions.” The caseSehgal was booked in April 2012 along with 11 others for abusing his official position and committing forgery and criminal misconduct, in connivance with others, by manipulating the conduct of the examinations held for recruitment of sub-inspectors in central police organisations, intelligence officers in the Narcotics Control Bureau and assistant sub-inspectors in the Central Industrial Security Force. A case under Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 420 (cheating) read with 511 (offences punishable with life imprisonment), 468 (forgery) read with 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) of the Indian Penal Code, and various sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered. The CBI said that out of 16 candidates whose seating plan was adjusted, so as to enable them to appear from the same room, seven candidates turned out to be all-India toppers. The chargesheet was filed in October 2013 after two accused, Saurab Kant, partner of Softpro Consultants, who was accused of manipulating the seating order, along with Rajpal, a beneficiary, turned approvers for the CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/recruitment-exams-ex-ssc-official-auditor-get-3-yr-jail-for-irregularities-101614970140303.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||Economic survey: Maharashtra slips to third position in FDI investment||The state slipped to third position in the first six months of this financial year in terms of foreign direct investment (FDI) inflow, according to the economic survey report 2020-21. Statistics for the past few years also indicate the FDI inflow in the state is on the decline with every passing year. The survey has found the state has received ₹27,143 crore in FDI between April and September 2020, which is far less than the neighbouring state of Gujarat, which is currently holding the top position. It has received a whopping ₹1,19,566 crore as FDI in the current financial year (till September), while Karnataka, too, has received ₹27,548 crore, stated the report tabled by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar in the Assembly on Friday. Till last year, the state was favourite destination for FDI in the country. In 2019-20, the state had received ₹77,389 crore as FDI, which was around 29% of the total FDI inflow across the country. In 2018-19, it received ₹80,013 crore and in 2017-18, FDI was ₹86,244 crore, which also means the inflow is reducing in the state with every passing year. “We are holding the top position when it comes to FDI inflow in the state. Between April 2000 and September 2020, the FDI inflow of the state was ₹8,18,522 crore, highest across the country. The other states have not received even half of what Maharashtra was getting as FDI. Karnataka has received ₹3,16,145 crore and Gujarat received ₹2,79,691 crore as FDI in the corresponding period,” the senior official from the state industries department said, citing the economic survey report.The decline is registered despite the state’s flexible approach towards attracting more investment. Last year, the state decided to provide ‘Maha Parwana’, a master permission to the new industrial units within 48 hours of application. This permission ensures the investor won’t need any other permission and they can start construction work on the site immediately. It further guarantees that the investor will be provided all statutory permissions required to start business within maximum 30 days from the date of issuance and, if not, will be considered deemed approval. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray recently said Maharashtra has got an investment of ₹1,12,939 crore under Magnetic Maharashtra 2.0 — second installment of the global investors summit — by signing 54 memorandum of understandings (MoUs) in the past one year. The quarterly unemployment rate, according to current weekly status for urban areas, also registered a rise during 2019-20. In the third quarter (October-December 2019) of the last financial year, the unemployment rate was 12.9% between the age group of 15 to 29 years and 5.5% for 15 years and above, but in the last quarter (January-March 2020), it rose to 13.8% and 6.2%, respectively, states the economic survey report. In the current weekly status (CWS) approach, a person is considered part of the labour force if they worked or were available or looking for work for at least one hour during the survey week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/economic-survey-maharashtra-slips-to-third-position-in-fdi-investment-101614970080874.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra economic survey: Growth sees a Maha dip amid Covid-19 pandemic||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic that forced months-long lockdown, the state’s growth has slipped in the negative, -8%, in 2020-21, the lowest in history, according to the economic survey report presented in the Assembly by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday. This also means the growth has dipped by 13 percentage points in 2020-21 over 2019-20. Barring agriculture, all other sectors, including industry and services, are expected to register a negative growth in the current financial year. The pandemic has had a direct impact on the individual income owing to the loss of income and jobs. This resulted in the reduction in the per capita income to ₹1,88,784 in 20201-21, from ₹202,130 the previous year and ₹1,87,118 in 2018-19. The industry and services sectors are expected to see a-11.3% and -9% growth in 2020-21, from 0.2% and 8.3% in 2019-20, respectively. The agriculture sector is expected to grow by 11.7%, more than last year’s 6.1% in 2019-20. The agriculture sector had reported a growth of 0.7% in 2017-18 and 0.9% in 2018-19. The finance minister is scheduled to present a deficit budget on Monday. Pawar had said a few weeks ago that the revenue deficit of the state is expected to be over ₹1.12 lakh crore owing to the economic crisis amid the pandemic. The economic survey presented on Friday reflects the bleak economic health of the state, said an official from the finance department. The pandemic has also affected the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP), which is expected to drop to ₹26,61,629 crore, ₹1,56,925 crore down from ₹28,18,555 crore in 2019-20. It was ₹25,79,628 crore in 2018-19. The debt stock of the state is expected to touch ₹520,717 crore in 2020-21, from ₹464,020 in 2019-20, and is 19.6% of the GSDP. The percentage of fiscal deficit to GSDP is 2.1%. The interest paid on the debts in the current financial year is ₹35,531 crore. The revenue of the state during the current fiscal, was hit badly owing to the pandemic, the report has stated. “The revenue collection between April and December 2020 was ₹1,76,450 crore (or 50.8%) of the estimated receipts of ₹3,47,457 crore in the 2020-21,” the report stated. This means the estimated revenue is expected to report a huge deficit in the current fiscal, badly affecting the spending on development works and social schemes. The state had planned 68.7% of the revenue receipts on development works in 2020-21.The budget had earmarked 17.8% of its funds for capital expenditure. The state has received ₹3,09,881 crore in 2019-20, the report has stated. Mumbai University economist Neeraj Hatekar said the revival of the economy may take one or one-and-a-half years. “We have been studying the industrial units in Dharavi, which are facing shortage of material leading to a hike in its cost. To cut cost, the units have reduced the wages, although 95% of the workers migrated to their native places are back. This is an indicative picture for all other industries. The revival is expected in one or one-and-half-a-year in big cities and in the next six-eight months in smaller cities and towns. To record pre-Covid growth rate, we will have to register a growth of around 13%, which is possible next year, as we are starting at a low base,” he said. Former finance minister and BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar has blamed the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government. “The figures from the economic survey are disturbing. The dip in the growth rate is a result of the failure of the state government to take corrective steps during the pandemic.” The agriculture growth has been attributed to satisfactory rainfall (113.4% of normal rainfall) and overall increase in agricultural production. “The crops sector is expected to grow by 16.2%, livestock by 4.4% and forestry and logging by 5.7%,” it has stated. The production of cereals, pulses, oilseeds, cotton and sugarcane is expected to increase by 60, 14, 28, 33 and 40%, respectively. Manufacturing and construction sectors were hit the hardest as their growth dipped to -11.8% and -14.6% respectively, contributing to the drop in the industry’s growth to -11.3% , the report has stated. It says the pandemic’s impact on trade, repairs, hotels and restaurants and transport will lead to a growth of -9%. “The Maharashtra government has been boasting about the whopping investment brought in the state over the last one year. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray recently announced to have signed memorandum of understanding for investment worth crores of rupees, but the state should ensure that the investment actually materialises. The industry sector will have an impact on other sectors and thus needs to be given due importance,” said Santosh Mandlecha, president, Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-economic-survey-growth-sees-a-maha-dip-amid-covid-19-pandemic-101614969900390.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra spent ₹2,630.03 crore on Covid till Dec 2020: Economic survey||Maharashtra, which is the worst-affected state due to the pandemic, has incurred an expenditure worth ₹2,630.03 crore till December 2020, according to the economic survey report released on Friday. The report stated Maharashtra raised funds through the National Health Mission, State Disaster Response Fund, district annual plan and MLALAD funds. The Centre, according to the report, also gave ₹716.50 crore to the state as part of the Covid-19 preparedness plan. The state, as of Friday, has 2,055,951 confirmed Covid-19 cases and 52,393 deaths due to the disease. According to the report, adequate funds were made available to all districts through National Health Mission for Covid-19 prevention and control. The state government has procured ventilators, PPE kits, triple-layer masks, testing kits, oxygen cylinders and other equipment and medicines. The Centre provided testing kits, PPE kits and N95 masks till August 31, 2020. From September, the state has been spending from its funds. “Expenditure incurred from the National Health Mission was ₹361.79 crore, from state disaster response funds was ₹860.92 crore and from district annual plan and MLALAD funds was ₹690.82 crore upto December 2020,” the report said. “Using the district annual plan fund and MLALAD fund, 533 ventilators, 84,866 infra-red thermometer/oximeter, 1.66 million PPE kits, 13.725 million N95/triple layer mask, 2.53 million Covid testing kits, 23,149 oxygen cylinder kits and other necessary equipment and medicines have been purchased till December 2020,” the report said. Till December 2020, 4,384 ventilators have been sent by the Central government, it added. The state augmented the health infrastructure since last March, adding a three-tier treatment and care system. In March 2020, 7,722 beds, 3,091 ICU beds and 1,143 ventilators were available in 211 facilities. As per the data of January 15, 2021, the facilities have gone up to 3,552, while ICU beds have reached 17,806, ventilators 7,999. The state had 343,966 isolation beds, 202,062 isolation beds for Covid patients, 141,745 isolation beds for suspected cases, and 59,268 oxygen supported beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-spent-2-630-03-crore-on-covid-till-dec-2020-economic-survey-101614969600786.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||Housing sector remained under pressure during 2020-21: Maharashtra economic survey||The Economic Survey tabled in the state legislature has revealed that the housing sector remained under pressure in 2020-21 due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown.The Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) constructed just 1,163 tenements compared to 2,074 in the previous year. The commercial tenements came down to 53 this time compared to 519 last year. Due to this, the amount spent also came down substantially to ₹389.32 crore compared to ₹651.43 crore last year.Another casualty was the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) scheme, as just 27.20 % of its target was met in 2020-21. Around 1,687 new tenements were completed compared to a target of 6,201 houses. Last year, SRA had reached its target of 46.92%, as it completed 3,827 tenements of its target 8,155 houses.According to Niranjan Hiranandani, founder of the Hiranandani group which has built townships in Thane and Powai said that slowdown had impacted the sector. “The SRA and Mhada policies need to be reworked. We are seeing the proactive approach from the government in terms of reduction of stamp duty and the coming year will be positive for the sector,” said Hiranandani.The state government has planned to construct 19.40 lakh houses in 391 cities under the Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana – Housing For All (PMAY-HFA). Under this scheme, up to December 2020, a total of 1,008 projects consisting of 14.43 lakh dwelling units have been approved, of which, construction of 6.68 lakh dwelling units is in progress. This means just 34.43% of the total works has been in progress.The PMAY scheme in the rural areas has been an underperformer with just 0.20% of the target being met. Around 790 houses have been constructed in 2020-21 out of the total target 3,91,069 at the cost of ₹331.14 crore.The Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority (MahaRera) which was established in May 2017, has 27,893 projects registered with it till December 2020. It now has a disposal rate of 68.32% of its complaints with 8,464 complaints being resolved of the total 12,388.Prakkash Nichanii, proprietor, Anchor Property Consultants, said the time has come for the government to take various steps to revive the sector. “The ready reckoner rates should be reduced and provide funding to the stalled projects,” said Nichanii.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/housing-sector-remained-under-pressure-during-2020-21-maharashtra-economic-survey-101614969420385.html
06-03-2021||Pune||Navale Bridge Chowk audit report submitted, collector orders immediate improvements||In a bid to offer solutions to the various road, traffic and infrastructural issues from Navale Bridge Chowk to Warje Chowk, a review meeting was held by the Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh on Thursday. Accordingly, several important and major works to improve the conditions were ordered by the collector to be completed by March 31 on a priority basis. A detailed presentation was given by the officials of the ‘Save Life Foundation’ at the meeting after an audit was done of the Navale Bridge Chowk stretch. In the last couple of months, several accidents have occurred at this point in which more than 10 people have lost their lives. Senior officials of Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO), state highway police, National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and Pune traffic police were present for the meeting. “A detailed review meeting about the Navale Bridge Chowk towards Warje on its audit was held yesterday with various agencies. The orders have been given to immediately start the work as per the recommendations given by the “Save Life” foundation officials. These changes and improvements will be done by March 31, after which again an audit will be done by concern officials,” said Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh. “The study presents various recommendations based on the safety audit. Overall, the findings indicate a lot of scope for engineering improvement in addition to regular maintenance. Undertaking such works will significantly enhance the safety of the highway.” he added. Giving the details of various recommendations given in the audit report, Sanjay Sasane deputy regional transport officer said, “There are 12 major recommendations given by the auditing committee including absent or inadequate traffic calming measures, absence of effective crash barrier, damaged crash barriers, risky service lane openings, poor construction zone management, exposed concrete structure, hazardous pedestrian crossings, vision obstruction due to excessive vegetation, commuters waiting for public transportation, faded pavement markings, absent and damaged signage boards and poor road and pavement surface conditions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/navale-bridge-chowk-audit-report-submitted-collector-orders-immediate-improvements-101614969302740.html
06-03-2021||Pune||Citizens suffer as 37 CFCs remain shut since lockdown||City residents are facing serious issues related to getting property tax bill printouts, birth and death certificates and other documents from the 37 Citizen Facilitation Centres (CFCs) across the city as the offices have remained shut since lockdown was announced. According to the PMC administration, the private agency to be appointed for manpower supply at the CFCs is yet to be finalised and the tendering process is not yet completed. Most citizens visit the ward offices where the facilitation centres are located. A large number of citizens need these services for day-to-day work including getting zonal certificates. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) appointed a private agency to look after the running of daily affairs including manpower supply and its contracting term got over in January last year. After the lockdown was announced, the process of appointing a new agency could not be completed. The PMC administration gave a one-month extension to the agency but after that, the PMC found that the numbers of citizens at the main building was increasing due to the unavailability of services at the CFCs. The PMC top officials directed the appointment of PMC staff to look after the CFCs to resolve the imbroglio. The PMC released a fresh tender in August but did not receive a response after which tenders were floated again. Manju Waghmare, a Yerawada resident said, “The CFCs are our lifeline where we go for our work to be done at the earliest. As of today, the citizens are suffering due to the complete shutdown of the CFC and are being forced to travel a long distance to the main PMC building. It is creating a lot of hassles for citizens. I wanted a birth certificate and had to travel to the main office in Juna Bazar to get one. We had informed the ward office, but it has become normal for the PMC and its administration to be least bothered about citizens.” Rahul Jagtap, head, information and technology Department, PMC said “The PMC has outsourced the task of manpower to a private agency and tenders for the same have been approved by the standing committee. The orders for the same will be issued soon and all the CFCs will function effectively from next week.” Box Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) Portal: The PMC aims to revamp its existing portal. Smart City Portal: The smart city portal will provide all the information to citizens about Pune. The PMC is looking forward to generate revenue through various revenue streams like advertising, e-commerce PuneConnect (Online Digital Service Window): Delivers citizen services through the single window over the web, CFC and kiosks to its stakeholders Citizen Support Desk (CSD): The PMC has set up citizen support to address citizen queries and provide support over the call. Toll-free Number 1800 1030 222 is now operational to provide citizen support from 7 am to 11 pm. Citizen Support Desk (CSD) operates in three languages, Marathi, Hindi and English. The CSD also provides a token number for any extended support and provides timely updates Grievance Redressal System: PMC upgraded the citizen help desk mechanism for its citizens to provide support and guidance over any day to day services related to Pune Municipal Corporation departments/wards. PMC has also setup 10+ channels to entertain citizen grievance which is as Web, Mobile App, Twitter, Facebook, WhatsApp and SMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/citizens-suffer-as-37-cfcs-remain-shut-since-lockdown-101614969301598.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra economic survey: Ambulance registration sees a jump of 25% in Mumbai||The registration of ambulances has seen a jump of 25.71% in Mumbai between 2019 and 2021, while the state has seen a jump of 9.52% in the same period. The registration of two-wheelers, however, has seen a dip of 6.68% in Mumbai and 6.12% in the state, while the registration of four-wheelers (LMV) has also seen a dip of 3.8% in Mumbai and 5.9% in the state, between the year 2019-20 and 2020-21, the economic survey report revealed.During the pandemic, the Maharashtra government and local bodies have purchased ambulances as part of their plan to ramp up health infrastructure during the Covid-19 outbreak. Besides purchasing ambulances, the district and municipal bodies also procured private ambulances on lease.According to the report tabled in the state legislature on Friday, Maharashtra had 15,850 ambulances registered in 2019, which went up to 16,770 in 2020, and the provisional data of 2021 shows that the registration of ambulances went up to 17,360. In Mumbai, the ambulance registration in 2019 was 1,400, which increased to 1,570 in 2020. The provisional data of 2021 showed that the city’s ambulances increased to 1,760, which is an increase of 25.71% from the pre-Covid period of 2019.In Maharashtra, the number of two-wheelers registered in 2019 was 25.56 million (25,566,130), in 2020 it went to 27.71 million (27,711,430)—an increase of 8.39%. In 2021, 28.34 million (28,340,410) two-wheelers were registered in the state—which is an increase of only 2.27% compared to the previous. Meanwhile, in Mumbai the registration of two-wheelers in 2019 was 2.08 million (2,085,810), in 2020, it went to 2.29 million (2,290,220)—a jump of 9.8%. In 2021, the two-wheeler registered stood at 2.36 million 2,361,750—an of 3.12% in comparison to the previous year.For LMV, the state registered were 5.2 million (5,200,610) in 2019, in 2020 it went to 5.6 million (5607810)—an increase of 7.83%. In 2021, 5.76 million (5,761,710) four-wheelers were registered in the state—which is an increase of only 2.74% compared to the previous year. Meanwhile, in Mumbai the registration of four-wheelers in 2019 was 1.16 million (1169280), in 2020, it went to 1.23 million (1,239,070)—an increase of 5.97%. In 2021, the car registrations stood at 1.26 million (1,265,980)—an increase of only 2.17% from the previous year.Meanwhile, the State added 10,000,000 internet subscribers in the year, the ESR data said. “The internet subscriber base in the State at the end of September 2020 was 9.7 crore [97 million], which is highest among all the states,” the data said. In September 2019, the state’s internet subscribers stood at 87 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-economic-survey-ambulance-registration-sees-a-jump-of-25-in-mumbai-101614969301135.html
06-03-2021||Pune||Mohammadwadi-NIBM annexe residents demand action against speeding bikers||Mohammadwadi-NIBM annexe residents have filed petitions seeking police action against speeding bikers after racing in violation of traffic law has caused a nuisance for days in the area. Residents of NIBM Annexe-Mohammadwadi road have been particularly affected by the night racing stunts by motorcycles driven by youngsters and car drivers who visit the area between 5 pm to 11 pm during the night. Residents maintain that despite complaints to Kondhwa police and the city traffic branch, the crackdown on violators was not taking place which emboldened the lawbreakers. According to citizen groups, the issue of bike racing is an old nuisance, and the residents have been complaining against it since 2018. Two youths had met with a deadly accident and became disabled for a lifetime, a few years ago. Danish Khan, Imperial society resident and social worker said, “The racing can claim lives of riders as well as citizens if timely action is not taken. There is a need to lodge an FIR against the culprits and suo moto it can be done by the traffic police and the local police. We have been complaining about it for a long time, but our pleas remain unanswered. Heavy fines must be levied on the violators as youngsters do not care for the law nor the lives of citizens. If need be their bikes must be seized, and their parents must be summoned to the police station for sending a stern message amongst the wrongdoers.” Daljeet Goraya, secretary, Ganga Kingston society said, “We had filed petitions after petitions with respective police commissioners seeking strict action against the culprits but to no avail. We need a real crackdown on the two-wheeler riders who are making fun of the law and disturbing the peace in the area. Our lives are threatened by the criminal behaviour of the car and two-wheeler riders who are playing with the lives of the citizens.” DCP (Traffic) Rahul Srirame said, “We will take strict action and traffic police personnel will be deployed at the spot where the racing takes place. We will take the strictest measures available as per the law against the two-wheeler and four-wheeler riders who are disturbing peace in the area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mohammadwadinibm-annexe-residents-demand-action-against-speeding-bikers-101614969299496.html
06-03-2021||Pune||Vandana Chavan unhappy with PMC over protection of water bodies||Member of Parliament (MP) Vandana Chavan expressed unhappiness over Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for not protecting water bodies and the biodiversity park. Chavan along with civic activist Vivek Velenkar held a meeting with municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar on Thursday. Chavan said, “A lot of complaints are coming for encroachments in the biodiversity park as well the landowners are plotting in the BDP lands. Though PMC appointed beat marshals, they are not working effectively.” Chavan said, “The state government instructed the municipal corporation to take a satellite image of the BDP land every six months, but the municipal administration is intentionally delaying it.” Chavan and Velenkar blamed that many developers and people are damaging the natural water bodies and nullahs in the city. According to Chavan and Velankar, some even dump debris in the riverbed and PMC is spending lakhs of rupees to excavate this debris from the river. Ideally, the PMC should take prevention measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vandana-chavan-unhappy-with-pmc-over-protection-of-water-bodies-101614969300052.html
06-03-2021||Pune||Prakash Upadhyay takes charge as ADRM, Pune railway division||Prakash Upadhyay has taken charge as the additional divisional railway manager (Addl DRM) of the Pune railway division. Prior to this, he was working as a professor at the Indian Railway Institute of Civil Engineering (IRICEN) at Pune. Upadhyay has a varied experience of working in different positions. He is a 1999 batch officer of the Indian Railways Civil Engineering Service (IRCES). He completed his BE from SPPU (Savitribai Phule Pune University) and ME from Gorakhpur Engineering College. Upadhyay has held important positions in the civil engineering department on Indian Railways until now in various positions at places like Jhansi, Allahabad, and Agra. He has specialized experience in track machine-related works. While working on the post of senior divisional engineer on Agra division, he gave his distinguished services in maintaining the Gatiman route 160 kmph in the Agra division. He received special training abroad which includes track machine training in Austria, Russia and advanced management training programme in Singapore and Malaysia. For his contribution, he was also awarded the railway minister award and the general manager award.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/prakash-upadhyay-takes-charge-as-adrm-pune-railway-division-101614969242381.html
06-03-2021||Pune||PMC to auction nine flats to recover dues from builder||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to hold an auction for nine flats owned by Nancy Icon builders and developers who failed to repay property tax worth Rs7.72 crore. PMC property tax department head Vilas Kanade said, “PMC municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar has given an approval to hold an auction for nine flats from the builder’s project located at Katraj to recover the tax dues. The Nancy Icon Builders and developers failed to pay taxes on 140 properties. The total due amount is Rs7.72 crore. The PMC has already uploaded its name as a co-owner of these flats to recover the tax and sealed them.” Kanade said, “The open auction would be held at Bharat Ratna Ambedkar auditorium at PMC headquarters. The timing of the auction is 12 to 3pm.” The address of the project that will be auctioned is Nancy lake homes, Survey number 8/1/ A/65 at Katraj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-auction-nine-flats-to-recover-dues-from-builder-101614969241607.html
06-03-2021||Chandigarh||Centre tells Chandigarh admn to speed up power privatisation||The power privatisation process is back on track in Chandigarh with the central government giving its go ahead in the latest communique to the UT administration. The administration now plans to open the bids within next 10 days, it is learnt.The development comes after it was decided in a high-powered inter-ministerial meeting, held on February 26 and chaired by the Union home secretary, that the privatisation process should continue in those Union Territories where it is in advance stages.Earlier, in February, the administration had put on hold the process in order to seek clarity from the Centre on the company formation and establishment of trust for employees.On Friday, the minutes of the meeting were shared with the administration, with directions to expedite the process.“After the bidding process completes, the administration would have to prepare a cabinet note on it and send it to the ministry of home affairs. The final approval would be given by the cabinet on the company formation and the trust establishment for employees,” said a senior UT official, requesting anonymity. The trust is to be formed for managing terminal benefits of employees.“The administration has also been directed to consult Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) on the privatisation process, particularly the request for proposal (RFP) document, and make suitable changes in the process as per its advise,” said another senior official privy to the development.Notably, the department of expenditure of the finance ministry has been requested to waive the appraisal process for power distribution company and trust formation, which is required under the Government of India Transaction of Business Rules 1961.Six companies in frayThere are six companies in the race for taking over the electricity department — Sterlite Power, ReNew Wing Energy, NTPC Electric Supply Company Limited, Adani Transmission Ltd, Tata Power and Torrent Power.The decision to privatise the electricity department was taken on May 12, 2020, after directions from the Centre. An empowered committee was constituted to oversee and implement the process. The administration had assured the Centre that the process would be completed by the end of 2020.However, the first setback came on December 1, when the Punjab and Haryana high court stayed the process on the plea of UT Powermen Union.After nudged by the Centre, the administration approached the Supreme Court on January 12, which stayed the high court order. A day after the SC relief, the administration immediately invited bids from interested firms.Notably, in the UT of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, the Bombay high court has stayed the process even though bids have been opened and the company finalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-tells-chandigarh-admn-to-speed-up-power-privatisation-101614969241015.html
06-03-2021||Pune||Bavdhan residents hold E-dharna against garbage dumping||Bavdhan residents took to the internet to stage an e-dharna against the growing problem of garbage dumping in Bavdhan using hashtag #SaveBavdhanFromGarbage. The physical gathering was avoided by residents due to the Covid norms in place. “Garbage is dumped at all the wrong places in each lane of Bavdhan. There are a large number of shops and street vendors who throw garbage on the streets, besides the dry garden waste consisting of leaves and cuttings of trees are thrown on the road or burnt. Even the service road on the highway is in a pathetic condition with garbage being thrown from Bavdhan Budruk,” said Dushyant Bhatia, of Volunteers of Bavdhan Citizens Forum (BCF). The group is continuously raising the issue with the concerned sanitation department and officials, both online and offline, and have raised 100+ complaints. Some are fixed and some are closed without processing. This has become the daily work of citizens for the past few months. Now, however, the residents have run out of patience. They feel that the situation is becoming dangerous for the health of the citizens. It has become difficult to walk on the road and a lot of corners of the roads stink. The citizens posted pictures of garbage around Bavdhan and their expectations from the administration on all social media platforms. They tagged all civic administration officials using the hashtag #SaveBavdhanFromGarbage and #CleanBavdhan. “We demand a permanent solution and a disciplined approach to everyday cleaning and garbage collection. We would request the authorities to formulate a plan for Bavdhan,” said Deepa Prabhu, another resident and volunteer. Bavdhan Citizens Forum (BCF) also suggested that residents work along with authorities to come up with better solutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bavdhan-residents-hold-e-dharna-against-garbage-dumping-101614969239481.html
06-03-2021||Pune||Nitin Landge elected chairperson of PCMC standing committee||Nitin Landge of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has been elected as the chairperson of the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation standing committee after he defeated the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) corporator Pravin Bhalekar by five votes on Friday. Landge will be the 37th chairperson and replace BJP’s Santosh Londe. In the PCMC standing committee, there are 16 members of which 10 are from BJP, four from NCP, one from Shiv Sena and one independent. BJP corporator Ravi Landge who resigned from the party after he was denied the post of chairperson did not show up for voting. Landge received 10 votes, nine BJP and one from the independent while Bhalekar got five votes, four from NCP and one from the Shiv Sena. Before the election, the BJP had requested the NCP candidate to step down, but he opted to vote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nitin-landge-elected-chairperson-of-pcmc-standing-committee-101614969180732.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||₹15k crore spent on Mumbai Metro-3: Maharashtra Economic survey||While the project is facing maximum hurdles, of the total expenditure incurred by the state government over Metro projects, 70% has been spent on Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz).According to the economic survey of Maharashtra tabled during the legislative session on Friday, the state has, till October 2020, spent ₹22,624.29 crores on nine on-going Metro projects in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR). Of this, ₹15,910, or 70% of the total expenditure incurred has been on the 33.5km underground corridor.While the project has been facing controversy since its inception, it is currently facing uncertainty after the Bombay high court (HC), in an interim order, stayed the transfer of land at Kanjurmarg to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA). Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had announced that the state has decided to shift the car shed from Aarey to Kanjurmarg.As per the report, the state has incurred a cost of ₹2,470 crore on Metro-2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and ₹1,996.17 crore on Metro-7 (Dahisar E-Andheri E), which are expected to be operational this year. The state has also spent ₹475 crore on Metro-6 (Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli). The state plans to build an integrated metro car shed for Metro-3, Metro-6, and Metro-4 (Wadala-Thane-Kasarwadavali). However, the HC order has proved to be a major roadblock in the state’s plan. The state also constituted a committee that stated that land at Aarey will prove to be insufficient in the coming years.The cost of the project has also been revised from ₹23,000 crore to ₹32,000 crore.A senior official from MMRDA said, “We have approached the HC again to lift the stay. Kanjurmarg will prove to be the best option given land scarcity in the city.”AV Shenoy from the Mumbai Mobility Forum said that the Centre and the state governments must solve the issue for the benefit of Mumbaikars. “The project is going on well. The only roadblock is the car-shed which is a political issue. The Centre and the state government must have a dialogue to resolve this issue. The more the project is delayed, the cost will increase, adding to the burden of Mumbaiites.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/15k-crore-spent-on-mumbai-metro-3-maharashtra-economic-survey-101614969180327.html
06-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra economic survey: Covid-19 hits immunisation program for children, pregnant women||The Covid-19 pandemic has impacted the regular immunization program such as pulse polio for infants and universal immunization programme being implemented to prevent mortality, morbidity and disability among pregnant women, children and infants from various diseases. Not even half of the pregnant women, children and infants could be covered under both the immunization programs till December 2020, revealed the economic survey of Maharashtra report for 2020-21.Children below five years of age irrespective of earlier receipt of several doses of oral polio vaccine are immunised on National Immunisation Day every year. This financial year till December 4.332 million children was covered under the program against 16.928 million covered in 2019-20 and 17.094 million covered in 2018-19, states the report presented by the deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar in the state Assembly on Friday.The government has succeeded in controlling the spread of the poliovirus, as no polio case was reported.To prevent mortality, morbidity and disability from diseases such as tuberculosis, diphtheria, whooping cough, tetanus, polio, Haemophilus influenza type B, hepatitis B, measles, etc., the state government also implement the Centre’s universal immunisation programme that aims to provide immunisation services to pregnant women, infants and children in various age groups.The survey report found that the number of beneficiaries are too low when it comes to Tetanus, DPT (A class of combination vaccines against three infectious diseases in humans — diphtheria, pertussis and tetanus) and Hepatitis B vaccination among the targeted population.Tetanus vaccination to children below 10 years of age, the state could cover only 0.76 million beneficiaries against the target of 2.608 million beneficiaries and for the age group up to 16 years it could cover 0.72 million against the target of 2.359 million beneficiaries. Only 0.857 million beneficiaries could be covered against a target of 1.932 million beneficiaries for Hepatitis B vaccination and DPT vaccination 0.94 million beneficiaries were covered against the target of 1.896 million beneficiaries, states the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-economic-survey-covid-19-hits-immunisation-program-for-children-pregnant-women-101614969060291.html
06-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC dismisses plea questioning appointment of Jamia V-C||The Delhi high court on Friday upheld the appointment of Najma Akhtar as the current vice-chancellor of Jamia Milia Islamia (JMI) and said the selection was justified.Justice V Kameswar Rao said the plea by M Ethesham-Ul-Haque, an alumnus of Faculty of Law, JMI, has not shown any provision of the University Grants Commission (UGC) regulations or the JMI Act that has been flouted while appointing Akhtar as the V-C.The court highlighted the position of law that it cannot sit in appeal over the decision taken by the search committee, set up to select the most suitable candidate for the post.“Rather, the scope is limited to judicial review of the decision whereby the court is only concerned with whether the incumbent possessed qualification for the appointment and the manner in which the appointment came to be made or whether the procedure adopted was fair, just and reasonable…The above discussion shows the appointment of respondent no.2 (Akhtar) is justified. I do not see any merit in the petition. The petition is dismissed,” the judge said.Haque, through advocate Mobashshir Sarwar, had challenged the appointment of Akhtar, claiming that there were violations of regulations issued by the UGC and also under the JMI Act.Akhtar, through advocate Pritish Sabharwal, had contended that the petitioner had failed to point out a single statutory violation in the appointment process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-dismisses-plea-questioning-appointment-of-jamia-vc-101614967080498.html
06-03-2021||Delhi||Can’t sack employee without due inquiry, HC says||The Delhi high court has said an employee cannot be removed only for “misconduct” without an inquiry, before reinstating a woman employee, who was removed from service for her alleged habit of taking photographs of the office records on her mobile phone and keeping them with her in digital form.Justice V Kameswar Rao set aside the termination order of the woman, who was working as a senior stenographer in the Delhi Social Welfare Board citing rulings of the Supreme Court, which had held that an employee cannot be removed without a department inquiry, just on the foundation of a misconduct.The judge, however, also said the allegations against the petitioner were serious and the Board is free to take action against her in accordance with the principles of natural justice.“Hence, the termination of the petitioner needs to be set aside. It is ordered accordingly. The petitioner shall be reinstated in service and shall also be entitled to full back wages, as the termination is held to be illegal and the petitioner has to be put in the same position as if, the termination has not been effected,” Rao said.“But at the same time, the allegations against the petitioner are of very serious nature, liberty is with the Board to proceed against the petitioner in accordance with the principles of natural justice. The order of reinstatement and payment of full back wages shall be complied within eight weeks from today,” he said in his order of February 25.The woman, through her counsel Anuj Aggarwal, had challenged her termination from employment saying that no inquiry was conducted and that was against the principles of natural justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cant-sack-employee-without-due-inquiry-hc-says-while-reinstating-woman-in-social-welfare-board-101614967079841.html
06-03-2021||Delhi||Custodial death at Tihar: HC seeks to know if disciplinary action was taken||The Delhi high court on Friday asked the Delhi government to state whether any disciplinary action has been taken against jail officials for the security lapse in the death of an under-trial prisoner at Tihar jail after his father had moved the court, seeking compensation for the custodial death of his son.Justice Prathiba M Singh asked the police to file a status report in this regard and said it would hear the plea by the inmate’s father Ali Sher, who had sought a compensation of ₹5 crore for the death of his son, Dilsher Azad, on March 22.In his plea filed through advocate Vishal Raj Sehijpal, Sher said Azad was an under-trial prisoner at Tihar Jail since September 2019. On November 30, 2020, he received a call from police informing him about the death of his son.On Friday, the jail authorities through advocate Sanjoy Ghose, additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, told the court that the CCTV footage of the incident have been handed over to the investigation officer of the case. He said a charge sheet has also been filed in the trial court on February 26 in this regard.Ghose, in a status report, told the court that on November 30, the jail officials heard noises in the morning around 6.45. When they rushed towards the barracks, they found that two inmates were attacking Azad with a handmade improvised sharp edged object. Azad was rushed to the hospital, where he was declared brought dead by the doctors.The court asked the police to file an updated report.The plea by the deceased’s father had contended that when he reached the jail, the prison authorities did not cooperate with him and he was not told the real cause of his son’s death. After Sher called a lawyer, he was informed that his son was stabbed to death by other inmates.On the last date, the court had asked the Delhi government to file a status report, indicating whether an FIR has been lodged in connection with the incident and, if so, the status of the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/custodial-death-at-tihar-hc-seeks-to-know-if-disciplinary-action-was-taken-against-officials-101614967079244.html
06-03-2021||Delhi||Panel to decide on request to dump waste in Ridge||The Ridge Management Board (RMB), which met on Friday after a gap of two years, approved the proposal for a 3.5km portion of the Delhi-Alwar corridor, of the Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS), to pass through the Delhi Ridge,a protected area where non-forest activities are banned.The board, however, deferred the approval of Delhi Metro’s Aerocity-Tuglakabad corridor, which had sought permission for a 5.5km of the Metro Phase 4 corridor to pass through the Ridge.The proposed Delhi-Alwar corridor of the RRTS had sought permission to take a portion of the underground section through the Aravalli Biodiversity Park. Officials who attended the meeting said the National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC), the agency responsible for the construction of the RRTS corridor, assured the Board that since the section is underground, trees and ecology of the Ridge will not be disturbed.“RRTS is an environment friendly project, which is being designed to reduce pollution and traffic congestion in the National Capital Region. We are committed to preserving the ecology of the Ridge and therefore, strategically no stations, structures or installations have been planned inside the Ridge area,” NCRTC said in a response to HT.It further said, “The 3.65km of Delhì-Gurugram-SNB RRTS section between Munirka and Aerocity stations will pass through the Ridge via underground tunnels at an average depth of approximately 20 metres (about six floors) in such a manner that there will be no impact on the ecology of the Ridge area. Only two ventilation cum emergency evacuation shafts essential for the safety of commuters are planned in locations where there are no trees.”An official who attended the meeting said, on condition of anonymity, “There were 18 projects listed in Friday’s agenda and most of them were cleared. They included the RRTS project because the corridor was underground and did not impact the Ridge. The Board has decided to keep the matter of the Metro corridor on hold for a month.”In Phase 1 of RRTS, comprising 107km from Sarai Kale Khan in Delhi to SNB Urban Complex (Shahjahanpur-Neemrana-Behror), 22.5km will an underground network in Delhi, of which 3.5km is proposed to go through the Ridge.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) in its request sent to the forest department in 2019 had stated that for this corridor, a total of 5.55km would fall in the Ridge, of which 20083 square metres was in Mahipalpur (Ridge area), 16,992 sqm was near Indira Gandhi National Open University (morphological Ridge), 11600sqm was in Anandmaye Marg (southern Ridge) and another 2,200 sqm also in the southern Ridge.The DMRC said 8,005 sqm will be utilised to create permanent structures, while the remaining 42,870 sqm will be used temporarily during the construction work and will be returned to the forest department once the section is complete.However, in another letter sent by DMRC to the member secretary of the Board in March 2020, the total Ridge area required was increased to 82,426 sqm, of which 14,324 sqm was to be kept permanently for entry/exits, ancillary buildings and shafts etc, while the remaining 68,102 sqm was to be “restored back after project completion”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ridge-board-allows-3-5km-rrts-portion-through-ridge-area-says-section-underground-won-t-disturb-ecology-101614967020417.html
06-03-2021||Delhi||Scores of women from Punjab march to Delhi to mark 100 days of protest||To mark 100 days of the farmers’ protest and the upcoming International Women’s Day, scores of women farmers from Punjab on Friday began their tractor march from several districts to join the protesters at Tikri border.“This is a historic movement, and we need to raise the issue of women farmers as well. We have called over 50,000 women from various districts of Punjab, including Bathinda, Barnala, Mansa, and Patiala, to march to Delhi borders. They will reach Tikri by Sunday night,” said farmer leader Harinder Bindu, 44, state president of BKU Ekta Ugrahan’s women wing.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) — an umbrella body of over 40 farmer groups — alleged on Friday that the police detained a group of women farmers under the leadership of Manjeet Kaur Dobka while they were travelling from the Singhu border to Rakabganj gurdwara to spend the night there. The Delhi Police rejected the allegations as ‘fake news’.Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal in said that no such incident has happened in the area of Mandir Marg and that no person was detained in this context. “This type of fake news may be checked before circulating in order to prevent disharmony in society,” Singhal said.Thousands of farmers from states such as Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh are camped at Delhi’s borders since November 27 to protest against the three farm laws, which were passed in the Parliament in September.Also, to mark the completion of 100 days of the ongoing agitation, SKM has planned to organise a five-hour blockade of the KMP (Kundli-Manesar-Palwal) expressway on Saturday. The outfit said it will observe Saturday as ”Black Day’.In a separate note, the SKM’s legal panel also demanded a judicial inquiry into the violence in central Delhi on Republic Day.Delhi Police have said that they have arrested farmers on the basis of video and photo evidence. On January 26, at least 500 police personnel and 10 farmers were injured after farmers clashed with police personnel, and stormed the Red Fort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/scores-of-women-from-punjab-march-to-delhi-to-mark-100-days-of-protest-international-women-s-day-101614967019261.html
06-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi budget theme this year is patriotism, to mark 75 years of Independence||The theme of the upcoming Delhi government budget will be “patriotism”, and the government is likely to set aside funds for a series of events to be held across the city over a span of 75 weeks – starting next week – to celebrate 75 years of Independence in August next year, said a senior government official on Friday.The budget session in the Delhi Assembly starts on Monday. HT has learnt that the economic survey and outcome budget 2020-21 is likely be tabled on Monday, while the 2021-22 state budget — the seventh by the AAP in its three terms in power — will be tabled on Tuesday.“The events will start on March 12 with a programme at the Central Park in Connaught Place. Events will continue for 75 weeks until 15 August 2022 – when India would celebrate 75 years of Independence. The themes of these events will revolve around the role of Delhi in the Independence movement; how Delhi has evolved since 1947; and the government’s vision for ”Delhi in 2047”. Appropriate allocations will be made in the upcoming budget for these events,” said the senior official, who did not wish to be identified.In its first budget after coming to power in 2015, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government had chosen (self-governance) as the theme of the 2015-16 budget. In that budget, the government allocated large sums to welfare schemes such as subsidies on power and water bills. Similarly, the 2018-19 budget was branded a “green budget” because of the large number of allocations towards fighting against air pollution in the capital.“This year’s themes will be patriotism,” said the official quoted above.Another government official said that the total budgeted outlay for 2021-22 is likely to be more than previous year’s ₹65,000 crore -- which was the highest so far.This will be the first budget in Delhi after the Covid-19 pandemic – which, according to government estimates, have caused a 42% revenue loss. For 2020-21, a year marked by three rounds of severe spike in Covid-19 cases in Delhi, the government had pegged revenue receipts at ₹55,309 crore.“In the upcoming budget, allocations for both health and education sectors will increase,” said the second government official, who did not wish to be identified.Last year (2020-21), the government allocated ₹15,815 crore for education — an increase of 1.3% from the 2019-20 budget -- and ₹7,704 crore for the health sector, which was nearly 3% more than the previous fiscal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-budget-theme-this-year-is-patriotism-to-mark-75-years-of-independence-101614966962018.html
06-03-2021||Delhi||Gahlot seeks support of residents’ groups on govt’s EV campaign||Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Friday appealed to residents’ welfare associations (RWA) in the city to endorse the government’s “Switch Delhi” campaign – an initiative aimed at increasing the registration of electric vehicles (EV) in the capital – and urged MLAs to help RWAs in their constituencies in increasing people participation.“If we want to win this fight against pollution, the whole city will have to come together – just like we came together to fight dengue and Covid-19. It is now time to commit to switching to EVs and to turn this into a mass movement. The Delhi government’s eight-week awareness campaign, Switch Delhi, plans to educate people on the benefits of EV and to encourage residents to switch to EVs. I appeal to all RWAs to participate in the initiative,” said Gahlot in a press statement.It further said, “As elected representatives of the people, we must take the lead. I request all MLAs in Delhi to provide their support to RWAs in their constituencies to be a part of this movement.”While launching the “Switch Delhi” campaign last month, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said his government will, in the next six months, change its policy and lease only electric cars for government use. Last week, the government issued an order to all departments to switch to EVs within six months.The campaign is in line with the government’s EV policy, notified last year, to combat air pollution in the capital. The policy aims to ensure that by 2024, 25% of all vehicles registered in Delhi are electric vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ghalot-seeks-support-of-residents-groups-on-govt-s-ev-campaign-101614966961223.html
06-03-2021||Delhi||South corp seeks nod to dump inert waste in Asola sanctuary||The Supreme Court-mandated Ridge Management Board, which conducted its first meeting after the appointment of two independent members on Friday, constituted an expert committee to look into South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s (SDMC) application seeking permission to “dump inert (non-reactive) waste from bio-mining of three landfills — Bhalswa, Okhla and Ghazipur — in the mines of Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary.”Environment experts, however, warned that if allowed, this could lead to “irreparable damage” to the city’s green lungs, which would take several decades to rectify.“The proposal of the SDMC was heard and we will conduct a detailed analysis on whether it is feasible to allow them to dump inert waste there. After a month, the board will look at the findings of the committee and take a final call,” a senior official, who attended the meeting, confirmed.The Delhi chief secretary headed Ridge Management Board in Friday’s meeting decided that an “expert committee” comprising officials from various agencies — including SDMC — will assess whether it is feasible to allow municipal agencies to dump its inert waste on the ecologically sensitive zone.“SDMC’s application was filed on behalf of all the five civic bodies in Delhi. It wanted permission to dump about 265 lakh tonnes of inert waste recovered from bio-mining of the three landfills. Nearly seven trommel machines, which acts as sieves to separate garbage by size for safe disposal, have already been installed in Bhalswa, Ghazipur and Okhla dump yards. We need to deposit the inert waste somewhere,” an SDMC official said on Friday.The official, on condition of anonymity, added that municipalities need four pits at Asola Bhatti, which are around 30 metres deep, to dump their waste. These pits were abandoned about 35 years ago, after the Supreme Court halted mining of ‘red badarpur’ sand for construction activity, due to environmental destruction resulting from it.The SDMC had presented the same proposal before the Ridge Management Board in 2007, which was then rejected by the board. In fact, an environment impact assessment of this proposal in 2003 had also pointed out the long term damage that such large scale dumping would lead to on the flora, fauna and also the underground aquifers in the area.The Bhatti mines is a notified wildlife sanctuary, which comes under the southern leg of Delhi’s ridge. The ridge is home to several protected species, which will be impacted if this proposal gets the go-ahead, environmentalists said.Vimlendu Jha, executive director of environment NGO Swechha, who is also a former member of the Ridge Management Board, said that allowing such dumping on the ridge was “unacceptable”.“The job of the Ridge Management Board is to protect the ridge and not allow such atrocious activities. You don’t need to be an expert to know the kind of damage waste dumping does to the ecology. Not just the trees and soil, the underground water levels, the animals, everything in the area is staring at a grave damage. This proposal has been rejected by the courts, then why are we even considering it? ,” Jha said.In October 2019, the National Green Tribunal had also refused to entertain the application by the SDMC seeking permission for the dumping.Aya Nagar councillor from the SDMC, Ved Pal, had opposed the application in the standing committee meeting of the civic body on Tuesday.“The aquifers below the Bhatti mines hold groundwater that is used by entire south Delhi, Faridabad and Gurugram. This proposal will lead to largescale pollution of the mines with waste from landfills. The sanctuary is a part of my ward and I will not allow this,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/south-corp-seeks-nod-to-dump-inert-waste-in-asola-sanctuary-experts-warn-against-move-101614966960481.html
06-03-2021||Delhi||Flyer declares he is Covid-19 minutes before take-off to Pune, flight turns back||An IndiGo flight to Pune had to return back to the parking bay after having taxied to a runway of Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport on Thursday evening after one of the passengers on board the aircraft declared that he had received his Covid test report and had tested positive for the virus.The man was then de-boarded and handed over to health officials at the Delhi airport. The flight finally took off for Pune around 7pm, after a delay of around 90 minutes during which the aircraft was thoroughly sanitised and fumigated, officials said. IndiGo did not confirm how many passengers or crew members were onboard the aircraft. The airline also did not share how many passengers were in direct contact with the passenger who tested Covid-19 positive.At present, it is mandatory for all flyers from Delhi, Rajasthan, Kerala, Goa, and Gujarat to produce a negative RT-PCR report after landing in Maharashtra.Airport officials, privy to the matter, said the incident took place on flight 6E 286 of IndiGo airlines that was scheduled to take off for Pune from Delhi airport at 5.30pm on Thursday.IndiGo declined to comment on or confirm the incident. However, airport officials aware of the matter, said that after completing boarding of passengers, the flight had pushed back and left the tarmac when the incident took place. It was taxiing to reach the runway when one of the passengers informed the airline crew that he had just received his Covid-19 report, which showed that he had tested positive for the viral disease.“On this, the crew immediately reported the matter to the pilot in command, who in turn alerted the air traffic control and requested a return to the parking bay. The aircraft, that had already reached the runway, was then allowed to return and was parked back at 5.40pm. Meanwhile, medical team at the airport were informed and they reached the aircraft, as the passenger was de-boarded as per standard operating procedures set by the Union ministry of health,” said an official from Delhi airport, who wished not to be named.Officials from Delhi airport, however, also could not confirm if the man was sent into isolation and where.The official said that all other passengers on board were also de-boarded and the aircraft was thoroughly sanitised. “A thorough fumigation was carried out. All touchpoints were sanitized, and the plane was cleaned. Only after that the rest of the passengers were allowed to board again. The flight finally took off for Pune at 7pm, with a delay of one and a half hours,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/flyer-declares-he-is-covid-19-minutes-before-take-off-to-pune-flight-turns-back-101614966959756.html
06-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi adds 312 fresh Covid cases, 3 new deaths; vaccination drive remains slow||Delhi reported 312 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Friday, crossing the 300-mark for the first time since mid-January. The city had last recorded 340 cases fifty days ago on January 14, according to daily data released by the Delhi government.The city till Friday had witnessed 640,494 total number of cases of the virus, of which 627,797 had recovered or been discharged from hospitals.While the positivity rate has continued to stay lower than 1% since the end of December last year, the increase in the number of daily cases comes amid what seem like new waves of the infection being reported from at least six states in the country —Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Karnataka.Delhi on Thursday conducted around 60,000 tests – which is reported a day later in Friday’s health bulletin –of which 312 tested positive, pegging the state’s positivity rate at around 0.53%. Friday’s positivity rate was the highest since January, recorded on January 11 at 0.54%.Just over 60,100 tests were conducted each day on average in March, an increase over the average 58,545 tests conducted each day in February. In January, over 67,100 tests were being conducted each day on average, the government data showed. The number of tests being conducted in Delhi, however, has gone down from its capacity of over 85,000 seen in December just after the city saw its third and worst wave of infection.The positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive among the total tested – reflects the spread of the infection, which is on the rise in the city. Delhi’s average positivity over the last seven days stood at 0.39%, an increase from 0.30% the week before, and 0.24% the week before that. Even though the positivity rate continues to remain below the 5% mark, which experts believe means that the spread of the infection is still under control, the slow rise is worrying.“Any increase in the positivity rate is a cause of concern. There is a need for the government to increase the number of tests to detect those infected at earliest and isolate them. Anybody who has come in contact with a Covid patient should also be tested. This can help in controlling the number of infections before it grows big again,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research.Experts say that lax social distancing and masking norms, coupled with probable new variants in circulation, might be the reason for the current increase in number of cases, as the sero-surveillance conducted in January had shown that over 56% of Delhiites had antibodies against the Sars-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19.“The current rise is likely to be due to variant strains that are more infectious. So, even if 56% of the people have some immunity against the virus, it is spreading quickly among the rest. If that is the case, there could be an increase in the number of cases again, as is being seen in Maharashtra,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).She, however, expressed confidence that the ongoing vaccination drive against the disease might help in keeping he number of hospitalisations and deaths low.On Friday, 21,897 persons received their first shot against the infection and 5,160 completed their two-dose course. There was a rush of people to get the shot at private centres, yet only 67% of the available slots were used on Friday. In government centres, only 28% of the slots were used, reflecting a slow vaccination drive.So far, the disease has killed 10,918 people in the city including the three who died on Thursday. Although the cumulative case fatality ratio – proportion of deaths among those who test positive – has reduced to 1.70% in Delhi, the number of hospitalisations has started increasing again. As on Thursday night, there were 599 persons with Covid-19 admitted to various city hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-adds-312-fresh-covid-cases-three-new-deaths-vaccination-drive-remains-slow-101614966959202.html
06-03-2021||Delhi||Woman murders her children, then hangs self in Shakurpur||A woman and her two children — three-year-old boy and four-month-old daughter — were found hanging from the ceiling fan of their home in north-west Delhi’s Shakurpur on Thursday, following a quarrel with her husband, the police said.Usha Rangnani, deputy commissioner of police (north-west), said that the probable reason behind the apparent double murder-cum-suicide was the woman’s quarrel with her husband earlier on Thursday over a disagreement on visiting her native place in Bihar.“The woman wanted to visit her village in Madhubani in Bihar to attend a relative’s mundan (head tonsure) ceremony. But her husband disagreed with the plan,” said Rangnani.Another investigator, who didn’t want to be identified, said that the husband had said no to the plans by citing his inability to afford the travel and other expenses that would be incurred while attending the family function. Police, however, said they are probing if the finances of the man was the real reason or there was something more to it.A sub-divisional magistrate will be conducting an inquiry in the matter, police said.The couple lived with their children in a one-room flat on the second floor of a building in Shakurpur. The husband worked at an eatery and also did other side jobs, such as cleaning cars, in residential neighbourhoods.On Wednesday morning, investigators said,the couple had quarrelled once before the husband left for work, said the DCP.When he returned from work around 10.30pm, he found the room locked from the inside and no one responding to his repeated knocks. Moments later, neighbours heard the man’s screams for help.A neighbour said that he heard the man cry for help and rushed to help. On reaching the second floor he found the three bodies hanging. “The two children and their mother was hanging from one fan. The man began breaking down the door, and I joined him,” said the neighbour.Together, they managed to break the door and bring down the bodies.The DCP said that investigations into the triple deaths has been launched and the post-mortem would be carried out after the woman’s relatives arrived.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-murders-her-children-then-hangs-self-in-shakurpur-101614966904083.html
06-03-2021||Delhi||Fighting disinformation with facts, movies and social media||When student-activist Navkiran Natt, 29, joined the farmers’ agitation in November and watched it grow, she realised the need to counter misinformation on the protests. Thus, the four-page Trolley Times was born and Natt became one of the three editorial team members responsible for collating information and producing the trilingual newsletters.While the printed copies are in Gurmukhi and Hindi, the founders are posting the content in English on their website as well. The first edition was printed on December 18 and since then the circulation has grown from 2,000 to 7,000 copies, and the newsletter is distributed across the three protest sites at Singhu, Tikri, and Ghazipur. Apart from stories on the farmer protests and the contentious farm laws, the newsletter also has cartoons, poems, and opinion pieces written by farmer union leaders.“Many news organisations were derailing the narrative by branding farmers as Khalistani, Maoists, and anti-nationals. We realised there was a need to counter this from within and bring out the plight of the common farmers,” said Natt.Launched as a weekly, Trolley Times became a bi-weekly after the violence during the tractor rally.The seven-member team that brings out the newsletter holds meetings after every edition and decides on a theme for each week and then contacts writers. “The social media circulation of the digital version of our bi-weekly has helped us reach a greater audience. Since we have allowed people to print it and distribute the newsletter without modifications, people have also been translating it into at least five Indian languages and four foreign languages,” said Natt who was a practising dentist till she joined the protest along with her family.The activist pursued her degree in dental medicine from Chandigarh before opting for film studies at Ambedkar University in 2018. Before joining the farmers’ protest, she was working with a US-based non-governmental organization (NGO) on their 1947 Partition Archives as a paid intern. However, once she found her place in the protest, she quit the internship.Natt, who has been associated with the All India Students’ Association (AISA) for over a decade, had also been jailed for protesting against a slum demolition in Chandigarh in 2015. “My parents have also been activists and have been jailed over five times. They too have been camping with me at Tikri since the first day. Having parents who understand the importance of participating in mass movements definitely helps,” she said.The young activist’s day at Tikri involves a variety of tasks including managing logistics, arranging for supplies, cleaning tents, preparing rotis at community langars, managing the libraries, holding discussions with people and also engaging with them at ‘Trolley Talkies’.“When people come and live on the streets during a protest, the roads turns into temporary cities and homes. We had to provide means of entertainment for them. That is why we hold movie screenings showing progressive films and documentaries so that cinema can also be used as a tool of resistance,” she said.Asked about her takeaway from the protests she has been part of, Natt said, “In the past few months, I have learnt that our generation lacks patience. We get agitated that nothing is happening but here farmers are determined that their agitation will bring about a change. It is a lesson I keep close to my heart.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fighting-disinformation-with-facts-movies-and-social-media-101614966903485.html
06-03-2021||Delhi||Cardiologist all the way from New Jersey has his finger on pulse of protesters||When Swaiman Singh, 34, a cardiologist from New Jersey, joined the farmers’ agitation in November, he did not anticipate that the agitation would go on for 100 days, and beyond.“I’d come to India on five days’ leave, and thought I’d arrange some doctors at the site before leaving. But when I saw the plight of our elderly farmers, I just couldn’t go back,” he said.Singh, who’s been living in the US for 24 years, and had volunteered as a doctor during the Black Lives Matter protest, says he has now left his fellowship programme at the Newark Beth Israel Medical Center midway.Since late November, he has camped at the Tikri protest site, providing free medical assistance to thousands of farmers. He has also started a night shelter, a movie theatre, and a library to lend support to the agitation. Singh and his colleagues call their camp “Pind California” -- famous in the neighbourhood for providing all kinds of assistance to agitating farmers.“Our political leaders have made tall claims of turning Punjab into California in the past, but have failed. By working for our community here, we wanted to create a blueprint on how to provide for the people in a democratic set-up. That was the idea behind setting up schools, medical camps, movie theatre, and shelters, among others,” he said.Singh, who witnessed the violence during the farmers’ tractor parade on Republic Day, said several of his team members were injured in clashes between farmers and police that day.Under the banner of his non-government organisation, the Five Rivers Heart Association, Singh said nearly 100 doctors are posted at the protest spots on a rotational basis. They also have around 1,000 doctors on call across the world for tele-consultations, and to help with the medical camps that conduct physical therapy and carry out tests.“The major difference between the protests in the US and here is the way the administration treats protesters; here, the government has cut off the internet, food, water, and sanitation facilities. The gutters are overflowing as there are barely any sanitation workers to maintain cleanliness at these sites. There can be an outbreak of malaria or dengue here at any time, but they don’t care. We have lost over 200 farmers during the agitation so far, and, yet, no one is talking about it,” he said.The cardiologist says he’s barely met his daughter in the past seven months -- first, due to the pandemic, and now because of the protests. “I recently went home for a day (to his home town in Punjab), and she was angry with me for being away. She did not want to let go of me,” he said. “Of course, work and family life have been affected but we are fighting for a greater cause.”There are regular movie screenings at Pind California on revolutionary themes, Singh said. “From Bhagat Singh to Subhas Chandra Bose to Chotu Ram, we focus on showing movies that will inspire people to carry on with this revolutionary fight.”With summer approaching, the team is now working on building bamboo hutments to protect the farmers from the heat and mosquitoes. “If the government thinks that these farmers will tire eventually and go back, they are wrong. Over the past few months, I’ve seen them stand united in their fight to repeal the laws,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cardiologist-all-the-way-new-jersey-has-his-finger-on-the-pulse-of-protesters-101614966899810.html
06-03-2021||Delhi||Football player who runs Singhu’s laundromat||Tony Sandhu, a 43-year-old former football player who represented Punjab at various national competitions in the late 1990s, was among the first few farmers to reach the Singhu Border on November 26. The next day, he and a host of other current and former sportspersons -- some kabaddi players, some wrestlers -- helped set up a stage and organise a langar.About 10 days later, however, Sandhu and his team mates realised that, to camp on a road for months, needs much more than food, tents, or even toilets.“The farmers’ clothes were getting dirty, and had no way to clean them,” said Sandhu, who is from Jalandhar.So he and some fellow sportspersons requested some farmers and locals in the vicinity to arrange for a few washing machines. By December 10, three machines and several packets of detergent arrived. Such is the clout of these sportspeople in the Punjab and Haryana, that machines kept getting added over time.The decision to set up camp at a mall in Kundli, about a 1km from the Singhu Border, came in handy as well. “The mall management provided us water and power to run the washing machines. And we are using our donation funds to pay their water and power bills,” said Sandhu, who, along with his band of compatriots, is now the de facto laundry incharge at the protest.At any point through the day, there are at least six sportspersons handling the machines as thousands of clothes are washed here every day. Sandhu oversees the laundry operations, and services at a langar -- one of the largest ones that caters to about 4,000 people every meal.“Some sportspersons in our team also look after the security at the stage,” said Sandhu.In the last 100 days, several farmers have come and gone, but these sportspersons have faced little trouble.“Whenever we fall short of anything, be it parts of the washing machine, detergent or ration, all I have to do is hand over a list to farmers returning home. They send us everything we ask for,” said Sandhu.Until the Republic Day tractor rally that descended into chaos, Sandhu had returned home just once -- for a single day. After that, he has been back twice to meet his two children, for two days each time. “We are now looking at the possibility of us protesting here for six months, a year or even beyond,” he said.His family does pester him to return -- they know what it is to have relatives gone away for long durations. “There are so many people in my village serving in the army or working in other countries. Sacrifices have to be made to achieve something,” says Sandhu, who took to farming after his career in sports.He is confident that the protests can continue uninterrupted for much longer. “We sportspersons are disciplined people. That is ensuring we don’t get scared by adverse situations, and never stray from the right path,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/football-player-who-runs-singhu-s-laundromat-101614966899204.html
06-03-2021||Delhi||His space to read and debate is now a place for learning||About a fortnight after the protest against three contentious farm laws began at the Singhu border, 27-year-old Sukhwinder Singh Barwa realised that while basic needs such as food, medicines and toilet facilities were slowly being taken care of, the farmers still lacked an avenue to constructively use their time while union leaders held talks with the government.By December 15, Barwa and a bunch of his friends set up “Sanjhi Sath”, a 2,400 square feet space that would house a library, organise a daily discussion where protesters could voice their opinions and share thoughts, and earmark a space to prepare posters.Over time, however, what was then unplanned turned out to be the biggest success -- a school for the children from the nearby slums.“We were occupying the space belonging to the locals. We were using their facilities. We had to find way to repay their debt. So, we decided to educate their children during our stay here,” said Barwa, who is from Punjab’s Roopnagar district.A hundred days into the protest, about 170 children -- aged between three and 13 -- have attended these classes held for three hours (11am to 2pm), six days a week.“There are 10 teachers, mostly older students, who have been imparting lessons up to Class 8,” said Barwa, who takes drawing and painting classes.The heavy barricading at the protest site, specially after the violence during the January 26 tractor rally, led to several most students not being able to attend the “school” for a few days. “But the children were back soon, even if it meant walking a kilometre or two extra,” said Barwa.The library, which is equipped with historical, religious and agricultural books in English, Hindi and Punjabi, apart from a host of newspapers and magazines, remains open through the day; as does the space for painting slogans on posters and banners.When the school ends around 2pm, Barwa and his team start clearing the space to prepare for the discussion, akin to Parliament debates, for two hours every day (6.30pm to 8.30pm).“There are about 200 farmers in attendance every day. Those wishing to put forward their views and suggestions are allotted three minutes each to speak,” said Barwa who moderates these sessions.Friday was the 99th day at the protest site for Barwa, but he said this was just the beginning. “Organising these events is becoming easier by the day. We are ready to face summer heat. What else can shake us. We are here for years, if need be!” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/his-space-to-read-and-debate-is-now-a-place-for-learning-101614966839264.html
06-03-2021||Delhi||Abuse survivor who’s now the first legal port of call||Lawyer Simranjeet Kaur Gill, 34, says she chose to stay back in Mohali when her family moved to Canada a decade ago. “I’ve survived child abuse, and knew that I had to work within the community to address the problem. So I set up an NGO with my cousins to work with child abuse survivors, victims of domestic abuse, and rape victims,” she said.For the last few months, Gill has been helping farmers, particularly women, who have gathered in the thousands at Delhi’s Singhu border to protest against three contentious farm laws that aim to liberalise the agrarian economy. While her work during the initial days of the protest site included raising awareness and mobilising women, Gill and her legal team are now providing legal aid to farmers who are facing court cases, including those filed in connection with the tractor rally on January 26.Though she returned to Mohali in February, her group “Lawyers for Kisan”, continues to work at Singhu. She said she’d fallen ill, and is raring to get back. “While I can’t work with them physically these days, I am connected with my team on social media, tracking the bail applications, and providing legal help wherever necessary. I am waiting to recover so that I can return to the site,” Gill said.She coordinates with 150 lawyers at the three farmer agitation spots – Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur.“Before the violence, we were mainly working with women protesters, running awareness drives, and setting up camps at protest sites to cater to the specific needs of women protesters. We also made efforts to arrange for portable toilets for women. But after the January 26 violence, we realised that we need to focus on arranging legal aid for the protesters,” she said.“We constantly man our helpline numbers and volunteer desks. We have also made announcements from the stage for protesting farmers to come and share any information they have on those arrested and their families. Our group is also in touch with their families,” she said.After the tractor rally violence, Gill and her team visited the trolleys that have been converted into makeshift accommodations and collected information about the events of January 26. “Lot of rumours were floating around on the tractor march. My team spoke to thousands of farmers at the protest site, and I too spoke to at least a hundred of them to record the events of the day so that we could understand what happened that day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/abuse-survivor-who-s-now-the-first-legal-port-of-call-101614966779285.html
06-03-2021||Jaipur||Out on bail, rape accused sets woman complainant on fire in Rajasthan||A 30-year-old woman was struggling for her life with 70% burn injuries after a man accused of raping her set her afire in Rajasthan’s Hanumangarh district on Thursday.Police said the woman was rushed to a Bikaner hospital in critical condition. “We have detained the accused identified as Pradeep Bishnoi. He is being interrogated,” said Praful Kumar, inspector general of police, Bikaner range.Also Read | Priyanka’s speech in Mathura interrupted after protest over Rajasthan rape casePolice have retrieved CCTV footage from near the crime scene that shows the man, who was out on bail, running after setting the woman on fire and then fleeing on a bike. They said the woman had lodged a rape case against Bishnoi two years ago. “The case is being closely investigated from every angle,” said Kumar.The woman’s grandmother told the police that Bishnoi jumped a wall and set her granddaughter on fire before fleeing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/out-on-bail-rape-accused-sets-woman-complainant-on-fire-in-rajasthan-101614926395186.html
