07-03-2021||Other||YourSpace: Punekars treat mask rule like helmet campaign... wearable when able; hence, fines are a must||“I support wearing masks. It is one of the vital precautions for anyone going outside the home. It is really necessary, but, people are not following it. Therefore, the government has imposed a fine. Despite that, people are ignoring it. Punekars are treating masks like the helmet campaign.“Another thing which I have to highlight is that political leaders and party workers are not wearing masks during agitations and political gatherings, which we see on the television. It is sending the wrong message to the public. Police should impose a fine on them too, but, it is not happening. The government machinery is collecting fines from common citizens. The law should be equal for all.Sneha Kamble, primary school teacher “Though vaccination has started in the country, everyone should take precautions. Wearing a mask is a basic rule which everyone should follow. Government agencies are appealing to everyone from day one to wear a mask, but very few people responded. Now, the government has made it compulsory to wear a mask. It is everyone’s duty to wear it. It becomes a new social ritual to fight against Covid-19.”Dr Vaishali Jadhav, PMC assistant medical officer “It is necessary for everyone to wear a mask, especially those who are going to college and office. It is a general perception that youngsters are at the forefront of breaking the rules. This is not true. Most he youngsters are obeying the law, especially related to masks. College students should use masks as a fashion, so it becomes easy to follow the rule. The fine is okay, but, the government should make it half for students, as they have to depend on pocket money.”Isha Adsul, college student “People are still not serious about wearing masks. So, the fine amount must increase. People are very keen on their rights, but careless about their duty. People should consider social responsibility and wear masks to stop spreading Covid-19.”- Aarti Potphode, working woman“The government administration should take strict action against offenders. Breaking the rule of wearing a mask must be considered a criminal act. Otherwise, people, especially Punekars, will treat it like the helmet rule. People will pay the fine and police will consider it as one of the ways of revenue generation. Aparna Kirve, housewife “People are blaming the police for imposing fines without considering fact and situation. This is not true. Our intention is not to fine people and collect money. We care for them. The government made the rule of fines and when the public failed to respond the country faced the worst situation. If we want to avoid it, we should follow the rule.”Satish Shinde, police constable “We suffered last year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. We should learn something from that. We should follow very basic things, like wearing a mask. I have observed that people are ready to spend lakhs of rupees for hospitalisation, but are not ready to wear a mask costing Rs50. At least for our families, people should wear masks. Then there is no need to pay a fine.Prashant Kulkarni, employee at a private company “Instead of properly sensitising people and convincing them of the need to wear masks, the government has resorted to imposing a fine of ₹500. Before the second wave, we observed police targeting people and collecting money. It became one of the main agenda, to collect fines for not wearing a mask. After too much criticism, the government gave some relaxation for four-wheelers. On the other hand, the public should also follow the rule.Sudhir Kulkarni, civic activist“People are not following rules. Therefore, the government imposed a fine. It is for the people to take care of their health. People are not taking precautions. Actually, the government wants to control Covid-19, but people are not cooperating. We faced a problem last year. To overcome these problems in our day-to-day life, we should have to follow the rule seriously. It is social commitment. I think the fine of Rs500 is a reasonable amount.”Fakkad Sakore, advocate“It is necessary to use a mask to avoid the spread of Covid-19. Last year, I had to pay a fine for not wearing a mask. In the evening, I left the office had a mask but it was not on the nose. Police stopped me at a signal and imposed a fine of Rs500. Actually, police and Pune corporation officials should instruct people who wear masks to do so properly. Fine those who don’t wear masks at all. For common people, the amount is heavy. Some people earn ₹500 in day. How can they pay a fine? I think, the amount should be Rs200 and officials should provide a mask along with the fine.Political leaders and top officials are not wearing masks. These actions misguide the common public and encourage the public to break the rule. It should be avoided.Vijay Damale, citizen||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yourspace-punekars-treat-mask-rule-like-helmet-campaign-wearable-when-able-hence-fines-are-a-must-101615141573381.html
07-03-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali’s public libraries closed for over a year||For more than a year, six libraries under the Mohali municipal corporation located in various green belts of the city, have been closed due to staff shortage. Five of these don’t even have books. Even though MC officials claim they have been shut due to pandemic, they also say that they are waiting for approval of the staff from the state government.On the other hand, residents say the libraries are not being opened on the pretext of the pandemic, but in reality, there is no staff to maintain them. Around four years back, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) had spent ₹20 lakh on each library and handed it over to MC. In May 2019, MC had made them functional and open to public. But, they have been closed since March last year.These libraries are in Phases 4, 6, 3B1 and 9; and Sectors 69 and 70. There were around 18 people employed in these libraries on ad-hoc basis, but all of them have been sacked, without being paid their salaries.MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said one reason for keeping the libraries closed is the pandemic. “Also, we have taken up the matter with state government for approval of recruiting the staff. We are hopeful of opening the libraries in a month’s time.”The libraries are not well-stocked as the books have been donated by residents and not bought by the civic body. There is also no policy in place for membership or issuing of books. Due to this, students and scholars have limited options and are forced to go to the public libraries in Sectors 17 or 34 in Chandigarh .Some of them even lack basic facilities such as furniture and drinking water. There are no sign boards to indicate that a building is indeed a library.MC councillor Sukhdev Singh Patwari, said, “The sad part is, it has been more than one year since the libraries were closed in the name of pandemic. When the state government has opened all schools and colleges, why can’t they open libraries. Even after two years of inauguration, the civic body has not floated tenders for procuring new books. The employees are feeling cheated as they haven’t received salaries and now been sacked. In the Sector 70 library, there are only 1,500 books, which have been donated by residents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohalis-public-libraries-closed-for-over-a-year-101615140734375.html
07-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tribunal awards ₹83L to kin of banker killed in mishap||The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT), Chandigarh, has awarded a compensation of ₹82.97 lakh to a city family in a 2017 accident case in which a banker had lost his life.The claim petition was filed by Anu Bala, the widow of the 40-year-old victim, Sushil Kumar; his 19-year-old daughter Aanchal; and 10-year-old son Anshul of Sector 19D.The petition was filed on March 5, 2018, against Pankaj Kumar of Kangra, who was driving the vehicle; Sumit Mehta of Delhi, who owned the car, and insurer TATA AIG General Insurance Company Limited, Chandigarh.It was mentioned in the petition that on December 11, 2017, Kumar, who was posted as assistant manager with Oriental Bank of Commerce in Palampur, Kangra, was returning to his house in Mashrer village.Family had sought ₹2 crore“He was driving his motorcycle at a moderate speed. However at about 7pm, when he reached near Bhadwal village, one Maruti SX4, which was being driven in rash and negligent manner,came from the opposite side. It hit Sushil’s motorcycle who later succumbed to injuries,” the petition mentioned.Stating that Kumar was earning ₹70,000 per month, the family sought a grant of ₹2 crore as compensation.None appeared on behalf of the owner and the driver of the car, and they were “proceeded against ex parte”. The insurer stated in its reply that the amount claimed was highly exaggerated. “The driver was not holding a valid driving licence. The claimant has filed a false claim petition,” it pleaded.After hearing the arguments, judge Sajiv Joshi, MACT, awarded a compensation of ₹82.97 lakh to the family. While 50% of the amount is for the widow, 25% each are for the two children.“In view of the findings on the above issues, the claim petition is partly allowed with cost and the three respondents are jointly and severally directed to pay the compensation amounting to ₹82,97,659 along with 6% interest per annum from the date of filing of the petition,” the order read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tribunal-awards-83l-to-kin-of-banker-killed-in-mishap-101615140613876.html
07-03-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad municipal corporation to bring 60,000 properties under tax ambit||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad municipal corporation has decided in-principle that clusters in the city which had been left out from the ambit of property tax will now be levied the same. Officials said that this proposal, among some others, were taken up during the corporation’s executive committee meeting held March 3 and the decisions will further proceed to the corporation’s board.According to officials, several clusters have not been charged property tax by the municipal corporation since years as they were brought under its jurisdiction either very late or faced issues in handover by respective development agencies.For residential properties, tax will be levied from the 2020-21 financial year, while commercial properties will be taxed from the 2019-20 fiscal.As of now, the Ghaziabad corporation has about 363,000 properties under its jurisdiction.Officials estimate that with this decision, about 50,000 residential properties and another 10,000 commercial properties will be brought under the corporation’s tax net.Officials said that the corporation had been mulling over bringing all excluded properties located under its jurisdiction areas under the tax net since past several years.“We have decided that all clusters which had been left out from the tax net will now be charged tax from financial year 2020-21 for residential properties. Commercial properties will be charged starting from financial year 2019-20. However, this tax structure will not be applicable for clusters where some properties were left out or in case notices have already been served for tax collection,” said MS Tanwar, municipal-commissioner.Officials said Geographic information system (GIS) mapping is being conducted to assess construction of new houses in Ghaziabad. GIS mapping is a framework for gathering and analyzing data. It analyzes spatial location and organizes layers of information into visualizations using maps and 3D scenes and helps reveal patterns, relationships, and situations for smart decision-making.“We are surveying such clusters in all the five corporation zones,” Tanwar added.HT had reported last month that draft GIS-based Master Plan-2031 for Ghaziabad city will include a new feature that proposes to offer all official details of each housing unit in the district at the click of a button.“Under the new feature every housing unit in Ghaziabad will be identified and all details of the property will be made available online under one head. The details will be available on the GDA website. It will also help us manage real estate, manage land use and check illegal activities in different areas. The feature will also help us readily share relevant details with the municipal corporation, discom etc.,” Ghaziabad Development Authority’s chief architect and town planner Asheesh Shivpuri had told HT last month.“The corporation is also carrying on a GIS survey which is likely to identify new properties, so as to bring them under the tax net. The survey is likely to be finished by April 15. It is estimated that once all modalities are chalked out and the survey is complete, we will have about five lakh properties under the tax net, including those previously left out,” said Sanjeev Kumar Sinha, the corporation’s chief tax assessment officer told HT last week.Property tax has three components – house tax, water tax, and sewage & drainage tax. As of now, the corporation’s annual income from tax collection is about ₹125 crore.Under a proposed structure of taxation, localities in about 100 residential wards will be categorised under three heads based on rental values which are proposed to be linked to the circle rates set by the district magistrate’s office. While category ‘A’ comprises prime localities of the highest rental value, category ‘B’ is for lower rental value while category ‘C’ will comprise localities which are least developed and have the least rental value.Categories of properties based on their location on roads of varying width – less than 12 metres; between 12 metres and 24 metres; and over 24 metres - will have a proportional impact on the tax.“We received about 318 objections in response to our earlier proposal for categorising properties for the purpose of levying tax. A committee of officers will soon start to take calls on the objections,” he added.SERVICE CHARGESIn another decision, officials said the corporation also decided not to levy user charges from houses where door-to-door garbage collection vehicles have not provided services due to the lanes being too narrow, or any other reason.The corporation charges anything between ₹30 to ₹70 per month for door-to-door collection of solid-waste in the 100 residential wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-municipal-corporation-to-bring-60-000-properties-under-tax-ambit-101615140493219.html
07-03-2021||City||Gujarat Congress did not seek my opinion regarding local body polls: Patel||Gujarat Congress working president Hardik Patel on Sunday slammed the functioning of the state unit after the party's humiliating defeat in the local body elections, claiming that no work was given to him in the polls and his opinion was also not sought for ticket distribution.He, however, also dismissed speculation about leaving the Congress in the future and said he would remain in the party and carry out whatever responsibility he is given.In an interview with PTI, Patel also raised questions over the understanding of the party's central leadership of Gujarat and said the Congress has failed to struggle as an opposition in the state.In order to strengthen the party, the high command has to understand Gujarat, he said.Patel also argued that the legislators have to be kept away from the work of the organisation.The comments by Patel, who was the face of the Patidar quota agitation in 2015, came days after the BJP won all 31 district panchayats, 74 out of 81 municipalities and also trounced its main rival Congress in 231 taluka panchayats.The success followed the BJP's clean sweep in elections for six municipal corporations in the first phase last month. The Congress could not even open its account in the Surat Municipal Corporation.Following the party's debacle, Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda and leader of opposition Paresh Dhanani sent their resignations to the party leadership.When asked about the reasons for the party's defeat, Patel said, "We have failed to win the public's trust. The struggle which we should have undertaken as an opposition, we have failed in that. The public feels that the Congress did not do its job as an opposition and that is why the Aam Aadmi Party got votes in many places." "In Surat, people from our movement had asked for only two tickets. The party did not even give that. Just because of those two seats we lost all the 36 seats there," he said.It is worth noting that in the last civic elections, the Congress had won more than 30 seats in the Patidar-dominated areas of Surat.Without naming any leader, Patel claimed, "I am the working president and I had no role in ticket distribution. I was told that the working president has no role in it. Nevertheless, I held several meetings on my own. I was not given any programme or work by the Pradesh Congress Committee." "Preparations for the local body elections had been going on for three months. Not even once in three months have I been told that you have to do this work. Tickets were distributed in more than 5,000 seats, but not even for one seat, I was asked to give my opinion. Even in Patidar-dominated areas, my opinion was not taken," he said.Asked about the resignation of Amit Chavda from the post of state president and Paresh Dhanani from the post of the leader of opposition, Patel said, "If I were also the president, I would have taken responsibility. They have resigned, but the responsibility lies with everyone." "Now everyone has to work hard," he added. Asked if the Congress high command did not take necessary steps in time, Patel said they have to understand Gujarat, and give importance to it. "We have not been in power in the state for 30 years. If we do not understand Gujarat, young workers like us will be left disappointed. The party is slumping day by day and no one is paying attention," Patel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gujarat-congress-did-not-seek-my-opinion-regarding-local-body-polls-patel-101615139984881.html
07-03-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: 10,000 ‘stolen’ phone batteries seized, two nabbed||Greater Noida: The police Saturday night nabbed two men from the Haldoni crossing in Greater Noida and recovered over 10,000 phone batteries apart from other gadgets allegedly from them.According to the police, a vehicle checking drive was going on in the Ecotech 3 police jurisdiction when the suspects came by in a car.“A WagonR bearing a Delhi number plate coming towards the Haldoni turn was stopped for checking. The two men in the car claimed they were transporting phone merchandise from Rajasthan. However, they could not produce any document related to the purchase, sale or transportation of the goods,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Harish Chander.Police said that at least 10,080 phone batteries were recovered from the vehicle along with 220 LCD displays, 220 touch-screen phones and 22 android phones. The car was also seized. Even though the exact cost of the goods could not be determined, the police said they suspect it to be worth several lakhs.A senior police officer, requesting not to be identified, said that all the merchandise belongs to an Indian manufacturer and appears to be stolen.“We are working on getting in touch with the alleged manufacturers, from where the men claimed to have been coming, and to identify the rightful owners. Due action will be taken,” said the DCP.The suspects were booked under Section 414 (assisting in concealment of stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code at the Ecotech 3 police station. They were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-10-000-stolen-phone-batteries-seized-two-nabbed-101615140013208.html
07-03-2021||Other||Greater Noida authority to hold camps for registering flats||GREATER NOIDA: The Greater Noida authority has decided to set up special camps this month to help homebuyers register flats.Chief executive officer of Greater Noida authority, Narendra Bhooshan, has directed the Group Housing Department (GHD) to be present at the sub-registrar office in Dadri for registering flats during the special drive on March 9, 12, 16, 18, 23, 25 and 30. This move comes following the instructions of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who said “issues of the homebuyers be addressed on a priority basis”. UP chief secretary RK Tiwari reviewed the matter on March 3 via a video call. Residents have been facing issues in registering around 20,000 such units.CS RK Tiwari met Noida authority officials on Saturday (March 6), and directed them to make sure that the homebuyers do not face any issue. “Buyers, builders and the GHD will be present during the special drive,” said Deep Chand, additional chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.There are around 30,000 flats that are yet to be transferred via execution of registration. The homebuyers have been living in their flats for four to five years, without an execution of registry, said officials. According to the rules, the authority clerk, the buyer and the builder’s representative need to be present at the office to carry out the registration. After this, the flat will be transferred in the name of the buyer. The buyer has to approach both the builder and the authority for the registry, and the “process is troublesome”. “We are happy that the authority has planned the special drive. It will become easier to get the registration done,” said Abhishek Kumar, president, Noida Extension Flat Owners Welfare Association (NEFOWA).Realtors are also planning to take part in the drive. “We welcome the Greater Noida authority’s move. The buyers would not have to go places to get the registration done,” said RK Arora, president, UP National Real Estate Development Council (NREDC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/greater-noida-authority-to-hold-camps-for-registering-flats-101615139953187.html
07-03-2021||Other||Jewar airport: 238 farmers get plots||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar administration on Saturday allotted residential plots in Jewar Bangar village to 238 farmers whose land was acquired for the construction of Noida International Airport project in Jewar. Officials said that it was the first round of land allotments to the affected farmers who are from Nangla Ganeshi village. “The land of Nangla Ganeshi village comes in the runway area. We acquired the land in the first phase. On Saturday, we allotted plots to 238 farmers,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar. According to the officials, the farmers will build homes in the allotted plots in Jewar Bangar, where the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) is developing a township and providing basic facilities like road, water, sewage, and power connections under the “Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013”. A total of 8,971 farmers’ families have given either their agricultural land or houses for the airport. Of them, 3,627 families will be displaced, the officials said, adding that each farmer/family will get a plot having size 50% of their existing land/house.On Saturday, plot sizes ranging from 50 to 500 square metres were allotted based on the land acquired for the project from each family, they said.The DM said that the farmers will shift to the new location in due course. “The farmers will build homes on the developed plots. During this time, if any farmers face difficulties in finding accommodation, we have given them an option to stay in government flats,” Suhas said. However, the DM said that the farmers have not shown interest in staying in the flats. The magistrate said that the plot allotment to farmers is the final step under the rehabilitation and resettlement scheme. Yeida has some flats under the EWS scheme which can be used for this purpose, the officials said. Shailendra Bhatia, officer on special duty, Yeida, said that the rehabilitation and resettlement scheme is looked after by the district administration. “We have some flats in Sector 22-D. The administration can use them if needed,” he said. A total of 1,334 hectares were acquired in the first phase. Yeida has to acquire 1,365 hectares for phase 2; 1,318 hectares for phase 3, and 735 hectares for phase 4. In total, the airport is projected to have five runways when it is developed to its full capacity over a total of 5,000 hectares of land. There will be two runways in phase 1 which is expected to become operational by 2023-24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jewar-airport-238-farmers-get-plots-101615139893808.html
07-03-2021||Other||Air quality in Noida, Ghaziabad deteriorates||Noida: The air quality in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad deteriorated further on Sunday as the wind speed dropped in the afternoon, said the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Noida turned warmer as the maximum temperature has increased by 3° Celsius in the past 24 hours, with weather analysts expecting the maximum temperature to soar by 2°-3° C after March 12.“Due to a western disturbance, thunderstorms are expected in some isolated parts of the National Capital Region and the wind speed dropped in the afternoon, leading to an aggregation of the pollutant particles. Another western disturbance is expected from March 11. The NCR may not receive rainfall, but the western disturbance may have its effect in neighbouring Punjab and Haryana. The maximum temperature will remain under check till March 12,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.The wind speed may hover between 12 kmph and 15 kmph till March 12, Srivastava added.“Surface winds are moderate and easterly as predicted. Moderate ventilation is likely in the next 48 hours. The AQI is likely to stay within ’poor’ and ’moderate’ categories in the next two days,” according to the SAFAR on Sunday.The maximum and minimum temperatures in Noida were recorded at 33.3° C and 16.3° C respectively on Sunday, against 30.9° C and 17° C on Saturday. The maximum and minimum temperatures at Safdarjung observatory, considered average for the Delhi-NCR, was recorded at 34° C (5° C above the season’s average) and 14.4° C (season’s average).The air quality in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad deteriorated from ‘moderate’ levels to ‘poor’ and ‘very poor’ categories on Saturday. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the air quality in the area will oscillate between ‘poor’ and ‘moderate’ categories.The air quality index (AQI) in Noida was recorded at 278, Greater Noida (270) and Ghaziabad (329) on Sunday, said the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The AQI in Noida was recorded at 182, Greater Noida (204) and Ghaziabad (213) on Saturday, it added.On a scale of 0 to 500, an AQI level up to 100 is considered ‘good’, 101 to 200 is ‘moderate’, 201 to 300 is ‘poor’, 301 to 400 is ‘very poor’, and above 400 is ‘severe’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/air-quality-in-noida-ghaziabad-deteriorates-101615139893174.html
07-03-2021||Noida||Three cops sent to police lines over negligence of duty||Noida: Three police personnel were recalled to the police lines on Sunday for alleged dereliction of duty leading to mismanagement of traffic.According to police officials, the in-charge of Mamura police post under Phase 3 police jurisdiction and two constables deployed there, who had been tasked with managing traffic coming from the Noida elevated road and going towards sector 71, were found negligent in their duty. “It was found yesterday that the three police personnel were missing from their designated post during peak traffic hours,” said Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, zone 2.A senior police official on Saturday had first discovered the negligence following which action was taken against the three policemen cops, the officials said, adding that they were recalled to the Surajpur police lines until further investigation.“The three policemen should have been at the spot managing traffic, along with a constable from the traffic department. Instead, they were found sitting elsewhere by a senior official who was passing through the area. Other personnel have now been deployed at the spot to manage traffic,” said a police official.In September last year, a sub-inspector deployed at the sector 39 police station had been suspended for alleged negligence in performing his duty in a missing person’s case and failing to register a complaint despite the family’s insistence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-cops-sent-to-police-lines-over-negligence-of-duty-101615139774401.html
07-03-2021||Noida||Women cyber cell to be set up in cyber police stations across UP||Noida: The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to set up a ‘women cyber cell’ at each cyber police station in the state to deal with cases such as cyberstalking and cyberbullying. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath will inaugurate the initiative on the Women’s Day on March 8, officials said, adding that the women cell will have one sub-inspector and two constables.“The cases of online stalking and bullying have increased in recent times. The women cyber cell will specifically deal with women-related cybercrime. The team will be trained in dealing with cybercrimes. We will also provide required tools and equipment to deal with such cases,” said Ram Kumar, UP’s additional director general of police (cybercrime). There are 18 cyber police stations in various cities, including Noida, Lucknow, Agra, Aligarh, Saharanpur, Prayagraj, Bareilly, Moradabad, and Gorakhpur. The cyber police stations in Lucknow and Noida started in 2018, while others were inaugurated in August last year. These cyber police stations directly report to Lucknow, and do not come under the respective district police. Noida has a cyber police station in Sector 36.Besides, there are also cyber cells in each district’s police department, the officials said. Awanish Kumar Awasthi, UP’s additional chief secretary, on March 4 had issued a letter to the UP police to develop women cyber cell at all the cyber police stations in the state. The UP director general of police, HC Awasthi, recently also issued a letter to the additional DGP (cybercrime) and regional police chief informing about the setting up of the cell at the cyber police stations.“Women sometimes face unwanted situations over the internet and social media. Most of these cases are related to cyberstalking and cyberbullying. Under Phase 2 of the Mission Shakti programme, all the cyber police stations will have a women cyber cell,” said the DGP’s letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/women-cyber-cell-to-be-set-up-in-cyber-police-stations-across-up-101615139773850.html
07-03-2021||Other||No Covid-19 death in last two months in Noida||NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar district has not reported a single death due to Covid-19 since January 6 or in the past two months, according to the state health bulletin. However, as many as 540 new cases have been detected in the district between January 6 and March 6, the data shows.The last time GB Nagar had witnessed a Covid-19 death was on January 5 this year. So far, the virus has claimed 91 deaths in the district which had reported its first Covid-19 positive case on March 8. At present, the district has 84 active cases, as per the state data.GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that the district’s low fatality rate is due to the administration’s emphasis on early detection of Covid-19 cases. “Due to the continuous efforts of doctors, paramedical staff and personnel from other departments, we tested over 10 lakh persons so far. It was the result of the increased testing that the district started witnessing a continuous reduction in positivity rate and cases of new infection since mid-October last year,” he said. The DM further said that the integrated Covid-19 control room in sector 59 worked well in fight with the Covid-19 in the district. “It helped improve our surveillance and contact tracing as early detection of cases and containing the pandemic was the most important job in the beginning. And, now the same control room serves as a counselling centre for the vaccinated beneficiaries,” he said. “Earlier, we focussed on non-pharmaceutical interventions like enforcement of social distancing norms and wearing of masks. And, now when the vaccination has started, we’ve started to clear people’s apprehension about the vaccine. As a result, the vaccination cover in the district is increasing day by day. Till date, over 30,000 doses have been given to the beneficiaries in the district, ” Suhas said. GB Nagar chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that it was the ‘tracking, testing and treating’ methodology of the district administration that we crossed the worst phase of infection from May to December last year, during which 90 people lost their lives battling Covid-19. “The current year is much better for the district as except the death of a 62-year-old Covid-19 infected cancer patient on January 5, no other death due to the viral infection has been reported. Even the number of the daily average cases – which were never below 80 between August and December last year, was reduced to 12.41 and 6.39 cases per day in January and February, respectively. This month so far, the average daily cases are less than 8,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-covid-19-death-in-last-two-months-in-noida-101615139713233.html
07-03-2021||Jaipur||Raje kicks off religious yatra, vows to oust Gehlot govt in Rajasthan||By Suresh FoujdarFormer Rajasthan chief minister and BJP national vice-president Vasundhara Raje started a two-day religious tour from Bharatpur on Sunday with an attack on chief minister Ashok Gehlot, saying that she had sought the blessing of lord Giriraj Maharaj to throw out the Congress government with the support of people.Giriraj Maharaj is the deity of a temple in Bharatpur from where she started her yatra. Coinciding with Raje’s religious yatra, state BJP chief Satish Poonia launched a ‘Halla Bol’ programme through social media against the state government on loan waiver, law and order, and women’s safety, a development that experts see as a divide in the party.“The development of the state has stopped. I have come to pray to Giriraj Maharaj to bless and give strength to all of us so that we can uproot this anti-development Ashok Gehlot government, which is divided into two, and bring out development to the state again,” Raje said, addressing a gathering in Bharatpur.Also read: ‘Pure cobra...’ - Mithun Chakraborty after joining BJP ahead of West Bengal polls“I am deeply grateful to everyone for the love and blessings that the people of the state gave me on my birthday.” Raje celebrated her birthday with her supporters in Bharatpur.She said, “I have a strong faith in this area. That is why our government got the development of Sapta Kosi and Braj Chaurasi Kos Parikrama Marg at a cost of ₹200 crore and worked for the conservation and development of the famous Vimal Kund at a cost of ₹3.60 lakh. Pahari Distributary Gurgaon Main Canal was developed at a cost of ₹11.12 crore. To quench the thirst of Bharatpur, Dholpur, Alwar, Jhalawar, Baran, Kota, Bundi, Sawai Madhopur, Ajmer, Tonk, Jaipur, Dausa and Karoli districts, our government had started work on the Eastern Rajasthan Canal Project (ERCP) project after getting a detailed project report done.”Raje said her government had sanctioned ₹1,600 crore for the construction of Navnera Barrage in Kota district. The work on Navnera Barrage is in progress.“The state government should not do politics on the ERCP, a lifeline for 13 districts, because it is the religion of the state government to fulfil the basic needs of the people. They should carry forward this project of ours. Not only in this region but development has stopped in the entire state,” she said.Raje thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for paving the way for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya.Referring to Bharatpur, which is an important Krishna circuit, she said, “It is a happy coincidence that a grand Ram temple is being built in Ram Janmabhoomi from the sacred stones of this holy Krishna Janmabhoomi area. I have a deep connection with this religious area, so this time I have decided to pay homage to the holy places of worship here and celebrate my birthday.”Sandstones from the Bansi Pahadpur hills of Bharatpur are bring used for constructing the Ram temple.Raje said, “Today, all I can say is that my mother (late Vijaya Raje Scindia) has lit the ‘deepak’ (political symbol of Jan Sangh) and has nourished the lotus. She neither allowed the flame of the lamp to subside nor did she let the lotus fade. BJP and nationalism were in her veins and I am her daughter.”After a night halt, Raje will attend the early morning arti at Adi Badrinath temple in Bharatpur on Monday and will then go to Kedarnath temple at 12.30 pm. She will leave for Dholpur in a helicopter.According to reports, over 100 senior BJP leaders, including MLAs, MPs, former ministers, and party post holders, have reached Bharatpur to join Raje in her yatra. Most of the hotels in the city of Bharatpur are booked.Those who are in Bharatpur include Ranjita Koli, BJP MP from Bharatpur, Dr Manoj Rajoria, MP from Karauli-Dholpur; Sukhvir Singh Jonpuria, MP from Sawai Madhopur; and Ram Charan Bohra, MP from Jaipur.Senior leaders like Bhawani Singh Rajawat, along with former minister Yunus Khan, former state BJP chief Ashok Parnami, former women’s commission chief Suman Sharma and Babaulal Verma were also present in Bharatpur.Meanwhile, Poonia, while addressing the ‘Halla Bol’ programme via social media, said, “BJP has launched the programme on misrule, anarchy, corruption, inaction, crime and vandalism that have taken place across the state in the 27 months of the Congress rule.”Political experts say the divide between the senior BJP leaders is visible.“BJP national president JP Nadda had come to Jaipur a few days ago to unite the party leaders but his efforts are not converting into results. Before her last tenure also, Raje had carried out a religious yatra and the poll results went in her favour,” said Om Saini, senior political journalist.“However, this time the situation is different, and factionalism will not bring fruitful results for them,” he added.Another political analyst Tribhuvan said Raje had made it clear about her strength. “By mentioning 'deepak' and 'lotus' in her address, she clearly stated she has a rich political legacy of not only BJP but also Jan Sangh,” he said.“This time, Raje’s approach is not casual. Poonia holding the programme today indicates the uneasiness in the other faction,” he added.Factionalism within Rajasthan BJP has become more evident recently, with MLAs close to Raje writing to state party chief Poonia, complaining of being ignored in the state assembly. Earlier, her supporters held a meeting in the name of a ‘chintan baithak’ in Kota city and pitched for her to be the chief ministerial candidate in the next assembly polls.Reacting to allegations of Raje and Poonia, state Congress spokesperson Archana Sharma said, “There is a clash going on in the BJP for their survival. As both leaders cannot target each other publicly, they are taking the name of our party leaders.”State BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said, “Our respected leader Raje regularly visited religious places even when she was CM. Today’s programme of Raje was religious while ‘Halla Bol’ was completely political. Seeing both the events in the same light is not justifiable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/raje-kicks-off-religious-yatra-vows-to-oust-gehlot-govt-101615138993390.html
07-03-2021||Chandigarh||96 liquor vends to be auctioned in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh excise and taxation department is putting 96 liquor vends on auction for the next fiscal, up from 94 in 2020-21.The e-auction will begin on March 10 and bids can be submitted till March 18. The results will be declared on March 19. The highest reserve price of ₹7.95 crore has been set for a liquor vend in Dhanas. In 2019-2020, it had fetched the department ₹10.78 crore, highest among all vends. Last year, too, it went for ₹7.05 crore, the second-highest bid.Other vends with the highest reserve price this year are at Khuda Lahora/ Khuda Jassu ( ₹6.75 crore) and Sector 30 ( ₹6.4 crore). Vends near Chandigarh’s border with neighbouring states generally fetch high bids as liquor in the city is cheaper than in Mohali and Panchkula. Meanwhile, the reserve price of a vend in Sector 9, which had fetched the highest bid of ₹7.56 crore last year, is ₹6.1 crore. To curb the menace of cartelisation and monopolistic practices, a single entity of firms/companies/individuals will be entitled to allotment of up to a maximum of 10 vends.In the Chandigarh Excise Policy 2021-2022 announced on Wednesday, the administration has decided to keep the licence fee and excise duty on beer and wine unchanged. On the Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL), the duty has been increased by 6%, which is expected to increase the prices of popular liquor brands by 10-12%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/96-liquor-vends-to-be-auctioned-in-chandigarh-101615138994044.html
07-03-2021||Chandigarh||Women-led ventures to get a boost in Chandigarh Startup Policy 2021||To promote budding entrepreneurs, the UT administration will soon unveil the Chandigarh Startup Policy 2021, with “special emphasis” on women-led ventures.The policy also envisages a Chandigarh Seed Fund Scheme to provide early-stage startup financing, interest-free loans, empanelment of startup mentors, development of co-working spaces, and setting up of incubators.Once being promoted as an IT hub, Chandigarh has been lagging behind neighbouring cities, particularly Mohali, in terms of attracting new talent and setting up industrial units.“The aim of the new policy will be to invite the best entrepreneurial minds to make Chandigarh their professional base, and thereby build a robust startup ecosystem in the city. It will help reduce the regulatory burden on startups, thereby allowing them to focus on their core business and keep compliance cost low,” said a senior UT official, requesting anonymity.The policy will provide for incentives over and above the Startup India Action Plan of the Government of India. “In case the same benefit is enlisted in another policy of the UT administration, it may be availed under only one policy,” said the official. A startup portal (website) will also be created, which will be a one-stop platform for startups and ecosystem stakeholders containing all relevant information and resources. At least 10% of all goods and services will be procured by the administration from UT-registered startups, states the draft policy.Entrepreneurship CentreThe administration will set up a dedicated Entrepreneurship Centre for Women (ECW), which is envisaged as a hub for aspiring and seasoned women entrepreneurs providing access to mentorship, capacity building exercises, and other programs beneficial for women-led startups. The ECW shall run dedicated incubation and acceleration program for women on an annual or biannual basis.“A minimum of 33% of the Seed Fund interest-free loans will be dedicated to women-led startups meeting the eligibility criteria for availing the same,” said the official.A woman-led startup will be defined as the one with a woman as founder or co-Founder or chief experience officer.Seed fund for startupsThe Chandigarh Seed Fund will be a grant-in-aid based seed fund with an initial corpus of ₹10 crore and a total corpus of ₹50 crore over a period of five years to support over 500 entrepreneurs in the UT.The administration will provide collateral free loans of up to ₹10 lakh to UT-registered startups. These loans shall be interest-free for the first one year, following which the interest rate is likely to be fixed.Panel of mentorsA number of “startup mentors” with expertise in domains such as business model development, funding strategies, company registration, accounting and taxation, legal, and digital marketing will be empanelled.The mentor profiles will be hosted on the Startup Portal which will also contain a pathway for startups to reach out to these mentors for free. These mentors will also provide support to aspiring entrepreneurs, especially students, through ideation workshops.Incubators, co-working spacesThe administration will partner with higher education institutions and private players to set up state-of-the-art incubators or upgrade existing incubators in the UT.“An incubation centre for IT sector is operating since 2001. The new policy will focus on accommodating non-IT startups and expand the scope of incentivising private and institutional incubators, co-working spaces and startups,” the official said.The administration will create co-working facilities offering seats on rent for startups and innovators on a pay per use basis. The startups at co-working spaces would be able to access facilities such as high-speed internet, power backup secured access and 24X7 security with CCTV surveillance.Incentives for studentsEntrepreneurship Cells will be set up at all colleges as student-driven initiatives. Students who wish to pursue entrepreneurship will also be allowed to take a break of one year.Student entrepreneurs from UT-based institutes working on a startup idea in their graduation year may receive allowances, such as attendance relaxation, grace marks, and permission to convert their startup project into a final-year project counted towards their degree completion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/womenled-ventures-to-get-a-boost-in-chandigarh-startup-policy-2021-101615138873761.html
07-03-2021||Other||Check the oil your jalebis are being fried in||Have you ever watched samosas, puris, bhaturas, bread pakoras and jalebis being deep fried at a roadside eatery? The cooking oil often looks dark and murky from constant frying and repeated use of the same oil again and again. What the food seller probably does not know is that by continuously reheating the same oil, he is turning that viscous fluid into a toxic broth and putting at risk the health of his customers who eat food that has absorbed that oil and with it, the toxins.Scientists have for many years been expressing concern over the deleterious effects of consumption of re-heated cooking oil on our vital organs and advocating strict regulations to prevent the use of such oil. The worry over such consumption comes from studies that have not only shown the deterioration in the quality of edible oil on heating and reheating and the accumulation of various toxins in the oil, but also the ill-effects of consumption of foods fried in such oil. Many studies, several of them done in India , have shown the damage to liver, heart, kidney and the intestine caused by re-used oil in experimental rats. Similarly analysis of their blood samples have shown elevated levels of glucose, cholesterol and creatinine. To put it simply, consumption of such oil could cause cancer, besides hypertension, diabetes, vascular inflammation and neurodegenerative diseases. Taking note of all this, the food safety regulator first advocated in the Food Safety and Standards (Licensing and Registration of Food Businesses) Regulation that food business operators avoid re-use of cooking oil. “Reheating and reuse of oil should be avoided as far as possible. Avoid using leftover oil wherever possible” the regulation said. Obviously, such general provisions did not have the desired effect. Since the presence of polar compounds in oil is one of the best indicators of heated oil quality, the FSSAI in 2017 amended the regulation to prohibit the use of vegetable oils with more than 25% of Total Polar Compound and directed state food commissioners to enforce it. Subsequently in October 2020, it further tightened the regulation on the safety of edible oils by amending the FSS (Prohibition and Restriction on Sales) Regulations and said the TPC in unused or fresh vegetable oil or fat shall not be more than 15% and used vegetable oil or fat with a TPC of over 25% shall not be used. The regulator also took several steps to prevent the sale of re-used oil from large food businesses to dhabas and roadside vendors and also ensure safe disposal of used oil. One of them was to direct all large FBOS whose consumption of edible oil was more than 50 litres per day, to maintain records of disposal of the oil. The other was to launch the “Repurpose Used Cooking Oil Project’ to facilitate collection of used edible oil from food industries, fast food chains and large hotels through authorized agents or aggregators for transportation to biodiesel plants for production of biodiesel.Since roadside food vendors may not be able to afford hand held devices to check the TPC percentage of the oil, FSSAI is advising them not to use the same oil more than thrice. However, repeated heating and re-use of cooking oil is so rampant among them that forcing compliance requires persistent efforts by the state food regulators, including education of vendors , regular checks on the TPC percentage and a system of incentives and disincentives.In fact, a pilot study undertaken in 2018 by the enforcement agency in Ahmedabad indicated that 40% of the eateries across the city re-used oil whose TPC value was over 25%.! A media report quoting municipal authorities there said among street vendors this percentage might well be around 80%.So consumers need to remain alert and question the state food safety commissioners on the enforcement of the law. Of course at home too, consumers need to ensure the safety of the oil that they use. More on that in my next column.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/check-the-oil-your-jalebis-are-being-fried-in-101615138333062.html
07-03-2021||Mumbai||MMRDA seeks green nod for Metro project in Aarey, department defers proposal||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has tabled a proposal before the Maharashtra environment department to obtain an environmental clearance (EC) for its contentious Metro Bhavan project in Aarey Colony, a site already at the centre of a few political rows for the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. The government —comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress — has been vocal in its support towards protecting the city’s prime green lung, even shifting a proposed Metro car shed from Aarey to Kanjurmarg.The MMRDA proposal, seeking an EC for a 32-storey building named Metro Bhavan at Survey No. 589A, Village Pahadi, Goregaon East, was tabled on December 17, 2020, via an MMRDA letter to the environment department, attached with requisite paperwork. The matter was then recommended for clearance by a State Level Expert Appraisal Committee (SEAC) on Feb 17, “subject to compliances”. The proposal was further considered by the State Environmental Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) on Feb 26, when it was “deferred for compliance of change of land use,” as per publicly available documents accessed by the Hindustan Times.The MMRDA’s proposal is listed as application number SIA/MH/MIS/188820/2020 on PARIVESH, a single-window online portal for processing environmental and CRZ clearances. Confirming that the authority has received MMRDA’s proposal, Vijay Shantilal Nahata, chairman of the SEIAA, said, “The project has presently not been given EC.” After assuming office in November 2019, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, responding to public outcry, had stalled construction of the Metro-3 car shed and stated that there will be no more felling of trees in the area. Despite declaring over 600 acres of Aarey Colony as a reserved forest since then, the government has not publicly cleared its stance on the Metro Bhavan, which is also located within Aarey. However, Dr Sonia Sethi, additional metropolitan commissioner and project director, MUTP, MMRDA, confirmed that the project is currently in the works and that a site office has already been established at the proposed location.“Metro Bhavan for centralised integrated operation, command and control of all 14 metro lines is proposed at Pahari Goregaon CTS No. 589 (A), Mumbai. In addition, it will have a metro training academy, simulation centre, central surveillance system, etc.,” Sethi said in a note to HT on Sunday.Of the 205 trees present on site, 85 are proposed to be felled and 73 are proposed to be transplanted, in order to make room for Metro Bhavan. The remaining trees will be retained on site.Moreover, 20,387 sq m of Aarey land are proposed to be converted from a “No Development Zone” to a “residential zone”, for the project as per the MMDRA’s application Form 1 (which has been reviewed by HT).The state had invited suggestions and objections from citizens on this change in land use, in August 2019. It received 2,563 responses by March 2020. Virtual public hearings to address citizens’ concerns commenced in July last year, but the minutes of these are not publicly available.A senior government official who is privy to the matter, but did not wish to be identified by their name or department, said, “The EC cannot be granted at this point because the change of land use has not been executed yet. The SEIAA will decide on the matter only after the conversion of ‘No Development Zone’ has been notified. Once that condition has been complied with, other aspects of the project will be scrutinised.” Environmentalists’ responses to these developments were critical. “We are shocked to learn that the very same government which committed to protecting Aarey in entirety are now themselves planning to construct a 32-storey office building inside Aarey,” said Zoru Bhathena, an environmentalist who has filed two petitions regarding the Aarey dispute in the Bombay High Court.This view was echoed by Stalin Dayanand, director of NGO Vanashakti, who has filed another three petitions related to the Aarey matter in the Supreme Court. “The Metro car shed and the Metro Bhavan were very strategically introduced from different directions to facilitate faster constructions inside Aarey. The way events are unfolding it seems like the govt. bodies are acting like free radicals who disregard the opinion of the chief minister and the people. Instead of securing the ecology of Aarey, they are giving sanctity to upcoming projects which can easily be located in non-ecologically sensitive zones,” Dayanand said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mmrda-seeks-green-nod-for-metro-project-in-aarey-department-defers-proposal-101615137853705.html
07-03-2021||Jaipur||VHP vice president says ₹515 cr collected from Rajasthan for Ram Mandir||Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) vice president Champat Rai on Sunday said Rajasthan has contributed the highest ₹515 crore for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya.A nationwide campaign was run for 42 days from January 15 to collect funds for the building of the temple and ₹2,500 crore has been collected till March 4, he said at a press conference.The idea of using Mirzapur stones for the plinth of the temple and stones from Jodhpur for its rampart is being considered, he said, adding, stones from Banshi Paharpur in Bharatpur district will also be used in the temple.The grand Ram temple will be 161 feet high from the ground floor, 361 feet long and 235 feet wide. Three floors will be built, each 20 feet high, the VHP vice president said, adding the temple will have 160 pillars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/vhp-vice-president-says-rs-515-cr-collected-from-rajasthan-for-ram-mandir-101615137476196.html
07-03-2021||Ranchi||‘PM has time for Kolkata but not for farmers in Delhi’: Sharad Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Sunday attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for flying to poll-bound West Bengal for election campaigning instead of meeting the protesting farmers hardly a few kilometres away from his residence in New Delhi.Addressing a party workers’ meeting at Ranchi’s Harmu ground, Pawar said, “The farmers’ agitation has entered its 100th day on Saturday. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Harayana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan are sitting in the national capital seeking a solution to their problems. The Prime Minister has time to go to Kolkata today and rally against the government there but he has no time to meet the agitating farmers hardly 20 kilometres from his residence in the national capital”.Pawar was in Ranchi in a bid to strengthen the party base in Jharkhand. The NCP has a single legislator, Kamlesh Kumar Singh, in Jharkhand.Also read: 'If Mamata's scooty falls...' - PM Modi's jibe as CM protests fuel price hikeHitting at the BJP government, Pawar said, “The party, which is in power, has the responsibility to ensure brotherhood among every class of the society but the BJP is spreading communal poison and disharmony in the country.”Addressing the gathering, Pawar said, “I was told that a large number of people from different districts of the state wanted to participate in the rally but they were requested to gather in limited number amid fears of the pandemic".Taking a dig at the prime minister's 'Thaali Bajao' appeal, he said, “People from Jharkhand, Bihar, West Bengal come to Maharashtra for work and have played a big role in state’s development. During the Covid outbreak, we have seen their pain. NCP workers took to the street to help them. But, what did the BJP government do? It asked people to beat thaali. I would like to say only beating thaali would not work, food is also needed on the plate.”Lauding the contribution of former team India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni to the world of cricket, former BCCI chairperson Pawar said he felt proud to stand in Dhoni’s hometown and address his party workers.NCP national general secretary and Rajya Sabha MP Prafulla Patel said, “Jharkhand is a land of tribals. Pawar ji has done many things for the upliftment and developments of tribals in Maharashtra. We want to do the same development here.”State NCP president Kamlesh Kumar Singh, who is also the legislator from Hussainabad, said, “We will make our presence felt across 24 districts of the state very soon, as the arrival of national leaders has infused a new enthusiasm among party workers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/pm-has-time-for-kolkata-but-not-for-farmers-in-delhi-sharad-pawar-101615137004751.html
07-03-2021||Chandigarh||23 govt school students, five teachers test positive in Kaithal||Twenty-three students and five teachers tested positive for Covid-19 at a government school in Kaithal on Sunday. As per the district health department, samples of 150 students and teachers was taken from Government Senior Secondary School, Kharka village, of Siwan Block. Kaithal chief medical officer Dr Om Prakash said all infected students had been isolated and the health department had also setup its own isolation ward for children incase they are unable to observe home isolation. The chief medical officer (CMO) said most students were asymptomatic and a team of doctors was monitoring them. However, the development has parents and teachers worried as 162 reports are still pending. Block education officer Satish Kakkar said samples of students were taken after a teacher tested positive recently. “There are 881 students in the school and the classes have been suspended. Now, samples of all students and their family members will be collected. Last week, several school-going students were found infected, including 57 students of Karnal’s Sainik School, 10 girl students of a private school in Kurukshetra and 18 students of government schools in Karnal. New cases in KarnalAs virus cases continue to rise in the state, 267 new infections have been reported in the district over the last week, of which 75 were students. As many as 45 cases were reported on Sunday. Following a sudden rise in the new cases, especially among the students, Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav has issued directions to school authorities asking them to follow the instructions strictly. Karnal CMO Dr Yogesh Sharma also held an emergency meeting of the officials of the health department on Sunday and asked them to visit each school in their respective areas to raise awareness among students and teachers regarding the state government’s instructions. In the meeting, it was decided that around 2,000 to 2,500 samples will be collected.Karnal has reported 11,738 cases so far and 156 people have succumbed to the infection. At present, there are 303 active patients in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/23-govt-school-students-five-teachers-test-positive-in-kaithal-101615136893858.html
07-03-2021||Delhi||Batla House encounter: Delhi court to pronounce judgment tomorrow||A Delhi Court will pronounce its judgment in a matter related to the 2008 Batla House encounter on Monday.The court will pass judgment in the case of Ariz Khan, who was arrested in February 2018. Khan was arrested by the Special Cell of Delhi Police after a decade of allegedly being on the run.According to Delhi Police, Ariz Khan was at the spot during the Batla encounter but managed to escape.Saket Court's additional session judge Sandeep Yadav is scheduled to pass judgment on Monday. On the last date of hearing, the judge had issued a production warrant against Ariz Khan alias Junaid for his presence during the passing of judgment.Additional public prosecutor AT Ansari represented the Delhi Police and advocate MS Khan represented the accused Ariz Khan during trial proceedings. Ariz is allegedly associated with the terror outfit Indian Mujahideen.Police had earlier claimed that Ariz Khan was present at Batla House, along with four others, and had managed to give police the slip during the encounter on September 19, 2008, in Delhi's Jamia Nagar, in which two Indian Mujahideen terrorists were killed and as many arrested.Two suspected terrorists, Atif Ameen and Mohammad Sajid, were killed while two other suspects-- Mohammad Saif and Zeeshan were arrested earlier.The incident took place a week after five serial blasts occurred in Delhi on 13 September 2008 in which at least 30 people were killed and over 100 injured.Inspector Mohan Chand Sharma of Special Cell was killed during the 2008 Batla House encounter.A trial court in July 2013 had sentenced Indian Mujahideen terrorist Shahzad Ahmed to life imprisonment in connection with the Batla House encounter case. His appeal against the trial court's verdict has been pending in the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/batla-house-encounter-delhi-court-to-pronounce-judgment-tomorrow-101615134661336.html
07-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee launches 'India's biggest' dialysis facility inside Gurudwara Bangla Sahib||The Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee (DSGMC) on Sunday launched "India's biggest" kidney dialysis facility at the Gurudwara Bangla Sahib complex here.Guru Harkishan Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Kidney Dialysis Hospital will offer dialysis facility to 101 patients simultaneously and it can cater to 500 patients daily, the DSGMC said in a statement.The hospital will offer its services to patients completely free of cost."All services are being provided totally free in this most technically advanced hospital. There is no billing or payment counter. The DSGMC will take services from Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) from corporate houses and from those who are willing to contribute for such initiatives and various government schemes," DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa said.The capacity will soon be increased to 1,000 beds from the current 101 beds, he added.Speaking on the occasion, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait lauded the Sikh community for starting a project that will offer free services to everyone."We were seeing this building for the last 20 years but were surprised that Sikh community is known for completing its projects but this project lingered on. We were very happy to learn yesterday that a unique hospital where there will be no cash counter will launch services. Such work can be done only by Sikh community," Tikait said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dsgmc-launches-india-s-biggest-dialysis-facility-inside-gurudwara-bangla-sahib-101615135232362.html
07-03-2021||Patna||Gandhians recall Bapu's visit to PMCH in 1947, appeal to not demolish heritage buildings||Three months before India's independence, Mahatma Gandhi had visited the Patna Medical College and Hospital for an appendicitis surgery of his grand-niece Manu, and so worried Bapu was that he sat next to her, wearing a surgical mask and watched the entire procedure in the operation theatre.Seventy-four years later, Gandhian scholars and his admirers are now concerned over the fate of the over 100-year-old Bankipore General Hospital building in which the operation took place on May 15, 1947, and other heritage structures of the PMCH -- Bihar and Odisha's first medical college -- which are set to be demolished as part of a mega redevelopment project.The state government's move has upset a large number of alumni members, heritage lovers and scholars, who have already appealed to not dismantle these iconic structures and "restore and preserve some of the key landmark buildings for the posterity".Manu Gandhi, in whose arms Mahatma Gandhi had collapsed after falling to bullets of an assassin on January 30, 1948, in Delhi's Birla House, was his dutiful companion in the crusade for Independence and a chronicler of his life."Seen, always by Bapu's side, whom she considered as her 'mother', Manu had come along with Gandhi to Bihar several times. Together they had come to Patna again after visiting parts of Bengal post the communal riots. Manu had a tremendous pain in her stomach and she was taken to the PMCH for appendicitis operation," said octogenarian Razi Ahmad, secretary of the Gandhi Sanghralaya in Patna.References to this medical operation, are there in Mahatma Gandhi's own chronicles and diaries of Manu Gandhi, translated from Gujarati a few years ago, who was a very young freedom fighter herself, standing literally by her grandfather and even went to jail with him, he said.Ahmad, 82, an avowed Gandhian, said, he was “shocked” that instead of preserving the old buildings, that too when Gandhi's legacy is attached to it, the government has planned to raze the heritage structures which were built as part of the evolution of this famed medical institution, and asked “if there could be a smart city without Gandhi's legacy at its core”.“The old Bankipore station in Patna where Gandhi had arrived via a train on the way to Champaran in 1917, is gone. Sikander Manzil, where he had stayed during his first visit to Patna that year, is practically demolished. Now the PMCH building. What do centenary and anniversary celebrations mean, if we cannot preserve the actual, tangible legacy of Gandhi," he rued.A Annamalai, director of Delhi-based National Gandhi Museum, said Bapu in his diary on May 15, 1947, when he was in Patna noted: "Manu has a severe stomach-ache, she also had vomiting and is running temperature. I therefore called in the doctors who examined her. Manu's complaint was diagnosed as appendicitis. I had her removed to the hospital immediately. She will be operated upon at night”.The Mahatma, who had already lost his wife Kasturba in Pune, a few years ago, goes on to describe in his diary – “I had put on a surgical mask and watched the whole operation”.“Gandhiji insisted to be present in the OT and doctors eventually obliged him. He sat next to the operation table, in his trademark 'dhoti' and a mask on his face. Unfortunately, not many people know about this episode. The Bihar government should preserve this legacy of Gandhi by preserving the PMCH's old hospital building. Demolishing it would be loss of an institutional heritage and Bapu's legacy,” Annamalai said.Annamalai, who authored, 'Gandhi's Experiment with Health' for Indian Journal of Medical Research in 2019 to mark his 150th anniversary, said Mahatma Gandhi himself was operated for appendicitis in January 1924 at Sassoon Hospital in Pune, under a hurricane lamp, as there was a power outage. That old OT is now a memorial, and Patna should also save this historic building, he said.“He was a part of the Natal Indian Ambulance Corps in South Africa during the Second Boer War and so, he had a fair understanding of medical care. At PMCH, during Manu's surgery, he wanted to actually see the operation. Isn't it a fascinating story of Gandhi as a man of science,” Annamalai said.According to his diary entry, part of the Collected Works of Gandhi, on May 16, 1947, he wrote to Jaisukhlal Gandhi: “My pride has been humbled,” said a senior official of the Gandhi Smriti, situated in Birla House, where he spent the last 144 days of his life.He also appealed to the Bihar government to preserve and celebrate this architectural and cultural legacy, and not raze the hospital building and other heritage structures of the PMCH.The institution, originally christened as the Prince of Wales Medical College, was established in 1925. It was renamed to PMCH, a few years after Independence.The college had evolved out of the Temple Medical School, set up in 1874 in Patna. The double-storied old Bankipore General Hospital, more than a century-old, is endowed with a huge staircase and a Brirtish-era lift, and houses the old Hathwa Ward and Guzri Ward. It is fronted with a handsome structure with tall, magnificent Doric pillars on two sides. The old operation theatre where Manu Gandhi was operated is located on the first floor.Rare, old black and white photos of the May 15, 1947 surgery, showing Gandhi sitting on a chair inside the OT, are preserved in old photo libraries. The PMCH website also mentions about Manu Gandhi's surgery.The PMCH Alumni Association had recently appealed to preserve and restore at least the administrative building which houses the Principal's Office; and the iconic old Bankipore General Hospital Building, whose image had also adorned the postal stamp released on its platinum jubilee in 2000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/gandhians-plead-to-bihar-govt-to-not-demolish-pmch-other-heritage-structures-101615133654338.html
07-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police seizes hukkas from restaurant, tweets 'pawri nahi ho rahi hai'||The Delhi Police on Sunday seized 24 'hukkas' after it raided a restaurant-cum-bar here and then joined the "pawri ho rahi hai" meme fest on social media, saying "Yehe Hum hain..Yehe Hooke Hain.. Aur ab Pawri nahi ho rahi hai."The meme set the social media on fire after it surfaced online with Dananeer Mobeen, a Pakistan-based Instagram influencer, speaking in a heavily-accented tone as she stood partying with some friends with their car parked on a road."Ye humari car hai, ye hum hain aur ye humari pawri (party) ho rahi hai," she says in the social media post, which has now transcended the country's borders for its fun quotient.From his official handle on Twitter, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Prashant Gautam said, "Yehe Hum hain..Yehe Hooke Hain.. Aur ab Pawri nahi ho rahi hai."PS- Some Pawris are not only injurious to health they are illegal too. Seized 24 Hooka from Rajouri Garden area," he tweeted and tagged photos of the seized 'hukkas'.A senior police official said during patrolling duty, sub-inspector Prakash Kashyap along with head constable Suresh raided the restaurant-cum-bar in west Delhi's Rajouri Garden area after receiving information that 'hukkas' were being served to customers, they said."The police team found that COVID-19 protocols were also not being followed. There were no screening machines or sanitizers at the restaurant. The customers were also found to be smoking 'hukkas'," the senior police officer said.A case has been registered under the IPC section 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and other relevant sections under COTPA prohibiting smoking in public places, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-seizes-hukkas-from-restaurant-tweets-pawri-nahi-ho-rahi-hai-101615134835998.html
07-03-2021||Other||2,000 new Covid cases take Pune district’s active case tally to 20,347||PUNE The district reported 2,000 new Covid cases in 24 hours on Sunday which took the number of active cases in the district to 20,347 which is the highest in the country.The district alone accounted for 17.95 per cent of the new cases reported in the state which reported 11,141 new cases.Also, five more deaths were reported in the district, according to the state health department.Pune district’s progressive count now stands at 421,162 out of which 392,674 have recovered and 8,141 have been declared dead and 20,347 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation.Pune city reported 993 new cases which took the count to 215,022 and with two new deaths, the toll went up to 4,591.Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 573 new cases which took the final count to 105,383. No new deaths were reported here so the toll stood at 1,336.Pune rural reported 434 new cases which took the progressive count to 100,757 and with three more deaths the death toll stood at 2,165.The state also saw 6,013 patients discharged on Sunday which took the count to 20.68 lakh after full recovery which took the recovery rate in the state is 93.17%.Also, 11,141 new cases were reported in the state which took the count to 22.19 lakh. As 38 Covid-related deaths were reported in the state the toll touched 53,700. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.36%.Out of 1,68,67,286 laboratory samples 22,19,727 have been tested positive (13.16%) for the virus till March 7. Currently, 4,39,055 people are in home quarantine and 4,650 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2000-new-covid-cases-take-pune-district-s-active-case-tally-to-20347-101615135213043.html
07-03-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19: Karnataka adds 622 cases, three more fatalities||Karnataka on Sunday recorded 622 fresh coronavirus infections and three related deaths, taking the total caseload and toll to 9.55 lakh and 12,362 respectively, health department said.According to the health bulletin, so far 9,35,772 people were discharged cumulatively including 351 today.There were 6,862 active cases in the state which includes 115 in the ICU, the department added.Maximum cases of the day in the state were contributed by Bengaluru urban district, which reported 389 infections whereas all the three fatalities were from the city.Cumulatively, the city has reported 4.08 lakh infections, 4,499 deaths, 3,98,540 discharges, including 175 on Sunday, and 4,985 active cases.According to the health bulletin, 34 cases were reported in Kalaburagi, 30 in Udupi, 25 in Tumakuru, 24 in Bidar, 16 each in Dakshina Kannada and Dharwad, 13 in Belagavi, 12 in Bengaluru Rural and 11 in Mysuru.Cases were also reported in Ballari, Chamaranagara, Chikkaballapura, Chikkamagaluru, Kodagu, Kolar, Mandya, Uttara Kannada and Vijayapura.No fresh cases or deaths were reported in Bagalkote, Ramanagara and Kopal.As many as 75,960 tests were done on Sunday including 72,086 using the RT PCR and other methods taking the total tests done so far to 1.93 crore, the department added.On Sunday, 428 people were vaccinated.There were no instances of AEFIs, the department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-karnataka-adds-622-cases-three-more-fatalities-101615133426406.html
07-03-2021||Jaipur||E-auction of wine shops draws bids worth ₹510 cr for Rajasthan shop||By Aabshar H QuaziE-auction of wine shops in Rajasthan is not only witnessing an average of over 30 per cent higher bidding than the base price but also unexpected bidding of ₹510 crores for a wine shop carrying the base price of ₹70.70 lakhs.The base price of a wine shop in Hanumangarh district's Nohar was 72.70 lakh and it was sold for ₹65 lakh in a lottery last year but the e-auction for the first time in the state has changed the fortunes of this wine shop which has received the highest bid of ₹510 crores.When asked, additional commissioner, excise policy, CR Dewasi, told that the e-auction for the wine shops started three days ago whereby one Kiran Kanwar of Nohar got the wine shop in ₹510 crore bid which is nearly 708 times more than the base price.Also read: India, China friends, but ‘rights and wrongs’ of border friction clear - Wang YiWe have sent demand notice to the bidder who has to deposit two per cent of the bidding amount within three days otherwise his allotment will be cancelled, he said."If the bid winner does not deposit the money then the security deposit of over 1 lakh will be forfeited," he said.This is not the case of Nohar only as one wine shop in Churu district was sold in a bid of ₹11 crores whereas another shop in Jaipur's Sanganer was sold in an e-auction for ₹8.91 crores.Similarly, three wine shops in Sujangarh region of Churu district were sold for ₹10 crores in an e-auction while anoter was sold for ₹11.60 crores. Two shops in Hanumangarh district were also sold for ₹11 crores each, although the base price of most of these shops was between ₹1-2 crores only, said Dewasi.“E-auction of the wine shops is the reason behind high bidding for wine shops,” he said.On being asked about the average bid in the e-auction, CR Dewasi said, "The average bid is around 30 per cent higher than the base price. The base price has been calculated by adding 10 per cent in previous year's reserve price".He said that the department got revenue of ₹700-800 crores on the set reserve price and later earned revenue of ₹10,500 crores in the last financial year, even when the liquor shops remain closed for a month due to Covid-19. He said now they are expecting ₹13,000 crores revenue."Out of the 7,665 wine shops in the state, e-auction of 3,572 wine shops have been done in the first phase which will continue till March 10," he said.However, some wine traders are citing competition for the high bidding for getting wine shops.As per the new excise policy of the government of Rajasthan, now liquor shop allotment will be done through e-auction instead of the earlier system of a lottery.Earlier, there was a minimum reserve price in the liquor shop allotment in the lottery system whereby the government used to get fixed reserve price of the shops.The aspirants will have to deposit non-refundable application fees between ₹40,000 to ₹2 lakh depending on the reserve price of liquor shops which is between ₹50 lakh to ₹2 crores.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/eauction-of-wine-shops-draws-bids-worth-rs-510-cr-for-rajasthan-shop-101615128842822.html
07-03-2021||Other||International Women’s Day: Women at the helm of Covid fight||PUNE During the Covid-19 pandemic, women took the lead in several ways, be it in the field of healthcare or simply in lending a helping hand to the needy and stranded. Hindustan Times caught up with these exemplary women who made a difference even in difficult circumstances.At Mylabs Discovery Solutions, three women have been involved in creating a solution for screening kits for Covid.Shefali Desai, general manager, applications support; Minal Dakhave Bhosale, general manager- research and development and Mitali Patil, general manager - production and compliance, together with seven others in the team created a solution for screening kits for Covid.Bhosale and her team provided India’s first testing kit a day before she delivered her daughter.“The efforts of my team helped us develop the Covid test kit in a record time,” she said.“Initially I was going to the facility, but due to pregnancy complications, I was not able to visit the office, so I started working from home. It was difficult for me to sit for long hours, but I took this as a challenge. The efforts paid off as our team delivered the kit in a record time of six weeks,” she said.Desai said, “I wore multiple hats at the same time working with cross-functional teams. This could be achieved because of the support I got from family and colleagues.”“During the lockdown travelling from home to work place and back home was a challenge. We scaled up from 2,000 test kits a day to two lakh a day in six weeks. I feel proud of the efforts that our team has put in,” said Patil.Similarly, Jayashree (Rekha) Deshpande (56), a resident of Sadashiv peth and a mother of three girls, recalls the day when the lockdown was announced. “I am a counsellor and run a tiffin service from home for an old age home nearby. On March 25, 2020, I had prepared tiffins to be delivered to the old age home, but the police bandobast stopped us, which got me thinking of how will other senior citizens and others living in my area survive,” said Deshpande.“My concern was getting food to those senior citizens who were alone, single or with their partners bedridden. Hence I approached the police and applied for an essential services pass and began by delivering home-cooked meals twice a day to nearby senior citizens,” she said.Deshpande supplied tiffins to at least 120 senior citizens who were physically disabled and stranded students in the area for almost three and a half months free of cost.“My youngest daughter Aishwariya, who was to get married in May 2020, had taken a wedding loan, suggested that we use that money to prepare meals for others,” she added.Deshpande’s daily routine during the lockdown period was to wake up at 3 am and prepare 200 chapatis and cook vegetables and keep them ready by 7.30 am, whereupon the students stuck at the hostel nearby would come to help pack the tiffins against free meals.“My husband passed away 14 years back, I know the value of a meal,” she said.In Navi peth, Rekha Dalat (30), originally from Latur, who works with an NGO while studying for MPSC exams, took up the mammoth task of preparing and feeding the stranded students in the city. During the lockdown, she along with her group of 50 volunteers fed at least 5,000 students every day.“I stay with my brother here. He is studying for UPSC while I am studying for MPSC exams. When the lockdown was announced several outstation students were stuck in lodges or hostels without proper mess service or means to cook food. So we began cooking meals for our friends, who were living in the peth areas,” she said.“Later we began to cook meals for at least 5,000 students and distributed it in 22 locations across the city,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/international-women-s-day-good-samaritans-made-sure-no-one-slept-hungry-during-lockdown-period-101615133412870.html
07-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi records maximum temperature at 34 degrees Celsius, air quality poor||The national capital on Sunday recorded a maximum temperature of 34 degrees Celsius, five notches above the normal, the meteorological department said.The weather department has predicted light rain and strong winds on Sunday night.The minimum temperature in the city settled at 14.4 degrees Celsius while the air quality was recorded in the poor category.The 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) was 256, real-time data of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed.An AQI between 201 and 300 is considered poor, 301-400 very poor and 401-500 severe, while an AQI above 500 falls in the severe plus category.According to the meteorological department, the mercury is likely to dip by two to three degrees over the next few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-maximum-temperature-at-34-degrees-celsius-air-quality-poor-101615132439253.html
07-03-2021||Pune||Pune youth group holds special camp for senior citizen Covid-19 vaccine registration||Pune: For 70-year-old Meenal Naphade, getting an appointment for Covid-19 vaccination at one of the city’s hospitals, has been a big relief. And the elderly woman gives the credit to the special camp organised by the Youth Foundation organisation in the city on Sunday. After the vaccination exercise for senior citizens (above 60 age) started from last week, it was found that most of the beneficiaries do not know how to register themselves online. The youth group stepped in to fill the gap by holding two camps at different places in the city to help the needy senior citizens. “I was worried about how to register myself for Covid vaccination. I tried to seek help from some of my neighbours, but it didn’t work out. I do have a smartphone, but does not know how to use it and do online registration. When I got to know about this camp, I immediately came here and got myself registered and got an appointment for March 31. I am eagerly waiting to get vaccinated,” said Meenal. The social organisation conducted two camps in Pune for registration of Covid-19 vaccination for senior citizens, one at Subhashnagar area in Shukrawar peth and another at Bibwewadi-Kondhwa road. At each of these centres, five-six volunteers with the help of laptops and smartphones helped senior citizens carry out online registration for vaccination. “Since the vaccination drive for senior citizens started last week, we were getting calls for help from many parts of the city for registration. So, we decided to hold camps for registration. Today, it was held at two places and more than 200 people were registered in one day. We will hold similar registration camps at other places across city also,” said Rohan Shetty, an advocate and president of Youth Foundation. Kalpana B, president of Subhashnagar senior citizens group, said, “There are around 200 members in our senior citizen group and most of them live alone as their children are abroad. Most of them cannot do the online registration easily and some even do not have smartphones or laptops. Considering their problems, we decided to arrange the camp and took help from Youth foundation volunteers. We are planning to organise such camps once again for remaining members.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-youth-group-holds-special-camp-for-senior-citizen-covid-19-vaccine-registration-101615132572805.html
07-03-2021||Other||Pune dist accounts for 9.41% of India’s new Covid cases||PUNE A year after Pune reported Maharashtra’s first Covid-19 case, the virus is back to haunt the district. After a downward graph since October 2020, Pune district’s virus tally is surging upward faster than the first wave. In the past week, the country has reported 98,558 new cases out of which 9.41 per cent or 9,278 new cases have been reported from the Pune district. On Sunday (March 7) the country reported 18,754 new virus cases while the district reported 1,925 new cases, so for every ten new cases reported in the country, one is from Pune. As of March 6, Maharashtra accounts for 54.31% of the total new cases reported in the country, while Pune accounts for 10.26 per cent of the new cases. Pune district also has the highest number of active cases in the country with 19, 615 cases, followed by Nagpur with 11,480 cases, Thane with 10,044 active cases, Mumbai with 8,984 cases and Ernakulam with 7,212 active cases. Of the top five districts with the most active cases, Covid-infected people undergoing treatment in hospitals or in-home isolation, in the country, four are from Maharashtra.The sudden surge in the number of positive cases could be because of the super spreader events and careless behaviour of the people and not because of possible mutations, say officials. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, who chairs the Maharashtra Communicable Diseases Prevention and Control Technical Committee, said, “As per the discussion with National Institute of Virology (NIV) and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) there have been no worrisome mutations in the samples being tested from the district. The reason for the spread could be the super spreader events like reopening of schools and colleges, rural elections and such events could have caused the spike.”“As per our understanding as of now the reason for the spike in the district is because of the careless behaviour and also because the administration has massively increased testing which is why more cases are being detected. In a pandemic situation or in case of an outbreak, ups and lows are normal. The fact remains that this surge is not unusual,” he said.Rajesh Deshmukh, Pune district collector, said, “We are testing more compared to any city and so we are seeing more cases. We have increased testing from 4,000 earlier to 13,000 now, but the positivity rate has also gone up. One sign of relief is that the mortality rate has not gone up as much as the number of cases. According to health experts, the newer cases are milder cases of infection. At least 80-90 per cent of the new cases are asymptomatic and they are contacts of positive patients.”“As per the standard operating procedure (SOP), we are taking action against those not wearing masks. Also, we have certain restrictions already in place like the schools are shut and also night movement is restricted,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-dist-accounts-for-9-41-of-india-s-new-covid-cases-101615132332786.html
07-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Gram Sabhas can pass proposal to ban liquor vends till March 15||Any Haryana Gram Sabha that does not want liquor vends to be opened in its village can pass a proposal and send it to the state government through their deputy commissioner (DC) till March 15 deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said here on Sunday. The announcement assumes significance as at present all Gram Panchayats in the state have been dissolved and elections are due. “Due to the pandemic, the excise policy came into force from May 19, 2020 instead of April 1, which is why the new excise policy will start from May 20.” Chautala, who also holds the portfolio of the excise and taxation department, said panchayats had sent 3,048 such proposals in 2019-20, of which only 57 proposals were accepted and 48 were rejected, while the remaining were left out due to some objections. He said in 2020-21, 898 proposals were received through DCs, of which 430 villages were such where there was a complete ban on opening of liquor vends. There were 468 cases in which multiple FIRs had been lodged relating to sale of illicit liquor, due to which there was a ban on the sale of liquor. He said by the end of the financial year, revenue collection from excise is expected to be more than the target. He said ₹978 crore has been received as additional revenue in the last three quarters, which is an increase of around 19.85% against last year. He said ₹6,361 crore was collected last year while this year a revenue of ₹6,214 crore had been collected till March 4 even as the excise year will be till May 19. “Thus, this year’s excise revenue is likely to be higher than the previous year,” he added.‘Panchayats will be functional again from March 8’ Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said that from March 8 the panchayats across the state will become functional again. He said ban on all the financial transactions of Gram Panchayats and other Panchayati Raj Institutions imposed on February 15 will be removed from March 8, provided they function under the supervision of their administrator. He said tenders of over ₹5 lakh will be processed online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-gram-sabhas-can-pass-proposal-to-ban-liquor-vends-till-march-15-101615132213376.html
07-03-2021||Bangalore||Commercial vehicles’ drivers, conductors from Kerala, Maharashtra to produce negative RT-PCR report upon entry: K'taka||Karnataka on Sunday issued an order asking drivers and conductors of commercial vehicles or vehicles carrying goods entering the state from Kerala and Maharashtra, which have reported a surge in the cases of coronavirus disease, to show report showing they don't have Covid-19.“Drivers and conductors of commercial vehicles or vehicles carrying goods from Maharashtra and Kerala have to produce negative RT-PCR Covid-19 certificates while entering Karnataka,” news agency ANI reported citing the Karnataka government.The decision comes in the wake of a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra as well as Kerala. Karnataka also has witnessed a surge in the number of daily cases and has been asked to increase the number of tests and pace of vaccination by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu are the six states which have reported a surge in the number of cases and account for more than 84% of the daily recorded cases reported across the country in the last 24 hours.India has reported 18,711 cases in the last 24 hours and 100 fresh fatalities due to Covid-19. Maharashtra’s surge in cases has also become a cause of alarm for health authorities as the state recorded more than 10,000 cases for 3 days in a row. Kerala on Sunday recorded 2,100 cases and 13 deaths taking its tally of infected to 10.77 lakh. More than 4,300 people have died from Covid-19 in the state.The Karnataka government had earlier imposed similar measures in order to stop the spread of Covid-19 across districts which border Maharashtra and Kerala. Dakshina Kannada district administration in February had set up mobile testing units to collect samples at border checkpoints as several people including daily wage workers as well as students travel from Kasaragod to Mangaluru. People going to Kerala from Kasaragod were being tested for Covid-19 before entering Bengaluru. Towards the end of February, the district administration put an end to the practice citing inconvenience to people. The decision by the Dakshina Kannada district administration had also met resistance from the locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/commercial-vehicles-drivers-conductors-from-kerala-maharashtra-to-produce-neg-101615130443273.html
07-03-2021||Chandigarh||Open to inputs from industry in framing rules on pvt sector job quota: Dushyant||The Haryana government is open to including suggestions from industry bodies while framing rules for the law that provides 75% reservation in the private sector to job seekers from the state, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said on Sunday. The first meeting for framing the rules will be held here on Monday, he said. Last week, governor Satydeo Narain Arya gave his assent to the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020, providing 75% reservation for those who have a domicile certificate and are seeking private-sector jobs that a monthly salary of less than ₹50,000. “It will be our endeavour to frame the rules by the end of this month. Next month, we will run employment drives in all 22 districts and 67 employment exchanges in the state,” Chautala, who holds the industries portfolio, said at a news conference here. Responding to criticism from various quarters, including some members of the industry, he alleged that many people have ‘misconception’ about the law and pointed out that Haryana was not the only state where such a provision had been made. Chautala said the state government held eight rounds of meeting with industry associations before this law was made “and even now we will hold consultations with them”. “After consultations, if we have to incorporate some technical things in the rules, will do that so that industry comes to our state in an even bigger way,” the deputy chief minister said. “Earlier, too we had sought suggestions from them. We will now seek suggestions from industry associations of our state and chambers of industry bodies. We will write to them with copies of the bill and seek suggestions for framing the rules,” he said. In reply to a question, Chautala said Haryana remains a favourite destination for the industry and added that a leading lithium battery manufacturing company was setting up a plant at an investment of ₹7,500 crore. “Top companies, including Amazon, are ready to invest in Haryana,” he said. Hitting out at the Opposition, he said not even one factory has moved out of the state even during the coronavirus pandemic. Asked why a section of the industry was opposing the state government’s reservation move, the deputy chief minister said, “If there are objections, observations of industry, we will hold consultations and resolve it. That is the job of the state government.” On the issue of crop procurement, he said Haryana will start procurement of six crops, including wheat, at minimum support price next month. “Wheat procurement will begin from April 1 in nearly 400 mandis,” Chautala said, adding the farmers will have the option to get the payment for their crops procured directly into their accounts within 48 hours or through ‘Arhitiyas’ (commission agents). Chautala said a majority of the 67.48 per cent farmers from the state have expressed their wish to take payment directly into their bank accounts. On the farmers’ protest at Delhi’s borders against the three Central farm laws, he said the leaders should hold dialogue with the Union government to resolve the issue||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/open-to-inputs-from-industry-in-framing-rules-on-pvt-sector-job-quota-dushyant-101615130833430.html
07-03-2021||Chandigarh||Pressure BJP-JJP MLAs to back no-trust motion against Haryana govt: Farmers’ body||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha has appealed to people to pressure MLAs of the ruling BJP-JJP combine to vote in favour of the no-confidence motion against the Haryana government in the state Assembly on March 10. The appeal by the umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the stir against the Centre’s farm laws has come as the Congress is set to move a no-confidence motion against the BJP-JJP government on Wednesday. In a video appeal to Haryana farmers and state residents, Darshan Pal, a senior farmer leader from Punjab and a key member of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), on Sunday said farmers and other residents should approach the BJP, JJP legislators in their homes and offices. “You should specially put pressure on the BJP-JJP legislators because the Centre is not agreeing to farmers’ demands and for over a month, they have been silent,” he said, adding that a no-confidence motion is being brought against the Haryana government in the state assembly on March 10. “We will be sending a letter, which you should carry, and tell these legislators that they should vote in favour of the no-confidence motion so that the Khattar government comes to know that people stand with this agitation and the government which opposes it will be taught a lesson and that on March 10, they will play their role in bringing down this government,” said Pal. Meanwhile, when asked to comment on the SKM’s move, Haryana’s deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said the farmer leaders should hold a dialogue with the government to resolve the issue. Referring to a series of ‘kisan mahapanchayats’ held by farmers leaders in the past one month, Chautala said, “It seems their leadership is seen less on the borders (protest sites) and more on other platforms in the country.” Claiming that “voices of dissent” are being heard among the MLAs supporting the government, the Congress had last month decided to bring the motion against the state government in the Budget session of the Assembly that began on Friday. Former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda had said, “The no-confidence motion will let people know which MLA stands with the government and which MLA stands with farmers.” Initially, the Congress wanted to move the no-confidence on March 5, the first day of the Budget session, but its request was turned down by the Speaker Gian Chand Gupta, who had fixed March 10 for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pressure-bjp-jjp-mlas-to-back-no-trust-motion-against-haryana-govt-farmers-body-101615130053812.html
07-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana farmer dies by suicide near Tikri border||A 49-year-old farmer, who had been protesting against the Centre’s farm laws, died by suicide seven kilometres way from the protest site near Tikri border on Sunday, police said. The farmer, Rajbir Singh, a resident of Sisai village in Hisar hung himself from a tree. Bahadurgarh city police station house officer Vijay Kumar said, “The farmer left a suicide note. The body has been sent for postmortem examination.”In his suicide note, the farmer said his sacrifice to ensure the three laws are repealed will not go in vain. “ If required, you (farmers) can put my body on the road but you should go home only after the government repeals the three farm laws and gives a legal guarantee of minimum support price. This government wants farmers’ blood and I am giving the same. I appeal to my brothers of Sisai village to return home only after getting their rights. My last wish is that the government should take back these three laws, form a law on the MSP and send farmers home happily. Modi ji you think farmers are so powerful but they were let down by the prices of diesel and pesticide. I am a big fan of Balraj Kundu and Deepender Singh Hooda, who are fighting for the farmers,” wrote the victim.In February, a farmer from Jind had also hung himself from a tree, two kilometres from the protest site in Tikri. Earlier, a farmer from Rohtak had consumed poison at the border and had died during treatment at a hospital in Delhi. In December 2020, a lawyer from Punjab’s Jalalabad had also died by suicide after consuming poison a few kilometres away from the main protest site. Cases of suicide have increased after a Sikh preacher shot himself dead at Kundli near Singhu border in protest against the contentious farm laws.Karnal farmer dies at Singhu border  A farmer was found dead under mysterious circumstances at Singhu border on Sunday morning. The deceased, Harinder Singh, 32, a resident of Thari village in Karnal, was found dead in a tent, said police. On finding the farmer unresponsive, his family members rushed him to a local doctor but he was declared brought dead. Harinder, who owns two acres of agricultural land, was participating in the farmers’ protest against the agriculture laws and had been camping on Delhi’s Singhu border since November 27. Expressing his condolences, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni said Harinder’s sacrifice will not go in vain.Hundreds of farmers and members of farmer’s unions reached Thari village to join his funeral procession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-farmer-dies-by-suicide-near-tikri-border-101615128793419.html
07-03-2021||City||Odisha doctor tests Covid-19 positive after vaccination, again tests negative||A 71-year-old doctor working in a government hospital of Rourkela, Odisha tested positive for Covid-19 three weeks after receiving the second dose of the vaccine. A retest, however, found him negative for the virus.Officials said S Suleiman, who worked in Rourkela Government Hospital as a contractual doctor, was found positive for Covid-19 through RT-PCR testing even after receiving two doses of the Covishield vaccine. On March 3, Suleiman had developed a bad cough and went for a rapid antigen test which came out positive for the disease. He then went for an RT-PCR test, which also confirmed his Covid-19 positive status on Thursday evening.The 71-year-old doctor was surprised as he had taken the first dose of Covishield on January 16 and the second dose on February 15.“I thought I had got the infection at the OPD, where I used to be surrounded by patients who would not adhere to the safety guidelines,” he said.Also read: Covid vaccine rollout 'India’s gift' to world in combating pandemic: ScientistHealth department officials said a repeat RT-PCR test on the doctor was conducted at Regional Medical Research Centre, Bhubaneswar on Saturday and the result came out negative. His antibody test at the RMRC also showed the presence of a very high amount of antibodies.Additional chief secretary of health department PK Mohapatra ordered a re-test of the original sample which came positive for the virus. Mohapatra said that the RMRC confirmed that Dr Suleiman's original sample has also tested negative. "The initial positive result may have been due to contamination," he said.Last week, the Odisha government had asked a company to explain how its rapid antigen test kits tested samples of 25 engineering students of Veer Surendra Sai University of Technology in Sambalpur district as all of them tested positive for the virus without showing any symptoms of Covid-19. Subsequently, an RT-PCR test was ordered which showed all of them to be negative for the infection.But the Delhi-based company that supplied the kits continued to maintain that the test kits worked fine. Oscar Medicare Pvt Ltd, which had supplied the kits, performed a live demo of the kits in the presence of the nodal officer of Covid-19 at VIMSAR, Burla, and declared that the kits were fine and met all the parameters as per the ICMR and the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/odisha-doctor-tests-covid-19-positive-after-vaccination-again-tests-negative-101615127374718.html
07-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records over 11,000 Covid-19 cases, first time in nearly 5 months||Maharashtra reported a daily spike of more than 11,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Sunday, for the first time in nearly five months, which has pushed its tally to 2.21 million, the state’s health department bulletin showed. There were 11,141 cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours in the western state. It had logged 11,447 infections in a single day on October 16 last year. The state’s capital city of Mumbai also witnessed the highest number of daily cases at 1,361 since October 28 last year when it had recorded 1,354 cases in one day. Maharashtra’s positive cases have reached 2,219,727. Of these, 2,068,044 people have recovered from the viral infection while 52,478 people have died with 38 fatalities recorded in the last 24 hours. Of the total cases, Mumbai contributes 333,569 infections and 11,504 have died in the metropolitan city due to the coronavirus disease. Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereAmid the worrisome figures, that have been rising almost every day since the last month, the central government has sent a high-level team to the western state led by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. The panel was sent on Saturday to Maharashtra and Punjab to assist their health departments and review the prevailing surveillance, control and containment measures. Another team of experts which was in Maharashtra on March 1 and 2 has cited local body elections, crowding in public transports, opening of schools and increased gatherings as the possible reasons for the Covid-19 upsurge in the state. "While the exact causes of the surge are not known— since laxity in Covid-19 behaviour is not specific to the state — the possible factors are Covid-inappropriate behaviour due to lack of fear of disease, pandemic fatigue; miss outs and super spreaders,” the report stated. As cases had begun to rise in the state last month, starting from the Vidarbha region, the chief minister had warned of another lockdown. While shutdowns and night curfews have been imposed in districts reporting a high number of cases, there is so far no word on the statewide lockdown even though Thackeray has said he was not in favour of it. Maharashtra is among the five states that are currently reporting the maximum number of daily cases of the coronavirus disease. Along with it, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu accounted for 84.71% of the 18,711 new daily cases reported in a day by Sunday morning, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-over-11-000-covid-19-cases-first-time-in-nearly-5-months-101615126475283.html
07-03-2021||Pune||How political leadership and bureaucrats handled Pune’s Covid crisis||Pune: On July 27 last year, Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar held a meeting in Pune to review the Covid situation in the city. During the meeting, a decision was taken to set up two jumbo hospitals in Pune to deal with the rising cases of infection. The day saw 1,160 fresh cases, taking the active case tally to 18,546, of which 744 were in a critical condition and 97 were on ventilators. The city’s positivity rate of that week was 19.80%. Already late on announcement, the two facilities – one at the College of Engineering in Pune (CoEP) and another at Annasaheb Magar ground in Pimpri-Chinchwad – were to come up by August 20. However, the delay in erecting these Covid care centres and subsequent issues about management of CoEP hospital only deteriorated patients’ confidence in the facility. The result was additional burden on already strained network of private and public hospitals. During July, August and September, Pune faced severe shortage of beds, and as the caseload began to rise, patients began to be turned away from hospitals and many couldn’t receive adequate care on time. Even the city’s fatalities also grew sharply – at one point it crossed the 100- mark. If the virus situation was getting worse every passing day, political leadership was not much visible on the ground unlike in Mumbai. While Pawar was regularly monitoring the situation by spending weekends, instructing officials to tighten the prevention norms, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray preferred to observe it through video conferencing. He made a brief visit to the city only once following criticism, though it failed to convince his political detractors. Realising the looming crisis, the state health department activated the recently constructed Sassoon building with additional beds in the initial phase. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) also turned one of its buildings in Baner into a 300- bed hospital. As the city stands at the door of another wave with the daily caseload crossing 1,900 on Saturday (March 6), authorities are more proactive as they have already kept jumbo hospital ready while instructing to restart Covid care centres All this while, Pune, like the rest of the country, was witnessing several restrictions as well as unlocking. Pune was among the first cities that faced restrictions after the first case was reported on March 9. The then divisional commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar monitored the situation with PMC machinery also stepping in. Sinhgad road where the first Covid positive couple stay was sealed while contact tracing was ordered. After Mhaisekar’s retirement, Saurabh Rao has been dealing with the situation in the district. The initial aggression in tracing contacts was missing post September when the state government announced the “My Family My Responsibility” campaign. Pune’s public transport buses were off the road since March 24 for over 150 days for common citizens when the lockdown began. Trains and state transport buses too stopped plying while gates of gardens were closed. Roads were deserted and residents remained locked inside their houses. This was unprecedented. However, stricter lockdowns in two phases – first between March and June and another for 10 days during July – slowed the spread of virus. If the orders for lockdown came straight from the Centre and state, its lifting created confusion in Pune as multiple officials asserted their authority. For Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, two municipal corporations were given responsibility while in rural parts of district, the collector decided about unlocking based on orders from Maharashtra chief secretary. Multiple orders in adjoining areas created confusion, which was later sorted out as things settled. One of the much appreciated part during the crisis was the war room started by PMC. It maintained area wise data in real time, which helped authorities concentrate on hotspot during the rapidly changing situation. However, the number of samples tested on daily basis was not as high as Mumbai despite caseload being almost equal. During the pandemic, Pune earned the distinction of being India’s highest infected city. For this, people too were responsible as compliance of Covid appropriate behaviour was missing. As city looks at another Covid wave, authorities and people need to be proactive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/how-political-leadership-and-bureaucrats-handled-pune-s-covid-crisis-101615126572542.html
07-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana deputy CM says open to suggestions from industry bodies on rules for private sector reservation law||The Haryana government is open to including suggestions from industry bodies while framing rules for the law that provides 75 per cent reservation in the private sector to job seekers from the state, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said on Sunday.The first meeting for framing the rules will be held here on Monday, he said.Last week, Governor Satydeo Narain Arya gave his assent to the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020, providing 75 per cent reservation for those who have a domicile certificate and are seeking private-sector jobs that a monthly salary of less than Rs 50,000."It will be our endeavour to frame the rules by the end of this month. Next month, we will run employment drives in all 22 districts and 67 employment exchanges in the state," Chautala, who holds the industries portfolio, said at a news conference here.Responding to criticism from various quarters, including some members of the industry, he alleged that many people have "misconception" about the law and pointed out that Haryana was not the only state where such a provision had been made.Chautala said the state government held eight rounds of meeting with industry associations before this law was made "and even now we will hold consultations with them"."After consultations, if we have to incorporate some technical things in the rules, will do that so that industry comes to our state in an even bigger way," the deputy chief minister said."Earlier too we had sought suggestions from them. We will now seek suggestions from industry associations of our state and chambers of industry bodies. We will write to them with copies of the bill and seek suggestions for framing the rules," he said.In reply to a question, Chautala said Haryana remains a favourite destination for the industry and added that a leading lithium battery manufacturing company was setting up a plant at an investment of ₹7,500 crore."Top companies, including Amazon, are ready to invest in Haryana," he said.Hitting out at the opposition, he said not even one factory has moved out of the state even during the coronavirus pandemic.Asked why a section of the industry was opposing the state government's reservation move, the deputy chief minister said, "If there are objections, observations of industry, we will hold consultations and resolve it. That is the job of the state government."On the issue of crop procurement, he said Haryana will start procurement of six crops, including wheat, at minimum support price next month."Wheat procurement will begin from April 1 in nearly 400 mandis," Chautala said, adding the farmers will have the option to get the payment for their crops procured directly into their accounts within 48 hours or through 'Arhitiyas' (commission agents).Chautala said a majority of the 67.48 per cent farmers from the state have expressed their wish to take payment directly into their bank accounts.On the farmers' protest at Delhi's borders against the three Central farm laws, he said the leaders should hold dialogue with the Union government to resolve the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-deputy-cm-says-open-to-suggestions-from-industry-bodies-on-rules-for-private-sector-reservation-law-101615124139639.html
07-03-2021||Bhopal||Farm laws: BKU's Rakesh Tikait to hold rally in MP's Sheopur on Monday||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Singh Tikait will address three rallies in Madhya Pradesh from Monday to drum up support for his protest against the Centre's three agri marketing laws, a functionary of his outfit said.The rallies will be held in Sheopur on Monday, in Rewa on March 14 and in Jabalpur the next day, and a decision would be taken later on holding more rallies in the state, said BKU MP general secretary Anil Yadav.Yadav told PTI Tikait will be touring MP, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Karnataka and Telangana to interact with farmers and widen the protests against the Centre's new laws.Incidentally, there is an arrest warrant pending against Tikait in connection with a 2012 attempt to murder and rioting case in the state's Anuppur district, said police officials.Tikait had led a BKU protest against a power plant in Jaithari area, which turned violent, leading to injuries to policemen and torching of vehicles, they added.Over 100 people, including Tikait, were arrested under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting with armed weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC, an official said."However, after being released on bail in 2012, Tikait failed to appear before court for subsequent hearings, after which an arrest warrant was issued against him in 2016. We will take necessary action on the arrest warrant," Anuppur Superintendent of Police Mangilal Solanki said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/farm-laws-bku-s-rakesh-tikait-to-hold-rally-in-mp-s-sheopur-on-monday-101615122121595.html
07-03-2021||West||Asked about his role in BJP, Mithun Chakraborty points to his Fatakeshto films||Actor Mithun Chakraborty said on Sunday said he will join the poll campaign of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the upcoming assembly elections in West Bengal next week. The Bengali icon was welcomed into the BJP’s fold just weeks before the state polls by the party’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and state president Dilip Ghosh ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s massive rally in Kolkata’s Brigade Parade Ground.“The campaign will begin on March 12. I will join. If you have watched Fatakeshto, you would know,” the National Award-winning actor said, while making a vague reference to his film series when asked about his role in the BJP, according to news agency ANI.Chakraborty played the lead role in the movie MLA Fatakesto where he was cast as an anti-social who takes up the challenge of becoming a legislator and brings about changes in seven days. In the sequel of the movie, he is elevated to the position of a minister but finds himself in a similar situation where he has to fight corrupt colleagues to give back power to the people.Reference to the Fatakesto film series were made before and after Chakraborty’s formal induction into the BJP. Urged by the crowds present to see Prime Minister Modi, Chakraborty used one of his famous dialogues. “Maarbo ekhane, laash porbe shoshane,” he said in Bengali, which roughly translates to “I will smack you so hard, you will reach the crematorium in no time.” He also used another dialogue where he compared himself to the King Cobra. “Neither am I a jol dhora nor am I a bele bora. I am a pure gokhro. Ek chobolei chhobi (one bite would turn you into a photograph).”Chakraborty said that it is a dream come true moment for him as he has now become a part of the BJP. He said he was blessed to share the same stage with the 'greatest leader of the world's largest democracy.’ He also said that joining the BJP will allow him to work for the people.Chakraborty resigned as the Rajya Sabha member in 2016 after his name came up in the Saradha chit fund scam. He had previously been associated with the Trinamool Congress and had also campaigned for them.Bengal will head to polls on March 27. The elections will he held across eight phases and the votes will be counted on May 2. The elections will be held on the following dates - March 27, April 1, April 6, April 10, April 17, April 22, April 26 and April 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/west-bengal-assembly-election/asked-about-his-role-in-bjp-mithun-chakraborty-points-to-his-fatakeshto-films-101615121485119.html
07-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM orders immediate action on '7-point agenda 2022'||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday directed all ministries and departments to work for the realization of the 7-point 'Agenda 2022' he had unveiled in the Vidhan Sabha on Friday."The agenda, aimed at ensuring total protection of people and their properties in an environment of peaceful co-existence conducive to saving the lives and livelihood of all Punjabis against all odds. The agenda is centered around citizen welfare through a holistic focus on the overarching development of the state," said an official statement issued by the Punjab Government."The overarching goal of the agenda is to ensure the development of a 'Kaamyab & Khushal Punjab'," the statement further read.The 7-point agenda encompassing the Chief Minister's promises read, "We would fully protect the Zarr and Zameen of the State at any cost. We would ensure peaceful co-existence for all in the State. We would save lives and livelihood of all Punjabis against all odds or situations that may be thrust upon us.""We would reach out to every needy person to alleviate his economic miseries and provide them with their due benefits under the socio-economic programmes of the government. We would empower the youth of the state by enabling them to stand on their own feet. We would ensure adequate food, and shelter at affordable prices for all deserving populations of the State," further read the agenda.It said, the government would develop every village and town of the State in a manner that everybody gets an equal opportunity to live a quality life in the State.Captain Amarinder in Vidhan Sabha on Friday said, "People of the state will not be carried away by the "false promises and euphoric claims of some leaders who are completely detached from Punjab and Punjabiyat," but would continue to repose confidence in his transparent and responsive government.The Chief Minister claimed that the government had fulfilled 455 out of the 546 commitments made in the election manifesto during the 2017 elections and assured the House that the remaining promises of his Government will also be fulfilled before the completion of its term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-orders-immediate-action-on-7-point-agenda-2022-101615120430437.html
07-03-2021||Bhopal||Man attaches toilet pipeline to drinking water tank in railway station at Madhya Pradesh||A railway station master was placed under suspension in Madhya Pradesh's Mandsaur district after an outsourced sanitation worker attached a toilet pipeline to the tank containing drinking water, an official said on Sunday.The incident happened on March 1 in Garoth station, which falls under the railway's Kota division, said Senior Divisional Commercial Manager Ajay Kumar Pal."A sanitation worker from a private firm attached a toilet pipeline to the drinking water tank, which was thoroughly cleaned after the error and tested for potability. Station master Chauthmal Meena was placed under suspension and the sanitation worker was removed from duty," Pal informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/man-attaches-toilet-pipeline-to-drinking-water-tank-in-railway-station-101615120568668.html
07-03-2021||Dehradun||India's first forest healing centre open in Kalika, near Ranikhet||The country's first forest healing centre based on the concept of making people healthy by bringing them into direct contact with nature was opened to the public on Sunday at Kalika near Ranikhet, an official said.Signboards on either side of its slopey entrance advise visitors to hug trees, walk barefoot on the grass, lie on their back and gaze at the swaying trees or the ever changing sky above to soothe their senses.Cute little wooden structures called tree platforms have been built for the purpose of providing visitors a perfectly natural ambience to meditate. Drawing inspiration from the Japanese technique of forest bathing (shinrin - yoku), the healing centre has been developed by the research wing of Uttarakhand Forest Department after a detailed study of the revitalising impact of forests on human health, Chief Conservator of Forest Sanjiv Chaturvedi said.Spread over an area of around 13 acres, the centre was inaugurated by noted environmentalist from Ranikhet Joginder Bisht.Also read: Elephant dies of ‘thirst’ in Haldwani rangeThe visitors can indulge in several activities at the centre including forest walking, tree hugging, forest meditation and sky gazing. It has been found that because of typical molecular vibration patterns of trees, tree hugging has a very beneficial impact on increasing the level of feel good hormones in the body like oxytocin, serotonin and dopamine, Chaturvedi said.The healing centre has been established in a pine dominated forest as it has been found in various studies that conifers like pine trees emit certain oil compounds to safeguard themselves from various microbes & pathogens, which are called phytoncides, he said.It has been found in various researches that these compounds help to multiply natural killer cells in our blood, which help in fighting infections and cancerous growth and enhance overall immunity, he said.It has also been found in various researches that these compounds have a very positive impact on decreasing level of stress hormones and have a relaxing effect, he said.The forest healing centre maintains a register in which visitors can share their experiences.The signboards also advise visitors to leave behind phones, cameras or any other distractions to feel the sensations a direct contact with nature sends to the brain, Chaturvedi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/indias-first-forest-healing-centre-open-in-kalika-near-ranikhet-101615112529464.html
07-03-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee asks Jharkhand CM to campaign for her in WB Assembly polls, JMM yet to decide||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren has been requested by Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee to campaign for her in the West Bengal Assembly elections and the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha will take a decision on this soon keeping in mind the objective of giving a pushback to the BJP's poll prospects, a senior JMM leader said on Sunday.The development assumes significance as the JMM is an alliance government with the Congress in Jharkhand and the Sonia Gandhi-led party has tied up with the Left and the Indian Secular Front in West Bengal against the BJP and the Trinamool Congress (TMC).After the Rashtriya Janata Dal, the Samajwadi Party and the Shiv Sena, Banerjee had said last week that the TMC has received support from the JMM and the Nationalist Congress Party for the assembly polls.In West Bengal, communication keeps happening with Mamata Banerjee as being in neighbouring states, issues are regularly discussed, a senior JMM leader said on condition of anonymity."It was our demand that some regions of West Bengal, Bihar and Odisha should have been made part of Jharkhand as they had been part of the movement for the state, but in 2000 the borders that were created, some areas were left out," the leader said."As a result, you would see that in West Bengal's tea gardens, a majority of the people are from Jharkhand. So, we do have an influence there," the leader said.The TMC chief has asked the Jharkhand chief minister to campaign for her, the JMM leader said, adding that party chief Shibu Soren has been informed about the request.The leader said a decision will soon be taken on it by the party."But the target is fixed that the BJP has to be given a pushback there and a decision will be taken keeping that in mind," the leader said.The JMM leader also slammed the Centre on various issues such as high fuel prices, farm laws and treatment meted out to farmers. The leader also alleged that it seems cooperative federalism is left only on name.Significantly, Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Yadav had also thrown his party's weight behind Banerjee and appealed to Biharis domiciled in West Bengal to rally behind the chief minister in the elections.RJD is also part of the Jharkhand government headed by Hemant Soren.Elections to the 294-member West Bengal assembly will be held in eight phases from March 27 to April 29. Votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-asks-jharkhand-cm-to-campaign-for-her-in-wb-assembly-polls-jmm-yet-to-decide-101615118397738.html
07-03-2021||Pune||94th Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan deferred indefinitely||PUNE The 94th Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan (All-India Marathi Literary Meet) which was scheduled to be held in Nashik on March 26, 27 and 28 has been deferred indefinitely in the light of increasing Covid-19 cases in the state.The three-day meet is attended by many noted literary figures, publishers, and book lovers. Speakers come all over from the state.Kautikrao Thale-Patil, president, Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Mahamandal, announced the decision on Sunday after discussion with the concerned authorities.Thale-Patil also made it clear that when the numbers Covid cases will be under control, the literary meet could be held in Nashik.“I held discussions with members of Marathi literary organisations such as Maharashtra Sahitya Parishad, Mumbai Marathi Sahitya Sangh, Marathwada Sahitya Parishad, Vidarbha Sahitya Sangh, Chhagan Bhujbal, politician and Kapoor Wasnik, vice-president, Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan. It has been decided not to hold the literary meet amid a rise in Covid cases,” he said.He also ruled out the possibility of conducting the event online. “Interaction is important in this event. The organisers feel the event cannot be held online,” he said.Dr Jayant Narlikar, an eminent astrophysicist and writer, was elected as the president for the 94th Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan.“It is an appropriate decision considering the present pandemic situation. The health and safety of all is now a priority,” said Dr Narlikar.“When the Covid cases will come under control, the Sammelan will be organised in Nashik and we will plan the event accordingly. We are hopeful that the situation will be normalised soon,” said Jayprakash Jategaonkar, president, Lokhitwadi Mandal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/94th-akhil-bharatiya-marathi-sahitya-sammelan-deferred-indefinitely-101615117992205.html
07-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports less than 300 new Covid-19 cases after 2 days, active cases up slightly||Delhi reported less than 300 daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Sunday, with 286 infections and two related deaths, the state health department said in a bulletin. The Capital had reported 321 Covid-19 cases on Saturday and 312 infections on Friday, reporting over 300 cases only after January 14, 2021. Active caseload stands at 1,803, a jump of 24 patients from the 1,779 reported on Saturday, the bulletin also showed. With this Delhi’s Covid-19 tally has reached 641,101 and the death toll climbed to 10,921, as per the latest data.🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 7th March 2021🏥#DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/qgznbBAajxMeanwhile, the Union ministry of health and family welfare categorised Delhi along with Gujarat, Karnataka, Haryana, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh as states in focus, after a surge in the number of daily new cases were observed. The ministry has maintained this stance for the past two days.Also read | Covid-19: India's weekly tally rises over 114,000, daily fatalities average 100The number of daily tests conducted in Delhi witnessed an increase with 91,614 tests conducted on Sunday comprising 71,250 RTPCR/CBNAAT/TruNat tests and 20,364 Rapid antigen tests. The city had conducted slightly over 53,000 tests on Saturday. With this, the Delhi government has so far tested 12,826,117 samples for the coronavirus disease and the tests per million count stand at 675,058.Cumulative positivity rate, considering the total tests done and the total number of people found positive, has been reported as 5 per cent and the case fatality rate (CFR) stands at 1.7 per cent. Also, 260 patients were reported as recovered on Sunday, taking the total recoveries to 628,377 at a recovery rate of 98.01 per cent, according to data. The bulletin also showed that 937 patients have been in home isolation and the city currently has 538 containment zones as of Sunday.Watch | ‘Covid vaccination done for free at govt hospitals in India’: PM Modi﻿According to data from the Union health ministry, Delhi has vaccinated 560,074 beneficiaries for the Covid-19 disease of whom, 494,939 people have received a first dose of the vaccine and 65,135 people have received their second dose, as of 7am on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-less-than-300-new-covid-19-cases-after-2-days-active-cases-up-slightly-101615116181554.html
07-03-2021||Other||Women’s T20 cricket league has NextGen female cricketers playing for keeps||Pune: The Girls Sadu Shinde Cricket League (T20), being played at the Law college ground has little fanfare, hype or buzz associated with the shortest form of international cricket. That is, until, during a drinks break or after the game, you have a word with the cricketers on the field. The grassroots and the future of Indian women’s cricket is here, being played out by straight driving batswomen; devilishly quick (even by women’s cricket standards) fast bowlers; and “field first, talk later” cricket coaches. Mithali Raj, Smriti Mandhana and Harmanpreet Kaur are the names spoken of in inspirational tones and the Indian women’s cricket team’s two runner-up finishes in the previous T20 world cups is the key driving factor. “I have watched both the finals, and played cricket for the last three years. We all are from Kolhapur and we follow women’s cricket. We have 34 girls from our school who play cricket every day,” is how Saumyalata Birajdar, captain of the Stadium Cricket Club, describes her passion. At the Law college ground, Stadium Cricket Club defeated Sahamat Cricket Club by 24 runs in a group stage match. In the 2017 T20 World Cup final, the Indian women’s team lost to England, and in 2020, India went down against Australia, again in the final. At the Law college ground, player of the match, Sneha Sale took four wickets for 17 runs for Stadium Cricket Club. “I have only watched the final of the 2020. The performance by the Indian team, gave us all the belief that women can make a career in cricket. Now parents don’t object when we go and play cricket,” says Sale. Currently there are 40 cricket clubs in Pune where women are training. The Pune District Cricket Association (PDCA) has been organising the cricket league for women for the last six years. “This year, 20 teams are participating and it is the highest number so far,” said Arvind Shivale, president, PDCA. PDCA also has plans of conducting 50-over tournaments in future. Kirti Ghatge, a big fan of Shoaib Akthar, wants to bowl fast like him. “I love taking long run-ups, but I still don’t have much pace; I am working on it,” said Ghatge, a 16-year-old bowler from Sahamat Cricket Club. “Women cricketers not only in Pune city but around the state have a busy schedule these days as local tournaments have increased in the last three years. Since cricket restarted, after the Covid break, we have been having back-to-back tournaments; sometimes even two matches on the same day. More girls now want to take up cricket professionally,” says Tejal Hasabnis, an India ‘A’ player. Indian player Mona Meshram, who visited Pune to play a local tournament last month, adds, “The dimension of women cricket has changed in the last few years. All talk is about women cricket and the number of girls training in clubs has also increased.” Mohan Jadhav, coach, Vengsarkar Cricket Academy, says, “I remember 5 years before there were only five entries for the Girls Sadu Shinde Cricket League (T20), but the number now is 20. Even at the Vengsarkar Cricket Academy we now have a complete team.”The women are showing interest in maintaining their fitness and quality of their game has also improved.Vikram Deshmukh, founder of Cricket Next Academy, says, “From the age of 10 girls have started playing cricket and they have developed sharp knowledge about the game. Parents are also coming forward and allowing them to play.”Tournament details Girls Sadu Shinde Cricket League (T20) Total teams: 20 Teams divided in four groups; teams play 3 matches in league round Teams: Group A: ATS, Clubs of Club, AK Black Panthers, Gaikwad CA, Group B: PDCA, PYC, PMP, Shirur Sports, Group C: Vengsarkar Cricket Academy, AK Thunderbolt, Charandros, Nanaware (SA Girls) Group D: Sahamat Cricket Club, Surya Education Trust, Stadium CC, Rising Sports Group E: Warriors CA, RK Cricket, Azam Sports, Holy Spirit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/womens-t20-cricket-league-has-nextgen-female-cricketers-playing-for-keeps-101615116552726.html
07-03-2021||West||PM Modi schools TMC on its ‘outsider’ narrative, says Bengal is in BJP’s DNA||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee should correct herself before calling the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) an ‘outsider’ and pointed out that her Trinamool Congress was formed after breaking away from the Congress.“Didi says things which are against the idea of Bengal. Tagore, Vivekananda and Netaji, who are guiding lights of our nation, are hurt by the ‘outsider’ narrative peddled by the TMC. Few people invoke the name of the Indian National Congress but are the founders of the INC outsiders or insiders?” PM Modi asked while addressing a mega rally in Kolkata’s Brigade Parade Ground.“The Left Front who ruled Bengal for a long time and whose ideas of governance are based on the teachings of Mao Zedong, Karl Marx or Lenin, are these people outsiders or not? Similarly, the Trinamool Congress is an offshoot of the Congress. They left the Congress because of political gains,” PM Modi added.The Prime Minister went on to explain to the massive gathering the reason why the BJP is the only party in the country which was formed keeping Bengal’s culture and thinking at its core. “The idea of the BJP came from Bengal’s great son Syama Prasad Mookerjee. The BJP is a party whose existence is interwoven with Bengal’s existence. The BJP smells of Bengal and Bengal is in the BJP’s DNA. We are indebted to Bengal, we cannot pay this debt but we will usher in an era of development,” PM Modi said.PM Modi then challenged the Trinamool Congress by saying that the BJP ensured the state’s ruling party was routed in West Bengal during the Lok Sabha elections and said this time the party will ensure that they are fully ousted from West Bengal. “During the Lok Sabha elections, the TMC’s (vote share) was cut into half, this time (their vote share) will be saaf (cleared).”During the rally, the Prime Minister promised that it is the BJP who will bring ‘ashol poriborton’ (real change) to Bengal and asked people to fearlessly vote for his party. He also said that Banerjee he once knew has now disappeared. PM Modi said that he does not remember the person who fought against the Left Front government a decade earlier. He alleged that she now herself practices the politics of nepotism which she had once decried.“You are Bengal’s Didi (an honorific term used to address an elder sister) yet you choose to take care of one nephew. Endless nephews and nieces of Bengal are yearning for your ‘Mamata’, what about them?” PM Modi asked taking a jibe at Lok Sabha MP Abhishek Banerjee who is also Mamata Banerjee’s nephew.Assembly elections in West Bengal will be held in eight phases from March 27 and the last round of polling will take place on April 29. Votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/west-bengal-assembly-election/pm-modi-schools-tmc-on-its-outsider-narrative-says-bengal-is-in-bjp-s-dna-101615116051400.html
07-03-2021||Other||0-30 in no time: ventilators, that is... How Pune civic hospital infra revved up||When Pune reported its first Covid case in Maharashtra on March 9, 2020, all it had was the Naidu hospital equipped to deal with the pandemic-infected.As numbers started growing the administration took necessary measures to control the spread.At the same time, the civic body also realised the importance of critical care for a city the size of Pune.Surprisingly until the pandemic hit, not one PMC-run hospital had a single ventilator. This caused the civic body to go on a spree investing in ICU facilities centralised oxygen tanks at its hospitals.In just a few months, the city’s government hospitals had 30 ventilators, all courtesy CSR donations or via the PM Cares fund. The pandemic forced the civic body to ramp up its health infrastructure in record time. Before the Covid-19 outbreak, the city’s only infection- control hospital Naidu hospital, also one of its kind in the state, did not have a ventilator. Naidu hospital was the first-response hospital against Covid-19, but had to depend on Sassoon hospital for the treatment of critical Covid-19 patients, as it did not have a critical care unit. Dr Sudhir Patsute, medical superintendent, Dr Naidu Infectious Disease Hospital, Pune, said, “The challenge was not in upgrading the facilities, which happened immediately as an when required. The major challenge was crowd and staff management. During such an extraordinary situation there is always a staff crunch; staff is infected, they are exhausted working continuously for days, and then there is a shortage of experts.”“However, Naidu hospital had an advantage, as we handled the H1N1 pandemic. The lessons we learnt during that period helped me and the staff to cope with the challenge. We also treated the first patient using the training we were imparted back in November 2019, when the pandemic had not yet broken out in the state,” Dr Patsute added.The civic body also constructed the Baner hospital with 312 beds for critical care, including 270 oxygenated beds, 26 ICU beds and 16 ventilators. The hospital is currently dedicated for Covid-19 patients, but will eventually be opened for other ailments once the pandemic comes to an end. The Baner hospital was completely built on CSR funds and the hospital was “gifted” to the city to meet the pandemic needs, which will, in future, cater to the non-Covid-19 needs of the city. A senior health official said, “Prior to the pandemic, the PMC had only one ventilator at the Kamala Nehru hospital for the NICU unit. We had no ICU units, ventilators or even central oxygenated systems at any of our hospitals. Due to the pandemic we got 30 ventilators, all of which were either allocated to us through the PM Cares funds or through CSR. These ventilators have been temporarily shifted for non-Covid-19 use, but can be re-allocated if needed. However, we have those with us now. In addition to this the ventilators at the COEP Jumbo facility will be allocated to PMC, PCMC and Pune rural outlets, so we will get those extra ventilators too.”The official also added that Naidu hospital now has 20 ICU beds, and Dalvi hospital has 10 ICU beds. “In terms of oxygenated beds, we built central oxygen tanks at four of our hospitals, namely Dlavi hospital, PMC’s Bopodi hospital, Laygude Hospital and Naidu hospital,” the official added.Sassoon upgradeSassoon General Hospitals, the oldest government hospital, also saw a major upgrade, first proposed following the 2009 Swine flu pandemic in the city. Finally, after a 12-year long wait, within months of the Covid-19 pandemic, the requirements of the city forced the administration to upgrade the much-needed facility.Sassoon is the oldest government hospital in the district and also caters to the needs of the neighbouring districts, including Satara, Ahmednagar, Solapur and Kolhapur. The new building added 100 rooms, 50 with attached bathrooms and toilets, while the remaining 50 with common bathroom and toilets. The extended portion will be a state-of-the-art hospital with organ transplant units. The new building will also have departments of TB, skin care, orthopaedics, ophthalmology and ENT. The entire project cost is ₹250 crore and was put in to action only to meet the emergency needs of the district.Data collectionThe pandemic also helped the civic body collect a huge database, which it did not have prior to Covid-19, regarding the comorbid population in the city. The database, which was undertaken following the state government’s directives under the ‘My family, My responsibility’ initiative. The door-to-door survey registered the number of comorbid people who may be suffering from the most common ailments, including diabetes and hypertension. The survey also classified the population as per the health requirements by registering the most vulnerable population, as per age.It was found that Pune city has 12 lakh people who are “high risk”, which includes those above 50-years of age and those below 50-years of age, but with associated comorbidities. The same data will now help the city prioritise its most vulnerable population that needs to be vaccinated against Covid-19 first. This database, if regularly updated, can also help in developing the city’s healthcare infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/030-in-no-time-ventilators-that-is-how-pune-civic-hospital-infra-revved-up-101615115232978.html
07-03-2021||Delhi||Over 85% staff of Delhi Prisons received Covid-19 vaccine shots: Officials||The Delhi Prisons Department said that around 85 per cent jail staff and over 58 per cent security personnel deployed in three jails under it have received Covid-19 vaccine shots.The Delhi Prisons comprises Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli jails.A senior jail official said there are around 2,000 jail staff, out of which, 1,700 staff have been vaccinated. Out of around 1,700 security personnel deployed with Delhi Prisons and who have registered on Co-WIN portal, 1,000 personnel have got the coronavirus vaccine shots, he said.Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said the department has encouraged its staff to get the vaccine shots."We have been encouraging the jail staff and security personnel to get the vaccine. Most of the staff members have already taken the first dose of the vaccine. It is safe and essential for our health," he said.Earlier, the Delhi Prisons Department had asked its staff members, including security personnel, to enrol themselves for receiving the coronavirus vaccine shots.A total of 293 prisons staff have contracted the infection till Sunday, and all of them have recovered, officials said.They said a total of 120 inmates have tested positive for the virus so far, of whom 117 inmates have recovered, while two died and one is still under treatment.The first case of coronavirus was reported in Rohini Jail on May 13.Two Covid-19 positive inmates of Mandoli Jail had died on June 15 and July 4.The second phase of the Covid-19 nationwide vaccination drive began on March 1, wherein people aged 60 years and above, and those in 45-59 age bracket with comorbidities, will receive the vaccine shots.Jail officials said there are about 300 inmates who are above 60 years of age and another 300 who are in the 45-59 age bracket with comorbidities.There are a total of 17,500 inmates in the three prisons -- Tihar, Mandoli and Rohini.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-85-staff-of-delhi-prisons-received-covid-19-vaccine-shots-officials-101615111004589.html
07-03-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand BJP core group meeting fuels speculation about major change in govt||A sudden meeting of the Uttarakhand BJP's core committee has fuelled speculations about some major changes in the government.The meeting, held on Saturday evening, was presided over by BJP's national vice president and former Chhattisgarh chief minister Raman Singh, who arrived here on Saturday afternoon. Singh was accompanied by state BJP in-charge Dushyant Kumar Gautam.The unscheduled meeting with the members of the core group came at a time when the budget session of the state assembly was underway in Gairsain.The BJP MLAs were called back from Gairsain to the state capital in view of the core committee meeting held amid ongoing speculations in the media about a cabinet expansion.The sudden meeting of the core committee for which Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had to fly back to Dehradun in a hurry from Gairsain assumed significance.Also read: Uttarakhand Congress alleges corruption, mismanagement in MahakumbhCore group members -- Rajya Sabha member Naresh Bansal, Tehri MP Mala Rajya Lakshmi Shah, former chief minister Vijay Bahuguna, Nainital MP Ajay Bhatt, cabinet minister Madan Kaushik, minister of state Dhan Singh Rawat, state BJP general secretary Ajeya Kumar, among others -- attended the meeting, which went on for over two hours.Raman Singh talked separately to each member of the core group to get a feedback from them. He also went to the chief minister's official residence where around 40 party MLAs had gathered. He also visited the RSS office here after the core committee meeting.Another member of the core group Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank also met Singh at Jollygrant airport late in the evening.The urgency with which the developments took place gave rise to speculations that a leadership change was likely in the state.However, state BJP president Bansidhar Bhagat said the core group meeting discussed celebrations to be held in 70 assembly constituencies in the state on March 18 to mark the completion of the BJP government's four years in office.He said there was no leadership change likely in the state and there was no resentment among party MLAs.However, party sources said nothing could be said for sure at the moment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-bjp-core-group-meeting-fuels-speculation-about-major-change-in-govt-101615094544921.html
07-03-2021||Delhi||Over 1,000 Delhi Police personnel trained to tackle cyber-crime amid pandemic||In light of the upward trend in cybercrimes throughout the Covid-19 pandemic, about 1,300 personnel of the Delhi Police have been trained through video-conferencing as part of the Police force' decisive measures against crime.According to Anyesh Roy, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Cyber Cell, incidents increased two-fold during the peak of the lockdown - from April and July 2020. Out of all these, about two-thirds were driven by online frauds. Cases of extortion by morphing videos of people (especially related to sexual conduct) also increased last year."Harnessing the digital platforms, Delhi Police organised online training for police personnel posted in District Cyber Cells and Police Station Cyber Teams. Close to 1,300 personnel were trained through video-conferencing," Roy said.Teams of the Delhi Police apprehended cyber-criminals from far-off states such as Telangana, Maharashtra, Bihar, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, West Bengal, etc despite movement restrictions amid the pandemic."Multiple sessions were conducted for police personnel on Internet Protocol Detail Record (IPDR) analysis, crypto-currency fraud investigations, illegal call centre investigations and investigation of frauds using new financial instruments (UPI, QR Code)," Roy said.The force took measures against cyber crimes at multiple levels through their three-tiered cyber investigation structure and handled common online frauds such as vishing, social media frauds.The CyPAD Unit handled complex cases of online frauds and sensitive cases of online harassment. They also focused on dismantling organized cyber-crime syndicates and made sustained efforts resulting in successful detections of cybercriminals operating in the Mewat region who targeted users of resale mobile applications.Action has also been taken against fraudsters peddling fake websites in the name of popular government schemes such as Ayushman Yojana, PM Cares, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-1-000-delhi-police-personnel-trained-to-tackle-cyber-crime-amid-pandemic-101615108302568.html
07-03-2021||Delhi||Rich, rustic, robust: The taste of Punjab||There’s something energetic and mood lifting about the cuisine. The colourful, spicy, buttery dishes that showcase the lively culinary tradition of Punjab have been the favourite of gourmands across cultures. “Punjabi food has been nurtured in hearts and palates rather than recipe books. It is so widely popular because of the use of fresh seasonal ingredients, and vibrant culture and folklore - all woven together,” says Sandeep Pande, executive chef, JW Marriot, New Delhi. The hotel had recently organised a food festival to celebrate the local, rustic flavours of Punjab. Bittu Meat Wala, a native from Amritsar, Punjab, visited Delhi and showcased recipes such as Amritsari Burrah, Bhatti da Murgh, Wadiyan Matar, Choley Kulchey, transporting guests to the rustic and authentic Punjab. “Punjab with its rich cultivating land and five rivers is ideal for growing crops and thus it’s called the granary of India. Punjabi cuisine stood the test of time because of its self sufficiency. Punjab is capable of producing its own requirement be it crops, milk or spices. Whatever happened in and around Punjab didn’t affect its food culture and thus it was able to retain its uniqueness,” says Chef Sanjay Vij, executive chef, Vivanta Surajkund. Punjabi food is considered to be one of the best when it comes to innovation and experimentation, say experts. Chef Monish Gujral, chairman of Moti Mahal Delux, says, “Punjabi cuisine is a result of experimentation. It’s a fusion of Mughlai food (the delicacies that the Mughals brought in the 18th century) and Punjabi recipes from the North-West province. Butter chicken and chicken tikka were created from the fusion. Punjabis added their flavours into the Mughlai kitchen and the food that we love today is the result of that fusion.”The Punjabi food as we know it today is an outcome of historic events but there is more to it. It’s an exciting exchange of various cultures and traditions. “During the partition, the Punjabis from Pakistan brought the tandoor. It opened up the world of barbequed fares. From the North-West frontier arrived simple but robust flavours of nomadic people. The cross-cultural influences resulted in embracing fresh and dried nuts from Afghanistan. In fact, the iconic dhaba culture evolved out of the need for survival for the displaced peoples of Punjab,” says Vij. Due to its flavours to style of cooking, easy techniques and approach, the cuisine transcended far and wide. However, chefs have been adding novelty into their creations. “Ingredients such as broccoli, morels, wild mushrooms, finer cuts of meats, and cold water fish are finding a place in modern Punjabi restaurant menus, leading to bigger ingredient baskets for chefs,” says Chef Gurpreet Singh, culinary director, Daryaganj Hospitality group. Alternate grains such as jawar, bajra and amaranth are also gradually finding place in the cuisine. The cooking methods in Punjabi cuisine are mostly simple, tried and tested methods. “Spices are freshly grounded, crushed with the traditional mortar and pestle. Tempering or tadka is another method of adding zing to the food. Use of brass and copper utensils is prevalent in Punjabi cuisine, owing to its health benefits,” says Vij. Pande adds, “The food needs to be cooked with care whilst cooking meats and dairy together. Also, the balance of sour, spice and salt needs to be perfect. Another factor is temperature control of chulahs and tandoors to create unforgettable dishes.” So, which Punjabi recipe are you trying this weekend?Chicken Pakoda Recipe:Ingredients● Chicken 1 - Cut into small pieces (No Boneless) - 800 gms● 2 TBSP Ginger- Garlic Paste● 250 grams Yogurt● 150 Grams Besan (Chickpea Flour)● 2 Eggs● 3 Green Chilies● 1 TBSP Grounded Cumin seeds● 1 TBSP Kasuri Methi● 1 TBSP Red Chilly Powder● 1 TBSP Salt● 1 TBSP Black Pepper Powder● Refined Oil for Frying.Process: 1. Make 2/3 deep cuts/ gashes with a knife in each piece of Chicken.2. Marinate the chicken with Yogurt, Ginger-Garlic Paste, Salt, Black Pepper,Red Chilli Powder and set it aside for 3 hours (covered).3. For the batter, mix everything together at one go have a consistency andnothing can be identified, separated. Clean the pieces of whatever is visibleover and above the pieces, ensuring that enough remains inside deep gashesfor the flavour.4. Deep fry on medium heat for 5-6 minutes.By chef Gurpreet Singh Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rich-rustic-robust-the-taste-of-punjab-101615104133175.html
07-03-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan officers caught red-handed in Jaipur city busses bribery case||A team of anti-corruption bureau (ACB) arrested an officer of Rajasthan Administrative Services (RAS) Virendra Verma, posted as officer on special duty in Jaipur City Transport Services Limited (JCTSL) along with an assistant accounts officer (AAO) and a travel agency owner in a case of bribery worth lakhs of rupees for alloting tender and other facilities.Director general of ACB, BL Soni said arrests were made after corruption in tender allocation, operation and additional facilities of 100 city buses of JCTSL, such as release of subsidy, surfaced."On Saturday, under the direction of Dinesh MN, under the leadership of additional superintendent of police Bajrang Singh, OSD Virendra Verma, AAO Mahesh Goyal working in JCTSL were arrested for taking a bribe of ₹four lakhs and Naresh Singhal, owner of Paras Travel Agency, was arrested for giving bribe," said Soni.Also Read:20 years on, court acquits 122 people accused of SIMI linksThe DG, ACB added that in the house search of OSD, ACB recovered ₹7 lakh in cash, documents of three plots and documents related to agricultural land were recovered.In the past also, ACB registered a case against Verma on charges of irregularities in the old National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA), which is also under investigation.Meanwhile, search operations are still on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-officers-caught-red-handed-in-jaipur-city-busses-bribery-case-101615095328268.html
07-03-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses pre-arrest bail to judicial magistrate booked in bribery case||The Bombay high court on Thursday refused anticipatory bail to a judicial magistrate first class (JMFC), whose associate allegedly demanded and accepted a bribe on her behalf for dismissing a criminal complaint against a milk vendor from Maharashtra’s Pune district."The applicant was occupying a very responsible position. Considering the seriousness of allegations against her, it is necessary that the investigation is carried out thoroughly," said justice Sarang Kotwal, while rejecting the anticipatory bail plea of the judicial magistrate, Archana Jatkar.Jatkar has been booked by Dehu Road police station on the basis of a complaint lodged by Swapnil Shevkar, a milk vendor.Shevkar said on January 4, 2021 a woman came to his residence and informed his brother that a criminal complaint was filed against Shevkar and it could result in levying some serious charges against him. She gave her mobile number so that Shevkar could contact her.When Shevkar contacted and later met her, the woman, Jatkar's associate Shubhavari Gaikwad, informed him that she could settle the matter for him, if he agreed to pay Rs. 5 lakh. After negotiations, she reduced the amount to Rs. 3 lakh.Shevkar lodged a complaint with the anti-corruption bureau. On January 14, 2021, Shevkar met the woman, who sat in his car and moved around. At one spot, she accepted the bribe amount and got down from the vehicle. ACB sleuths then arrested Gaikwad, who revealed she had accepted the bribe amount on behalf of Jatkar, a judicial magistrate first class at Vadgaon Maval in Pune district.Jatkar first moved the sessions court at Pune for pre-arrest bail before approaching the HC after the sessions court rejected her plea on February 23.The JMFC contended that she was staying alone in Pune along with her 11-month-old baby since her husband was employed in Mumbai. She claimed she came in contact with Gaikwad while looking for a babysitter. She said she wasn’t aware of such activities of the woman.Justice Kotwal refused to accept her claim of innocence after noticing that certain conversations between Jatkar and Gaikwad referred to the case and at least prima facie indicated involvement of the JMFC in the crime.Also Read: 20 years on, court acquits 122 people accused of SIMI linksHC noted that investigation showed that there were 147 telephonic calls exchanged between the Applicant (Jatkar) and Gaikwad."These conversations are a strong indication of the applicant’s involvement in the offence," said justice Kotwal while rejecting her pre-arrest bail plea."Therefore considering the gravity of offence, order of anticipatory bail cannot be passed in her favour. Her custodial interrogation is necessary to find out the exact nature of relation between both the accused and as to whether in any other case these two have acted similarly," the judge added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-pre-arrest-bail-to-judicial-magistrate-booked-in-bribery-case-101615092060208.html
07-03-2021||Other||'Budget 2021-22 will distribute 3 lack sheep units to families' : Telangana CM||Telangana Chief Minister Chandrashekar Rao has hinted that the 2021-2022 state annual Budget would be promising while adding that Budget Session of the Telangana Legislature might take place in the middle of this month.The Chief Minister held a high-level review meeting here at Pragati Bhavan on the preparation of estimates of Budget proposals. Rao took into consideration and examined the department wise Budget estimates and the financial reports prepared by the officials, according to a press release.He said several welfare and development programmes would continue including the present sheep distribution programme.The CM said the families of Kuruma and Yadav communities have been benefitted under the scheme and as an extension of 3.7 lakh sheep units, which are already distributed, another 3 lakh Sheep units would be distributed. And proposals to this effect would be made in the coming Budget, Rao said.The CM said the Centre appreciated the Sheep distribution policy and it also recognized that the Telangana state is progressing to become the most Sheep populated state and against this backdrop, the scheme would be continued. Similarly, the fish distribution programmes would also be continued as it proved to be a successful programme and it was also benefitting the fishing community in the State.The CM said due to the Corona pandemic, the state had incurred a loss of ₹50,000 crore and its impact reached to Rupees one lakh crore. However, the CM pointed out that in the post-corona period, the state's economic activities are revived and the income increased in various forms. He said there is a possibility of more allocations in the coming Budget compared to the last financial year Budget.Also read: Jagan Reddy launches Fact Check website to counter fake news against govtThe CM said guidelines for the preparation of Budget estimates have been finalized in today's high-level review meeting and Finance Minister Harish Rao from tomorrow will have meetings with R&B, Panchayat Raj, Municipal Administration, Education, Irrigation and with coordination of Finance department officials. After the exercise with all the departments done on the Budget, CM will give the final touches to the Budget.The Finance Minister Harish Rao, Government's Chief Advisor Rajiv Sharma, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, CM Principal Secretary S Narsing Rao, Financial Advisor GR Reddy, Principal Secretary Finance Ramakrishna Rao, Secretary Ronald Ross, CMO officials Bhoopal Reddy, Ms Smitha Sabharwal and others participated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/budget-2021-22-will-distribute-3-lack-sheep-units-to-families-telangana-cm-101615082038531.html
07-03-2021||Delhi||SOPs outlined for vaccination of healthcare workers unregistered on CoWin app||The Centre has outlined SOPs for vaccination of healthcare workers and frontline staff who could not get registered for it through the CoWIN app for some reasons, Delhi health department officials said on Saturday.In a March 5 order issued by the Delhi health department, it said the "state has been receiving requests for HCWs and FLWs who could not be registered due to some reasons".The government of India has issued detailed standard operating procedures (SOPs) for vaccination of healthcare workers (HCWs), frontline workers (FLWs) not registered on CoWIN, it said.The HCWs of a health facility where the Covid-19 vaccination centre (CVC) is located can be vaccinated at the centre itself after certification of them being HCWs by the medical superintendent or facility in-charge. They shall be entertained after completion of vaccination of beneficiaries with scheduled appointments, the order said.Also read: Vaccine drive needs to pick up pace by at least sixfold, say health expertsHCWs of public or private health facilities where the CVC is not located, can be vaccinated at the designated CVCs, upon furnishing proof of their being a healthcare worker in a prescribed format duly signed and stamped by the health facility in-charge.Standalone medical practitioners and paramedics can show their MCI/DMCI relevant council registrations and get vaccinated, it added.For the support staff of the private establishments, hospitals, clinic in-charge will have to certify them being HCWs in the prescribed format, the order said.Vaccination of unregistered FLWs can be done at the designated CVCs upon furnishing proof of their being an FLW in the prescribed format duly signed and stamped by the senior officer deputed by the FLW authority for issuing the certificate. Further, the FLW group shall designate an officer to be present at these dedicated sites for verification of the FLW status. These beneficiaries shall be registered on-site, it said.Over 33,000 beneficiaries received shots of Covid-19 vaccine in the national capital on Saturday, the highest number of people vaccinated in a single day since the starting of the inoculation exercise on January 16, officials said.On Saturday, second doses were given to 7,132 people, the officials said, adding that 3,769 frontline workers and 2,274 healthcare workers were also vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sops-outlined-for-vaccination-of-healthcare-workers-unregistered-on-cowin-app-101615081460583.html
07-03-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Man trampled to death by elephant on Neelkanth stretch||A 55-year-old was trampled to death by an elephant on the path towards Neelkanth shrine in Rajaji Tiger Reserve in Pauri Garhwal district.Dheer Singh, range officer Gauhri in Rajaji Tiger Reserve said the incident occurred on the Neelkanth shrine stretch when a 55-year-old person was passing through the same.“The elephant charged and attacked the person who died on the spot. We are trying to identify the deceased person and his body has been sent for post-mortem. As this is a sensitive area we have sought additional patrolling staff from the authorities as in the recent years, many such incidents of elephant-human conflict have come to light,” said Singh.Additional superintendent of police Pauri Garhwal Manisha Joshi also arrived at the spot and directed the deployment of police personnel as well as putting up warning signages about elephant movement in the area.Notably, last month on February 22 in a similar incident, an elephant had mowed down a person at Phoolchatti road near Neelkanth shrine-Lakshman Jhula area in Pauri Garhwal district.The wild elephant also rammed into nearby shops, damaging three of them and breaking window panes of a goods transport van parked adjacent to the shops.While two years ago in March, a 20-year-old youth, returning after paying obeisance at the Neelkanth shrine, was trampled to death when an elephant attacked him and his friends near Mauni Baba junction of Neelkanth-Lakshman Jhula stretch.Three days ago, a leopard attacked a Scooty driver near Chandolarai village on Premnagar- Gadauli-Khandah stretch of Pauri.Also Read: Uttarakhand Congress alleges corruption, mismanagement in MahakumbhForest range officer Pauri, Anil Bhatt said in view of the wild animal incidents, additional deployment of forest patrolling team has been done in Gadauli area and local people have been urged to be cautious and report to the forest control room immediately if they spot leopard movement.Local resident Rajendra Bhandari said that in recent months, movement of elephants in this area had increased, demanding round the clock deployment of forest personnel as both pilgrims and local people are under threat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-man-trampled-to-death-by-elephant-on-neelkanth-stretch-101615087245793.html
07-03-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand Congress alleges corruption, mismanagement in Mahakumbh||The sixth day of the ongoing budget session of Uttarakhand assembly witnessed a heated debate, with the Opposition Congress alleging corruption and mismanagement in several projects including the upcoming Haridwar Mahakumbh.Led by the Leader of Opposition (LoP), Indira Hridayesh, the opposition moved an adjournment motion in the House over alleged corruption in NH-74 case, high court’s old order to probe corruption allegations against chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, alleged corruption in the state labour board and others, demanding a debate on the same."The government talks of zero tolerance towards corruption but the reality is totally different as there is rampant corruption in the state under this government," said Congress MLA Pritam Singh. "The multi-crore NH-74 scam, state labour board scam and SC-ST scholarship scam, all prove rampant corruption in the state but the government is not ready to accept and makes false claims of zero tolerance to corruption," he continued. He also claimed that the government didn’t appoint a Lokpal despite a promise by the CM in 2017.Parliamentary affairs minister Madan Kaushik said the debate sought in the adjournment motion couldn’t be allowed as the cases mentioned in the motion were sub-judice and under probe.Later, Congress MLA Pritam objected to the curtailing of Haridwar Maha Kumbh to one month on the pretext of Coronavirus pandemic, while the opposition benches alleged "mismanagement and irregularities" in the organisation of the mega religious event. Pritam claimed that no one knew how much money has been spent so far as the event was limited only to Har Ki Pauri ghat of Haridwar this time .In response, minister Kaushik said the issue couldn’t be discussed in the house. "The Mahakumbh issue can't be discussed in the House as the High Court on Friday constituted a committee to monitor the works being done in Mahakumbh," he said.Congress MLA Nizamuddin responded by asking Madan Kaushik: "If the issue of Haridwar Mahakumbh can't be discussed in this state assembly then where will it be discussed?" Amid the heated argument, the Speaker of the assembly didn't allow the issue to be taken up.Later during the day, Nizamuddin raised the issue of the 108 emergency ambulance service in the state, alleging the ambulances were not reaching the spot in time.Kaushik responded by saying that at present, the state had 140 ambulances operating under the service, while 132 more ambulances were ordered for the purpose including the 71 that had arrived. He said the response time of ambulances will also improve gradually.Also Read: A month on, questions remain over cause of Chamoli disaster"Their response time in urban areas is 13 minutes 57 seconds while in rural areas it is 23 minutes 36 seconds. As more ambulances are added in the fleet, the response time will improve."The minister also promised a probe into BJP’s Kiccha MLA, Rajesh Shukla’s allegation that he was not allowed in a meeting of zila panchayat in his area by the representative of Panchayati Raj minister Arvind Pandey.Earlier during the day, Opposition MLAs brought ‘ganga jal’ to their sit-in protest at the entrance of the House, alleging mismanagement in the Haridwar Mahakumbh. The government said that the opposition had run out of ideas."The Mahakumbh has been curtailed due to the pandemic but the allegation of mismanagement is baseless. Congress has no issues to raise, hence they are doing this," minister Madan Kaushik said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-congress-alleges-corruption-mismanagement-in-mahakumbh-101615085315175.html
07-03-2021||Kolkata||1 killed, 5 injured in explosion in Bengal; BJP-TMC blame game follows||A 25-year-old man was killed and at least five others were injured in a bomb explosion on Friday night in poll-bound West Bengal’s Gosaba area in South 24 Parganas, triggering a blame game between the ruling Trinamool Congress Party (TMC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Police have arrested two persons in the case, said officials.Police claimed that the men were making bombs in a hideout at Gosaba when the explosion took place. The dead man has been identified as one Sovan Debnath.“We have already arrested two persons and a case has been initiated in which the injured persons have been named as accused,” said a senior police officer.Assembly elections in the state would kick off from March 27 and would be held in eight phases. The contest is widely-anticipated to be bi-polar between the TMC and the BJP. Both the parties have accused each other of resorting to violence in the run up to the polls.“Political violence has hit the peak. TMC-goons have now started attacking with bombs,” tweeted Arvind Menon, BJP’s national general secretary.Also Read: Suvendu Adhikari to fight Didi in NandigramLocal TMC leaders, however, denied the charge and alleged that those injured the blast were BJP workers, who were making bombs when the explosion took place.Earlier on February 17, a deputy minister in the Bengal government, Jakir Hossain was injured along with 22 others in an explosion on a railway platform in Murshidabad district. Later, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) took up the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/1-killed-5-injured-in-explosion-in-bengal-bjp-tmc-blame-game-follows-101615081274384.html
07-03-2021||Mumbai||International Women's Day: Mumbai's Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus lights up||The Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus in Mumbai was lit up pink days before International Women's Day. Minister of Railways Piyush Goyal shared images of the terminus on Twitter with the caption "Celebrating Womanhood: The iconic Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus lit up in pink ahead of International Women's Day in Mumbai, Maharashtra."Celebrating Womanhood: The iconic Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus lit up in pink ahead of #InternationalWomensDay in Mumbai, Maharashtra. pic.twitter.com/fdUDiCmzSDInternational Women's Day is observed every year on March 8 in order to create awareness about women's issues. It was first celebrated in a handful of countries in 1911, but began to be observed by countries across the globe after 1975, when the United Nations (UN) started celebrating the day. The UN officially recognised Women's Day in 1977.The day remains relevant as the society has not been able to achieve the basic rights for its women even today. In 2021 too, the day prompts one to create conversation around the women's right to live, equality, vote, education etc.As for the lighting up of monuments, this has been an international trend followed to mark important days. In 2018, the iconic Eiffel Tower in Paris lit up to mark the day while in 2017, the Statue of Liberty went dark on the eve of International Women's Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/international-women-s-day-mumbai-s-chhatrapati-shivaji-terminus-lights-up-101615077111321.html
07-03-2021||Jaipur||Rape victim dies as accused, out on bail, sets her ablaze||Police on Saturday detained two men in the murder case of a 30-year-old rape victim in the state’s Hanumangarh district, police said.The woman, who was staying at her grandmother’s house, was attacked by accused Pradeep Bishnoi on Thursday. She had sustained 90% burns and died on Friday, police said.Bishnoi had allegedly raped the woman in 2018 and was out on bail in the case.“Financial assistance of ₹5 lakh has been provided to the family of the deceased from the CM’s Relief Fund. Detailed investigation is being carried out; the two suspects are being questioned. Police personnel skilled in cyber technology are also helping in investigation,” said DGP ML Lather.A CCTV footage obtained from the crime scene shows the accused fleeing the spot, presumably after setting the woman on fire, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rape-victim-dies-as-accused-out-on-bail-sets-her-ablaze-101615062080886.html
07-03-2021||Chandigarh||Witerati: Women’s Lib, the new normal style||The new normal has perhaps done for women’s liberation what the old normal’s Women’s Lib couldn’t do. By making de-glam the new glam, it has liberated women from the compulsions of superwoman-hood, like looking picture perfect for all reasons and all seasons, come vain or shine.Never mind if new normal’s narrative of women’s liberation has got to do more with ‘cosmetic change’.On the eve of Women’s Day, here’s unmasking cosmetic changes scripted in the Women’s Lib narrative and here’s raising a tongue-in-cheek toast to new normal’s emblems of empowerment.What’s one of the invaluable lessons the pandemic has taught us? That burning bras may not be the best path to gender equality. For the simple reason that in pandemic season it’s more practical to convert bras, hitherto destined to become martyrs in the feminist ritualism, into ‘burqas’ or, as yours truly earlier coined the term, ‘half burqas’, or as some smart humorists called them ‘face bras’, the alternative catchphrase-ism for none other than new normal’s sartorial emblem —the mask.The perfect practical gift of the pandemic to feminism is thus not bra burning, but bra churning. Churning out and converting all outdated (or outsized) lacy lingerie into that ubiquitous face mask may be a more practical Pandemic ploy.Of (No) Lipstick Under My BurkhaIf you belong to the section of quarantining India’s womanhood that found itself bearing a poetic resemblance to bushy pet poodles or pomeranians as far as flaunting furry epidermis goes, pandemic’s phraseology such as ‘lady-stache’ will strike an instant chord in the cockles of your heart.A quarantine season that gifted a whole new vocabulary of phrases —‘lady-stache’ (female moustache), ‘maskne’ (acne induced by the mask) et al, has translated this downgrading and de-grooming into emblems of liberation.By making zero makeup the new normal, it’s liberated an entire generation of pandemic’s womanhood from the pressures of living up to the cosmetic stereotypes – of 24x7 looking prettier, younger and sassier. It’s liberated womanhood from the dependence on the perpetrators of these cosmetic stereotypes — blushers, balms or botox.Zero lipstick is the new mantra of the new normal’s greenroom —Zoom.India quarantining spelt not only womanhood’s liberation from lipstick, but also lipstick’s liberation from traditional roles.The zero dependence on lipstick and newfound liberation from the vanity box, has seen not only womanhood reinventing itself, but may also see the lipstick being reborn. And how!What better than to wear this lipstick liberation on the sleeve by dabbing that hot red lipstick not on masked lips but employing it as a ‘marker’ or ‘crayon’ for highlighting presentations on Zoom meetings!The curious case of ‘Lipstick Under My Burkha’ being reborn as ‘Lipstick on My Browser’.Of 50 Shades of GreyA spillover of the liberation from the vanity box has been on the scalps of India quarantining. Denied access to salons and hairdressers during Lockdown, many a blow-dried and colour coiffured specimen of womanhood was left high and dry without her desi or non-desi Chinese hairstylist, be it a Spruce “Lee” or hairdressing’s Hoo’s Hu.What this translated into was quarantined diva-hood first trying a hand not at painting the town red, but the head red. When these exercises in cranial camouflaging became cumbersome and when zero socialising made pandemic life not something to ‘dye’ for, there was born another chapter of womanhood’s liberation —freedom from hair colouring.If during the pandemic you suddenly sighted status update-ism on the social media boasting more than Fifty Shades of Grey, you saw it right. You were witness to an unsung New Normal narrative of women’s emancipation from the pressures of camouflaging their age under layers of hair colour.The curious case of Who Moved My Hair-Grease!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/witerati-women-s-lib-the-new-normal-style-101615061588936.html
07-03-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: The spirit of learning||To be born a Gujarati Indian and yet gladly forsake a life in San Diego, California. To follow it up and turn down an offer to live in a palace just to learn an ancient art. So goes an inspirational episode in humanity’s eternal quest for knowledge.Sarfrazuddin Malik, scion of a family of erstwhile jagirdars from Dasada, Gujarat, nurtured an inborn, insatiable passionfor falconry. Malik’s immigration to California was replete with opportunities to train and fly birds such as kestrels but those American birds did not leave him satisfied. Then, Malik came across an article in the National Geographic (NG) of 1942 on the Maharajas of Bhavnagar who were flying great raptors such as Peregrine and Saker falcons, Eurasian sparrowhawks and Northern goshawks (Punjab’s state bird) under the tutelage of Baazdar Fatekhan’s dynasty. Bhavnagar was so close to Malik’s home — right under his proverbial nose — but here he was flying lesser falcons in faraway foreign fields!Appointed hereditary falconers to the Maharajas of Bhavnagar, the Baazdar Khans were Pathans originally hailing from Talwandi Chaudhrian, Sultanpur Lodhi, in Punjab. The Bhavnagar royals included the acclaimed field naturalist, conservationist, author and falconer, the late prince RS Dharmakumarsinhji, who had been asked by the government of India in 1950 to survey Punjab and four other states to find suitable wildlife areas.“The NG article clutched tightly in my hand, I abandoned California in 1970 and met the erstwhile prince of Bhavnagar, Shivbhadrasinhji, and requested him to allow me to learn falconry from Fatekhan’s grandson Gulam Hussain. Since I came from a family of jagirdars, the prince offered me his Bhavnagar palace to stay but said that Hussain could not stay in the palace while teaching me as he was a servant. But learning falconry required getting up before dawn to tame the hawk or falcon and imbibing the nuances from the ustaad 24 x 7. I politely declined the offer of the palace and moved into Hussain’s small house. The house was packed with family so I would sleep some nights on the terrace’s chicken coop and developed ring-like rashes on my skin due to parasites. The result was that I learnt with precision the art of falconry, recognised by UNESCO as an intangible cultural heritage of mankind,” Malik told this writer.Malik’s single-minded devotion to his ustaad stood him in good stead. His expertise underpinned the complexities of managing raptors at the Ahmedabad zoo for several years. At 72, Malik is actively engaged in the rescue and rehabilitation of injured and ill raptors and also nurturing and setting free fallen raptor nestlings. He is a dogged advocate in the field for pesticide-free agriculture as contamination harms birds immensely,as established by the effects of DDT on Peregrine breeding in the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-the-spirit-of-learning-101615060510296.html
07-03-2021||Dehradun||BJP postpones Dhankar’s meeting in Yamunanagar||Just hours before BJP state chief OP Dhankar’s scheduled visit to Yamunanagar, the party on Saturday night announced that the meeting had been postponed citing ‘personal reasons’ and the leader’s ‘busy schedule due to assembly session’.A message circulated by the party’s district media coordinator Kapil Garg said the meeting had been rescheduled for March 17, when the assembly session ends. Dhankar, a former agriculture minister and MLA from Jhajjar’s Badli constituency had, however, failed to get re-elected in the 2019 assembly polls. District party chief Rajesh Sapra said, “The program was postponed due to his urgency for some other meetings. He was scheduled to attend several cadre meetings here that could have taken a full day and he had urged us to reschedule it after two weeks.”Dhankar was scheduled to address district executive, core group and other meetings for the first time around noon since he took over as the state president last year.After the announcement, BKU (Charuni) district chief Sanju Gudiana, who had chaired meetings in several villages inviting residents to join the protest, said, “The district administration officials had called us earlier in the day to convince us to limit the protest to one spot but we refused. On Friday, they had urged us to skip the agitation but we were adamant to act on the Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s call to ban his entry.”On Friday, former chief minister and leader of the opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda had said, “There is a need to move a no confidence motion against the BJP-JJP government as it has completely lost public confidence and the coalition is betraying public opinion and taking anti-people decisions one after the other. This is why the public no longer has any faith in the government. The situation has become such that the chief ministers, ministers and MLAs are scared to go out in public.”The Yamunanagar police had made elaborate arrangements to counter the ire of the farmer unions that have already announced a ‘repeat of Kaimla’, where CM Manohar Lal’s helicopter was not allowed to land in a Karnal village for a pro-farm-law rally in January.In a statement issued earlier in the day, superintendent of police Kamaldeep Goyal said tight security arrangements had been made and blockades had been setup at different places in the district. On the series of meetings and arrangements made ahead of Dhankar’s meeting, DC Mukul Kumar remained incommunicado, while Sapra said, “The administration had to make their own arrangements to maintain law and order. As far as the meeting at the party office is concerned, we were also fully prepared.”Earlier in the day, the party’s state general secretary Vedpal, an advocate, also had to addressed a press conference, urging unions to skip the protest as it was a party meeting, not a government event. Vedpal also blamed the opposition for doing politics in name of the agitation and invited them to a political contest before the voters.“The unions are scared of us, as our party has been telling the real truth about the farm laws to the people. Using the brotherhood of the society to hide the truth is wrong,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/bjp-postpones-dhankar-s-meeting-in-yamunanagar-101615059908824.html
07-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi will have its own school education board||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced that the national capital will soon have its own school education board that will aim at replacing the existing practice of “rote learning” with “application-based learning” and prepare “staunchly patriotic” and “self-reliant” students.Delhi has 1,030 government schools and at least 1,700 private schools. While all government schools and majority of the private schools are affiliated with the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), a few private schools are also associated with the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE). Unlike other states, Delhi does not have its own state education board. There are about 1,500,000 government school students in Delhi.The CM said that initially, 20-25 Delhi government schools will become part of the Delhi Board of School Education in the upcoming academic session (2021-22). Under the new board, students will be assessed throughout the year to develop holistic learning outcomes and make students self-reliant. The 2021-22 academic session of CBSE will begin in April.The decision to set up the new education board was taken at a Cabinet meeting chaired by the chief minister on Saturday.Some experts welcomed the move, saying that there has been a need for a state education board for many years that caters specifically to Delhi’s students. The new board will have a governing body headed by the Delhi education minister and an executive body that will be headed by a chief executive officer.“In today’s cabinet meeting, we have given approval to the constitution of a Delhi Board of School Education. The board will function in close alignment with national and international boards. It will develop world-class education practices that will enable the shift in teaching-learning practices across Delhi. Through this board, an age-old practice of rote learning will be replaced with application-based learning and assessment. The board will ensure that each student’s talent is harnessed, and they apply what they learn,” Kejriwal said.“All schools will not become a part of the new board all at once. 20-25 government schools shall be included in the 2021-2022 session. These schools are being chosen based on the suggestions from students, their teachers, and parents. In the next 4-5 years, we hope to see all government and private schools being affiliated with the Delhi Education Board, voluntarily,” the chief minister said.During a news briefing on Saturday, Kejriwal said: “We need to prepare students who have a passion to sacrifice for their country, who will contribute to the nation’s building and take responsibility for their country beyond all religion, caste, and class differences. We need to prepare good human beings through this education board. Besides, we need to prepare students who are self-reliant.”Under the Delhi board, students will be assessed throughout the year in contrast to the present system of the once-in-a-year assessment. “Today, the entire system of education focuses on rote learning – this has to change and an emphasis has to be placed on understanding and personality development. The students will not be assessed once, at the end of the year. On the contrary, the assessment process would go on throughout the year,” Kejriwal said. The CM said that the Delhi government has been analysing international practices and teaching methods while developing the modules of the new education board. Saturday’s announcement was welcomed by principals of both government and private schools. RP Singh, principal of Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya in Surajmal Vihar, said: “It was much-needed. The state education board will keep local needs of students in mind while outlining the assessment policy.” Ameeta Mulla Wattal, principal of Springdales School in Pusa Road, said: “The curriculum...is very transformative. It will bring out a very new learning system among the children of Delhi.” Sanyam Bhardwaj, CBSE’s controller of examinations, said: “Almost all states have their own education boards and CBSE has schools in all these states. Many state governments have given the responsibility of their schools to the CBSE, including Delhi as of now. So, it is not going to affect the interest of CBSE in Delhi. Rather we would be happy to have an education board in Delhi because they have particular requirements sometimes and they can now take care of these.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-will-have-its-own-school-education-board-101615059072270.html
07-03-2021||Other||155 Rohingyas sent to ‘holding’ centre in Jammu as admin starts verification||At least 155 illegal Rohingya immigrants who escaped persecution in Myanmar and were living in Jammu and Kashmir were on Saturday sent to a “holding centre”, under section 3(2)e of the Foreigners Act. The immigrants were not holding valid travel documents required under section (3) of the Passports Act, said officials.Inspector general of police (Jammu zone) Mukesh Singh said, “155 illegal immigrant Rohingyas staying in J&K were today sent to the holding centre established vide home department notification dated March 5, 2021,” adding, “This was done under section 3(2)e of the Foreigners Act. Due process of law was followed in this exercise. These immigrants were not holding valid travel documents required in terms of section (3) of the Passports Act.”The exercise of identifying more such immigrants is going on and the UT administration is collecting biometric and other details of Rohingyas staying here.“After sending them to the holding centre, their nationality verification will be done as per the prescribed norms. Following that, the process to deport these illegal immigrants will be initiated,” said the IGP.Earlier today, the J&K administration started the verification process of Rohingyas at the MA Stadium here.A burqa-clad Sabina, who is currently staying near the Bawe shrine, said, “The officials sought details like my name, parentage where I lived in Myanmar.”Mohammad Haroon, another Rohingya who lives in Bathindi’s “Burma market”, said, “The police officials had asked us to reach MA Stadium, so we came with our families. They took our details from the UNHCR cards and also conducted Covid tests.” Haroon was among the around 200 Rohingyas who came to the venue, to which media was not allowed access.Shabir Khan said that besides the Covid test, the officials jotted down his credentials and took his thumb impression. “I have been living here for the past over 12 years now and have appeared 50 times for such verifications by now,” he said.Men, women, young and old, including toddlers, were seen coming out of the stadium after the verification exercise.It has been learnt that the administration has vacated the Hiranagar sub-jail in Kathua district, where CRPF personnel had been putting up earlier. “We were asked by the higher authorities to make security arrangements which we have in the sub-jail. What the administration wants to do with it is not known,” said a top prison department officer.The BJP has termed the move as the beginning of deportation of Rohingyas from the region.Party’s spokesperson Brig (retd) Anil Gupta said, “The long wait for their deportation from J&K seems to be getting over.”“They (Rohingyas) will probably be shifted to a camp. It is good news for the people of Jammu. Security forces and intelligence agencies have always been apprehensive about them and they are seen as a ticking time bomb in this border region. I hope their deportation outside J&K starts soon,” Gupta added.It may be stated here that the last PDP-BJP government had been asked by Centre to prepare a database of Rohingyas in J&K so that they could be deported to their native land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/155-rohingyas-sent-to-holding-centre-in-jammu-as-admn-starts-verification-101615059128745.html
07-03-2021||Other||Jai Ram presents ₹50,192 cr tax-free budget for Himachal||At a time when the state’s economy has been adversely affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who also holds the finance portfolio, presented a ₹50,192-crore budget with no new taxes, on Saturday. With the total revenue receipts estimated to be ₹37,028 crore and total expenditure to be ₹38,491 crore, the total revenue deficit is estimated to be ₹1,463 crore. As per the revised estimates for 2020-21, the total revenue deficit for the previous year was ₹423 crore. With this, the state’s debt burden will now increase to ₹60, 544 crore.Presenting the fourth budget of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the state, Jai Ram said, “The guiding principal of this budget is ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas’, which will be the spirit in the coming years also.” He added that the 2021-22 budget is a reflection of people’s aspirations as well as the resolve of the government to continue the pace of development despite the economic ill-effects, brought about by the pandemic.The CM further said that the budget this year will focus on women empowerment, expansion of social security net, strengthening and expansion of health services, employment creation, increasing farmers’ income and improving the quality of education. HP’s economy to register negative growth of -6.2%Heaping praises on the Centre for its efforts to bring the economy back on track, Jai Ram said that according to estimates, Himachal’s economy will register a negative growth of -6.2%, which is 1.5% better than the national average. He added that the per capita income of the state will likely be ₹1, 83, 286, which is ₹56,318 higher than the national per capita income. MLALAD fund restored, MLAs to get full salary from April 1 The CM said that the MLA Local Area Development Fund, which was suspended in wake of Covid-19 outbreak last year, will be fully restored from April 1, with a hike of ₹5 lakh. It has been increased from ₹1.75 crore to ₹1.80 crore. Besides, the salaries and allowances of legislators, which were cut by 30% in wake of the pandemic, will also be restored, he added. ₹9,405 cr outlay for development activitiesAnnouncing an outlay of ₹9,405 crore for development activities, the CM said the planning department of the state government will be renamed as Niti Vibhag. The grant received from NABARD, under the rural infrastructure development fund, for MLA priority schemes has been enhanced from ₹120 crore to ₹135 crore. Digitisation plansThe CM said the government will focus on digitisation of services and video conferencing facilities will be made available to panchayats and urban local bodies at a cost of ₹60 crores. He also announced that the number of services on Himachal online portal will be increased from 65 to 80. The state schemes will also be brought under the public finance management system and a beneficiary data system will be set up. Women welfare and empowermentThe CM also announced several welfare schemes for women. These include a social security pension of ₹1,000 per month for elderly women in the age group of 65-69 years under “Swaran Jayanti Nari Sambal Yojana” and Shagun scheme, under which ₹31,000 will be given to girls belonging to SC, ST, OBC and BPL families at the time of marriage. Besides, BPL families, having two girl children, will be given a post-birth grant of ₹21,000 as fix deposit. Gas cylinder refills will be given to 3 lakh families under the ‘Himachal Grihani Suvidha Yojana’. Women help desks will be established at 136 police stations and 25% reservation will be given to women for recruitment in police force. Agriculture and horticulture To make high-density fruit plants available at reasonable prices, the ‘Swaran Jayanti Smridh Bagwan Yojana’ will be started, the CM announced. Agriculture Produce Protection (anti-hail net) scheme will continue with an outlay of ₹60 crore. JICA-funded crop diversification scheme will be extended to all 12 districts by spending ₹1,055 crore. For promoting research in horticulture and agriculture, a research fund of ₹5 crore will be set up for Himachal Pradesh Agricultural University, Palampur, and Dr Yashwant Singh Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni. Under World Bank-funded horticulture development scheme, five lakh fruit plants will be imported. Besides, small irrigation schemes for 8, 000 hectare command area will be developed and a gene repository will be established at the horticulture university in Nauni. An apple juice concentrate line will also be established in Parala plant of Shimla district. A total of 50,000 new farmers will be brought under ‘Prakritik Kheti Khushhaal Kisaan Yojana, the CM said. Milk procurement price would be increased by ₹2 per litre. An expert panel will be formed to restructure various schemes and enhance income of the farmers. A total of ₹543 crore have been allocated to horticulture sector. Employment generation The CM said ₹100 crore would be spent on expansion in the scope of “Mukhya Manti Swavlamban Yojna. About 7,000 unemployed youth will be provided employment in private sector. “Our government has set a target of filling up 30,000 functional posts in various departments,” he said. Quality education An outlay of ₹8,024 crore has been proposed for the education sector. Welcoming the “National Education Policy 2020” and expressing a resolve to implement it, Jai Ram said a ‘Top-100 Scholarship Scheme’ will soon be started in the state and 100 math labs will be set up in schools. Coaching and career counselling for government school students will also be started. “Him Darpan Shiksha Ekikrit Portal” would be set up to make the education system more effective. Hundred cluster schools, 68 senior secondary schools and nine colleges will be brought under “Swaran Jayanti Gyanoday Cluster Utkrisht Vidyalaya Yojana” while eight technical education institutions are to be set up with an outlay of ₹400. Health The government has allocated ₹3,016 crore for health services. Among the major plans for the health sector are the installation of a Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scan facility at Indira Gandhi Medical College & Hospital, Shimla, for cancer patients. Apart from this, CT Scan and MRI machines would be set up in Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda. MRI machines will also be provided to hospitals in Hamirpur and Nahan medical college by spending ₹70 crore. The CM said a super speciality hospital in Chamiyana, Shimla, is being built at a cost of ₹278 crore and it will be made functional in the current fiscal year itself. In addition to this, a new OPD block and trauma centre are being constructed at a cost of ₹103 crore and ₹25 crore at IGMC Shimla. These will also become operational this year. He said ₹772 crore will be spent to provide services and infrastructure development at the state’s medical and dental colleges. “We will be spending ₹250 crore under the Aayushman Bharat, HIMCARE, Mukhyamantri Chikitsa Sahayata Kosh, Free Medicines, Sahara, Samman, Nikshay Poshan Yojana and other health-related welfare schemes,” chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said. To curb blindness and other vision related ailments among children, the chief minister announced ‘Mission Drishti’, covering government school students from Class-VI to Class-X. The honorarium of ASHA workers will be enhanced by ₹750 per month, he added. Social security A total of 6, 60, 000 beneficiaries will be provided social security pension by incurring an expenditure of ₹1,050 crore. Forty thousand new beneficiaries will be added to the social security pension schemes by spending additional amount of ₹60 crore, the CM said. Infrastructure and industrial developmentWayside amenities, Himachali Handicraft and traditional products sale centres will be developed near Atal Tunnel. Five thousand part-time multi task workers will be engaged for maintenance of roads. The chief minister said that ground breaking of MoUs worth ₹10,000 crore signed during the Global Investors’ Meet-2019 will be held soon. A bulk drug park in Una and an electronics and power equipment manufacturing hub will be established in Nalagarh. Toy manufacturing clusters will also be set up. Under PMGSY, 3, 125 major rural roads will be upgraded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jai-ram-presents-50-192-cr-tax-free-budget-for-himachal-101615058888736.html
07-03-2021||Delhi||AAP has worked for Dalits: CM||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday highlighted the work done by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government for the welfare of people belonging to the Dalit community and said for the last 70 years all other parties have failed the poor and the marginalised.“It was a conspiracy of all the political parties to keep the poor uneducated for the last 70 years, so that the Dalits and the poor remained poor and the rich become richer. The AAP has only worked and struggled for the poor and Dalits in the last five years,” said Kejriwal, at an event organised by an NGO in Tukhlakabad Extension on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-has-worked-for-dalitscm-101615057891433.html
07-03-2021||Dehradun||Impractical: Cong, experts on Gairsain as U'khand's new administrative division||Uttarakhand government's decision to declare the state summer capital of Gairsain as the third administrative division in the state after Garhwal and Kumaon has started receiving flak from the opposition and experts who have termed the move "needless and impractical."The declaration was made by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat in his budgetary speech on March 4 under which the new division would comprise four districts including Chamoli and Rudraprayag from Garhwal division and Almora and Bageshwar from Kumaon division out of total 13 districts in the state.Senior Congress MLA Govind Singh Kunjwal raised the question on the decision on Friday during the speech in the house on the state budget.Criticising the decision, he said, "The move was not only surprising but shocking as nobody had demanded it. It is a completely needless and useless decision as the new division is of no use to the common man."Also read: Chamoli tragedy - Month later, rescue continues; experts say 'no lessons learnt'He said, "The new division would host a divisional commissioner and a deputy inspector general of police. The common man hardly visits these two senior officers as most of their works are related to the district magistrate office or the office of the superintendent of police. Instead of a division, Gairsain should have been declared a new district."The decision also didn't go down well with the experts.State-based Padma Shri awardee and renowned historian Shekhar Pathak said the decision was "not needed at all.""After declaring Gairsain as a new division, the government will now spend money on setting up of offices for the divisional commissioner and the DIG which is of no use to the residents of the place. Instead, if they should have made announcements for the development of the infrastructure which would have been more beneficial to the public," said Pathak.Apart from the Opposition, members of the ruling party, including some cabinet ministers also expressed their unhappiness on the move, saying, "The CM didn't consult the Cabinet before making the declaration in the House which was shocking to us.""This would have a major political impact, especially in the Kumaon division as Almora district is considered the cultural capital of Kumaon. But now after the district has been included in the new division, people there would be angry that it will no longer be in Kumaon," said the minister adding, "this would have major repercussions in the 2022 elections."He said, "Similarly, the people of Pauri Garhwal district, which hosts the Garhwal division headquarters, would also be angry as the new division has snatched Rudraprayag and Chamoli from it. The people are already not happy that despite being the Garhwal division headquarters, the divisional commissioner sits in his camp office in Dehradun, and now the CM made this decision."The government however refuted the criticism and said the decision would speed up the development of Gairsain as the summer capital."The new division would greatly help in the development of the summer capital which would put it in the state map with much more significance," said minister and government spokesperson Madan Kaushik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/impractical-cong-experts-on-gairsain-as-u-khand-s-new-administrative-division-101615057553298.html
07-03-2021||Lucknow||UP woman files rape case after 27 years||Twenty seven years after she was allegedly raped by two men in Uttar Pradesh’s Shahjahanpur district, a 40-year-old woman lodged an FIR against the accused after her son enquired about his father’s name, the police said on Saturday.According to the FIR, the incident took place in 1994 when the survivor was 13 years old and lived in the city at a relative’s house. One Naki Hasan, who lived in the complainant’s locality, entered the house when she was alone and raped her, superintendent of police (City) Sanjay Kumar told news agency PTI. The complainant has also accused Hasan’s younger brother, Guddu, of raping her, Kumar added.The survivor’s family members came to know about the assault when she conceived a child, said a relative of the woman. “The family decided not to pursue the case. So, she was sent to live with another relative where she gave birth to a son. The child was later given up for adoption,” the relative added.Years later, the two were united. The survivor decided to pursue the case on the insistence of her son, the relative said. “Her son is very supportive of her and he encouraged the woman to lodge a complaint.”Kumar said the police are investigating the case and will conduct a DNA test of the complainant’s son.Senior advocate IB Singh said there is statute of limitation in rape cases. “In case of rape, there is no statute of limitation. Delay in lodging a complaint can be a reason for disbelief but it cannot be a ground to prevent lodging an FIR or for a police investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-woman-files-rape-case-after-27-years-101615057526250.html
07-03-2021||Chandigarh||Overcrowding in emergency linked with increased mortality: PGIMER study||The overflow of patients in the paediatrics emergency department (ED) of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) is linked with increased mortality as well as the high frequency of care discontinuation, a study has noted.A prospective observational study was conducted in the 22-bed emergency between February and December 2019, and has appeared online in the Indian Paediatrics Journal, ahead of its print edition, in February.The data correlated significant overcrowding in the emergency, as indicated by a high number of non-urgent visits, higher bed occupancy rate, and prolonged stay. The overcrowding correlated with increased frequency of care discontinuation and death on any given day.“Doubling or trebling of patients on a single bed is practised if the number of patients exceeds the available bed capacity. The nurse-patient and doctor-patient ratios vary from 1:5 to 1:12 for the red area (critical patients), and 1:8 to 1:30 for the yellow area (non-critical ill patients) as there is no provision for surge staffing which compromises the quality of care,” the study states.The causes of ED overcrowding are divided into input, throughput and output factors.Input factors include causes that increase patient inflow, for instance, lack of access to primary and increased number of referrals from other sectors of health care. Throughput factors pertain to lack of space, understaffing, and inadequately trained healthcare providers. Non-availability of inpatient beds and delayed transfer out from ED constitute the output factors.A sizable burden (53%) of the visits was contributed by children with low acuity illness, which, the study suggests, could have been otherwise managed effectively in outpatient settings.The proposed solutions to curtail input include strengthening of primary and secondary healthcare through capacity building and telemedicine services, establishing an organised referral network, and protecting health workers through proper laws. Trained medical or nursing staff-conducted telephone triage systems were shown to decrease the number of self-referred paediatric emergency attendees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/overcrowding-in-emergency-linked-with-increased-mortality-pgimer-study-101615057508727.html
07-03-2021||Mumbai||Death of owner of car found near Ambani house fans row||The death of Mansukh Hiren, the owner of the stolen SUV found with explosives and a threat letter outside the residence of billionaire Mukesh Ambani, has emerged as a new flashpoint in the ongoing war of words between the state’s MVA government and the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party.On Saturday, the BJP raised questions over the circumstances surrounding Hiren’s death — he was found dead in a creek, and police were quick to term it possible suicide — and said it would ask the Centre to have the National Investigation Agency (NIA) take over the investigation, citing a possible terror angle. The opposition has also demanded President’s Rule in the state on the grounds of poor law and order.“The entire country is shaken [because] the person who is among the top 10 richest people in the world is also unsafe (here),” Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil said, referring to Ambani, who was already granted so-called Z+ category security, among the highest provided.Former Maharashtra chief minister and BJP MP Narayan Rane said law and order has collapsed in the state and demanded President’s Rule. “The police itself has taken law in their hands... Anybody’s body can be found anywhere. Looking at this, President’s Rule must be imposed in Maharashtra, and I am going to write to Delhi [demanding it].”Also read | Uncovering truth behind Hiren Mansukh's death crucial for MVA: Sanjay RautThe BJP has also targeted police officer Sachin Vaze, who has admitted that he knew Hiren, and who was originally named the investigating officer of the SUV case before it was reassigned.Vaze, a controversial police officer, was suspended in 2004 after being accused of killing Khwaja Yunus in police custody. He joined the Shiv Sena in 2008 in presence of Sena patriarch Bal Thackeray. He was reinstated in July 2020, months after the Thackeray-led government came to power. He was again in focus when he led the police team that arrested TV news anchor Arnab Goswami.Meanwhile, the Shiv Sena, which along with the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party, makes up the MVA, said the home department should quickly investigate the case. Speaking to reporters in Mumbai on Saturday, Sanjay Raut of the Shiv Sena said that if the opposition has raised some questions which are important, then they must be investigated. “The person’s death is unfortunate and shocking. People have doubts whether this is a murder or suicide and that doubt needs to be cleared at the earliest.”The state home department on Saturday issued an order, transferring the case to Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS).Watch | Mukesh Ambani threat case: Owner of bomb-laden car found dead; BJP's NIA demandMeanwhile, the mystery around the death of Hiren continued, with the police refusing to reveal the findings of the post-mortem exam report. The police claimed that the reports are inconclusive and the cause of death will be revealed only after chemical analysis of the samples they have sent to a forensic laboratory. The police officials also claimed there are no major injuries on Hiren’s body and only a few minor abrasions on his face.The family of the deceased refused to claim his body in the morning unless the police gave them the forensic report. Vinod Hiren, elder brother of the deceased, said: “The police have alleged that my brother died by suicide; however, we know him and he wouldn’t have done this.”Deputy police commissioner Avinash Ambure met the family and explained the report. “We requested them to let our f family doctors examine the post mortem report suggesting further investigation and then we will take the body,” added Vinod Hiren.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/death-of-owner-of-car-found-near-ambani-house-fans-row-101615056870877.html
07-03-2021||City||Kin say hospital left UP girl with open surgical wounds, probe ordered||The district magistrate of Prayagraj, Bhanu Chandra Goswami, has initiated an investigation into the death of a three-year-old, allegedly because of medical negligence arising from her family’s inability to pay for her treatment, although there is conflicting and inadequate information about the case.The district’s chief medical officer told ANI that a post-mortem examination has been conducted and the report will be handed over to the DM. The DM said a probe was ordered on the basis of a tweet that the girl died after being discharged after surgery with “an open abdomen”. He added that the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has also asked for a report and that a FIR be filed against the hospital.Shyamkant, the circle officer (Chail) in Kaushambi, said that an FIR had been registered against a doctor of the private hospital on Saturday on the basis of the family’s complaint received on Friday.NCPCR has also asked for adequate compensation to the family of the deceased child.According to the DM, the girl’s family claimed that she was throw out of the hospital, United Medicity, near Jhalwa in Prayagraj without even having her stitches closed properly after the family couldn’t arrange for the money in time.“On the 13th day (after admission), the hospital evicted the girl and all of us from the hospital even without properly stitching her open abdomen region,” said an uncle of the girl.Satpal Gulati, the hospital’s vice chairperson denied the charge, according to ANI. He claimed the girl was treated for free, operated upon, and, that when her condition didn’t improve, the family was asked to take her to the Motilal Nehru Medical College hospital. The family then took her away, he said. It wasn’t immediately clear what the girl was being treated for. It is also not clear when the family took her away from United Medicity. It emerges that the family did go to the Motilal Nehru Medical College hospital.Dr Mukesh Veer Singh, the head of the department of paediatrics at Children Hospital (under SRN Hospital of MLN Medical College), said: “The child was admitted at the hospital on March 3 and remained under our supervision till the evening of March 4 when the girl’s father left the hospital along with the kid without informing us.” The girl is believed to have died late on March 4.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kin-say-hospital-left-up-girl-with-open-surgical-wounds-probe-ordered-101615057242087.html
07-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s daily Covid count crosses 100 after 3 months||For the first time since December 8 last year, the number of daily Covid-19 cases crossed the 100 mark in Chandigarh on Saturday.Also, the active case ratio has seen an exponential rise in the last three weeks to reach 3% of the total cases after falling to 1% in mid-February.With 122 cases reported on Saturday, the number of cases has reached 22,238, of which 675 are active. While 21,208 (95.5%) patients have recovered, 355 (1.5%) have died so far.Amid the surge, the Centre has told the local authorities to increase the proportion of RT-PCR tests, expand the vaccination drive and take samples from the community to check for mutations in the virus. This was suggested by the health ministry and Niti Aayog during a review of the Covid-19 situation in a few states and UTs, which included Chandigarh.UT administrator VP Singh Badnore has also expressed concern over the sudden rise in Covid-19 cases.“The sudden spike is alarming and worrisome. After giving such a good fight to Covid, we are getting complacent and forgetting the Covid appropriate behaviour. My appeal is to follow the health advisories, “ he shared on Twitter.‘Will increase RT-PCR tests, vax sites’ Dr Amandeep Kang, director of the UT health department, said: “The number of tests being conducted has increased but the proportion of rapid antigen testing is more. We have been suggested to increase the proportion of RT-PCR tests, which stands at around 35%. We will push it up to 50% of the total tests being conducted.” RT-PCR (Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) tests are more reliable than rapid antigen tests, which are cheaper and give quicker results.Dr Kang said the number of vaccination centres are set to increase with major focus on the peripheral areas and colonies. At present, the drive is being carried out at 27 sites, including private hospitals.“In the coming week, we will open new vaccination sites near colonies and peripheral areas where the majority of the population resides. Though a good number of people from affluent sections have come forward to take the jab, we have to motivate those from less privileged classes as well and make arrangements for them,” she said.The administration has also been told to pick samples from the community and send them to advanced laboratories in Delhi to check whether there has been any mutation. “So far, there is no case of mutant virus, but samples will be picked. Reports are awaited for a few samples already sent,” said Dr Kang.Active cases on rise in Mohali, Panchkula tooThe neighbouring Mohali and Panchkula districts have also seen a surge in the past week. Mohali reported 87 cases on Saturday, taking the total to 20,768. As many as 57 cases surfaced in Mohali city alone. While 19,452 (93.7%) patients have recovered and 389 (1.8%) have died, 927 (4.5%) are still undergoing treatment.In Panchkula, 35 new cases took the total to 11,003. The active case count stands at 209 (1.9%). While 10,645 (96.7%) patients have been cured, 149 (1.4%) have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-daily-covid-count-crosses-100-after-3-months-101615057268499.html
07-03-2021||Chandigarh||Reopen hostels for more PhD scholars: Panjab University panel||A Panjab University (PU) panel on Friday recommended that those PhD scholars, who had enrolled after the lockdown that was imposed in March last year, should be allotted hostel accommodation.The varsity has already allowed research scholars enrolled before lockdown to avail hostel accommodation on campus.After students submitted several representations, the matter was again taken up by the panel on Friday. A member of the panel, on the condition of anonymity, said, “We have suggested that research scholars who enrolled from March 23 onwards last year should be given hostel accommodation.”The recommendation, however, is subject to the approval of vice-chancellor Raj Kumar.PU is reopening hostels in a phased manner and so far, the varsity has allowed research scholars and MPhil students to return to hostels. Also the final year students of various courses, which come under different regulatory bodies, including master of dental surgery (MDS), MPharm, nuclear medicine and medical physics, have been allowed to stay in hostels. However, the newly enrolled PhD scholars are still awaiting a decision.The panel has also suggested that final year postgraduate students of final semesters, who are required to perform experiments, should be allowed as well. “This will include MTech and MSc students who require labs for completing their dissertations on time,” said a member of the panel.Besides this, the panel has also recommended that all MDS students should be allowed to avail hostel accommodation; only final-year MDS students are allowed for now.PU is yet to take a call over reopening of the varsity for students. Students have already submitted a memorandum stating that online teaching was ineffective.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/reopen-hostels-for-more-phd-scholars-panjab-university-panel-101615057088556.html
07-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai reports 1,188 new Covid cases; 26,442 inoculated in 24 hours||The surge in daily reporting of Covid-19 cases continued on Saturday with 1,188 new cases of Covid-19 in the city. The total Covid tally stands at 332,208. Five deaths were also reported, raising the total number of deaths to 11,500. Saturday also saw a record number of inoculations in the city. With 8,984 active cases in Mumbai, the city’s recovery rate is 93.56% with 3,10,844 recoveries. Dharavi, which was once a Covid hotspot, reported five cases on Saturday, taking its total to 4,138. There are 69 active cases in Dharavi. Among the areas reporting the highest growth in cases of Covid are Bandra, Khar, Santacruz, Andheri and Mulund. The mortality rate in Mumbai is 3.46%. On Saturday, Mumbai made a record with 26,442 inoculations, the highest number of people from the general public to be vaccinated in a single day in the city, so far. Of these, 23,586 were senior citizens (above 60 years old) and 2,856 were above 45 years old with comorbidities. At present, Mumbai has 60 vaccination centres of which 26 are civic and government-run while the others are privately managed. There will be no vaccinations today since it is Sunday.Several celebrities got the vaccine shot on Saturday. Actor and member of Parliament (MP) from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Hema Malini received the vaccine at Cooper Hospital while comedian Johnny Lever got inoculated at the Covid care centre at Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC). Prabhavati Khedkar, who is 100 years old and a resident of Andheri, also got vaccinated at the vaccination centre in BKC. Khedkar was accompanied by her granddaughter, Ruchita Khedkar. “My grandmother-in-law is very active and reads and watches news daily. She was very prepared to get the vaccination after a go-ahead from her family doctor. She has no comorbidity and nor has she reported any adverse effect post-vaccination on Friday.Overall, 3,50,084 citizens have been vaccinated in the city so far, including members of the general public, healthcare workers and frontline workers. The vaccination drive begins on January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-1-188-new-covid-cases-26-442-inoculated-in-24-hours-101615056968679.html
07-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Bird-ringing exercise identifies Akshi Beach as crucial habitat for migratory waterbirds||Of 105 migratory water-birds that were ‘ringed’ or tagged as part of a Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) study at Akshi Beach in September 2019, 31 specimens were resighted at the same location during subsequent months, between October and December 2019. At least two birds that were previously tagged in Mumbai, were also recorded at Akshi during the study period.Experts said this indicates that the Akshi beach, along with Alibag beach in the north and Nagaon beach in the south, is a crucial wintering ground for migratory birds, including at least two species that are globally threatened. The area, BNHS’s report points out, also requires protection from significant anthropogenic stressors, including pollution, tourism and free-ranging dogs, which may pose a threat to its rich avifauna. Hindustan Times had reported, on March 6, that a BHNS and Mangrove Cell study has recorded over 70 species of waterfowl across 99 monitoring sites across the Maharashtra coast. However, bird-banding exercises were carried out only at Akshi, which is about 50kms aerial distance from Mumbai.“We picked Akshi beach for this exercise because it is the only wetland outside of Mumbai that harbours such large congregations of migratory birds. We wanted to gauge the interconnectivity of these wetlands by seeing if birds visiting Akshi were also visiting Mumbai and vice versa,” said Tuhina Katti, a research scientist who worked on the study.Bird ringing, also known as banding, is a well-established wildlife surveillance tool in which individual specimens are tagged with a small plastic or metal ring, make it easier for researchers to individually identify them. The method has long been used by scientists to understand the movement patterns and life cycles of birds.In September 2019, a total of 105 individuals belonging to 15 bird species, including 65 Lesser Sandplover, 10 Kentish Plover, 7 Ruddy Turnstone and 6 Terek Sandpiper were ringed at Akshi. “One individual each of near-threatened Bar-tailed Godwit and Eurasian Oystercatcher were also ringed,” the study notes.Of these 105 birds, 31 birds were resighted multiple times in the area, indicating that they have a high fidelity toward the local ecosystem. The time elapsed between resightings ranged from as little as 13 days to as many as 84 days, indicating strongly that birds were not just staging (or resting) at Akshi, but that they had established themselves there for the winter season. The black-tailed godwit, one of two threatened species that were tagged, was seen in the area after nearly two months.Conversely, the birds were not observed to be moving between Akshi and Mumbai. Only a single Kentish Plover, “ringed in Akshi on September 24, 2019, recorded at Merces Beach in Vasai on October 17, 2019,” the report notes. However, two birds who had been tagged in Mumbai during previous studies were resighted at Akshi between October and December 2019.“This tells us that the birds visiting Akshi are highly partial to that ecosystem. To answer why requires more studies over a longer period,” said Katti, adding that the BNHS has proposed to conduct similar exercises at other wetlands in Maharashtra. “Permission for the same could not be obtained due to the bird flu outbreak last year but we are hoping to start soon,” she added.Virender Tiwari, additional PCCF (mangrove cell), said that the findings of the Akshi beach study are encouraging enough to commission more comprehensive bird-ringing studies in other areas as well. Tiwari reiterated his comment to Hindustan Times on March 5, saying, “The wildlife department has tabled a proposal with the state to monitor not just coastal wetlands, but all wetlands in the state. The budget for this second study is ₹2.77 crore. We are awaiting in-principle approval.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-bird-ringing-exercise-identifies-akshi-beach-as-crucial-habitat-for-migratory-waterbirds-101615056788520.html
07-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man dies by suicide after killing father, grandfather||A 20-year-old student died by suicide on Saturday morning after allegedly murdering his father and grandfather. The police have registered a case of murder and filed an accidental death report (ADR). On Saturday morning, at around 8.45am, the student was at home with his 55-year-old father, who is a motivational speaker and consultant, and his 85-year-old grandfather. The three lived on a sixth-floor apartment in an eight-storey building in Mulund (West). Their domestic help, was also in the apartment at the time. According to the police, the father had been scolding the son and telling him to focus on his studies when the 20-year-old lost his temper. He allegedly got hold of a kitchen knife and attacked his father, slitting the older man’s neck. “The injured father rushed out of their sixth-floor flat to save himself from further attack. He then ranged the doorbell of their neighbour,” said Prashant Kadam, deputy commissioner of police, zone 7. According to the police, the domestic help, who is in his 20s and had started working in this household on March 2, was a witness to some of the accused actions, as was the neighbour. “The neighbour, a man in his mid-thirties, opened the main door, but before opening the safety door, he noticed blood flowing down the victim’s neck,” said Kadam. The neighbour alerted the security guard and other residents in the building, and also called the police. He did not let the injured in, fearing for the safety of his family. Meanwhile, the accused allegedly followed his father and stabbed him multiple times in the back and ribs. The 55-year-old ultimately collapsed on the staircase while attempting to flee. While this was happening, the domestic help attempted to move the grandfather, who had been lying in a bedroom, but the 85-year-old insisted on remaining where he was. The terrified domestic help then hid in the bathroom, locking the door. When accused returned to their flat, he attacked his grandfather, allegedly slit the 85-year-old’s throat and stabbed him multiple times. Then, the 20-year-old killed himself.The police arrived at the scene after he died by suicide. Preliminary investigation suggests that the accused was receiving treatment for mental illness. The police took the accused, father and the grandfather to a nearby hospital where all three were declared dead on arrival. A team from Kalina forensic science laboratory has collected evidence from the scenes of the crimes. The Joint commissioner of police (law and order) Vishwas Nangre Patil also visited the site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-dies-by-suicide-after-killing-father-grandfather-101615056548677.html
07-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra goes past 2.2 million Covid-19 infections||Maharashtra on Saturday crossed a grim Covid-19 milestone of 2.2 million cases with a second consecutive day of over 10,000 infections (10,187), pushing the count to 2,208,586. It crossed 100 cases within 13 days after the 2.1 million mark was breached on February 21. Considering the situation, the Centre, too, dispatched a team to assist the state administration to contain the spread of the epidemic.The state’s death toll reached 52,440 after 47 casualties were reported, of which 30 occurred in the past 48 hours and 10 were in the past week. The other seven deaths were from the period before last week, officials said.The current rise in daily cases has pushed the state back to October’s situation when 10,000 plus cases used to be report every day. The average per day cases of this month also increased to 8,919, which is close to October’s numbers and the highest in the past four months. The average number of daily cases in October was 9,423. In the subsequent months, it was 4,775 cases, 3,892, 2,973 and 4,689 cases, according to figures released by the state health department.The current high number of Covid-19 infections is likely to continue for more than a month as health officials are of the opinion that the situation would take three to four weeks to come under control.Dr Pradip Awate, state surveillance officer, said, “As of now, it appears the rise will continue for another three to four weeks, although it will not be much, but it will be there and we will require at least a month or so to contain the spread.”He said there was a need to make field teams more robust, for which directives have been issued. “Our field teams need to be made more robust because they perform some very important tasks such as surveillance of influenza like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infections (SARI), daily monitoring of home isolated patients, contact tracing of every patient and special focus towards super spreaders. It will contain the transmission thus we have directed to divide as per the population of a particular area so that they should not be overburdened,” Dr Awate said.To assist the state, the central government on Friday deputed a high level multi-disciplinary public health team. “It will be deployed to assist the state health department in Covid-19 surveillance, control and containment measures,” the union ministry of health and family welfare said in a statement.It was also the fourth consecutive day Mumbai reported over 1,000 daily infections. On Saturday it recorded 1,188 cases, taking the tally to 332,208. On March 3, 4 and 5, the city reported 1,121, 1,104 and 1,174 cases respectively. With three deaths, the toll reached 11,495.The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) recorded 2,208 cases which is the second-highest among the regions as Pune region’s tally was 2,212.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-goes-past-2-2-million-covid-19-infections-101615056075344.html
07-03-2021||Mumbai||After Surat success AAP targets Mumbai civic body polls||‘Surat today, Mumbai tomorrow’, read the tagline of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in the city as they celebrated their remarkable performance in the Surat Municipal Corporation, where they won 27 seats in their debut election. AAP has now set its sights on the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections scheduled next year.The AAP has announced that their next battle will be BMC polls where it will contest all the 227 seats. The BMC is one of the prestigious civic body, boasting an annual budget of approximately ₹39,000 crore - the richest in the nation and its budget outstrips that of several smaller states in India. An impressive performance in Mumbai will give the AAP a chance to relaunch the efforts to build a base in Maharashtra where the party has failed so far.AAP leader Preeti Sharma Menon, who has been appointed in charge of the BMC’s campaign, said the party will repeat its Surat performance in Mumbai. “Mumbai and Surat share similar work culture and have almost similar civic issues. Like Surat even the people of Mumbai want an alternative which the AAP will provide,” said Menon.However, both former party leaders and political experts doubt this claim saying Mumbai is a different case altogether.“The AAP does not have any known face nor an organisation to fight these polls effectively. The party has no base in Mumbai,” said Sunder Balakrishnan, who had fought the Lok Sabha 2014 elections from Mumbai south-central constituency on the AAP ticket.Balakrishnan blames the interference from the Delhi leadership for this sorry state of affairs. “We had built a strong Mumbai team in 2015 which was working very efficiently but this was dissolved overnight in October 2015 by the Delhi leadership. Had this team been allowed to continue, we would have been a strong force by now in the city,” he added.Similar is the contention of another former top leader who put the onus on Surat success solely on the support given by the influential Patidar community. “The main factor was the disenchantment of the Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS) with the Congress party as it ignored serious candidates from the community and hence they all backed the AAP,” said the former leader who refused to come on record. “In Gujarat, the BJP has vanquished all opposition parties and Surat had a very good AAP team, However in Mumbai, the ruling Shiv Sena is challenged by the resurgent BJP and even the Congress has its strongholds. There is no one in the AAP’s current team to create that space in Mumbai,” he added.However, Menon defends the AAP saying that the coming months will be challenging and the party is geared to take the bull by its horns. “We will start exposing the ruling Shiv Sena and demonstrate how they have looted this city for decades,” said Menon. “We are also going to target the slums dwellers and show them how the BMC has deprived them of basic facilities like proper roads, water supply as well as clearing the garbage. Many Area Local Management (ALM’s) teams, as well as NGO’s, are joining us and we are opening local offices across Mumbai,” said Menon. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has appealed to many of the supporters to come forward and help the AAP in the BMC elections.The AAP, which was founded in 2012, boasted of several leaders in Maharashtra like Medha Patkar, Anjali Damania, Mayank Gandhi, Preeti Sharma Menon, Subhash Ware and Wamanrao Chatap. They also ran a campaign with allegations against top leaders like Chhagan Bhujbal, Sharad Pawar, Ajit Pawar and Nitin Gadkari.Riding on this euphoria, AAP contested all the 48 seats in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls but lost very badly as 47 of their candidates lost their deposits. There were rumblings in the party as the Delhi leadership refused permission to the Maharashtra unit to contest the state assembly polls which were held within the few months after the Lok Sabha elections. After this, most of the leaders deserted the party making the party irrelevant for years. However, the situation improved a bit when the party contested the 2021 Maharashtra Gram Panchayat polls and won 145 seats.Political expert Hemant Desai says AAP will be confined to single digit in the BMC polls. “There is a space in Mumbai for AAP but they have not been able to capitalise it. We have hardly seen them agitating for various issues like fuel hike or electricity bills,” said Desai. Similar is the contention of political commentator Surendra Jondhale, who said that problem for the AAP is which constituency to target and their political programs. However, they have not been able to strike a chord with people. “The Shiv Sena has a solid grassroots network and is supported by the Marathi speaking population while the BJP has a disciplined cadre backed by the RSS (Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh) and boasts of Gujarati and North Indian vote banks. The Congress may be down but still has a presence in its strongholds. In such a scenario where does AAP stand and whom does it woo?” questioned Jondhale. Ahead of the Mumbai civic polls early next year, the parties are gearing up. The BJP has unveiled ‘Mission Mumbai’ to win the BMC while the Sena has started preparations at its shakha (local branch) level. The Congress now has a new team with trade union leader Ashok (Bhai) Jagtap as its Mumbai chief. Jagtap is an aggressive and known face. Menon says that after the formation of the party in 2012, the party won Delhi within a year. “Delhi had all unknown fresh faces who are now well known and the same will be repeated in Mumbai also. We will showcase our Delhi government model where we have revamped the entire education and medical facilities and affirm our commitment to do so in Mumbai also. Everyone is aware of our success in Delhi,” said Menon. Menon says that since the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) will not contest elections together, the AAP will benefit in a multi-cornered fight. The AAP has started webinars every weekend to raise money to fight the polls.However, an AAP senior Maharashtra leader said that it was too late for the party to start now. “Our opponents are well equipped both in muscle and money power and know the art of electioneering very well. Our volunteers still have to get on the ground and gain the confidence of the citizens. The problem with us is that the Delhi high command did not take Maharashtra seriously till now and attempt to infuse strength in our outfit. There are people waiting to join AAP and work but there is no encouragement from our end,” said the leader who is heading a committee in AAP.Problems for AAP1) AAP does not have a known face in Mumbai to lead the campaign.2) AAP has no organisational network. Till now of the 227 just 35 ward presidents have been appointed.3) AAP faces a resurgent BJP, ruling Shiv Sena and Congress, which is now having a new team.4) AAP is confined to the upper and middle class and still has to penetrate the slums which make a majority of the Mumbai population.5) There is constant interference from Delhi.6) AAP still is playing its mascot Arvind Kejriwal as a trump card by highlighting the achievements of his Delhi government in its main campaign theme.7) AAP has lost a galaxy of leaders like Medha Patkar, Anjali Damania and Mayank Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-surat-success-aap-targets-mumbai-civic-body-polls-101615056008482.html
07-03-2021||Mumbai||ED arrests NCP MLC from Pune in a ₹71 crore bank scam||TheThe Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday arrested Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) member of Legislative Council (MLC) Anil Bhosale and three others in Pune’s Shivajirao Bhosale Co-operative Bank scam.After securing a production warrant from the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court in Mumbai, the ED officers on Saturday took custody of Bhosale, Suryaji Pandurang Jadhav, director of the bank; Tanaji Dattu Padwal, chief executive officer and Shailesh Sampatrao Bhosale, a senior executive.All four were lodged in Pune’s Yerwada jail ever since Pune Police arrested them in the cheating and forgery case in February 2020. The case was first registered by Shivaji Nagar police station.Bhosale and others have been accused of siphoning off money from the bank. It is found that there was a cash discrepancy of nearly ₹71 crores. Later, based on Pune Police’s first information report (FIR) the ED registered a PMLA case. Now ED officers arrested Bhosale and others in their PMLA case. Bhosale and three others are remanded in ED’s custody up till March 11.ED, previously in a statement, said that the bank did not comply with the internal audit, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) audit, and inspection audit. Borrowers and guarantor’s financial statement and repayment capacity were not considered before sanctioning the loan.“In most of the cases, the bank has not conducted a post-sanction verification. Periodical inspection of primary and collateral securities was not done. Bank did not obtain the latest valuation report for loans against property,” an ED officer said.It is revealed that the bank has violated the guidelines of RBI as well as the co-operative department while disbursing advances, the officer added.Many advances were unsecured but the banks treated them as secured. Even though some of the accounts were marked as a non-performing asset (NPA) and their account balance was lying outstanding, their properties were released along with a no-objection certificate (NOC).Multiple properties are mortgaged to various loans, even if the margin was not sufficient to cover the said advances, ED states.Bhosale, Suryaji Jadhav, Tanaji Padwal hatched a criminal conspiracy and illegally transferred the money through RTGS / NEFT from the bank.It is observed that more than 90% of bank loans are NPA, ED stated.ED in January also conducted searches on multiple premises in and around Pune in connection with a money laundering case linked to the bank scam. During the search operation, incriminating documents were recovered and seized including digital evidence under PMLA.(With inputs from Charul Shah)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-arrests-ncp-mlc-from-pune-in-a-71-crore-bank-scam-101615055768476.html
07-03-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC allows man to tender evidence to counter wife’s charge of impotency||The Bombay high court (HC) recently allowed a Borivli resident, whose marriage has been annulled by a civil court at Sangli on the ground of his impotency, to submit medical evidence to prove his “physical competence” at the appellate stage.“It has to be noted that the said finding (about impotency of the 43-year-old) would cast a stigma on him throughout his life,” said justice Nitin Sambre while dismissing his wife’s petition, challenging the October 17, 2018 order of the district judge-4, Sangli, passed on an application filed by her estranged husband.The couple had married in December 2009. The next year, the 38-year-old woman moved the civil court for divorce, claiming her husband - a Borivli resident was impotent and had failed to consummate the marriage. On September 2, 2013, the civil court accepted her claim and annulled the marriage on that ground.The husband then carried the matter in appeal before the district court-4, and during the pendency of the appeal, filed an application for a direction to the husband a civil surgeon from Sangli, to examine him with regards to his erectile response and normal sexual capacity and submit a report to the court.On October 17, 2018, the district judge allowed the husband’s application and issued directions to the civil surgeon, prompting the woman to file the petition contending that in the given circumstances the district judge could not have allowed her husband to adduce additional evidence at the appellate stage.Justice Sambre, however, rejected her contention. HC said the district judge was justified in issuing the order especially since the husband had called a doctor to support his claim of potency, but the doctor failed to produce a medical certificate to that effect. However, the civil court drew adverse inference and recorded the finding that he was impotent.Justice Sambre said allowing the 43-year-old to adduce additional evidence would not cause any prejudice to his wife, as she will get the opportunity to cross-examine the doctor concerned. Besides, HC took into consideration that the man has already undergone a medical examination and the civil hospital has already submitted its report to the district judge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-allows-man-to-tender-evidence-to-counter-wife-s-charge-of-impotency-101615055588605.html
07-03-2021||City||Kashmir's iconic Tulip Garden readies to witness 1.5 mn flowers bloom||Over 15 lakh (1.5 million) tulips are expected to bloom at the end of this month in Kashmir’s Tulip Garden, one of the largest in Asia, and will mesmerize thousands of tourists and locals.The bloom usually lasts up to a maximum of four weeks but the efforts in making the garden reach this stage is a long, painstaking and cumbersome process involving the blood and sweat of some 120 gardeners, labourers, among other workers.For a few weeks of visual aesthetics for the visitors in the months of March-April, the gardeners and labourers toil yearlong, braving the vagaries of weather and indulging in constant hard work.“The tulip flowers last for a maximum of one month but the process continues for the whole year and involves a very cumbersome activity. The garden is the result of sweat and blood of our employees and workers,” said Sofi Inam-ur-Rehman, assistant floriculture officer and in-charge of the Tulip Garden.This year, an additional two lakh bulbs have been added to the 30-hectare terracing garden at Siraj Bagh in Srinagar than last year when the bloom of 13 lakh (1.3 million) tulips had quietly withered away without catching an eye of any visitor due to the Covid-19 lockdown.Also read: Need to develop military into ‘future force’ - PM Modi at top commanders’ meetThis year, te bloom is expected to happen in the last week of March as the temperature-sensitive flowers need mercury to stay above 15 degrees at a stretch.“The opening of the garden is weather dependent. The temperatures in March have gone down from above-normal in February. There is also a prediction of rains from March 07. The garden won’t open before March 20,” said in-charge deputy director of the floriculture department, Shayiq Rasool.Usually, the blooming begins by late March. The average life of a tulip flower is 20 days and can stretch to a maximum of 25 with overall bloom getting extended by adding late-blooming varieties of tulips.The flowers start to fall by late April. “During the bloom, the work gets doubled because we have to take care of the flowers as well as deal with the enthusiastic visitors,” said Abdul Rehman, 55, who has been working as a gardener in Tulip Garden for the past five years.He said that they have to observe the plants as the foliage of the tulip bulbs is allowed to dry up for May and up to June 15. He said that the rigorous work starts a the beginning of July when the summer heat is at its peak.“In July, August and September, we have to painstakingly remove the bulbs with proper caution to store them in cold stores with proper grading,” Rehman said. “Mind you, these are not a few hundred or thousand bulbs but over a million and a half,” he said.The temperature in the cold sheds is maintained at around 15 to 18 degrees.Rehman said that there is a depreciation of tulip bulbs year after year and the officials have to import more tulip bulbs every year. “Around 30 per cent bulbs get damaged or diseased during and after the extraction process and have to be replaced by new bulbs,” he said.Sofi said that they import the bulbs every year from Holland.“This year we bought 4.6 lakh tulip bulbs from Holland which is the world's biggest flower bulb market,” Sofi said.A tulip bulb may cost anywhere between ₹12 and 24. “The rates depend on the condition of the international market which works on euro rates,” he said.The picturesque garden, one of the biggest tulip gardens in Asia and located on the foothills of the Zabarwan range and the banks of majestic Dal Lake, has over 63 varieties of red, yellow, pink, white, purple, blue, yellow and multi-color – early blooming, mid blooming and late blooming – tulip bulbs this year.“The colours are to cherish. It is an array of hues. Besides the usual ones, we also have crimson and brick red, maroon and apricot colour. The early and late blooming varieties have been added to extend the total blooming period,” he said.In addition to tulips, the garden also has hyacinths, daffodils and spring-flowering shrubs. “We also have ornamental trees like apricots and almonds which coincide with tulip blooming. This has been done to enhance the beauty of the garden,” he said.The garden has been divided into 36 plots with 16-18 beds in each plot. There are three parks also inside the garden where the visitors can sit and visualize themselves in a sea of colours, dominated by the Zabarwan Mountains. Various small ornamental trees including the tulip tree decorate the sides of the numerous paths of the garden.In October, soil preparation is done by using tractors. The beds are also prepared during the period with proper channels for draining of water as well as for beautification.“By November 15, the sowing of tulip bulbs starts. It takes around a month by which time the winter sets in,” said Mohammad Ayoub Lone, another gardener who has been here for the past 16 years.“By February 20, when the snow has already melted, we start to loosen the soil and remove unwanted grass. The spray is done as the flowers start to grow,” he said.Kashmir’s connection with tulips traces back its origin hundreds of years when the flowers were grown on muddy rooftops of houses. Gradually, they were grown in kitchen gardens and flower beds till in 2005-06 the then state government decided to convert Siraj Bagh into a regal Tulip Garden in keeping with Kashmir's historical ties with tulips.On the foothills of Zabarwan range, the Tulip Garden was opened in 2007 on sloping ground with multiple terraces, overlooking the scenic Botanical Garden.In 2019, the garden attracted 2.58 lakh visitors, including many local Kashmiris and 1.9 lakh in 2018 as the annual Tulip Festival gained popularity.Tourism nosedived in Kashmir in 2019 as the central government revoked the special status under Article 370 of the erstwhile state and split the region into two Union territories on August 5 and put it under restrictions. The lockdown implemented in March 2020 owing to the Covid-19 pandemic further exacerbated the situation.Shayiq Rasool, the deputy director, said that the garden has become a landmark for tourism and indirectly benefits thousands of people in the sector.“Our annual budget for the garden is around one crore rupees and in return, it gives us a lot of bookings for the hotels, houseboats and transport sector. We have to look at its trickle-down benefits,” he said.Meanwhile, gardener M Ayoub Lone is eagerly waiting for the mesmerizing bloom.“The beauty is not actually of the garden but of the hard work I and my colleagues have put in to make it bloom. When it does we want to be here, day and night,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmirs-iconic-tulip-garden-readies-to-witness-1-5-mn-flowers-bloom-101615054568839.html
07-03-2021||Delhi||In budget, Delhi likely to allocate funds for Tricolours across city||The Delhi government plans to hoist the Tricolour across the city and is preparing to allocate funds for it in the upcoming budget, senior government officials said on Saturday.The flag will be very much like the one in Connaught Place, which is hoisted atop a 207-feet mast. The flag itself is 60 feet in width and 90 feet in length. “We plan to install such flags across the city. Funds will be allocated for that in the budget,” said the official who did not wish to be identified.The budget session in the Delhi Assembly starts on Monday. HT has learnt that the economic survey and outcome budget 2020-21 is likely to be tabled on Monday, while the 2021-22 state budget — the seventh by the AAP in its three terms in power — will be tabled on Tuesday.The theme of the upcoming budget of the Delhi government will be “patriotism” and there is likely to be allocation of funds for a series of events to he held across the city over a span of 75 weeks – starting next week – to celebrate 75 years of independence in India in August next year, said the government official.In its first budget after coming to power in 2015 with a thumping majority in Delhi, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government chose “Swaraj” (self-governance) as the theme of the 2015-16 budget. In that budget the government allocated a large amount of funds on welfare schemes such as subsidies on power and water bills. Similarly, the 2018-19 budget was branded as “green budget” because of the large number of allocations focused on the fight against air pollution in the Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-budget-delhi-likely-to-allocate-funds-for-tricolours-across-city-101615054028282.html
07-03-2021||Delhi||Vaccine drive needs to pick up pace by at least sixfold, say health experts||The national capital has immunised over 86,700 persons in the five days since the Covid-19 vaccination drive was opened up to those above the age of 60 years and those above 45 with comorbidities, but the numbers are too few, say health experts, considering that there are 1.2 million people above the age of 60 years living in the city. They say the drive needs to pick up pace right now if all beneficiaries under this third priority group are to be inoculated anytime soon.With 33,287 doses, Delhi saw the highest number vaccinations being administered on Saturday. Yet, the slow pace of the drive has experts and the government worried. With an average of just 12,612 beneficiaries over the age of 60 years receiving the shot each day, health experts say it would take more than five months to administer the first dose of the vaccine to the estimated 2.1 million people in this category living in the city.The government has no concrete estimate as to how many people above the age of 45, who have one or more of the 20 specific comorbidities, are living in the city.Two doses have to be administered four to six weeks apart for both vaccines – Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Serum Institute of India’s Covishield – that are currently in use in the country. Next vaccine in line for approval is Russia’s Sputnik V, being brought to India by Dr Reddy’s Lab, which is also a two-dose vaccine.“We need to speed up the vaccination drive by at least sixfold. For that, there is a need to increase the number of vaccination centres, the timing of centres – which the Central government has already done -- remove the cap on the number of shots each centre can give daily, set up bigger centres at facilities like the 10,000-bed Covid Care Centre that had been set up in Delhi and carry out mass vaccination campaigns, and gradually relax the age criteria for vaccination,” said Dr SK Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences.He headed Delhi government’s first committee set up to control and manage Covid-19.In a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Friday, lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal gave directions for speeding up the vaccination drive by scaling up capacity, according to two officials privy to the details.The government is now looking at several measures to increase immunisation among the aged and the comorbid. It plans to increase the number of vaccination centres in private hospitals and government dispensaries, allow flexible timings at private centres, allow walk-ins and the use of ASHA (accredited social health activists) and anganwadi workers’ network to mobilise people to come to the nearest vaccination centre, and to hold camps to register those who are unable to use the Co-WIN portal for registrations on their own.Delhi increased the number of vaccination sites from 308 to 402 this Thursday, including the addition of several government dispensaries. So far, the vaccination centres were housed only in hospitals.“The vaccination drive in dispensaries can only be conducted four days a week, to ensure that other routine immunisation (for polio, measles etc.) is not disturbed. So, we are looking at more dispensaries where we can start Covid-19 vaccine centres. Private hospitals have also been allowed to have flexible timings for their centres; they can open whenever they get more people,” said a senior district official, on condition of anonymity.A second district official, also on condition of anonymity, said, “We added around 100 centres this week and we are slowly increasing the numbers. Although, there aren’t any centres running round-the-clock yet, it is likely to happen in the coming days.”The Delhi government’s Lok Nayak hospital had started a 24X7 centre last week; however, it is only meant for front-line workers who are on duty during morning hours.“We are also getting in touch with the residents’ welfare associations and sending our teams to register those who cannot do it themselves,” the second district official said.All the vaccination sites also allow walk-in immunisations after 3pm to boost the numbers.HEALTH-CARE AND FRONT-LINE WORKERSThe Delhi government has designated 36 vaccination sites at government dispensaries and polyclinics for the immunisation of health-care and front-line workers who haven’t registered on the Co-WIN portal yet. The beneficiaries will have to furnish proof of employment in the prescribed form, as well as a signed and stamped certificate from the head of the hospital/department or a medical council registration in case of private practitioners.The registration and subsequent immunisation can happen at the hospital where they work, the designated centre for their health-care facility, or the designated centre for their department.So far, just over 66% of the health-care workers and 70% of front-line workers who registered on the Co-WIN portal have received their shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vaccine-drive-needs-to-pick-up-pace-by-at-least-sixfold-say-health-experts-101615053848298.html
07-03-2021||Delhi||Positivity rate up to 0.60%, almost double since February 27||Delhi reported over 300 cases of Covid-19 for the second day in a row on Saturday even as the city’s positivity rate continued to slowly creep up. The city recorded 321 cases on Saturday — highest since the 340 cases were reported on January 14, data released by the Delhi government said.The city’s positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive among the total tested – rose to 0.60%, with only 53,062 tests having been conducted on Friday and reported a day later in Saturday’s health bulletin. Saturday’s positivity rate is almost double of 0.36% that was reported last Saturday and highest since January 9, when it stood at 0.65%.Positivity rate, which reflects the spread of the infection, has increased to 0.43% on an average in the last seven days, from 0.32% the week before and 0.25% the week before that. After Delhi saw the third surge of cases in November – when 8,593 cases were reported in a day at its peak – the positivity rate started dipping, slipping below 5% on December 3. The positivity rate then dropped to below 1% by December end.Although a positivity rate of less than 5% means that the spread of the infection is under check, the new increase has expert worried. “The current increase in the number of cases in Delhi – and other states like Maharashtra – is likely because of new variants of the virus that are more transmissible. The last serosurvey in Delhi had shown that over 50% of the population had antibodies. The new variants may be spreading faster among the rest,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.Hastening the vaccination drive in such areas is likely to help.“There is a need for the vaccination drive to pick up pace; the number of infections have already started increasing in Maharashtra and Delhi is also reporting some increase. The more people we are able to vaccinate in these areas, the less the transmission will be,” said Dr SK Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Science. He headed Delhi government’s first committee on controlling and managing Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/positivity-rate-up-to-0-60-almost-double-since-february-27-101615053847713.html
07-03-2021||Noida||Protesting farmers shut Eastern Peripheral Expressway for five hours||Farmers protesting the Centre’s agriculture laws blocked the Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE) affecting traffic for almost five hours on Saturday.The protesters had announced several days in advance that they would move to block the 135-km EPE on the 100th day of their stir against the central government. Commuters were forced to take alternative routes as police deployed at the EPE entry points diverted them to prevent clogging of the expressway. The result was that other routes, ill-equipped to handle the extra vehicles, suffered traffic snarls.The main points of the blockade were the eight interchanges on the expressway that connects Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal, bypassing Delhi.Protesters blocked both carriageways at Duhai and Dasna, the two interchanges in Ghaziabad, with their cars and tractors from 11am. This led to arguments between them and commuters.“Police told us that you have stopped my vehicle... It is because of you that country is suffering huge losses. A death has taken place in my family and I am not allowed to proceed ahead,” commuter Ritu Sharma told the protesters at Dasna interchange. She said that she was travelling from Noida to Ambala.“I got stuck at Dasna interchange. I was transporting petrol and had to reach Mathura by 6.30pm. But they stopped me midway and gave me pakoras to eat. Half an hour later they allowed me to pass,” said Mohammad Nazim who identified himself as a supervisor of the tanker he was travelling in.Commuters on the Delhi Meerut Road and NH-9 too were affected.Protesters allowed doctors, ambulances, police and two-wheelers with women on pillion to pass.“We offered food and water to the people stuck on the EPE and also used the opportunity to talk to them about the issues we face. We also told them that we were issues like price rise, increase in price rates of fuel that affected them too,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, farmer leader from Uttarakhand and member of UP Gate farmers’ committee, said at Dasna interchange. “Many commuters were allowed to pass through. We wanted to tell the government that our agitation is still on and that we had not got silent.”The farmers lifted the blockade at about 3.45pm and normal traffic on the EPE resumed.Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic) said that police stopped commuters at the interchanges. “If we had allowed them in, all would have been stuck at the EPE. It could have disturbed law and order. There were long traffic snarls on parts of NH-9 and Delhi Meerut Road as commuters had to take alternative routes,” he said.According to National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), about 50,000 passenger car units ply on the EPE.“Protesters took over all eight interchanges with toll plazas on the EPE. We estimate that the loss for the day could be about ₹40 lakh. Many vehicles were also stuck up at up and down ramps at different interchanges,” said Mudit Garg, project director from NHAI.The EPE was also shut on January 7 when the protesting farmers took out a tractor rally on it and blocked one carriageway.The protesters are demanding the repeal of the three central government farm laws and a new law on minimum support price.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/protesting-farmers-shut-eastern-peripheral-expressway-for-five-hours-101615052707616.html
07-03-2021||Other||6 days of vaccinations with not a single adverse effect; 20K beneficiaries vaccinated in Pune dist||In the past six days, the district has vaccinated at least 20,000 beneficiaries under phase two of the vaccination drive for vulnerable groups. Not a single adverse effect following immunisation has been reported in the district. The district has seen a good response from senior citizens who have stormed vaccination centres to get the jab.The civic body has opened 69 vaccination centres in the city as of Saturday, which was only four on the first day of phase two of the vaccination drive.This decision was a response to the crowds of senior citizens at vaccination centres. In the past six days, a total of 20,872 beneficiaries have been vaccinated, of which 3,376 are those in the age group of 45-59 with comorbidities; and 27,704 of those above the age of 60. In the past six days, not a single adverse effect following immunisation has been reported, not even a minor case.On Saturday alone 14,000 eligible beneficiaries got the vaccine, of which 10,000 are from the vulnerable age group alone. Of these, 1,495 are from the 45-59 age group with comorbidities and 8,713 are those above the age of 60. Also, 2,407 healthcare workers and 1,610 frontline workers got the jab. As of Saturday, totally 1,79,465 people have got the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/6-days-of-vaccinations-with-not-a-single-adverse-effect-20k-beneficiaries-vaccinated-101615048867382.html
07-03-2021||Pune||Ekbote booked for provocative speech, “mini-Pakistan” comment||Milind Ramakant Ekbote, leader of Samast Hindu Aghadi, a Hindutva organisation, was booked for hurting religious sentiments and defamation of Muslim community members for calling a locality in Pune “Mini Pakistan” in a video clip uploaded on social media. Ekbote, who is accused in a case registered by Pune rural police during the Bhima Koregaon violence in 2018, also claimed in the video that Kondhwa area is home to “sleeper cells”. “The high court has said that no religious place can be built without prior permission from the government, but the PMC has found a way out of this by terming the “Haj House” as a cultural centre and is using funds meant for public welfare for constructing the Haj house. The Samasta Hindu Aghadi will use all its might and I swear by Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s feet that we will not let it happen,” Ekbote said in a video shot in front of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The video has allegedly been shot on March 2. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Satish Bhaskar Kale (47), a resident of the NIBM Road area of Kondhwa, Pune who is a Sambhaji Brigade member and part of the Maratha Seva Sangh. “The aim of that video was to destroy peace in the Kondhwa area and cause communal violence; if anything of that sort happens, Milind Ekbote will be solely responsible for it,” read a part of the complaint lodged by Kale. A case under Sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 153(a) (hurting religious sentiments), 153(b), 295(a), 298 (uttering words etc., with the deliberate intention of wounding the religious feelings of any person), 500 (defamation), 501, 502, 505(1)(c), 505(2), 120(b) (criminal conspiracy), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(a) and 66(b) of Information Technology Act was registered at Kondhwa police station against Ekbote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ekbote-booked-for-provocative-speech-mini-pakistan-comment-101615046827292.html
07-03-2021||Other||Pune district’s active Covid cases nears 20K mark; 1,925 new cases on Saturday||Pune district reported 1,925 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, which took the number of active cases, i.e. those undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation, to 19,615, as per the state health department. This is almost double of the number of active cases in Thane, which is at 10,044, and Mumbai, with 8,984 active cases. The progressive count of the district currently stands at 4,19,162, of which, 3,91,411 have recovered. The death toll in the district stands at 8,136. Pune city reported 991 new cases, which takes the count to 2,14,029. Two new deaths took the death toll to 4,589. PCMC reported 532 new cases, which took its progressive count to 1,04,810 and one death took the death toll to 1,336. Pune rural reported 402 new cases which takes its progressive count to 1,00,323. Four deaths reported on Saturday put the death toll at 2,162. Also, 6,080 patients were discharged on Saturday in the state, which took the total number of discharged to 20.62 lakh, after full recovery. The recovery rate in the state is 93.36%. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.37%. Currently, 4,28,676 people are in home quarantine and 4,514 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-s-active-covid-cases-nears-20k-mark-1-925-new-cases-on-saturday-101615040946750.html
07-03-2021||Other||Cosmos Bank case: Pune police write to the UAE to hand over custody of Sumer Shaikh||The Pune police have written to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) to hand over the custody of Sumer Shaikh (28), accused in the Cosmos Bank cyber fraud case, 2018.Shaikh, a native of Mumbai, is one of the key accused in the case where multiple cards of Cosmos Bank were cloned and funds to the tune of ₹94 crore was withdrawn within a short period.“We have submitted a letter rogatory to the UAE through their embassy in India to get his (Shaikh’s) custody,” said Bhagyashree Navatake, deputy commissioner of police, cyber-crime and economic offence wing of Pune police.Shaikh was arrested in a case of extortion in the UAE, according to the Pune police.With the help of card and bank data, suspected to have been stolen traded over the dark web, the accused had managed to make thousands of cash withdrawals and online transactions worth ₹94.4 crore.While most of the fraudulent bank transactions were done from other countries, transactions worth around ₹2.5 crore were made from various parts of India.A case of cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy, under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Information Technology Act was registered at Chaturshringi police station in August 2018.A red corridor notice was issued against one of the prime accused in August 2020. The cash reserves of the bank had taken a hit and affected its credibility and safety.IPS officer Jyptipriya Singh was deputy commissioner of police (DCP) cyber crime of Pune when the case was registered. Pune city has had two DCP cyber crime since then - state police officer Sambhaji Kadam and now IPS officer Bhagyashree Navatake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cosmos-bank-case-pune-police-write-to-the-uae-to-hand-over-custody-of-sumer-shaikh-101615037286588.html
07-03-2021||Chandigarh||Six-year-old missing girl found dead in Chandigarh||A six-year-old girl, who went missing after leaving her home to play on Friday evening, was found dead in the forest area adjoining Hallomajra in Chandigarh on Saturday morning. Police have apprehended a 12-year-old neighbour, who is suspected to have sexually assaulted her before bludgeoning her to death. “The 12-year-old boy took the girl on his cycle. He later killed her by hitting her on the head with a stone,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh. After a night-long search, police had found the girl’s half-naked body around 8am on Saturday. The stone used to kill her was also recovered from near the crime scene. The postmortem report is awaited.The boy has been booked under Sections 302 (murder) and 363 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code.A senior official investigating the case said the juvenile had murdered the girl after he got scared that she might tell her parents that he had taken her to the forest area. Police are awaiting the postmortem report to confirm whether the girl had been sexually assaulted before the murder.In 2020, Chandigarh had reported 41 cases of sexual assault on minors. According to the latest National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report, 65 minors were raped in the city in 2019. Meanwhile, police had apprehended eight juveniles for rape that year.Child had left to play The girl studied in the nursery class. She is survived by her parents and two younger siblings – a three-year-old brother and one-year-old sister. They live in Hallomajra.Her father, who works in a factory, told police that his wife was at home with their youngest daughter when the six-year-old left to play with other children in the neighbourhood on Friday afternoon. She was supposed to go for a tuition from there at 5pm. When his wife came to know that the girl had not reached the tuition, she went out to look for her. The girl’s friends told her that she had not even turned up to play. The woman then called her husband, and the two started searching for the child. Police were informed at 8:30pm, and a case of suspected kidnapping was registered at night. Police searched the area, including parts of the forest, till about 3am, but could not trace the child. The body was spotted in the morning, when the search was resumed and the entire forest area was covered. CCTV footage help nail boy There are around five families that live in the building where her family resides. The child was last spotted around 4pm on a street near the building. While scanning the area’s CCTV footage, police spotted the girl being taken on a cycle by a 12-year-old neighbour. He was soon apprehended.Earlier, area residents along with a student organisation blocked the Chandigarh-Delhi highway near Hallomajra in the afternoon. They were demanding justice for the victim. The protest led to a traffic jam on the busy highway, and police had to divert the traffic coming from Zirakpur. Some of the protesters were also detained after they pelted stones at cops, leaving a few with bruises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sixyearold-missing-girl-found-dead-in-chandigarh-101615009865475.html
