09-03-2021||Gurugram||₹10K per household: Ardee City’s funding plan to rebuild roads in colony||Residents of Ardee City in Sector 52 said they have constructed colony roads at their own expense, by collecting ₹10,000 per household, and alleged that the developer has given up on the maintenance of the colony. Members of the residents’ welfare association (RWA) said that there are around 60 lanes in the colony that need to be relaid as the condition of the surfaces is poor. “Around 15 roads are in absolute poor condition and we have decided to construct these roads first. ₹10,000 from every household is being collected as both the developer and government authorities have failed to help us,” said Pravin Yadav, the president of the RWA. However, the developer said that the house owners have failed to pay maintenance charges. “They want to travel to the moon without paying for it. They owe the company ₹21 crore. Whatever we can do within our resources and means, we have been doing,” said Anil Hasija, vice president, Ardee Infrastructure Private Limited. Residents said they have constructed three roads so far and are working on relaying more roads.On Monday, the residents also submitted a letter to the authorities, asking the Department of Town and Country Planning to expedite the transfer of the colony to the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG). 2,500 families are living in Ardee City. Chaitalee Mandhotra, a resident, said that the developer has not relaid the road in the last 10 years and major accidents took place due to potholes. “We have spent around ₹8 to 9 lakh in building roads in two lanes and work is going on for a third lane. What is the point of paying taxes to the government if basic infrastructure can’t be ensured? Many senior citizens live in this colony and they suffer due to poor amenities, be it roads, water supply or sewage,” she said. DTCP officials said that they have already given the go-ahead for the MCG takeover. “We have already submitted all documents and records of the colony to MCG and the transfer process will be completed soon,” said Sanjeev Mann, senior town planner, Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rs-10k-per-household-ardee-city-s-funding-plan-to-rebuild-roads-in-colony-101615313727953.html
09-03-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram procures 30,000 additional vaccine doses||With the Covid-19 vaccination continuing at a fast pace in Gurugram, the district health department on Tuesday procured 30,000 additional doses of vaccines, allocated for other districts that are seeing lower turnouts. With an average of 3,500 inoculations per day since March 1, the district has consumed nearly 65% of more than 100,000 vaccine doses allocated to it till now. According to the health department data, roughly 82,000 people in Gurugram have received the vaccine till Tuesday, marking the highest number of vaccinations in the state. “Continuing with the current pace of vaccination, where almost 5,000 people are getting vaccinated every day in private hospitals, there has been a need to keep the additional vaccine stock. Through regional vaccine stores, the department has procured 15,000 additional doses, each, of Covishield and Covaxin allocated to other districts since they have lower footfall compared to Gurugram,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. According to the district health department data, Gurugram has, until now, received over 105,170 doses of Covishield and 22,000 doses of Covaxin since January 16. Of these, at least 82, 680 doses have been administered to prioritised population groups — over 24,000 to people above 60 years and with people aged 45 to 59 years with existing co-morbid conditions and over 56,000 doses to front-line and healthcare workers. “The state has at least 7.5 lakh (750,000) doses of Covishield and 2 lakh (200,000) doses of Covaxin in the state vaccine warehouse,” said Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department. “On an average, 34,000 doses have been administered every day (across the state). Going by the daily consumption of vaccine, the available stock is sufficient for 10 next days and by March 16, additional doses will be received from the central government. Since vaccination (rate) is high in Gurugram, additional doses will be delivered to the district,” Arora said. From March 1, vaccination sites in the district were increased to at least 45 private hospitals and 23 government hospitals. The turnout has been gradually increasing, reaching almost 8,000 on Monday. As many as 5,167 people above the age of 60 years and 635 aged 45-59 having co-morbidities took the shot on Tuesday. Also, at least 819 healthcare workers and 474 front-line workers took the second doses of their vaccines, mostly at public health set-ups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-procures-30-000-additional-vaccine-doses-101615313727421.html
09-03-2021||Gurugram||With 75 new cases, Gurugram reports highest daily jump in two months||At least 75 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the last 24 hours on Tuesday — the highest jump in daily cases after almost two months. Data also showed that average new infections this week increased by almost 50% as compared to the number of cases recorded in the last week of February, forcing health department to increase testing. “Testing will be increased in the district to gauge the rising prevalence of infection. Testing camps are already being conducted in areas where more than five cases are being reported in a day. Teams will also conduct random testing to identify localities from where cases are being reported at a faster pace,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer(CMO). According to the data, the district is presently testing almost 2,900 samples every day. As there has been an increase in the daily test positivity rate – positive samples out of the samples tested in a day – from less than 1% in February to almost 1.9% in the last one week, the health department has also planned to increase the number of containment zones in the city. The district until December 2020 recorded more than 100 new infections a day. It declined to almost 88 new infections on January 8. But the active cases stood at 772. Due to daily decline in new cases to roughly 30 every day, the active case count had declined to 372 by February 1. Going by the daily health bulletin issued by the district health department, the active cases count reduced to almost 239 by February 23, after which it gradually started increasing, with daily case count fluctuating between 29 and 62. On an average, 26 new cases were reported daily between February 17 and February 23. It jumped to almost 44 new cases between February 24 and March 2, after which it further grew to almost 53 new cases on an average in the last one week. While daily cases have now touched 75, active cases have reached 437. The overall tally has reached 59,449. Due to the constant upward trajectory, Haryana is currently among the eight states in the country noticing a spike in daily cases. “The matter will be discussed in the district task force meeting on Wednesday. Gurugram testing numbers are higher compared to other districts; therefore new infections are being reported. In case if the number further increases reserved beds for Covid-19 patients will also be increased,” said Yadav. Currently, out of the 437 active cases at least 37 are admitted in hospitals, while 399 are under home isolation. Only one patient has been isolated at a Covid care centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/with-75-new-cases-gurugram-reports-highest-daily-jump-in-two-months-101615313726802.html
09-03-2021||Gurugram||Grap ban on diesel generators removed from Gurugram, Faridabad||The ban imposed on using diesel generators under Graded Response Action Plan(Grap) has been lifted from Gurugram and Faridabad, said officials of Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) on Tuesday. The ban was imposed in October last year as per the orders of the National Green Tribunal(NGT) to prevent rising air pollution in Delhi-NCR. These measures are meant to be implemented as a matter of course between October 15 and March 15 every year — which also happens to be the official length of the winter pollution cycle. Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, HSPCB, said, “As the air quality is improving with the onset of summer, the ban imposed on diesel generators under Grap has been lifted by the Central Pollution Control Board. An order in this regard was issued last week. However, we are still keeping a tab on different activities being undertaken in the city to prevent air pollution and deterioration of the air quality.” A letter, dated March 5, issued by Shiv Das Meena, chairman of CPCB states, “As per the forecast received air quality in Delhi-NCR is expected to be better in the coming days due to improved ventilation conditions. Based on this forecast and prediction, CPCB has decided that the ban on use of diesel generator sets in Delhi-NCR is lifted(sic)” The CPCB, however, directed the state pollution control boards to ensure that large construction sites adhere to prescribed guidelines and take adequate measures to manage dust pollution. The implementing agencies have also been asked to continue to take stringent actions with emphasis on pollution hot spots. On October 9 last year, the Environmental Pollution Control Board Authority(EPCA) had directed the Haryana government to strictly impose the ban on the use of diesel generators in Gurugram and Faridabad in view of the rising levels of air pollution. Meanwhile, air quality in Gurugram, remained in the ‘poor’ category of the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index (AQI) on Tuesday, with a reading of 272 on the daily pollution bulletin — an increase from an AQI reading of 204 recorded a day prior. The air quality in the region has worsened in the past few days, as the AQI at 177 was recorded to be in the ‘moderate’ category on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/grap-ban-on-diesel-generators-removed-from-gurugram-faridabad-101615313726288.html
09-03-2021||Gurugram||GMDA seeks to extend coverage||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is planning to extend its coverage to the entirety of the Gurugram district and also increase the metropolitan area in the district, officials familiar with the development said on Tuesday. A proposal has been initiated to extend the jurisdictional boundaries of GMDA as well as extend the Gurugram Metropolitan Area (GMA) to help with connectivity and management issues. The authority has issued a public notice seeking suggestions, comments and objections. The public notice, issued last week, states, “…acting upon the suggestions of MLA Sohna and other members as well as the directions of the Hon’ble Chairman, GMDA, given in 6th authority meeting of GMDA held on 16.03.2020, the proposal of extending the boundaries of GMA to coincide with the territory of district Gurugram, was examined by GMDA.” Bhuvnesh Kumar, chief town planner of urban planning division, GMDA, who was part of the committee and worked on developing the new map said that the decision has been taken following public requests.“We are planning to take the whole of Gurugram district under the jurisdiction of the GMDA as it will bring uniformity and ease connectivity issues. At present, we have to coordinate with different authorities for development work outside the Gurugram Metropolitan Area, but with the extension, working for regional connectivity will become easier,” said Kumar. The notice further mentions that after the sixth authority meeting, a committee headed by the chief executive officer of GMDA was also formed to discuss the feasibility of extension of the limits of the Gurugram Metropolitan Area. The committee met on February 11 this year, “…wherein it was decided to initiate the process of public consultation on this issue, so that compiled report may be put in the next GMDA meeting.” The current Gurugram Metropolitan Area boundary covers 675 square kilometres, which will be increased to 1,258 sq km, with the proposed addition of 583 sq km. At present, the GMDA has jurisdiction over the Gurugram-Manesar urban complex, Sarbasipur, Jaduala, Jhanjrola, the complete area under the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram, Farrukhnagar and parts of Sohna tehsil, Farukhnagar tehsil, Manesar tehsil, and Gurugram tehsil. The extended boundary will include all areas under the municipal corporations and councils of Gurugram (208 sq km), Manesar (124 sq km), Farrukhnagar (22 sq km), Pataudi (30 sq km) and Sohna (11 sq km), but officials said that work on different projects will be done in collaboration.The authority has uploaded a proposed map of the extended limits of the Gurugram Metropolitan Area on its website, on which citizens can submit their responses till April 2. Kumar said that if the Gurugram Metropolitan Area is extended, then the approval process for different projects will also reduce. “For both inter-district and intra-district connectivity, the extension of the area will be helpful as there will be lesser authorities concerned and projects can be taken up faster,” added Kumar. Member of legislative assembly Sohna, Sanjay Singh, could not be reached for comment despite repeated attempts.Sudhir Rajpal, chief executive officer of GMDA said, “If the boundary of GMDA is extended, it will include all the municipal corporations, but all agencies will be working independently. For projects that overlap, work will be done in collaboration.” However, he said that the specifics of managing different functions is yet to be finalised. Also, he said that there are no plans to set up new offices for covering an extended area and work will be managed by existing personnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gmda-seeks-to-extend-coverage-101615313725695.html
09-03-2021||Gurugram||Primary schools to start lessons from scratch||Heads of primary wings in government schools that reopened last week after a year of remote classes said they would be starting lessons from scratch for students, especially in classes 1 and 2, to tackle the learning deficit. School teachers said that only about 10% of students had managed to keep up with remote classes through WhatsApp and a majority need hand-holding. Deputy district education officer Kalpna Singh said that students couldn’t do much during remote learning and bridging the gap could take a long time. “If a child in a junior class goes on leave for even a day or two, it takes some time to get back into the routine of structuralized learning. Due to the pandemic, students were deprived of classes for one whole year. Online classes did not have much of an impact on students of classes 1 and 2. Gaps and delays are bound to happen,” said Singh. She said that teachers had been directed to engage the attention of students and encourage more students to join lessons. “Students have returned to classrooms after a year. First and foremost, we need to focus on keeping them engaged. Once that happens, we can direct energies towards covering the learning gap since the break caused due to the pandemic will have a long-lasting impact,” said Singh. Neelam, primary in-charge of the government primary school in Bhondsi, said that nearly 60% of the class strength was back in school. “We will be starting the curriculum from the beginning. Many of them couldn’t comprehend the lessons taught during remote classes and forgotten the basic concepts of writing and reciting. After a long gap, the struggle will be to get them back into the fold,” said Neelam, who goes by her first name.She said that the school had formed groups of students based on their current understanding of lessons to facilitate a needs-based approach. “We are encouraging group learning so that students can support each other. Some students are better placed since they received hand-holding support from parents during remote classes. These students are being asked to work in tandem with others who didn’t have access to lessons during remote classes,” said Neelam. She said that while teachers were paying extra attention to students, the co-learning approach seemed to be working. “In group activities, we see that students are motivated by seeing others practise the same concepts. At least until the schools close for vacation, we will continue with collaborative learning till all students catch up with lessons,” she said. Bijender, head of government primary school at Darbaripur, said that only 10-15% of students continuously engaged with remote classes through WhatsApp and most couldn’t keep up with the syllabus.“Online classes did not have many benefits for younger children. We have a month or more to go before schools might shut for the summer break. In this limited time, we have to ensure that at least the basic concepts are taught. To aid the same, we have created a refresher course with important topics and areas that need attention. Our focus will be on covering the basics for now,” said Bijender, adding that schools might have to cover the remaining syllabus after the summer break.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/primary-schools-to-start-lessons-from-scratch-101615313724584.html
09-03-2021||Gurugram||DTCP to take action against commercial establishments on EWS plots||The department of town and country planning(DTCP) has decided to take action against commercial establishments being run from residential properties across various private residential colonies in the city, particularly in the EWS (economically weaker sections) plots. DTCP officials said that a survey of private colonies is underway as they have received several complaints regarding the misuse of plots particularly those belonging to the EWS category. The action in private colonies will follow a large-scale sealing drive that was carried out by the department in DLF Phase 3 last week in which action was taken against 150 commercial establishments. RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, said that commercial activities particularly on EWS plots are under the scanner of the department as these create a lot of problems for local residents. “Action will be taken against violators and properties sealed in private colonies after the survey has been completed,” he said. Meanwhile, an enforcement team of the department carried out a demolition drive in two colonies being developed in Sohna and Bhondsi and cleared 30 acres of land. “Around 100 plinths, a few under-construction houses, three offices of property dealers and two shops in these illegal colonies were demolished. A large team from Gurugram Police supported the drive,” said Bhath. DTCP officials said that four earth-moving machines were also deployed during the drive. The team also demolished few illegal structures on Sohna Road as well in the evening. “A warning was also issued to the property dealers to refrain from selling such illegal plots as otherwise penal action would be taken against them,” said a senior official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-to-take-action-against-commercial-establishments-on-ews-plots-101615313725175.html
09-03-2021||Gurugram||Fake call centre in Udyog Vihar busted; four held||The police on Monday night busted a fake call centre that had been operating out of a building in Udyog Vihar for the past four months and arrested four people. According to the police, the call centre employees have been allegedly duping US citizens by posing as officials of law enforcement agencies and threatening to cancel their social security numbers if they failed to pay a fine. This is the fourth such call centre to be busted by the police and ninth this year. According to the police, the call centre had duped at least 800 people based in the US. The police said they used to buy data from Delhi every month. A case was registered on Tuesday at Udyog Vihar police station under sections 420 (cheating), 120B (conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) and sections 66D and 75 of the IT Act against the business partners of the call centre.The suspects were identified as Ranjeet Singh Rana from Udaipur, Rajasthan and Bhavesh Pankhi from Ahmedabad, Gujarat. The police said two team leaders were also held from the spot. The police said the three partners were running the call centre and that they had prior experience in working for call centres in Gurugram. The police said the suspects were paying ₹1.5 lakh as monthly rent for their office in Udyog Vihar. The suspects were produced before the district and sessions court on Tuesday and were taken on police remand. The police allegedly recovered seven hard disks, a script meant to dupe people and computers from the call centre. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said they received a tip-off on March 1 that a group in the city was running a fake call centre. It took the police a few days to locate the place. “We had conducted an internal investigation and our teams raided the office on Monday night. We will get the recovered hard disks scanned along with their systems to get an exact number of people duped by the call centre,” he said. The police said the confiscated hardware will be sent to a laboratory in Madhuban, Karnal, for forensic examination. Rao said that there were 35 men and four women working as telecallers in the call centre. The executives were given US citizens’ data. They used to make random calls, informing them that their social security numbers are at risk of being cancelled as they are “offenders” and need to pay a fine to ensure the continuation of the same. “This call centre was set up with 40 workstations. The telecallers underwent a week’s training to make calls to the US, and a script was shared with them. They had also set up a toll-free number, which was shared with the victims,” he said. The police said the payment was generally through virtual payment gateways, credit and debit cards, gift cards, iTunes cards, etc. The police said the exact number of victims and the amount of money siphoned may be higher than anticipated. The suspects used to provide pick and drop facility to all the employees and were paying ₹20,000 a month as salary and nearly ₹35,000 as an incentive for duping US citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/fake-call-centre-in-udyog-vihar-busted-four-held-101615313723396.html
09-03-2021||Noida||Three including driver of firm arrested for robbing ₹10 lakh cash from employees||Ghaziabad: Ghaziabad police on Tuesday arrested three persons for robbing ₹10 lakh from employees of a firm on their way to deposit it at a bank in Raj Nagar District Centre on March 1. Among the arrested persons was a driver employed with the firm who the police said planned robbery. Police identified the suspects as driver Nafees Khan (27), Bobby kushwaha (26) and Mohit Rawat (19). Two of the gang’s accomplices, Suraj Kori and Sunny Kumar, were absconding. “Khan had brought the cash from Aligarh two days before the incident and knew that it will be taken to be deposited in the bank. He planned the robbery with his accomplices. Khan went to Lucknow with his employer to avoid suspicion on his involvement, while his accomplices executed the crime. However, while we tracked about 30 employees of the firm, Khan’s name also cropped up among those who knew about the cash transfer,” said Nipun Agarwal, superintendent of police (city 1). Police said that the plan involved Rawat and Kori on a scooter, while Kushwaha and Sunny provided backup on a motorcycle. When the company’s accountant arrived at the bank, Rawat and Kori held them at gunpoint and robbed them. “In the investigation, we gathered enough evidence to arrest them from near Kavi Nagar flyover while they were trying to flee. We recovered ₹6 lakh cash and the motorcyle used during the crime,” the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-including-driver-of-firm-arrested-for-robbing-10-lakh-cash-from-employees-101615312404619.html
09-03-2021||Other||Greater Noida, Ghaziabad most polluted in country||Noida: The air quality of Noida fell from ‘moderate’ to ‘poor’ levels on Tuesday, while that of Ghaziabad and Greater Noida tuned ‘very poor’ due to sudden drop in the wind speed, according to the monitoring agencies. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), which monitors 126 cities across the country, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad turned out to be the most polluted cities on Tuesday.The air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Tuesday was 293 against 192 a day earlier, as per CPCB data. Similarly, AQI of Greater Noida was 339 against 196 a day earlier, while Ghaziabad recorded an AQI of 334 against 230 on Monday.An AQI level up to 100 is considered ‘good’, between 101 and 200 is ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’.“The wind speed dropped slightly on Tuesday but it is expected to rise by Friday,” said an official at the India Meteorological Department (IMD).“There had been some thundery activities over pockets of NCR, leading to dusty winds that affect the air quality. There are chances of rains on March 12. If there is a moderate rain, then it will improve the air quality,” Said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the air quality may deteriorate over the next two days due to moderate wind speed but will improve by the end of the week.“Surface winds are east-northeasterly and moderate. A decrease in surface wind speed is forecasted. This can cause a slight decrease in ventilation and marginal deterioration in air quality for the next two days. AQI is likely to stay in the poor to the lower end of the very poor category for the next two days. An increase in ventilation is expected on 12th and AQI likely to improve to the poor to moderate category. Thunderstorms and local dust lifting are likely at isolated places for the next two days,” said a SAFAR statement on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/greater-noida-ghaziabad-most-polluted-in-country-101615312344607.html
09-03-2021||Noida||Woman’s family alleges dowry death, husband held||Noida Police on Tuesday arrested a 28-year-old man in connection with the death of his wife after her family alleged she was tortured for dowry.The couple lived in a rented accommodation under phase 2 police station. On Monday, the man allegedly found his home’s door locked from the inside and when he forced it open, found his wife dead.“They had been married for four years,” said the woman’s father. “Her husband used to constantly pressure her to bring more money. She was often harassed and tortured. The constant stress forced her to take her own life.”He filed a complaint with the Phase 2 police following which a case under sections 498A (Dowry) and 304B (dowry death) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the man.“He (the husband) was taken in to custody today morning while the woman’s body was handed over to her family following the autopsy. He was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail,” said said Anita Chauhan, station house officer, Phase 2 police station.Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/womans-family-alleges-dowry-death-husband-held-101615312344061.html
09-03-2021||Noida||Covid-dedicated hospital’s staff protest over salary in Noida||Around 47 housekeeping and security staff at the dedicated Covid -19 hospital in Noida sector 39, protested on Tuesday demanding pay for the last four months.The Gautam Budh Nagar health department said they could not pay the employees as they were yet to receive funds from the state government.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had inaugurated the 400-bedded hospital on August 8 last year. Rakesh Singh, one of the agitators, said they had not been paid since November.“We’ve been hired by a private agency that bagged tenders for housekeeping and security arrangements in this hospital. The agency officials say that since the hospital administration has not cleared its outstanding dues, the company is unable to make our payments,” he said. “The matter has been intimated to the higher officials in the headquarters. We will soon get the allotment of this head and agency’s all outstanding dues will be cleared in two or three days,” said Gautam Budh Nagar district chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Deeoak OhriDistrict magistrate Suhas LY said, “We are making arrangements to get the funds immediately released from the headquarters. The staffers will get their salary soon.”The spokesperson of Delhi-based company Perfect Lovya Securitas Private Limited, which has been given contract to supply the manpower at the Civid-dedicated facility, said that they have not received any payment since November last year. “The outstanding dues towards the hospital has now gone over ₹50 lakh. After getting the payments from the hospital, we’ll release the salary dues of our employees next day,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/coviddedicated-hospital-s-staff-protest-over-salary-in-noida-101615312284450.html
09-03-2021||Other||Forest department to start night camping at Okhla sanctuary||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar forest department will soon start the night camping facility at the Okhla Bird Sanctuary, the city’s only eco-sensitive zone, to promote ecotourism, officials said.The department said that permission to build six cottages in the sanctuary has already been received from the Union environment ministry and prefabricated structures will be installed near the sanctuary’s gate number two by May this year.While environmentalists believe that the step may hamper “already disturbed” eco-sensitive zone, officials said that the step is being taken to attract more people towards birding and that the camping will not affect the sanctuary’s ecology.“Six cottages will be installed within the sanctuary over an area of 1500 square metres. As the structures will be pre-fabricated, there will be no disturbance to the ecology of the sanctuary. We had already received permission from the ministry of environment, forest and climate change regarding the same. Total cost of the project is around ₹60 lakh and we will start it in the next two months,” said Pramod Kumar Srivastava, divisional forest officer (DFO), GB Nagar. He said that the rules and rates for the night camping, including access to the sanctuary during night time, are yet to be decided. The officials stated that the department will also build “sunset points” at the sanctuary for which the entry timing for the sanctuary will be extended by an hour.“The bird sanctuary offers some of the most stunning sunsets and we have decided to promote them. So sunset points will be developed in the sanctuary for which we will extend the closing time from current 5pm to 6pm,” said Srivastava.Spread over 400 hectares, the Okhla Bird Sanctuary is home to a number of water and terrestrial birds. The sanctuary, however, suffers issues like water pollution due to excessive effluents in Yamuna river, and over the years, sanctuary has seen a drop in number of winter migratory birds. The Asian Waterbird Census 2021 held by Wetlands International South Asia in January counted a total 8,068 birds against 8,776 birds in January last year and 12,212 birds in January 2019.Experts said that while the idea is good, the sanctuary has already suffered a lot due to the development activities around it. “There will be an impact on the local ecology at the sanctuary. The night camping will cause light pollution, among others, as you cannot expect the campers to camp in the dark. The sanctuary is a smaller area and over the years it has already been disturbed a lot. So, the step seems a good idea as it may attract youth towards nature, but would have been effective if the area was larger,” said Anand Banerjee, a noted conservationist.Vikrant Tongad, a city-based environmentalist, also objected to the plan stating that the habitat will be affected. “I have nothing against ecotourism, but at the Okhla Bird Sanctuary there is already less land and a high-tension line passes over it. The habitat will be hampered if even a small part of the sanctuary is concretised. The sanctuary needs both land and wetland management,” said Tongad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/forest-department-to-start-night-camping-at-okhla-sanctuary-101615312283819.html
09-03-2021||Chandigarh||5-yr domicile condition only for pvt jobs: Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday announced that the recently amended five-year residency requirement (instead of 15 years) to get a bona fide resident certificate will only be applicable for private sector jobs under the newly-enacted 75% private job quota.Khattar, who was replying to a discussion on the governor’s address, said that following enactment of 75% private sector quota law, there is resentment among the Scheduled Caste (SC) over the amended condition of five years instead of 15 years, required to get a resident certificate.“The SCs from Haryana feel thatSCs from other states will be able to get jobs here. I want to announce that the existing parameters or notifications for government employment will stay and the five-year requirement for a resident certificate is only for private jobs,” the CM said.As per government instructions, caste certificate for SCs is granted only to those who are residents of Haryana by birth.Khattar became emotional on Tuesday while recalling scenes of Congress women MLAs pulling a tractor during the Congress protest march over fuel price hike.“Former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Raghuvir Singh Kadian were proudly sitting on the tractor being pulled by women MLAs. And this happened on International Women’s Day. Hooda, a CM-level leader would have earned goodwill had he pulled the tractor with women MLAs sitting on the tractor,” Khattar said.He added that he was deeply anguished at the disrespect shown by Congress leaders towards women.Reacting to this statement, Hooda said that women MLAs were pulling the tractor to mark their protests against the sufferings of people due to fuel price hike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5yr-domicile-condition-only-for-pvt-jobs-khattar-101615312283272.html
09-03-2021||Lucknow||Reservation of village panchayats - Complaints galore over census data-caste population gap||: A significant gap between ground reality with regard to numerical strength of various castes and a decade-old census data in thousands of villages has prompted villagers in large numbers to raise questions over the categorisation/reservation of their village panchayats for the forthcoming rural elections in UP, people dealing with the issue in the panchayati raj department said. Though the compilation of the objections received in various districts is still in progress, a higher number of complaints are said to have been received this time in all districts forcing chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari to convene a meeting with senior panchayati raj department officials to discuss the issue last week. District magistrates issued lists categorising all around 58,000 village panchayats as per the government’s reservation policy on March 2 and 3 inviting objections to the same by March 8. The final lists will be published between March 10 and 12 after disposing of objections.Director, panchayati raj, Kinjal Singh said people registering their objections and DMs making disposal of the same was a routine practice adopted every time rural polls were held. “Complaints and objections will be complied by Wednesday evening. Then district-level officials will dispose them of on merit after which final lists will be brought out,” she said. According to an official aware of the matter, a large number of complaints have come broadly on two counts. First, in number of cases there is a mismatch between the census data and the actual position of population on the ground. “There are complaints that census data shows people belonging to a particular caste living in a village while actually nobody of that caste lives there or their numerical strength is far less than sown in the census. “Since village panchayats were reserved on the basis of the 2011 census, a lot of complainants have raised questions on the categorisation alleging that incorrect census data must have affected the reservation,” he said.Second reason, according to him, is changes in the composition of hundreds of village panchayats in over 40 districts due to their complete or partial merger in urban areas during the last five years.“It has been seen that many village panchayats have been reserved for STs while there is no ST population there or many other village panchayats have been reserved for ST, SC or BC despite the fact the population under these categories there is less than 2 and as per rules a village panchayat cannot be reserved for a caste if population of that caste in a village is less than two,” he said.This, the official said, happened because of decrease in number of ST, SC or OBC population in many villages either due to death of residents or their migration to other places since the 2011 census or because of the changes forced by merger of rural areas into cities and towns.“But majority of complaints/objections must be frivolous ones filed by vested interests who wanted a particular panchayat to be reserved for a particular caste or put that under an unreserved category but the categorisation did not happen according to their desire,” the official said.“Such people, as it always happens, are now desperate to get the categorisation of their village panchayat modified and hence filed false complaints,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/reservation-of-village-panchayats-complaints-galore-over-census-data-caste-population-gap-101615312163903.html
09-03-2021||Noida||RWA of Noida Sector 51 comes to aid of senior citizens for vaccination||Noida: The residents welfare association (RWA) of Sector 51 has come to the aid of senior citizens in the area by assisting with registration for Covid-19 vaccination and also by sponsoring the first dose. The RWA has so far identified 48 senior citizens who have shown interest in getting vaccinated, said office bearers of the resident body.“Many people are reluctant to get vaccinated. We are trying to convince them and hope that more people will come forward. So far, we have a list of 48 senior citizens. The RWA will sponsor the first dose of the vaccine for those who want to get vaccinated at private centres,” said Sanjeev Kumar, president of Sector 51 RWA.He said that a registration camp was set up a few days ago to help those seniors who are not tech-savvy. “A number of senior citizens are living alone, while some others are bed ridden due to illnesses. The idea is to help as many people as we can. On weekends, we also help them with travelling to a vaccination centre. We have also spoken to a private clinic to save some slots for walk-ins from our sector,” said Kumar.Residents said that the initiative is helpful to them. “Me and my wife got vaccinated yesterday at the clinic. The doctors, one of them lives in our sector only, were very friendly. Hopefully, more people will come forward for the vaccination,” said 70-year-old Pawan Kumar Sharma, a resident of Sector 51.The RWA is also working on making a list of people with co-morbidities to help them out as well with the vaccination process, its president said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/rwa-of-noida-sector-51-comes-to-aid-of-senior-citizens-for-vaccination-101615312163286.html
09-03-2021||Noida||Senior citizens find tough to visit first-floor vaccination room at Ghaziabad’s district hospital||The rush of people at the Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital have forced senior citizens arriving to get their Covid-19 vaccine to take the stairs to the first-floor vaccination centre.The hospital, scheduled to vaccinate around 300 people a day six days a week, does not have an elevator. “It is difficult for old people to climb the stairs. Many have to rely on family to hold them. Even outside the vaccination room, there are long queues and social distancing is hardly maintained. But that is how government hospitals are. So, people try to get free vaccine here and go home without complaining,” said a senior woman who on Tuesday who did not wish to be named. “It would be better if the vaccination rooms are shifted to the ground floor,” said Ravinder Sharma, a 64-year-old beneficiary. What has made the situation difficult are the many health care workers and front line workers who missed their first shot and are now making use of the walk-in provision to get their shot. This has stressed the hospital.Chief medical officer Dr N K Gupta said he was aware of the situation.“We have requested the vaccination teams to vaccinate senior citizens in their vehicles if they cannot climb stairs. We will request the hospital to consider shifting the vaccination rooms to the ground floor,” he said. “We have the vaccination room on the first floor because our OPD is on the ground floor where we serve about 800-900 patients daily. That would not help maintain social distancing,” said Dr Sanjay Teotia, chief medical superintendent of the hospital. He said the hospital had an elevator at the back but is out of order. “Even if we make it operational, we do not have an elevator operator at our hospital without who we cannot allow patients to use it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/senior-citizens-find-tough-to-visit-first-floor-vaccination-room-at-ghaziabad-s-district-hospital-101615312103199.html
09-03-2021||Noida||16K vaccine beneficiaries’ data missing from Co-Win portal in Ghaziabad, Noida||Data of over 8,000 people each in Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad who were vaccinated against Covid-19 does not reflect in the Co-WIN portal, said district officials.The data includes names of people, their vaccination dates and vaccination centre, among others. The Co-WIN portal is a central government-designed system to record and track vaccinations. If the data is missing, then people who registered on the app and got their first dose will not be able to track or get information on their second dose, which is essential to complete the vaccination. The vaccination drive for senior citizens or those with co-morbidities, under phase-3 of the drive, began on March 1.Ghaziabad chief medical officer (CMO) Dr N K Gupta said that the issue was discovered on Tuesday when they received a status report of their vaccinations drive for senior citizens till March 8. While the district record said it had vaccinated 14,832 people till then, the portal had recorded only 6,676. Gautam Budh Nagar CMO Dr Deepak Ohri said they had vaccinated of over 14,000 in phase-3. But the system showed just 5,747.“According to the portal figures sent to us from the state officials, we have covered only 7.14% of the 93,840 target for the month,” said Gupta. “But our records showed that it was closer to 16%.” The Ghaziabad department suspect that hospitals may not be entering data onto the platform. The government officials met over the issue following which the CMO issued directions that supply of vaccine would be held back for hospitals if they do not update details over the portal. “We have deployed officers to check details. It is possible that some hospitals may not be entering or updating records and it is a cause for concern. It could be a technical issue from the portal’s side also, so I have alerted state government to this,” said the Ghaziabad CMO. “I am completely foxed with the data. Prima facie, the reason behind the difference appears to be an error by hospitals in uploading the details. I am going to verify the daily records and their entries at all the sites in the district. If some sort of discrepancy is found at any site, we’ll cancel the vaccination there as the district magistrate has already permitted for that,” said Dr Ohri.How data is enteredAccording to officials, hospitals are required to update details of beneficiaries on the day of the vaccination. Only after this is the provisional vaccination certificate (after the first dose) and complete vaccination certificate (after second dose) are generated. The hospitals and other vaccination centres are provided with a login ID and password to update records. According to officials, the provisional certificates is sometimes given in handwritten notes to people that will include the next vaccination dates. In this course, the hospital delays entering it to accommodate more beneficiaries and eventually forgets about it, said an official.“To sort out the issues, we have asked our officers to check session details of all the hospitals about number of entries done online and the pending entries. If we find any private hospitals whose details are pending, we will be forced to hold back vaccine supply till they update details,” said Dr Vishram Singh, district immunisation officer. Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad, said that the issue was serious. “Action should be initiated if any hospital is found not following procedure. The rate of vaccination is already low in the district. It would be worthwhile if the state government allows vaccination at clinics. We already take up vaccination of Influenza at clinics and the Covid vaccination should also be allowed. If this happens, the coverage will increase considerably,” he added. As per the UP government, Ghaziabad has about 373,920 beneficiaries under phase-3.In order to enhance the vaccination coverage, the Uttar Pradesh health department officials during a video conferencing with district health department officials directed them to create session slots for the entire month of March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/16k-vaccine-beneficiaries-data-missing-from-co-win-portal-in-ghaziabad-noida-101615311923249.html
09-03-2021||Noida||Noida: Health department gets vaccination figures as per expectation||Much on expected lines, over 4,400 people were vaccinated in Gautam Budh Nagar district on Tuesday under the phase-3 category wherein people over 60 and 45 year olds with comorbidities are vaccinated. District magistrate Suhas LY said that they were on course to achieve the target of 65,048 beneficiaries by March 31. “I am sure that much before the last date, we’ll cover everyone enlisted in senior citizens and 45-plus people with co-morbidities,” he said. Chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that 4,962 people were vaccinated on Tuesday. “Out of the total, 3,948 were over 60 years of age, while 526 beneficiaries were over 45 with co-morbidities. The remaining beneficiaries were health care workers and front line workers who got their first or second doses. As many as 501 vials of vaccines were used today, of which a little over 3% were wasted,” he said. Meanwhile, the GB Nagar district on Tuesday recorded 16 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the district’s total positive tally to 25,627. According to state Covid-19 bulletin, the active cases in the district were increased to 88 as the number of discharged patients were recorded only six on Tuesday. The district has a death toll of 91 with a case fatality rate (CFR) of 0.35 per cent. The recovery rate of patients remained 99.3 per cent, the statistics showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-health-department-gets-vaccination-figures-as-per-expectation-101615311744416.html
09-03-2021||Noida||Six injured as mini bus overturns on Noida expressway||Noida: As many as six people sustained injuries when a mini bus they were travelling in overturned on the Noida-Greater Noida expressway on Tuesday morning. The accident, which took place around 10am near the Chhaproli cut, caused a traffic disruption for nearly half an hour, police said.According to police officials, the mini bus, Traveller, had started from Pari Chowk with over 10 passengers and was going to Noida. “The vehicle was speeding. Near the Chhaproli cut, the driver tried to overtake another vehicle but he lost control of it and the mini bus overturned. Six people, two women and four men, sustained injuries. No other vehicle got involved in the accident,” said Yatendra Kumar, station house officer, expressway police station.The passengers of the vehicle called the police helpline to inform about the accident after which a team rushed to the spot. The injured were taken to a private hospital in sector 137, Kumar said, adding that none of the passengers had serious injuries.So far, no complaint has been filed in the case, police said.According to police, the accident caused traffic disruption on the Noida-Greater Noida expressway for about half an hour during the peak hours. However, the normal traffic resumed after the vehicle was removed from the spot, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/six-injured-as-mini-bus-overturns-on-noida-expressway-101615311383208.html
09-03-2021||Other||Muzaffarnagar riots - Court accepts closure report in case against Sangeet Som||: The special MP/MLA court in Muzaffarnagar has accepted the closure report submitted by special investigation team (SIT) in a case against BJP MLA Sangeet Som and others for allegedly uploading a video on social media that is said to have triggered communal riots in Muzaffarnagar in 2013.The riots had claimed the lives of more than 60 persons and rendered over 50,000 others homeless. The closure report was pending with the court since April 4, 2017 and it accepted the report on Saturday. Additional district government councilor (ADGC) Lalit Bhardwaj said SIT’s inspector Subodh Kumar Singh was the complainant in the case and he submitted a closure report on April 4, 2017 after finding no evidence against the MLA and others. Subodh was killed by a frenzied mob in December 2018 after an incident of cow slaughter in Stana area of district Bulandshahar. He was then posted as inspector in Syana kotwali. Bhardwaj said after Sabodh’s death no one objected to the closure report and the court accepted it after recording the statement of the policeman who submitted the death report of Sabodh in the court. A case under sections 420,153A, 120B of IPC and 66 of IT Act was registered against Som and 200 others who liked the video, allegedly uploaded by Som after the killing of two brothers in Kawal village of Muzaffarnagar. It is said that the video, a fake one allegedly of killing of two persons in Afghanistan, was shared in social media as the video of the Kawal incident, which triggered fierce communal riots in Muzaffarnagar and Shamli district in September 2013.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/muzaffarnagar-riots-court-accepts-closure-report-in-case-against-sangeet-som-101615311263150.html
09-03-2021||Other||Perseverance pays: Young Kheri scientist makes his way to Columbia University||Lakhimpur Kheri: Young scientist Muneer Khan, 25, belonging to a remote Kheri village Gauriya, has carved his way to Columbia University, setting a scintillating example that where there is will, there is a way. Muneer’s quest for knowledge proved so strong that he took no time in leaving his cushy job as research associate with Google in Moscow to pursue master of science course and then a doctorate in electrical engineering in Columbia University. A few weeks back, he was also awarded with Emerging Scientist 2020 Award at the 11th international scientist conference in Kolkata. Muneer told HT: “The research and development wing of the Columbia University would fund my studies.” However, to reach this height, Muneer braved all odds of life. Born in July, 1996, in Gauriya village, , Muneer Khan was the youngest among five brothers and three sisters and lost his father when he was just one-year-old. Fortunately, his under-educated siblings wanted to see him well-educated. “After completing my primary education at the government-run primary school in my village and junior high school from a zila panchayat college, I was admitted to City Montessory School Inter College in Lakhimpur city, which changed my entire life.” “Given my meritorious record and interest in science, the college waived my fees and provided all facilities, which led me to develop a project to generate electricity from waste material,” Muneer said. He added that the project won him the young scientist award from none other than the former president of India late Dr APJ Abdul Kalam. On his merit, Muneer later succeeded in getting admission to Birla Institute of Applied Sciences in Nainital, where he completed many innovative projects. During his studies at Birla institute, Muneer Khan developed smart water and soil monitoring systems for Uttarakhand government and a non-fatal but effective photon-emitting electronic gun for riot control project. In his second year of BTech, Muneer had the opportunity to participate in various projects, including safety intelligent censor for colloborative robotics. Muneer’s talent and ceaseless efforts brought him an unexpected job opportunity from a Geneva-based CERN lab just after his BTech in 2019, at an annual package of Rs. 98 lakh. This was followed by his employment in Google in Moscow as a research associate at an even more attractive package. However, Muneer is no longer interested in serving abroad. “Whatever I have achieved is in India and it is my sacred duty to serve my nation with whatever talent I have,” he said. “After completing my master’s and PhD degrees from Columbia University during the next three years, I have resolved to set up my own start-up in India.” “Now, I intend to become job creator and not job seeker so that I can help those youths who have faced similar odds in their lives,” Muneer said. --Deokant Pandey||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/perseverance-pays-young-kheri-scientist-makes-his-way-to-columbia-university-101615311023192.html
09-03-2021||Other||Couple’s bodies found hanging in Kasganj village||Agra The bodies of a man and woman were found hanging from a tree in Bharsoli Mustafabad village in Kasganj district on Tuesday morning. Both belonged to the same village. The man was married while the woman had recently got engaged. The bodies were sent for post-mortem examination. “The bodies were found hanging in Bharsoli Mustafabad in Kasganj district on Tuesday morning. Their exact age is yet to be ascertained but both were major and belonged to the same village,” informed Manoj Sonkar, SP Kasganj, who reached the spot with district magistrate CP Singh. “The man was married but his wife left allegedly because of his relations with the woman found hanging. The woman was engaged recently but was said to be in love with the man,” said Sonkar. “Both were missing since Monday and their families were searching for them. The families have given in writing that the man and woman committed suicide . The exact reasons will be known after the post-mortem examination’ added Sonkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/couples-bodies-found-hanging-in-kasganj-village-101615310723181.html
09-03-2021||Other||Man who stabbed woman, daughter to death held after encounter||Agra: The Agra police on Tuesday arrested the man allegedly involved in stabbing a woman and her daughter to death in Bah area on Sunday night.The accused, Govind, was arrested after an encounter on Shikohabad Road in Bateshwar area of Agra early on Tuesday morning, said police. A motorcycle and a country-made pistol were recovered from him.Police said five teams were constituted to arrest the accused and a cash reward of ₹25,000 was announced on his arrest. “We got the tip off about his presence in the ravines of Bateshwar. When trapped, he tried to run and open fire on cops, forcing retaliatory fire. The accused got injured in the leg and was arrested. He was taken for treatment to a hospital,” said ADG/IG Agra Range A Satish Ganesh on Tuesday. To recall, the accused on Sunday night had entered the house in Jarar village and killed both Sharada Devi, 50, and her daughter Kamini, 19, while they were sleeping.Family members alleged that accused had also attacked Sharda Devi’s daughter-in-law Vimlesh when she tried to save them. She was injured in the incident and undergoing treatment at a hospital.A case was registered on the complaint lodged by the brother of the girl under sections 302, 307, 452 and 506 of Indian Penal Code.Manish Kumar, the brother of the girl, has alleged that Govid was following his sister and tried to talk to her despite his sister saying no to him. According to villagers, Govind was angry as the family had got the girl engaged to another man a week ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-who-stabbed-woman-daughter-to-death-held-after-encounter-101615310603130.html
09-03-2021||Other||Prayagraj bandh receives ‘massive support’||PRAYAGRAJ: The Prayagraj bandh (closure) call given by the Allahabad High Court Bar Association (HCBA) in protest against the Education Service Tribunal Bill received an overwhelming response as most of the markets of the city remained closed on Tuesday. The bandh was supported by various traders, students, teachers, employees’ organizations of the city. The call was given by the lawyers to mark their protest against the Education Service Tribunal Bill, which proposes to set up the principal seat of this tribunal at Lucknow instead of the Sangam city. A mammoth meeting was organized at the Civil Lines crossing of the city, where apart from lawyers, traders, students, employees, teachers and others addressed the gathering. The speakers vehemently criticized the government for transferring all important organizations from Prayagraj to Lucknow one by one, thereby reducing the importance of this historical city. They also lamented the effort to curtail the jurisdiction of Allahabad high court in the name of tribunals. Subsequently, in a meeting of HCBA, which was presided over by the president of HCBA, Amrendra Nath Singh and conducted by the secretary Prabha Shankar Mishra, it was resolved to continue boycott of judicial work on Wednesday on the same issue. According to HCBA joint secretary (press) Rajendra Kumar Singh, a general house meeting of the HCBA will be held at 10.30am on Wednesday to decide the future course of action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-bandh-receives-massive-support-101615310183066.html
09-03-2021||Bhopal||Covid-19: Madhya Pradesh sees 457 cases, 382 recoveries, 2 deaths||The number of Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh rose by 457 on Tuesday to touch 2,65,527, while the day also saw two deaths and 382 people getting discharged, an official said.The toll in the state now stands at 3,874 and the recovery count is 2,57,942, he said.No new Covid-19 case was reported in 10 of the 52 districts in the state on Tuesday."With 157 new cases, Indore's tally went up to 61,043 while that of Bhopal rose to 44,791 with the addition of 86 cases. Indore has reported 937 deaths and Bhopal 620. Indore is now left with 1298 active cases while it is 701 in Bhopal," he said.With 14,886 samples being examined on Tuesday, the overall number of tests in MP crossed 59.26 lakh.Coronavirus figures in MP are as follows: Total cases 2,65,527, new cases 457, death toll 3,874, recovered 2,57,942, active cases 3,711, number of tests so far 59,26,584.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/covid19-madhya-pradesh-sees-457-cases-382-recoveries-2-deaths-101615309671788.html
09-03-2021||Dehradun||Replacing Rawat: 3 frontrunners, parliamentarians in race for U'khand's top post||With Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat's resignation on Tuesday, the speculations on the new CM face have also started. State higher education minister and close aide of Rawat, Dhan Singh Rawat, is leading the race as the main frontrunner. He hails from GarhwalTwo other contenders include Rajya Sabha member Anil Baluni and Lok Sabha member from Nainital-US Nagar, Ajay Bhatt.Rawat is leading the race due to various factors including his Thakur caste factor to balance the caste equation in the state. BJP state president Bansidhar Bhagat, who belongs to the Kumaon region, is also believed to be one of the options."Dhan Singh is also a close aide of Trivendra Singh Rawat and has risen to the rank of minister in the current government from being a party worker. Also, his name was suggested by Trivendra during his meeting with the national leaders," said a senior party leader.He added, "Being a close aide of Trivendra Singh Rawat, Dhan Singh is also considered a crowd puller for the party events in the state. Also, he has not been in any controversy. The only factor that can go against him is the fact that he is junior among all ministers."Dhan Singh Rawat represents Srinagar Garhwal legislative seat. He was born in Pauri Garhwal and educated at the local village school and later went to Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University. From his college days, he was associated with the RSS and later rose in the state party ranks, becoming state secretary of Uttarakhand BJP. He couldn’t win in the assembly elections in 2012 but won from Srinagar Garhwal in 2017 and became a state minister (independent charge) with the portfolios of higher education, cooperatives, dairy development and protocols. Rawat had also held a 59-day yatra for the statehood of UttarakhandOn the two other names, the leader said, "Baluni and Bhatt are also in the race but to accommodate any of them, the party would have to recalculate the caste calculations in the party.""The party state president is already a Brahmin and if either of them is named as new CM, then both the top posts would be held by a Brahmin which would be problematic in the organisation. The CM has to be a Thakur. Else in a new equation, Dhan Singh could be made the new party state president and either of two aforementioned could be then named the new CM," he said.Among the two, Bhatt has been the party state president before becoming an MP in the 2019 general election. He has the experience of running the party.Baluni, on the other hand, is at the third spot due to his health factor as he has returned to Uttarakhand after undergoing treatment for months in Mumbai for an ailment.Apart from the three, other names include Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari, both former CMs of the state.Amid the buzz over the leadership change in Uttarakhand since the last few days, Nishank's aides had been making an environment in the state that he would be the next CM. But if party insiders are to be believed, it is unlikely that he would leave a significant Central portfolio for the CM position. The state is heading closer to the assembly polls which are due next year.The new CM face would be decided after the legislative party meeting at the BJP state headquarters on Wednesday morning at 10 am in Dehradun in the presence of party central observers including former Chhattisgarh CM Raman Singh and state unit in-charge Dushyant Kumar Gautam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/replacing-rawat-3-frontrunners-2-parliamentarians-in-race-for-post-of-u-khand-cm-101615309303962.html
09-03-2021||Other||Pune district reports 2,098 new Covid-19 cases||PUNE It has been one year since Pune reported its first case on March 9, 2020. On the same day in 2021, the district reported its highest Covid-19 count yet for this year. Pune district reported 2,098 new Covid-19 cases as per the state health department. Of the total number of cases reported for the day, Pune city alone reported 1,110 new cases. Also, 11 people lost their lives due to the infection. This takes the progressive count in the district to 0.424 million, of which 0.398 million have recovered.The death toll stands at 8,152 and 18,137 are the active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals, or in home isolation. Pune city’s progressive count is at 2.16 lakh. Also, three deaths were reported which took the death toll to 4,594. Pune rural reported 384 new cases, which takes the progressive count to 0.101 million cases. The rural death toll stands at 2,166 with one death reported on Tuesday. PCMC reported 604 new cases which took the count to 1.06 lakh cases and with seven deaths on Tuesday, the death toll stands at 1,343. The recovery rate in the state is 93.34%. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.35%. Currently, 4,57,962 people are in home quarantine and 3,827 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-reports-2-098-new-covid-19-cases-101615309103080.html
09-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 9,927 fresh Covid-19 cases; active cases remain above 10k in 3 districts||Maharashtra recorded a spike in daily Covid-19 cases as the state reported 9,927 fresh cases in the last 24 hours taking the tally of infected people to 2,238,398. The state recorded 56 deaths in the last 24 hours taking the toll to 52,556.Maharashtra currently has 95,322 active cases and the case fatality rate in the state is at 2.35%. The state has seen a drop in the number of active cases from Monday when it had 97,637 active cases.Among the districts which are reporting a rise in the number of active cases, Pune remains at the top with 18,137 active cases but it has recorded a dip from the number of active cases reported earlier on Monday, according to the state’s Covid-19 bulletin. Nagpur which had reported more than 12,000 active cases earlier on Monday also saw its active caseload drop to 11,811.Aurangabad, Akola and Jalgaon continued to report more than 4,000 active cases for the second day in a row of the week. Jalgaon added 250 new active cases to its caseload compared to yesterday.Amaravati reported 5,319 active cases on Tuesday, registering a marginal drop from the 5,373 cases reported yesterday. Thane’s active cases remained over 10,000 for the second day in a row as the district recorded a marginal drop in the number of active cases.The spike in the number of cases can be attributed to the rise in the number of tests. Maharashtra on Monday had recorded 8,744 fresh cases and tested 70,941 people. The state saw a spike of 1,138 cases on Tuesday after conducting 84,088 tests - a rise of 13,147 tests. Maharashtra had reported a substantial drop in the number of cases (2,397 cases) on Monday compared to 11,141 new infections on Sunday.Mumbai continued to record more than 1,000 fresh cases for a week as the financial hub reported 1,012 new cases on Tuesday. The city reported 1,014 new cases on Monday. Two patients died due to Covid-19 in the city taking the tally to 11,510. The city also did not record any major drop in the number of active cases as the tally remained above 9,500 for the second day in a row.Maharashtra’s recoveries rose slightly as the state reported 12,182 recoveries compared to 9,068 recoveries recorded on Monday. The recovery rate remains at 93.34%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-9-927-fresh-covid-19-cases-active-cases-over-10k-in-3-dist-101615306605100.html
09-03-2021||Mumbai||Uncovering truth behind Hiran Mansukh's death crucial for MVA: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Saturday said it was important for the "image" and "prestige" of the Maharashtra government to uncover the truth behind the mysterious death of Hiren Mansukh, who was said to be the owner of the vehicle with explosives found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence.Mansukh, around 45 years old, was found dead on the banks of a creek along the Mumbra-Reti Bunder road in neighboring Thane on Friday morning, police had said.Talking to reporters, Raut said the mysterious death of Mansukh, whose Scorpio vehicle was used to keep explosives near Ambani's residence, was "shocking and unfortunate"."It is wrong to politicise his death and put the government in the dock. There are doubts whether Mansukh's death was a suicide or murder. He was an important witness in the case," he said."The home department should unearth the truth at the earliest. It is important for the prestige and image of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government," he said.On Friday, state home minister Anil Deshmukh had announced that the probe into the case has been handed over from Mumbai Crime Branch to the state Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS).Talking about it, Raut said that the opposition BJP's demand is to hand over the case to the National Investigation Agency (NIA)."But it (giving the investigation to NIA) does not mean the case would be solved immediately. The home minister has handed over the case to the ATS, which is capable of solving it. Let us have faith," he said.Meanwhile, BJP leader Ashish Shelar targeted the Shiv Sena-led government as he questioned the presence of an "encounter specialist" assistant police inspector at the time of Mansukh's post-mortem."The encounter specialist's presence at the post- mortem of Mansukh is suspicious as he is neither part of Thane police nor the ATS, which is probing the case. It gives an impression that there is something that this government wants to hide," he said.Shelar also criticised the home minister over his "U- turn" on the case probe."Home minister Deshmukh was praising Thane and Mumbai police and their achievements, but within half-an-hour, he announced that the probe into the case would be handed over to the ATS. So what happened in just half-an-hour that prompted him to give the investigation to the ATS?" he asked.Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) leader Sandeep Deshpande demanded that a sitting judge should be appointed to carry out the investigation.Meanwhile, a police official from Thane said that Mansukh had left his shop around 8.30 pm on Thursday in an autorickshaw and since then his phone was switched off."His family members had lodged a missing person's report on Friday morning after he did not return home and a case was registered at Naupada police station. By that time, a body was found at Mumbra and it was later confirmed that the deceased was Mansukh," he added.His mobile phone is yet to be recovered, he said.His post-mortem was conducted at a civic-run hospital in Thane's Kalwa on Saturday, he said."The exact cause of his death will be known once the medical report comes," the official said, adding that security at Mansukh's residence in Naupada has been stepped up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uncovering-truth-behind-hiren-mansukh-s-death-crucial-for-mva-sanjay-raut-101615021245415.html
09-03-2021||Jaipur||Tug-of-war between Rajasthan govt, Centre over Covid-19 vaccine supply||The Rajasthan government and the Centre are fighting over the Covid-19 vaccine with the state claiming a shortage in vaccine stock.Rajasthan, which is among the top states in India’s success story of Covid-19 vaccination is now facing a shortage of vaccines. The state, which is vaccinating 2.5 lakh people per day, is currently is left with only two days of stock.State health minister Raghu Sharma on Tuesday said for the phase-II vaccination, the government of India estimated 67 lakh people and supplied around 30 lakh vaccines. “We have vaccines for two more days, if we don’t get more, the drive would stop mid-way. Today, 85,000 doses have been sent to Udaipur and 6.78 lakh doses expected tomorrow,” he said."Of the 30 lakh vaccines, 2.15 lakh was sent to the Army, around 22 lakh have been used for vaccination while one lakh doses got wasted. The state is now left with around 5 lakh doses which would roughly last two more days," he said.Also read: ‘Dream came true...’ - Girl after being appointed sub-inspector by Gehlot govtSharma said earlier, some frontline and health workers are also many of which are also supposed to receive their second vaccine jab. “The GoI should provide us with buffer stock. We have a cold chain and required infrastructure but the vaccines are to be provided by them. The state is performing well in the vaccination drive but to maintain it more vaccines are required,” he said.“I have spoken to Union minister Harsh Vardhan and apprised him of the situation. He has assured to look into it. Rajasthan is conducting 25 per cent of the country’s vaccination,” said the health minister.The state has requested the Centre to supply 6 million additional Covid-19 vaccines.Meanwhile, The Union health ministry on Tuesday clarified that there is no shortage of Covid-19 vaccines in Rajasthan, a day after some news reports claimed so. These reports cited a communication from Rajasthan's health minister Raghu Sharma to the Centre seeking more vaccine doses."There have been some news reports suggesting an impending shortage of Covid-19 vaccine doses in Rajasthan. The factual position is that there is no shortage of the Covid-19 vaccine with the state at present. Rajasthan has been supplied 37.61 lakh doses and has consumed only 24.28 lakh doses till yesterday night," the ministry said in an official release.It also said that the central government has been closely monitoring the Covid-19 vaccine supply to all states and Union territories (UTs).The central government has been providing vaccine doses to all the states and UTs as per their requirement and consumption pattern, the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/tugofwar-between-rajasthan-govt-centre-over-covid-19-vaccine-supply-101615305342854.html
09-03-2021||Jaipur||‘Dream came true...’: Girl after being appointed sub-inspector by Gehlot govt||For 25-year-old Vasundhara Chauhan, it was a 'dream come true' moment when she came to know that she has been appointed sub-inspector (SI) in the Rajasthan Police.“I had no idea what to do in future. I just did what a citizen is expected to do. I gathered courage from the training which I got through the National Cadet Corps. I was surprised when I came to know that the government has decided to appoint me SI in the state police,” said Chauhan.She added, “My feelings are impossible to describe in words. I am thankful to chief minister Ashok Gehlot, home secretary Abhay Kumar, IGP Bharatpur range Prasan Kumar Khamesra and Dholpur SP Kesar Singh. I always dreamt of joining the defence or police services. I was preparing for it. I even studied criminology to understand the nuances of the subject. I am really excited to join the force.”Also read: People have faith in Gandhis, Cong united under Sonia - Rajasthan CM GehlotChauhan's brother Deven Singh said that the entire family is proud of her. “My dad Pop Singh Chauhan, who is a farmer, and my mother are so proud of her. With her bravery, she has become a role model for everybody in our family and I am sure for many others. There is no doubt that she will become a good police officer and will make the entire force proud,” he said.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot decided to directly offer an appointment to the young lady as a step towards promoting women empowerment and as a mark of honour to the girl for showing courage, virility and presence of mind which defeated the perpetrators of crime. The goons were planning to flee with their accomplice, a hardcore criminal who was already convicted for life.On March 3, five-armed men intercepted a roadways bus midway from Dholpur to Bharatpur and attacked the police challani guards. The bus was carrying the convicted criminal named Dharmendra aka Lukka, an official release from the CM’s office stated.Dholpur SP Keshar Singh Shekhawat said, “In my entire career, I haven’t seen such an example of public-police participation. While all shut their eyes in fear, it was only Vasundhara who came forward and managed to thwart their attempts.”“It has never happened before in the state's history where such an appointment has been offered by the government. She told me it’s her dream come true and has filed an SI recruitment form. Her family is happy and cheerful. The CM also spoke to her,” said Shekhawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/dream-came-true-girl-after-being-appointed-sub-inspector-by-gehlot-govt-101615304208855.html
09-03-2021||Mumbai||As Covid-19 cases rise in Maharashtra, ‘Janta Curfew’ announced in Jalgaon||With cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on the rise in Maharashtra, the District Collector of Jalgaon on Tuesday announced a ‘Janta curfew’ here from 8pm on March 11 to 8am on March 15, news agency ANI reported.“’Janta Curfew to be imposed from 11th March, 8pm till 15th March, 8am in the Municipal Corporation limits in Jalgaon. Emergency services, MPSC (Maharashtra Public Service Commission) and other departments’ exams exempted,” Abhijit Raut, the Jalgaon district collector, said, according to ANI.“Enforcement of this order will be the responsibility of Municipal Corporation and local police. Violators will be liable for action under the Epidemic Act and other relevant sections of IPC (Indian Penal Code),” the official further said.In the last two days, Jalgaon has recorded total 910 cases of Covid-19. While 486 infections were reported on March 7, there were 424 cases on March 8.Over the last few days, Maharashtra has been witnessing a surge in its daily cases of the viral disease. 9,927 new infections and 56 related deaths were recorded on Tuesday, taking the infection tally to 2,238,398-the highest in the country-and death toll to 52,556. On March 8, there were 8,744 cases and 22 deaths. Day before that, 11,141 cases and 38 fatalities were detected. The state's capital city of Mumbai, too, is in the middle of a fresh wave of the coronavirus. 1,012 new infections and two deaths were detected in the metropolis on Tuesday, taking the respective tallies to 335,395 and 11,508.Overall, as of Tuesday, Maharashtra had 2,089,294 recoveries from the disease and conducted 17,022,315 tests, as per the state health department.The Maharashtra government has ruled out a fresh lockdown for now, though it has warned of one if people don’t wear masks and follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. However, restrictions have been announced locally for various districts in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/as-covid-19-cases-rise-in-maharashtra-janta-curfew-announced-in-jalgaon-101615303163529.html
09-03-2021||Other||Online, MCQ, 50 marks: SPPU postpones first- semester exams to April 11||PUNE The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has postponed its first semester examinations to April 11. A detail schedule will be declared on March 25On Tuesday, a meeting was called by the SPPU’s board of examinations at which the decision was taken to postpone the exams from March 15 to the new date. “For students from first to last year, all course exams will be conducted for 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) in online mode. The university’s own SPPU Edutech Foundation will conduct this exam,” said SPPU vic-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar. Today’s meeting went on for more than two hours and various important issues were discussed. A letter from the SPPU Edutech Foundation expressing their willingness to conduct the exam was shown at the meeting. “From April 11, the exams will start and it will take at least 50 days to complete. In between there are several public holidays so the duration may be extended. There are 5,500 subjects and 6.25 lakh students are expected to appear for. So far, 5.84 lakh students have filled up the online examination forms for the exams,” said Prof Karmalkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/online-mcq-50-marks-sppu-postpones-first-semester-exams-to-april-11-101615303522542.html
09-03-2021||Other||EMRC Pune launches YouTube channel with weekly documentary playlist||PUNE In a bid to educate, entertain and create awareness amongst students on various issues “Heritage of Television Education”, a YouTube channel, was launched on Tuesday by the Educational Multimedia Research Centre (EMRC) Pune.Prof Jagat Bhushan Nadda, director, Consortium of Educational Communication, UGC, New Delhi and Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar were both present online for the launch. The first promo-teaser of a documentary was released by Prof Karmalkar. Every week a new documentary will be released on Friday and a one-minute teaser will be released on Tuesday. “There are more than 900 documentaries with us on various and different topics. This e-content has been produced since 1985 by our students, faculties and people working here. We are now converting these documentaries in digital format and every week one documentary will be released. These documentaries have received national and state awards at different educational film festivals,” said Sameer Sahastrabuddhe, director, EMRC Pune. The first documentary teaser released was “Women in Development: Malshira”. Prof Karmalkar said, “Institutions like EMRC are the university’s USP and for the last 30 years they have been working hard and efficiently to create good quality content for students as well as for the public. This preserved precious and rare visual content of documentaries will now be available online for public.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/emrc-pune-launches-youtube-channel-with-weekly-documentary-playlist-101615303042543.html
09-03-2021||Pune||Qualifier Soha Sadiq knocks out top seed Riya Bhatia in ITF contest||Pune: Qualifier Soha Sadiq knocked out top seeded Riya Bhatia in the opening match of the main draw at $25k KPIT –MSLTA ITF WTT Cup tennis championships at the Deccan Gymkhana tennis courts on Tuesday. The Bengaluru-based player fought back from the loss of the first set to oust India Fed Cupper and top seeded Riya 4-6,6-2 6-1 in a 2 hour 8 minute match. Seventh seeded Zeel Desai, wildcard Vaidehi Chaudari, Mihika Yadav, Ramya Natarajan, Sowjanya Bavisetti alongside qualifiers Sravya Shivani Chilakalapudi, Nidhi Chilumula were the other players to make it to the round of 16. In the first set, the scores were level at 4-4 when Riya managed to break her opponent’s serve in the ninth game and thereafter held her serve to win the set 6-4. In the second game, Soha played brilliantly pinning Riya to the baseline and the latter could not handle the pressure and lost the set 6-2. At one set apiece Riya lost the plot and could not come back into the match. Soha hit strokes on both flanks to clinch the third set and the match winning 6-1. After the win, Soha said, “In the first set I was a little tense as Riya gave a good fight. I got into my rhythm in the second set and used my backhand advantage. The win has boosted my confidence. In the third set, I was ok from the beginning. My backhand was good and was able to finish the match nicely.” Soha is training at Centre for Sports Excellence Bangalore under Horhe Fernandes since last one and a half year. In another well-contested match, seventh seeded Zeel Desai faced a tough fight against Farhat Aleen Qamar before winning 6-0, 2-6, 6-2 . Results Singles: First(main draw)Round: Womens: q-Soha Sadiq (Ind) bt Riya Bhatia (Ind) [1]4-6, 6-2, 6-1; q-Sravya Shivani Chilakalapudi (Ind) bt wc-Snehal Mane (Ind)6-2, 6-0; Ramya Natarajan (Ind) bt Bhuvana Kalva (Ind)6-2, 7-5; 7-Zeel Desai (Ind) bt q-Farhat Aleen Qamar (Ind) 6-0, 2-6, 6-2; Mihika Yadav (Ind) bt Akanksha Dileep Nitture (Ind)6-3, 6-1; Sowjanya Bavisetti (Ind) bt Likhitha Kalava (Ind) 6-3, 6-1; wc-Vaidehi Chaudhari (Ind) bt Ashmitha Easwaramurthi (Ind) 6-4, 6-0; q-Nidhi Chilumula (Ind) bt q-Shreya Tatavarthy (Ind) 6-3, 6-0; Doubles: First round Nidhi Chilumula (Ind) /Saumya Vig (Ind) bt Ramya Natarajan (Ind)/ Soha Sadiq (Ind) 7-6 (7), 6-1; Humera Baharmus (Ind) /Shrivalli Rashmikaa Bhamidipaty (Ind) bt Sravya Shivani Chilakalapudi (Ind) / Sathwika Sama (Ind)6-2, 2-6, 10-7; 1-Rutuja Bhosale (Ind) / Emily Webley-Smith (Gbr) bt Rutuja Chaphalkar (Usa) / Hrudaya Shah (Ind) 6-2, 6-0.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/qualifier-soha-sadiq-knocks-out-top-seed-riya-bhatia-101615302682655.html
09-03-2021||Other||C-MET’s international online conference on electronic materials marks foundation day||Electronic materials and components are at the core of all electronic devices. Materials are the back-bone of capacity and functionality of any electronic gadget. The performance of electronic products is directly dependent on the components used. Substantial financial support in research and development on emerging materials has continuously been provided, although commercialization of the R and D outcome is a challenge. We have now submitted a proposal of Rs150 crore for quantum computing material and are waiting its approval,” said Prof Bharat B Kale, director general, Centre for Materials for Electronics Technology (C-MET) Pune. He was interacting with media on Tuesday on the occasion of 30th foundation day of C-MET, on March 8. CC-MET is operating with well a carved-out research mandate in Pune, Hydrebad and Thrissur. “On this occasion, a three-day online international conference on Multifunctional Electronic Materials and Processing (MEMP 2021) has been organised. It was inaugurated by Prof Rodney Ruoff on Monday and 29 eminent personalities from industry and academia will be delivering the talks. There is also a panel discussion on materials research,” added Kale. MEMP-2021 will provide an opportunity to scientists, researchers, academicians and young students to interact with eminent scientists and technologists working in the field of multifunctional electronic materials for various applications and their processing for making devices. “Materials required for energy storage, energy generation, nanostructured materials, quantum dots, sensors, neutrino energy conversion and storage, flexible devices, photonic devices and processing techniques like additive manufacturing (3D printing) will be discussed,” said Kale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cmets-international-online-conference-on-electronic-materials-marks-foundation-day-101615302442610.html
09-03-2021||Other||No tenders issued for running of Jumbo Covid hospitals by PMC||PUNE The municipal corporations of Pune has not yet invited bids for contractors to restart two Jumbo Covid hospitals.The Jumbo centres are being prepped to reopen amid a rise in the number of Covid-19 positives and critical patients.On Tuesday, the number of critical patients in Pune - either requiring oxygen or ventilators - touched 1,044. On February 17, this number was 435. Earlier last week, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao had announced that the Jumbo Covid facilities in PMC will be made ready to admit patients if needed. After Rao’s announcement, the two civic bodies were to float new tenders for the operations. The process had not started till Tuesday. Abhijit More, health activist and state co-convenor for NGO Jan Arogya Abhiyan, said, “It is essential that the Jumbo hospitals are kept ready. Under the Mahatma Phule Jan Arogya Abhiyan scheme, we had contracts with private hospitals to admit Covid patients. These contracts expired in December. As cases were going down, they were not renewed. Under the current circumstances, it is pertinent that Jumbo hospitals are ready so critical patients won’t have to suffer.” Last year, the government decided to set up two Jumbo hospitals - one at the College of Engineering in Pune (COEP) and another at the Annasaheb Magar stadium in Pimpri-Chinchwad – both by August 20. However, delays in setting them up and subsequent issues about management of the COEP hospital, only deteriorated patients’ confidence in the facility.“We haven’t received the order from the divisional commissioner’s office to issue tenders for new operators for the jumbo facility. The audit report from IIT Delhi has been received by the divisional commissioner. Once it gets the clearance from the steering committee we can start the procedure,” said Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner. Rao had earlier said till the time patients are admitted into these facilities, they could be used for vaccinations. The steering committee meeting for the Covid review is scheduled on March 10. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao did not respond to phone calls or text messages. Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh said though the number of positive cases is increasing, the proportion of patients in home isolation is more. He also pointed out that 13,000 tests are being done per day in the district Dr Avinash Bhondave, president, Indian Medical Association, Maharashtra, said, “The rate at which Covid cases have been rising, there could soon be a shortage of beds in Pune. Currently, beds are available in private hospitals and in Sassoon. In April we may face the situation where enough beds are not available. Jumbo Hospitals should be ready with all basic amenities, infrastructure and trained staff.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-tenders-issued-for-running-of-jumbo-covid-hospitals-by-pmc-pcmc-101615302082556.html
09-03-2021||Other||Number of critical Covid case in Pune more than doubles since Feb 17||PUNE After months of a declining trend in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city, cases have been on the rife since mid-February. This has also led to a rise in the number of patients needing critical care and/or oxygen supply. This number has gone up from 435 on February 17, to 1,044 as of Tuesday, March 9. Despite the administration’s claims that new cases are mildly symptomatic or asymptomatic, the numbers suggest otherwise. As per the PMC’s daily health report, as of February 17, when the city reported 428 new cases, it had 145 critical patients, with 290 on oxygen supply, these two numbers adding up to 435. The city had 1,881 active patients and reported four deaths on that day.However, on Tuesday, the city reported 1,086 new cases, with 321 critical patients and 723 on oxygen supply, the last two numbers adding up to 1,044. The city’s active count has now jumped up to 7,020 and six deaths were reported by the PMC on Tuesday, March 9. District collector Rajesh Deshmukh said on Monday that 80%-90% of the new cases are asymptomatic or with mild symptoms. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman, Maharashtra Communicable Diseases Prevention and Control Technical Committee said, “The rise in cases is a definite sign that the rise in the spread of the infection is widespread. Although most of cases reported are those with mild symptoms.” Earlier, the district administration in a presentation had said that the newer cases are mostly family members of those in home isolation and are being taken care of by their families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/number-of-critical-covid-case-in-pune-more-than-doubles-since-feb-17-101615301422412.html
09-03-2021||Gurugram||Ahead of no-confidence motion in Haryana assembly, BJP, JJP and Cong issue whips||Chief whips of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Jananayak Janata Party (JJP) and the Haryana Congress have asked their respective legislators to be present in the House on Wednesday when the opposition plans to move a no-confidence motion against the state government. Assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta had fixed the date for the no-confidence motion last Friday. The no-confidence motion will be brought before the assembly during the ongoing budget session.“The members of CLP, Haryana are informed that no-confidence motion against the government shall be listed on March 10 in the business of the House,” Congress chief whip BB Batra told MLAs, according to a report by news agency PTI. “I issue a whip, that you must ensure your presence in the House on March 10 at 10 am positively and support the vote of no confidence. Members are advised not to leave the House without prior permission of the CLP leader,” Batra added.The BJP’s chief whip Kanwar Pal also issued a similar order. “All the members of the Bharatiya Janata Legislature Party are requested to remain present in the House throughout the 10th day of March during the current budget session of Haryana Vidhan Sabha. They should not leave the chamber without prior permission of the leader,” Pal said. The JJP chief whip chief whip Amarjeet Dhanda also asked MPs to be ‘present positively in the House throughout the day’ and support the government.Former chief minister Bhupinder S Hooda claimed that the government has admitted its own failures. Hooda said, “Does the Opposition need to say anything more? The government is admitting to its failures over law and order. Personal agenda, and not public interest, dictate the functioning of this coalition.”Hooda was referring to the extension of the tenure of director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. His move was condemned by several lawmakers of the BJP and JJP who feel that Yadava lacks control over his officers, which they say has led to the deterioration of the law and order situation. Haryana minister Anil Vij in February had written to the additional chief secretary (home) to send a panel of officers to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) for selecting the next DGP despite Yadava having four years of service left.Former CM BS Hooda also said that the no-confidence motion will clearly show which MLAs support the farmers. “The coalition government has emerged as the biggest anti-farmer government in the country due to the dictatorial attitude towards the farmers' movement,” Hooda told PTI last week.Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of the farmers' unions agitating against farm laws, also on Saturday appealed to people to pressurise the MLAs of the JJP and the BJP to vote in favour of the no-confidence motion against the Haryana government on Wednesday. Darshan Pal, leader of the SKM, told people that the Khattar government needs to realise that the people are with the agitators.The Haryana assembly has 90-members but its effective strength is 88. The ruling BJP-JJP combine enjoys a majority in the legislative assembly—the BJP has 40 members, the JJP has 10 and seven Independent legislators who have extended their support to the government. One member from the Haryana Lokhit Party has also extended support to the government. Congress has 30 legislators in the Haryana legislative assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ahead-of-no-confidence-motion-in-haryana-assembly-bjp-jjp-and-cong-issue-whips-101615299586879.html
09-03-2021||Mumbai||One year of Covid: Lessons in lockdown||The past year brought us face to face with adversity, loss and loneliness in a way we may have never experienced before. Five Mumbaiites — a restaurateur, a design entrepreneur, a writer, an architect and a businessperson in the fashion industry — speak to Anjana Vaswani about what the pandemic and the subsequent shutdown taught them in their personal and professional lives.'I can change the world in my microcosm'SRILA CHATTERJEE | DESIGN ENTREPRENEURDuring the total lockdown, for the first time in my life, I watched shows and really enjoyed some of the docu-series like Narcos, The Last Dance, The Crown. We [Srila and husband Mahesh Mathai] walked every day at high noon when there was nobody on the street. I had never spent so much time at home with Mahesh, my dogs and the staff who were with us. I loved it.It was a very busy time, too. The world had shut down, but you can’t shut down your responsibilities, with salaries to pay and commitments to keep. I had to reset our business plan [Srila owns Baro, an art and furniture store], so it wasn’t all downtime to sit and reflect. I was intensely busy, building a whole new business [a virtual marketplace for the store] while trying to deal with the fact that there’s a pandemic so you can’t work as you normally would. It was exhausting.The pandemic highlighted how horribly divided the world is. I feel a lot of anger about how things are being dealt with. It’s no one’s fault, the pandemic, but certainly how you deal with it is in your control. It’s been a disaster. I heard one panel of experts discuss how there is likely to be another [pandemic] in a few years – because that’s the world we’ve created. This is the new reality, so what can you do? You can empower science, get better systems in place for vaccinations, but more importantly, I wish the world would get better legislations in place for wealth to be distributed more equitably.I can do that within my microcosm: help put lives right and change mindsets, and perhaps try and get more people to ensure that within their microcosms, they build a world that’s better than the one outside.My life has also become smaller in a sense. To me, it’s maddening that intelligent people buy into ideas like India is doing fantastic because the stock market is booming or [are okay with the idea of] fascism. So I have started to live in a gated community of minds; people who think and feel the same way [as I].I find it rejuvenating to be in my small world: what I’m doing with the Baro Market, working within the same India but showing the parts of it that I really celebrate: the small brands; the crafts; people working in collaboration. It’s very inspiring.'People need people'ANNIE ZAIDI | WRITERAs a freelance writer, I’ve always dealt with uncertainty. While the disruption [caused by the pandemic] rattled the upper middle class and the privileged, uncertainty is something that artists and writers live with, as do the poor, whether it’s a consequence of meagre earnings or one illness in the family that drives you below the poverty line. What did hit me hard though was the realisation that this city isn’t built for people to stay home, that unless you’re affluent, home is just a place where you sleep.FFrom all over the world, videos emerged showing people singing in their balconies, but most apartments in Mumbai don’t have balconies. It doesn’t cost a builder much to add; it’s just a question of consideration for the person who will use that space. In this city, the wealthier you are, the more access you have to things that really should be free.The city has no parks and gardens to speak of, unlike Delhi where each neighbourhood has a park, so it’s at least possible to conceive of a situation where, perhaps by arranging time slots so they don’t get overcrowded, everyone would be allowed some access to air. Here, there are entire areas where there aren’t even any pavements. You begin to think if this is the new normal, then what kind of place do you want to live in.I enjoy the theatre, and I watched one play that was staged online. It was very well done under the circumstances, but nowhere close to a real theatre experience. The physical presence of everyone around you transforms experiences entirely.Being around people helps you process what you’re feeling and I’ve really begun to see the importance of that. I’ve participated in traditions earlier without really appreciating their purpose, but when the pandemic deprived people of the ability to grieve in traditional ways, to me it accentuated the need for rituals that allowed for a period of public grieving, as opposed to private grieving, which continues under all circumstances. I’ve become more aware of the importance of being around people and the significance of social mechanisms that allow people to participate in each other’s grief and in their moments of happiness, and to reach out to loved ones in their time of need.'Remote working is the most efficient way'RAHUL KADRI | ARCHITECT-URBAN PLANNERFor one, I realised that we can work from anywhere, as long as there is wi-fi. My wife [architect Shimul Jhaveri] and I were at The Club Mahabaleshwar for a week and it occurred to us that we don’t have to be in Mumbai to work. Once a month, we can go see a new place and work from there. People in our team are now working from Goa or Bhopal — they have moved back to their hometowns. It’s made a huge difference for our team members who used to commute from places like Kandivili and Thane. It’s also made a huge difference for our team members who used to commute from places like Kandivili and Thane. People with young children got to spend more time with them — of course, they got fed up too, but that’s a different story.I started to focus on my health. I started going to bed earlier, and that’s something I’ve been sticking to, except for when I’m at the restaurants. Because I was home and not travelling — which meant that I was not eating at restaurants or consuming so much airline food — I became disciplined about my meals, and that helped me lose weight and get into better shape. I’ve also started doing yoga every morning, which helps combat stress and strengthens the lungs.Workwise, it was an extremely challenging time but it only helped me realise that the restaurant business is what I do best. Many restaurants shuttered due to the pandemic and the loss in business — two of our properties, Ek Bar in Delhi and Fatty Bao in Kolkata, closed down too — and the buzzword in the food and beverage industry was “pivot”, with everyone talking about what [business] they were going to pivot to.Many changed business models, some even moved to entirely new streams. We decided to focus on our core business and stick to our philosophy that centred on great relationships with our customers, goodwill and credibility, and this helped us get back on our feet.Everything we have is pledged in the business. We had never cashed out as we believe in what we’re doing. I felt I am building a nice future for my family and it was a grim thought [that the industry may collapse]. A big realization for me was that one must prepare for what uncertainties the future may hold and put away something for the family. As a company, too, we have been exploring how to make ourselves less vulnerable for the future.‘Others pivoted; we stuck to our beliefs’AD SINGH | RESTAURATEURThe experience of being confined in our homes through the lockdown only reinforced my basic belief that family is important; the pandemic emphasised the importance of loved ones. The lockdown allowed me to spend a lot of time with my children, Zoey and Zen, who are nine and three. Working from home allowed me to get much closer to my daughter than I’ve ever been before.I started to focus on my health. I started going to bed earlier, and that’s something I’ve been sticking to, except for when I’m at the restaurants. Because I was home and not travelling — which meant that I was not eating at restaurants or consuming so much airline food — I became disciplined about my meals, and that helped me lose weight and get into better shape. I’ve also started doing yoga every morning, which helps combat stress and strengthens the lungs.Workwise, it was an extremely challenging time but it only helped me realise that the restaurant business is what I do best. Many restaurants shuttered due to the pandemic and the loss in business — two of our properties, Ek Bar in Delhi and Fatty Bao in Kolkata, closed down too — and the buzzword in the food and beverage industry was “pivot”, with everyone talking about what [business] they were going to pivot to.Many changed business models, some even moved to entirely new streams. We decided to focus on our core business and stick to our philosophy that centred on great relationships with our customers, goodwill and credibility, and this helped us get back on our feet.Everything we have is pledged in the business. We had never cashed out as we believe in what we’re doing. I felt I am building a nice future for my family and it was a grim thought [that the industry may collapse]. A big realization for me was that one must prepare for what uncertainties the future may hold and put away something for the family. As a company, too, we have been exploring how to make ourselves less vulnerable for the future.‘Work smarter, turn to sustainability now’ANITA DONGRE | FASHION INDUSTRY BUSINESSPERSONThe fashion industry can be crazy, fast-paced and overwhelming, and the pandemic highlighted a need to slow down. The months of complete lockdown were spent learning to be still, relaxing, meditating, reading and just being with oneself and the family. I revisited books I swear by, like the entire spiritual series by Parthasarathy, and I felt grateful for so many things like the positivity of the team and the fact that I had invested in a sustainable office building, where, incidentally, we can work without air-conditioning because of the open spaces and the design which incorporates natural cooling methods.It’s located in Navi Mumbai, near the hills, so it has a resort-like feel, which makes it such a lovely place to work in. There are about 700 to 800 of us working here, and years ago, we organised company buses from different parts of the city so even transport did not pose a problem. I was, however, painfully aware of the difficulties that many others faced. One moment when I felt very low was when the migrant labourers started walking back to their homes; that memory will stay with me forever.But it’s also important to remember the warmth of the people. So many came forward to help in whatever way they could. As a cancer survivor, who’s over 57, I had to be very cautious, but I offered what assistance I could from home.The pandemic made us all realise how much we take for granted, but it also underscored the need to respect the finite resources of the earth. The situation demanded that we live simpler lives.I’ve always eaten my meals at work, so mealtimes with the family made for a lovely change. At one point I decided to make my detergents and floor cleaners at home; I dabbled in cooking, which I rarely do, and really enjoyed sitting in the garden, listening to the chirping of birds, without a single thought in my mind. I want to believe that I’ll make time for these things now. I’ve been working non-stop for so many years that I feel I can work smarter now, rather than harder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/one-year-of-covid-lessons-in-lockdown-101615299930314.html
09-03-2021||Pune||Residents demand faster pace in completion of improvement works at Pashan-Sus flyover||Residents are unhappy with the diversion for commuters to travel from Pashan to Susgaon via NH48 service road due to safety concerns and traffic jams. The traffic was diverted at the junction due to the ongoing construction of the flyover connecting Pashan to Susgaon. The alternate route from Hyundai showroom, Sus road via Supreme HQ building to Nanawre subway is causing a strain for many living in Sus and Susgaon. Manoj Bhagwat, a resident of Sus is cautious while driving his car on the alternate road. “Considering the number of residents and the vehicles, the dimensions (width) of service road is not sufficient. There are society roads which are connecting perpendicular to the service road. This has reduced the visibility from either side which may lead to accidents in the future. In order to tackle this, authorities need to arrange a mirror since there isn’t a turning radius either.” He also added that since many residents opt to shop on the alternate road, there is no sufficient parking space along service road. Sameer Uttarkar, a resident of Pashan said, “The bridge/ flyover was the shortest route to reach Susgaon, now it is a nightmare for residents have to travel towards Baner to get onto the alternate route. The process of construction is very slow. In fact, they should have constructed the service roads connecting this bridge first so that traffic jams at this point were avoided. The service roads in this area are uneven and narrow at some parts for example the service road near Nanavare underpass is narrow compared to other service roads. Some underpasses near this area are only allowed for two-wheelers if four-wheelers are also allowed, it would reduce the pressure on the traffic.” According to the PMC special projects who are handling the construction of the flyover/ bridge for NHAI, the project is progressing and will be completed in a stipulated time. Indrabhan Randive, executive engineer in charge of the project said, “55 per cent of the construction is ready and another 45 per cent remains. We should be able to complete it by November 2021.” This bridge is being built at the cost of ₹40 crore and local corporator Baburao Chandere had proposed it a few years ago. This new flyover will connect the Mumbai-Bengaluru national highway to Sus and Pashan with a 350-metre road from the west side. “The flyover will now be 18 metres instead of the existing 8 metres-wide Pashan-Sus Bridge which was insufficient with the increase of residences and IT companies in Hinjewadi and Sus,” added the engineer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/residents-demand-faster-pace-in-completion-of-improvement-works-at-pashan-sus-flyover-101615300522434.html
09-03-2021||Other||Goodluck Cafe lane joins new list of no-parking zones much to chagrin of business owners||PUNE The decision to make the lane from Goodluck Café to Suvarna Smruti hall a no-parking zone has not pleased café owners and commuters.The Sarasbaugh “Khau Galli” to Peshwe Park road has also been made a no-parking zone, though currently, no one is following the rule.On March 3, the Pune traffic police announced changes to both the streets, to ensure the roads are congestion free.Only vehicles of essential services, like the fire brigade, police vehicles and ambulances are allowed to park on these roads.When HT visited Sarasbaugh, vehicles were parked on both sides of the street.“We heard there will be a no-parking zone, but people park their vehicles on both sides of the lane,” said Pankaj Mishra, a worker at the Vicky Juice Centre.The owner of Kalpana Bhel, speaking anonymously, said, “Where will people park vehicles. The pay- and-park space allotted has been non-operational. If we don’t allow parking in front of our stalls it will impact our business.”Shop owners claim traffic jams occur only sometimes.“I have been working at Meena pav bhaji for the last three years. I have never seen a major traffic congestion occurring due to two-wheeler parking. No shop owners allow four-wheeler parking in the evenings,” said Ramesh Sutar, a stall employee at Sarasbaugh.Rahul Shrirame, deputy commissioner of police, (traffic), said, “Parking on both the sides at Khau Galli is not allowed. I will send officials to check the situation.”Commuters, café owners fume “Such rules were never there for the last 80 years, then why now? We can understand the footpath is needed for pedestrians in front of our café, but there is no problem parking in the side lane . People come and ask us where to park, we tell to find a place in the front, due to which, half of our customers do not return,” said, Hamid, of Goodluck Café, who goes only by his first name. The owner of Victoria Café, on condition of anonymity, said, “The rule has impacted our business. Our customers are students and if they don’t get parking, they don’t visit our café.”DCP Shrirame added, “No parking on both the sides near Goodluck Café leading to Suvarna Smruti hall is a must. Lots of congestion was happening on the road and now a free movement of vehicles is possible. The no- parking order will not be revoked.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goodluck-cafe-lane-joins-new-list-of-no-parking-zones-much-to-chagrin-of-business-owners-101615298842185.html
09-03-2021||Bhopal||Cybercriminals clone cheque meant for Ram temple, siphon off over a lakh||Publicising a picture of a cheque meant as a donation for Ram temple construction proved costly to a Madhya Pradesh Congress MLA. Cybercriminals downloaded the picture of the cheque and develop clones of it to siphoned off more than ₹one lakh from the account of Congress MLA Surendra Singh Baghel, said police. Baghel represents Congress from Kukshi, Dhar.Bhopal's TT Nagar police station in-charge, Shailendra Sharma, said, “A personal secretary of the MLA, Hemendra Singh lodged a complaint on Monday that someone withdrew ₹1 lakh from the account of Baghel through two cheques in Delhi. The accused submitted the third cheque in Bhopal but the MLA got a message before the clearance of the cheque and managed to avert the transaction.”Also read: 'Nari Adalat to open across panchayats to resolve family disputes' - MP CM“When the police investigated the matter and inquired about the cheque used for the withdrawal of money in Bhopal, it was found that it was the same cheque which Baghel had handed over to Shree Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra for Ram temple construction in Ayodhya,” he added.Earlier in February, some supporters of the MLA posted a picture of the cheque on social media to publicise MLA's donation for the temple's construction.The police are investigating the matter to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/cybercriminals-clone-cheque-meant-for-ram-temple-siphon-off-over-a-lakh-101615294021217.html
09-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s Covid-19 cases breach 300-mark third time this month; tally at 641,660||Delhi registered 320 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, the third time in March when the daily count went above the 300-mark, data from the health department’s bulletin showed. According to data, there were 312 cases on March 5 and 321 on March 6—the highest in nearly 1.5 months after 340 infections were reported on January 14. The new infections have pushed the Capital’s caseload to 641,660 and the death toll has gone up to 10,928 after four related fatalities in the last 24 hours, according to the health department’s bulletin.As many as 234 patients recovered in the last 24 hours and the recoveries are nearing 629,000 while the active cases have climbed to 1,812, the bulletin added. The fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday were a result of 66,744 tests carried out of which 40,885 were RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TruNat tests while the remaining 25,859 were rapid antigen tests.The overall coronavirus disease situation in Delhi has been worsening since February 24 when 200 people were tested positive. Prior to this period, Delhi was adding just above 100 cases and on February 16, only 94 cases were added-, which had been the lowest after a gap of more than eight months. No deaths were reported on February 9, 13, 17 and February 25. However, this month, only one day (March 2) had seen zero deaths.Delhi reports 320 new #COVID19 cases, 234 recoveries, and four deaths in the last 24 hoursTotal cases: 6,41,660Total recoveries: 6,28,920Death toll: 10,928Active cases: 1,812 pic.twitter.com/FJmJ9vYsisAmid the recent uptick in cases, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain told news agency PTI on Sunday that the outbreak was nearing an ‘endemic’ phase in the capital. Citing experts, Jain said that some cases might continue to occur in the endemic phase. “Delhi witnessed a swine flu outbreak around 10 years ago, but still some cases are reported every year. Coronavirus is not going to end completely... we will have to learn to live with it,” the health minister added.Meanwhile, Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal had ordered authorities on March 5 to continue with the existing strategy against the pandemic, including cluster-based surveillance, testing and genome sequencing. Chairing a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), which was attended by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and his cabinet colleagues, Baijal said that there was no need to lower the guard against Covid-19 adding that there was a need to enhance vaccine coverage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-daily-covid-19-count-crosses-300-again-active-caseload-rises-to-1812-101615293817607.html
09-03-2021||Kolkata||Trinamool, BJP trade barbs over Kolkata fire tragedy||A day after a devastating blaze claimed nine lives at the New Koilaghat building of Eastern Railway at Kolkata's Strand Road area, a political storm has broken out ahead of the West Bengal assembly polls, with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) blaming the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government for poor disaster management and the ruling dispensation rubbishing the allegations.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had visited the site on Monday night and alleged that senior railway officials were not present. "The building belongs to the railways. But I have come to know that no one from the railways reached the spot till now. Our fire department asked for the building map from them in order to enter the premises but there was no cooperation from them," she had said.Accountability war between fire department, railwaysCountering her claims, though, railways minister Piyush Goyal said that "all possible assistance has been provided by the Railways to the state government" over the unfortunate incident. Not only did railway officials, including the general manager, coordinate with the state government at the site but also a 'high-level inquiry' consisting of four principal heads of railway departments have been asked to look into the case, informed Goyal.Railway officials including the GM are at the site and are working in coordination with the State Govt for rescue and relief efforts. We are committed to doing everything possible to ensure safety of all concerned.All possible assistance has been provided by the Railways to the State Govt during this unfortunate fire accident. A high level inquiry consisting of four Principal heads of Railway departments has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the fire.Railway officials also countered her charges. "Officers of railways were present there, efforts were being made for whatever was required. Maybe a map wasn't made available immediately but staff members of railways were present to guide about the building,” Eastern Railway's general manager Manoj Joshi said in an interview with news agency ANI. “We will cooperate with the state in any probe they will conduct," Joshi added.The BJP’s West Bengal co-in-charge Amit Malviya in a tweet said that the state should equip local bodies with fire fighting equipment and put in place appropriate protocols.WB needs a proactive disaster management policy, equip local bodies with fire fighting equipment and put in appropriate protocols.It also needs a transparent and efficient fire fighting policy, with mechanism to certify buildings for fire preparedness.Pishi has failed Bengal!"Pishi" is the Bengali word used for paternal aunt and the BJP refers to Banerjee as one as she is the aunt of TMC lawmaker and party heavyweight Abhishek Banerjee.The state’s fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose regretted that the BJP is politicising the tragedy for "cheap electoral gains". "From installing hydraulic ladder to largely containing the blaze, our men did everything possible. It is the railways which could not provide us with a map of the interiors of the 12th floor,” he said.Nine people, including four firefighters, three railway personnel and an assistant sub-inspector of Kolkata Police, died in the blaze.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/trinamool-bjp-trade-barbs-over-kolkata-fire-tragedy-101615288824553.html
09-03-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata fire: 9 deaths till now, railways ministry’s committee to probe accident||The railways ministry said on Tuesday a high-level committee has been formed to investigate the fire that broke out at the New Koilaghat building of Eastern Railway in Kolkata on Monday, killing nine people. Four firefighters, one personnel of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) and an assistant sub-inspector of the Kolkata Police were among those who lost their lives in the blaze.“A high-level probe committee led by senior chief security officer has been formed, as per the rules. Reports will be submitted within three weeks,” DJ Narain, a senior spokesperson of the ministry, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Narain said that there had been no impact on the reservation system and the Passenger Reservation System (PRS) counters were functional.Apart from the railways ministry, the Kolkata Police registered a suo motu case in connection with the fire and the fire department formed a committee to probe the mishap, officials told PTI on Tuesday.Watch| Kolkata: 9 killed in fire; Mamata Banerjee visits site, announces ex-gratiaThe fire broke out on the 13th floor of the Eastern Railway’s building at around 6.10pm and was brought under control after almost 11 hours at 5am on Tuesday. Out of the nine bodies, seven were found in an elevator while the remaining two in another. Officials said on Tuesday that some of the bodies were very badly burnt and it was difficult to establish their identities. Therefore doctors were mulling DNA tests to identify them, they added.Meanwhile, the West Bengal government announced a financial relief of ₹10 lakh for the family of the victims and a job to a member. On Monday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had reached the spot to monitor the rescue and relief operations and expressed condolences towards the deceased.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund for the families of the victims. “Saddened by the loss of lives due to the fire tragedy in Kolkata. In this hour of sadness, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. May the injured recover at the earliest,” Modi tweeted on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-fire-9-deaths-till-now-railways-ministry-s-committee-to-probe-accident-101615291761100.html
09-03-2021||Dehradun||'Doesn't matter who they bring': Harish Rawat on Uttarakhand CM's resignation||Former chief minister of Uttarakhand Harish Rawat on Monday said he is seeing winds of change in the state following the resignation of Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, but the chances of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) returning to power in the state in 2022 legislative assembly elections are slim.“I can observe a change in who will be in power in the state. The central leadership of the BJP has also admitted that the present government in Uttarakhand has failed to do much. It doesn't matter who they bring (as chief minister) now, they will not return to power in 2022,” the former chief minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Uttarakhand Congress chief Pritam Singh said that the people of the state have rejected the BJP. “The conflict within the BJP is now visible to everyone. The change in leadership cannot hide the failure of BJP in the state. The sudden resignation of Trivendra Singh Rawat is a clear indication that the people have completely rejected the BJP,” Singh said.Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat submitted his resignation to the governor Baby Rani Maurya on Wednesday but did not clarify the reason behind his stepping down a year ahead of the polls. After his resignation, the Uttarakhand chief minister said that he was blessed to have served the state for four years. He said, “The party gave me the golden opportunity to serve the state for four years, I am extremely thankful to the party for giving such an opportunity to man hailing from a small village.”Rawat, when asked about his sudden resignation, said, “You will have to go to Delhi to know the reasons for my removal.” Rawat also said that the new chief minister will be announced soon. The BJP will hold a legislative party meeting on Wednesday morning following which the next chief minister’s name is likely to be announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/doesnt-matter-who-they-bring-harish-rawat-on-uttarakhand-cm-s-resignation-101615292536617.html
09-03-2021||Pune||Credit Suisse vice-president killed in drink-drive accident in Pune||Pune: Credit Suisse vice-president Ankur Khandelwal, a resident of Kumar Primrose society in Kharadi, was killed after being hit by a car allegedly driven by a man in an inebriated condition, early morning of March 7. Based on a complaint filed by his wife Roshni Khandelwal (35), an FIR has been registered against the accused identified as Jovinson James. Khandelwal succumbed to his injuries while undergoing treatment at Columbia Asia hospital. James (30) of Sita Residency in Akurdi, who was arrested by the Chandannagar police, has been released on bail. According to the police, the accident took place around 12.20 am when the deceased, his wife and their nine-year-old son had gone to see off a friend’s family around midnight. “We were standing on the footpath in front of Forest County Society when a speeding red Volkswagon having number MH 01 AY9956 came from Ganga Constella side and hit my husband. Ankur came under the wheels of the car and was grievously injured. The driver James was drunk,” the FIR states. According to the FIR, Ankur got sandwiched between the car and a compound wall of Kumar Primrose society. A fencing wall of the housing society crashed due to the impact of the car dash. Roshni also sustained injuries on her hand. Ankur was rushed to Columbia hospital in the car of their society’s secretary Monaksha Shah. However, he succumbed to the injuries. The police recorded the statement of Roshni at the hospital and arrested James. He was charged for offences under Sections 337 (whoever causes hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life, or the personal safety of others, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees, or with both ), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees ) and Motor Vehicle Act Sections 184 (driving dangerously), 185 (driving in an inebriated condition), 119 (violating traffic safety signs), 177 (contravention of motor vehicle rules and 279 of the Indian Penal Code, individuals driving or riding a vehicle on any public ways in a rash or negligent manner that endangers human life or is most likely to injure other people will be punished by law. The punishment for the same is imprisonment up to six months, a penalty of ₹1m000, or both, of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). However, he was released on bail later. Cops said that more charges will be added against him for the death of Khandelwal. Meanwhile, Kharadi residents, relatives and friends of the deceased Ankur, have launched a public campaign on social media with hashtag#justiceforankurkhandelwal. After coming under sharp criticism on the social media, ID Medical, the employer of accused James, sent him on gardening leave. “ID Medical is deeply saddened by this incident and our condolences are with the family, friends and community. We are actively supporting the police investigation whilst also carrying out our own internal investigation. The employee involved has been placed on gardening leave,” the company tweeted. Deepak Patil, president, Kharadi Housing Society Association, said, “The accused driver is out on bail and we want stringent sections to be invoked against him.” DCP (Zone IV) Pankaj Deshmukh said, “We will find out what exactly is the culpability of the driver and accordingly action will be taken.” The citizens of the area have also organised a candle march in the evening to press for stringent charges against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/credit-suisse-vice-president-killed-in-drink-drive-accident-in-pune-101615291161655.html
09-03-2021||Pune||Trial run on Vanaz-Ramwadi Metro corridor likely to start in March||Pune: With delay in supply of metro coaches from Italy because of the Covid situation in Europe, the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (Maha-Metro) will use coaches belonging to the Nagpur Metro for its trial run on the Pune Metro priority stretch of Vanaz-Ramwadi. According to Maha-Metro officials, as the three coaches (one train) have arrived from Nagpur on Sunday, the trial run on the one kilometre stretch from Vanaz depot to Anandnagar station will most likely start this month. Pune Metro has successfully conducted a six-kilometre trial run between Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and Phugewadi in the first week of January. Maha-Metro plans to start commercial operations on two priority stretches of Pune Metro this year. According to officials, the contract with the Italian firm for coaches is for 34 train sets with each having three coaches (102 coaches) to be supplied in 160 weeks. The total cost of train coaches is around ₹1,100 crore. Of the 34 trains, three trains (nine coaches) will arrive from Italy and the remaining will be manufactured at Kolkata-based Titagarh Firema company. The manufacturing of coaches has already started at the Kolkata unit. Hemant Sonawne, general manager, Pune Metro said, “The first consignment of trains from Italy is delayed because of the Covid situation. Hence, we have decided to hold the trial run on Vanaz-Anandnagar stretch using Nagpur coaches. The track work from Vanaz depot to Anandnagar has almost completed and electrification will also be done soon.” Maha-Metro had visited the Titagarh unit in Kolkata in January. According to Maha-Metro managing director Brijesh Dixit, the coaches will start arriving in Pune after testing and approval from government agencies. The trial planTwo lines, total distance: 31 km Line 1: PCMC to Swargate, 5 underground stations, 9 elevated stationsLine 2: Vanaz to Ramwadi, 16 elevated metro stationsProject started: December 2016Estimated completion: By year 2021 (previous deadline) which would now get extendedTotal project cost: ₹11,420 crore||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/trial-run-on-vanaz-ramwadi-metro-corridor-likely-to-start-in-march-101615289901527.html
09-03-2021||Mumbai||Mansukh Hiran death: Fadnavis seeks arrest of cop Sachin Vaze||BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday demanded the arrest of police officer Sachin Vaze in connection with the mysterious death of auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiran, the purported owner of a vehicle laden with explosives found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence.Fadnavis's comments in the Maharashtra Assembly led to an uproar in the House, with the Shiv Sena raising the issue of alleged suicide of Dadra and Nagar Haveli Lok Sabha member Mohan Delkar.Amid the noisy scenes, Deputy Speaker Narhari Zirwal adjourned the House first for 10 minutes.Soon after the House re-assembled, it was again adjourned for 30 minutes.Later, Fadnavis said the treasury and opposition benches have agreed that no House business would be conducted till the Home minister makes a statement on the issue.The House was subsequently again adjourned twice for 15 minutes each.A Scorpio, with 20 gelatin sticks inside, was found near Antilia, Ambani's high-rise residence in south Mumbai, on February 25. Police said the vehicle was stolen from Airoli- Mulund Bridge on February 18. The mystery deepened after Hiran's body was found in a creek last Friday in Thane district neighbouring Mumbai.Also read: U-turn by Maharashtra Navnirman Sena: Raj says revive Nanar to get jobs for localsBefore the adjournments, Fadnavis claimed that Hiran's wife has given a statement that her husband may have been murdered by assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze.The Leader of Opposition demanded that Vaze be arrested under Indian Penal Code Section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence).Fadnavis said Hiran's wife has claimed in her statement to police that her husband knew Vaze andthe Scorpio was with the police official from November 2020 to February 5, 2021."She had also said her husband was with Vaze on February 27, 28 and March 2. The complaint letter (of Hiran) addressed to the chief minister, DyCM and police commissioners of Mumbai and Thane which surfaced in public after his death was written on the instructions of Vaze," Fadnavis alleged.He said Hiran's wife also claimed in her statement that her husband told her that Vaze had asked him to get himself arrested and he would ensure his bail in a few days."On April 4, Mansukh told his brother Vinod to speak to a lawyer for anticipatory bail as he might be arrested. But, the lawyer said anticipatory bail will not be accepted as Mansukh is not an accused," Fadnavis said.The former chief minister further claimed that Hiran's last location was found with Dhananjay Vithal Gawde, against whom an FIR was lodged for seeking a ransom of ₹40 lakh in 2017.The other person who was mentioned in the FIR is Sachin Vaze, Fadnavis said."Mansukh's body was later found 40 km away. He may have been murdered in the car and the body may have been thrown into the creek. Since it was a low tide, the body was found," the BJP leader said.Countering Fadnavis, Shiv Sena leader Anil Parab, who is the state's parliamentary affairs minister, demanded arrest of those named in the suicide note of Lok Sabha member Delkar.To this, Fadnavis said the government was trying to "protect" Vaze."I have the suicide note (of Delkar) and no name, except of the administrator (of Dadra and Nagar Haveli Union Territory), is mentioned. The administrator doesn't belong to any party," he said.Delkar (58), a seven-term MP from the Dadra and Nagar Haveli, was found dead at a hotel on Marine Drive in south Mumbai on February 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mansukh-hiran-death-fadnavis-seeks-arrest-of-cop-sachin-vaze-101615281046384.html
09-03-2021||City||J-K Congress loses 2 key municipal bodies in south and north Kashmir||The Congress has lost control over two important municipal bodies in south and north Kashmir after presidents of Baramulla and Anantnag councils joined the Apni Party led by Altaf Bukhari recently. The Congress has alleged that their members were put under pressure to quit the party, a charge rejected by the party rebels.Last week, president of Anantnag municipal council, Hilal Shah, joined the Apni Party along with 21 councillors. Shah and 16 of these councillors had won the local bodies elections in 2018 on a Congress ticket. Hilal Shah had contested several elections as a Congress party member in the past.Apni Party president, Altaf Bukhari welcomed him to the party at a function in Srinagar and said it will help make the party strong in south Kashmir which is considered a bastion of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP)."My workers decided to join the Apni party for the sake of the development of our areas. After we met the Apni Party leadership, we found that the party is more people-friendly than others," said Shah.Also read: ‘Rahul Gandhi should go to school’ - Giriraj Singh on 'ministry of fisheries' rowShah joined Congress in 2009 and unsuccessfully contested against former chief minister Mufti Mohammad Sayeed in the 2014 assembly elections. "I am a common man, I don’t have any political background. I contested my first election in 2007 as an independent candidate and joined the Congress two years later. My workers are only concerned about the development of Anantnag and nothing else," he added.With Shah’s entry, the Apni Party now has a foothold in south Kashmir's urban areas of Anantnag town. Earlier, municipal council president, Baramulla, Omar Azhar Kakroo, who belonged to the family of old Congress loyalists, joined Apni Party along with nine councillors. Now, the Congress, which had 10 members in Baramulla Municipal Council is left with a lone member.Omar Azhar Kakroo said he and his associates left the Congress because of its local leadership. "The party didn’t have any strong leader so we were forced to leave the party." He said there was no pressure on him or others from any quarter to join the Apni Party.Apni Party senior leader, Shoaib Lone said that Congress was now a defunct party. "People were leaving the party as its leadership was in disarray and fighting with each other." Lone, a former legislator who resigned from Congress last year, said that for these municipal leaders, the Apni Party was a natural choice. "Our party president is accessible and is always aware of the problems of party workers. The councillors who joined our party wanted to work for their people, so they decided to join us."Congress J-K president, Ghulam Ahmad Mir said the party lost control over two municipal councils in Baramulla and Anantnag. "The councillors and presidents were given threats by various agencies and were forced to join the Apni Party. Influential people intervened and forced our members to join the new party," Mir said. He added that time will prove that Congress members were forcibly made to join the Apni Party on the pretext of security, government accommodation and protection from false cases. “This has become a routine in the country," he claimed.Mir said the Congress still controls half a dozen councils in Kashmir. "The Almighty knows they will try to control these councils by force," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jk-congress-loses-2-key-municipal-bodies-in-south-and-north-kashmir-101615289007800.html
09-03-2021||Delhi||Will bid to host 2048 Olympic Games: Delhi CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal after the presentation of the Delhi Budget 2021 said that the city will bid to host the 2048 Olympic Games. He said the Delhi government will do everything to ensure that the Capital is ready for such an event.“In the budget, we have mentioned a vision that the 2048 Olympic Games should be held in Delhi. We shall bid for the games and we will do whatever it takes to build the infrastructure and create other necessities required for this. We will talk to the Central government to bid for Delhi as an Olympic venue for the 2048 games,” Kejriwal told media persons after the presentation of the budget.The process of selection of candidate cities for the Olympic Games is a long-drawn one and is divided into two phases, according to the guidelines mentioned by the International Olympic Committee (IOC). The first part of the process is known as the invitation phase - where generally cities and National Olympic Committees (NOCs) take part in a dialogue with IOC and hold workshops and the second phase is the candidature process - where cities along with the NOCs make a formal commitment to bid for the games. The candidature process spans two years during which the IOC will thoroughly review the cities’ development plans, legal infrastructure and the IOC will also review on-site analysis of every candidate city.During the budget presentation, the Delhi chief minister also said that the government will aim to increase the per capita income of the city. Kejriwal said the government aims to lift the per capita income of the city so that it is on a par with Singapore. According to World Bank data, Singapore’s per capita income (as of 2019) is $65,233.3. A recent report shows that Delhi’s per capita income has shrunk ₹3,76,211 in 2019-20 to ₹3,54,004 in 2020-21. During the budget announcement, the Delhi government also said that it will make the first model virtualschool.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/will-bid-to-host-2048-olympic-games-delhi-cm-kejriwal-101615288845426.html
09-03-2021||Delhi||Mehmood Pracha accuses Delhi Police of harassment, alleges fresh raid at office||Senior advocate Mehmood Pracha, who represents many 2020 Delhi riot victims and accused, said the Delhi Police on Tuesday again raided his office. He called the raid harassment and added the police’s special cell deliberately chose Tuesday for it as they knew he would be away for them to seize his computers and documents.“I had to be in court in a case related to the same agency [special cell]. I had to come to court to cross-examine one of their officers. The officer in the case is the same who has ordered the raids. They took a warrant and had two weeks to raid my office, but they chose to do it today [Tuesday]. They were aware that I would be in court.”In December, the special cell conducted searches at Pracha’s office in Nizamuddin in connection with a case filed against him. A video of the raid, which showed police and Pracha arguing inside his office, was widely circulated on social media. Citing client-attorney privilege, Pracha refused to show some papers then. Police had accused Pracha of threatening them and misbehaviour.Also Read | 461 bullets, 4,000 tear gas shells used by cops to quell Delhi riotsPracha filed a police complaint that imposters posing as police personnel visited his office and took crucial information related to the Delhi riots from his computers. Police had then denied this and said they had a court order to conduct searches and seize evidence.The Delhi Police filed a case against Pracha on August 22 after a riot victim told a court that he allegedly asked him to depose falsely and frame three persons.Pracha, who denied the allegations and accused police of filing false cases to intimidate him as he is defending some riot accused, was a prominent face of protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act that preceded the riots.Delhi Police officers were immediately unavailable for comments. The copy will be updated when they respond to Pracha’s fresh allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pracha-accuses-delhi-police-of-harassment-alleges-fresh-raid-at-his-office-101615288101919.html
09-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab FM skips fund for Bathinda cancer institute in budget||The state-run Advanced Cancer Institute (ACI) in Bathinda, finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s constituency, has once again been deprived of grant for upgrade in the proposed annual budget. Functioning since July 2016, the institute has been awaiting a PET-CT (positron emission tomography and computed tomography) scan machine. In the budget presented on Monday, Badal allocated ₹3,822 crore for the health and family welfare sector. Sources say the ACI’s nuclear department has infrastructure in place but needs funds for the machine to treat cancer patients, who need scans during or post-treatment for diagnosis and assessment of malignant cells. An imaging test is useful in revealing or evaluating cancers, including breast, cervix and thyroid. Due to the non-availability of PET scan at the ACI, patients have to travel to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH) in Faridkot, the only state institute to have the facility. The sources say that a couple of private medical institutions in Ludhiana have the testing facility but it costs nearly ₹15,000. Average daily footfall of 200 at OPD The ACI is a constituent of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, and the centre has an average daily footfall of 200 in the outdoor patient department (OPD) from Bathinda and adjoining districts of the state, Haryana and Rajasthan. The Bathinda institute was established by the former SAD-BJP government as Malwa region of Punjab has numerous cases of cancer patients. Prior to an exclusive facility in the state, patients had to travel to the nearest cancer hospital in Rajasthan’s Bikaner district. Much-needed testing facility ACI medical superintendent Dr Deepak Arora said on Tuesday that it would be beneficial if the centre is equipped with the much-needed testing facility. “According to the plan, the ACI was to get a PET scan facility in the second phase. We have started with radiotherapy and chemotherapy but the availability of testing will offer comfort to patents forced to travel to far-off places,” said Arora. An attendant said patients in need of a PET scan have to register first in Faridkot and then wait their turn, which comes after a month due to the rush at the medical college. “Not all patients prefer to wait that long for a test and go to private hospitals in Ludhiana that is expensive,” the attendant added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-fm-skips-fund-for-bathinda-cancer-institute-in-budget-101615287082219.html
09-03-2021||Delhi||Draw of lots for Delhi Development Authority housing scheme 2021 tomorrow||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) will hold a draw of lots for its housing scheme of 2021, which will be live streamed, on Wednesday (March 10). The land-owning agency received over 22,000 applications for the housing scheme announced in January this year.The DDA has put 1,354 flats, mostly in the High Income Group (HIG) and Middle Income Group (MIG) category located in Dwarka and Jasola, on sale in its latest housing scheme. DDA officials said that the response has been good despite the slump in the real estate sector.“The response has been very good. We have received 22,750 applications for 1,354 flats. The draw of lots will be live streamed. We have moved the entire process online due to the pandemic so that people don’t have to make frequent trips to our offices to get the work done,” said the official.Also Read | DDA to change land use of 31 acres for redevelopment projectThe draw of lots can be viewed at https://dda.webcast.ml 11am onwards.The DDA has received over 7,000 applications along with payment for its 1,011 High Income Group (HIG) and Middle Income Group (MIG) category flats located in Dwarka and Jasola. The 254 HIG flats are located in Jasola, Vasant Kunj, Rohini and Dwarka. There are 757 two- and three-bedroom MIG flats located in Dwarka, Rohini, Vasant Kunj, Janahgirpuri and Madipur.While 215 flats in Jasola have been put on sale for the first time, the remaining were returned by allottees in the previous housing schemes. The cost of HIG flats, which are 87.9sqm to 177.3sqm in size, varies between ₹69.62 lakh to ₹2.14 crore. Apart from the location of the flats, DDA officials said that the quality of construction, facilities at the housing complex, two parking spots per flat in HIG etc are some of the reasons why people are keen on applying for these flats.Despite the slump in the real estate market, DDA officials are optimistic that 254 HIG flats in Jasola will find many takers. The cost of HIG flats, which are 87.9sqm to 177.3sqm in size, varies between ₹69.62 lakh to ₹2.14 crore. “These are spacious flats, located on the Delhi-Noida border and well-connected to the rest of the city via Metro and other public transport systems. There is a dual piping system as the complex has its own sewage treatment plant. The most important thing is that each flat has two parking spots. The ₹2.1 crore cost is as per the market rate,” said a senior DDA official. Spread over 64.04sqm to 129.98sqm, the cost of MIG flats varies between ₹40.64 lakh to ₹1.24 crore. Of the 757 flats, 711 are located in Dwarka sub-city—one of the planned residential areas developed by the DDA. There are 291 flats for the Economically Weaker Section and 52 in the Lower Income Group category in Dwarka and Rohini. After nearly a decade, a senior DDA official said, MIG flats in such large numbers have been put on sale in Dwarka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/draw-of-lots-for-delhi-development-authority-housing-scheme-2021-tomorrow-101615286002005.html
09-03-2021||Patna||Bihar: Counselling centre for women victims of crime in police headquarters||The victims of crime against women in Bihar will be able to avail counselling at the police headquarter in Patna. The centre was launched in collaboration with the Bihar state women development corporation (WDC), a wing of the social welfare department.It will be housed at the weaker section wing, CID at Police Bhawan, and will also offer legal and other professional counselling apart from general trauma counselling. Till recently, the victims could only register police complaints at the police headquarter.“Earlier, victims who needed this facility were referred to the police stations in the district where a special cell with professional counsellors for women already exists. Now, that the police headquarter, too, has developed this facility, things can be sorted out here. Women victims need not bother visiting other places for this purpose,” said Jitendra Kumar, ADG, police headquarter.Official said that several cases involving women could be solved by addressing some misunderstandings or basic behavioural issue. “The counselling is intended to explain the things in right perspective and end the deadlock,” he said.The centre will have professional counsellors, provided by the women development corporation. Besides, the police officials will also be there to provide police support to women victims, he added.Also Read:Admission irregularities in a Bihar university to be probedPoonam Kumari, an official from the WDC, said altogether 23 police stations in Patna district have special cells, which have been offering counselling facility to the victims. “The WDC has a panel of professional counsellors who are working at these cells. Often women approach them for problems like domestic violence or violation of property rights or physical and mental torture by the family,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-counselling-centre-for-women-victims-of-crime-in-police-headquarters-101615285290227.html
09-03-2021||Bhopal||MP Assembly: Uproar on farm loan waiver, Congress members walk out||The Madhya Pradesh Assembly on Tuesday witnessed an uproar over the issue of farm loan waiver, following which the House was adjourned for five minutes.When the House re-assembled, members of the opposition Congress staged a walkout over the issue.Congress MLA Kunal Choudhary raised the issue during the Question Hour when he sought a reply from the state government on whether it would continue to waive off loans of the "remaining farmers", as per the initiative taken during the previous Kamal Nath government.However, Agriculture Minister Kamal Patel alleged that the Congress deceived farmers on the issue of loan waiver.Congress members opposed this statement and said the present BJP-led government had admitted that loans of 27 lakh farmers were waived off during the previous Congress government led by Kamal Nath.The state government should now clarify whether it would waive loans of the remaining farmers or not, they asked.This led to noisy scenes as both the ruling and opposition members started speaking simultaneously.State Parliamentary Affairs Minister Narottam Mishra alleged that no farmer got the benefit of loan waiver worth ₹2 lakh during the Congress rule.Later, Congress members Priyavrat Singh, Govind Singh, Sajjan Singh and others termed the BJP government as "anti- farmer".This was followed by heated arguments between the opposition and treasury benches.Speaker Girish Gautam then adjourned the House for five minutes.When the House re-assembled, the discussion over the issue continued.Amid the uproar, Congress members staged a walkout.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-assembly-uproar-on-farm-loan-waiver-congress-members-walk-out-101615283360107.html
09-03-2021||Mumbai||SIT to probe MP Mohan Delkar’s death case: Maharashtra home minister||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Tuesday a Special Investigation Team (SIT) would probe the death of Mohan Delkar, the Lok Sabha lawmaker from Dadra and Nagar Haveli. Speaking during the state’s assembly session, Deshmukh said Delkar’s suicide note showed he was being threatened by the Union territory’s administrator Praful Patel who warned the Independent parliamentarian that he would be “finished off” from social life. “Delkar’s wife and son have also written to me voicing the same concerns,” Deshmukh added, according to news agency PTI.Delkar, who was a seven-term member of the Lower House of Parliament, was found dead at a hotel in the Marine Drive area of south Mumbai on February 22. A senior officer of the Mumbai Police told Hindustan Times on February 23 that the post mortem report of the Lok Sabha MP confirmed that he died due to suicide. “A team of forensic expert visited the place of the incident and scanned the entire place. Also, a panel of doctors conducted the post-mortem at the Sir JJ Hospital and concluded the cause of death as a suicide,” the officer added.Also Watch: Mohan Delkar, Lok Sabha MP from Dadra and Nagar Haveli, found dead in MumbaiOn February 23, the Congress party demanded a probe into the alleged role of the Bharatiya Janata Party in his death, a request the BJP said was ‘absurd’. Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole requested the state government on March 2 to file a case against those whose names were mentioned in Delkar’s suicide note and questioned why no case had been registered by the government yet. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said on February 28 that those who had raised a hue and cry in the death case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput were silent on Delkar’s ‘mysterious’ demise.Meanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had announced on Monday that the Maharashtra police would carry out an investigation adding that the government would take the case to its logical conclusion. “I wonder how the opposition here is quiet on the issue of the seven-term MP ending his life,” Thackeray added.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sitto-probe-mp-mohan-delkar-s-death-case-maharashtra-home-minister-101615284795840.html
09-03-2021||Bangalore||5 Things to do in Bengaluru: Raghu Dixit style||Raghu Dixit loves Bengaluru like no other. Having been in the city for the last 25 years, the singer says it holds a special place for him. “I’ve travelled the world, and everywhere musicians celebrate life. I believe the tapestry of a city can change only through art and artists and our culture is truly becoming global and Bengaluru is taking the lead in that,” he says. So, if you are new to the city and need a reliable guide, Raghu Dixit is here to help you out with his ready reckoner on what not to miss when in Bengaluru!Hog at VV Puram Food street Food is really versatile - it has the best of experimental and traditional food, all-in-one place. From dosas to bakery products, juices and chaat centres, there is something for everyone. Also a lot of seasonal festivals happen at the street, where a particular food is incorporated into every dish. So if you have a group of friends who’d like to chill, this is the place to be!Jogging at Cubbon ParkIt is beautiful and incredibly needed in a city like Bengaluru, where you want relief from the fast paced life. Plus, when you regularly go to a park, you build a community, meet new people, make plans with them. So this place is a favourite among Bangaloreans when they want to catch a breath of fresh air. Catch the sunset at Nandi Hills It’s a classic Bengaluru thing to do for non-Bangaloreans! It’s ideal since it is close to the city and yet it is far away to let you get away from the hustle bustle of the Capital. The sunrise there is glorious! You have bike, trekking groups that travel to Nandi hills. And there are lovely places enroute as well, so it is a good trip. Take part in open mic busking experience on Church StreetIt is now a pedestrian only street and on weekends, musicians and artists perform and even sell their stuff there. I performed there with my entire band one weekend there; we stood on a platform and performed for an hour, it was such a liberating experience. Earlier people did not respect musicians singing on the street; Bengaluru and this entire street is changing that narrative and bringing dignity back to street performances, which musicians across the world are already doing. I don’t think that’s an experience you can get anywhere else but here!Pub hopping for the best hand crafted drinksI’m so proud of Bengaluru’s hand crafted beers! There are plenty of places in the city that serve amazing food and experiences for people who are new to town. From Bangalore Pub Exchange at MG Road to Geist Brewing Factory at Old Madras Road, there are many options to choose from. Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/5-things-to-do-in-bengaluru-raghu-dixit-style-101615284562210.html
09-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi Budget: Govt to tackle pollution with 360 degree-approach, says Sisodia||Presenting the Delhi Budget for 2021-22, finance minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said that pollution was the “biggest problem” of the national capital, and his government was working on a 360 degree-approach to tackle it. He said that the government was working towards a pollution-free Delhi by India’s 100th year of independence.“Our government is working on a holistic, 360 degree-approach to tackle the problem of pollution in the city and we are doing that through various measures such as increasing the green cover, making anti-smog guns mandatory at construction sites and coming up with policies for the better management of solid waste. Our aim is that in the 100th year of independence, Delhi can leave behind the problem of pollution, just like Covid-19,” Sisodia said in his budget speech. Also Read | Delhi Budget 2021: Allocation for urban infra up, govt to work on decongestionThe Delhi government on Tuesday allocated ₹9,394 crore for improving the city’s environment. Making a special mention of the government’s electric vehicle policy, Sisodia said that before this initiative, the share of electric vehicles in Delhi was merely 0.2% of the total registered vehicles. However, after the policy was launched, this share has increased to 2.2% of the total registered vehicles in the Capital. “The government now aims that by 2024, the share of electric vehicles in Delhi will improve to around 25% and to make this happen, we are working towards installing as many as 500 charging points. At present, there are 72 such charging points in Delhi. The idea is to have a charging facility within every three kilometres,” Sisodia said. He also said that the aim of his government through such policies is to get “100% freedom from vehicular pollution”. To augment the public transport infrastructure, Sisodia said 1,300 additional e-buses will be added to the city’s fleet. For the first time in the last decade, Delhi has managed to get 6,693 public buses in its fleet; another 1,000 will be added by September. “We are inching towards getting the total fleet size to 11,000,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-budget-govt-to-tackle-pollution-with-360-degree-approach-says-sisodia-101615279461804.html
09-03-2021||Delhi||JNU foodies hail the reopening of canteens on campus!||Known for its big beautiful campus, Jawaharlal Nehru University’s vibrant ideological debates are often carried out at the many hip canteens and dhabas that it has within the campus. And students who identify themselves as the foodies of JNU, can’t keep calm since these eating joints have recently reopened! “The canteens are the spring of JNU, without them JNU doesn’t have a season and looks desolated. A few canteens on campus have become functional and students are visiting them like the canteens at School Of International Studies one and two (SIS-I, SIS-II), the library canteen, Godavari and Aravali. Babu Bhaiya in SIS-I is my favourite person! His laddoos keep my anger in check, and prevents me from getting hangry,” jokes Peerzada Haroon, an MPhil student of JNU, who recently visited the campus to check out the reopened canteens. Talking about how buzzy the food scene was on #Day1, Haroon adds, “I went to Aravali, a lot students were there. I went to library canteen and a lot students were there, too. Godavari again seemed full of chitter chatter. SIS-I and SIS-II are struggling to attract people perhaps because laddoos are yet to be made!”Every foodie has his own favourite food joint, and so is the case with the JNU students. “I miss the food of Mughal Darbaar Dhaba because it’s the only place on campus that offers good non-veg! It has been almost a year now that it’s not functional and I hope the administration reopens it soon,” says Bhanu, a PhD student at JNU, adding, “There was a notification last week that said that the other canteens will reopen in a phased manner, and will restart functioning soon, but no word on the Mughal Darbaar. I don’t know why they specifically left that one... The food inside campus is relatively cheaper as compared to the food outside the campus, and that’s why it’s great to have the canteens reopen finally.”It doesn’t come as a surprise that even a die hard foodie is sure to check how the sanitisation facilities have been put in place, since the pandemic had forced the campus and the canteen to remain shut for a long time. “I visited the library canteen today after many months; it felt nice to be back on campus although it was a bit odd to not be around all my friends. The canteens were sanitised. Everyone was wearing a mask. There were sanitiser bottles kept in the campus, and the food was tasty and clean as always,” says Arshid Hussain, an MPhil student at the university.What’s certainly back is the bonding over chai samosa! “I ate kadhi pakora, the dish that is much loved in the mess by students. Visiting the campus after a long time also gave me a chance to catch up with my campus friends who are living outside the campus for now and we flocked to Choudhary Ji to enjoy chai samosa, and talk about old times,” says Priya Kumari, an MPhil student, adding, “Stepping back into the JNU Campus after one year is giving me a sense of getting back to studies or work. Opening up of mess and canteens has also sorted my daily routine as now I don’t have to worry about cooking food and staying in an accommodation outside, which used to consume lot of time and energy.”Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jnu-foodies-hail-the-reopening-of-canteens-on-campus-101615277782622.html
09-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi Budget 2021: Allocation for urban infra up, govt to work on decongestion||The Delhi government has proposed an allocation of ₹5,328 crore for housing and urban development, an increase of ₹1,605 crore from last year, in its budget for 2021-22. Delhi’s finance minister Manish Sisodia also reiterated his government’s commitment to decongest the city, especially the busy Ashram intersection, and listed out proposals for various roads infrastructure projects while presenting the budget.The Delhi government has been working on providing water and sewer pipeline connections in 1,797 unauthorised colonies in the Capital. Sisodia said that 79% of the 1,797 unauthorised colonies have water and sewer pipeline connections now and work is being carried out to cover all the colonies in the financial year 2021-22.Also Read | Delhi govt allocates ₹50 crore in budget for free Covid jab in govt hospitalsFor providing water and sewer pipeline connections in unauthorised colonies, Sisodia proposed an allocation of ₹1,550 crore in the budget for 2021-22. While presenting the budget, Sisodia said, “The government has provided water and sewer pipelines in 1,343 unauthorised colonies out of 1,797 colonies.” The government has planned in-situ redevelopment of slums.In the 2020-21 budget, the Delhi government allocated ₹3,723 crore for housing and urban development.As part of its initiative to decongest the city, the Delhi government has proposed to allocate nearly ₹600 crore, including ₹85 crore just for decongesting Ashram crossing in south Delhi. Delhi’s deputy CM Manish Sisodia announced that several important road projects will be completed within this financial year.While presenting the budget for the financial year 2021-22, Sisodia said, “The construction work of Ashram underpass will be completed by June this year after which the traffic on Mathura Road (Nizamuddin to Badarpur border) and Ashram crossing will ease out and there will be in reduction in travel time, pollution level and savings of fuel. I propose an outlay of ₹35 crore for this project in 2021-22. The extension of Ashram Flyover to DND Flyover will be completed by December 2021. I propose an outlay of ₹50 crore for this project in 2021-22,” said Sisodia.For its ambitious plan to beautify and redesign roads in the Capital, the government has proposed to allocate ₹500 crore. “In addition to the seven stretches (announced earlier), all preparations have been made for the beautification of roads of length 500km and it shall be carried out from this year onwards. I propose an outlay of ₹500 crore in the year 2021-22 for the scheme of street scaping and beautification of roads,” said Sisodia.The construction of two underpass projects at Wazirabad and Azadpur, one pedestrian subway near Gandhi Vihar on the Outer Ring Road and the construction of a bridge on the Najafgarh drain at Basaidarapur will be completed by May 2021, said Sisodia.The Delhi government’s Public Works Department is working on construction of five new projects in West and North Delhi to address the growing traffic problem in the area.The Delhi PWD plans to construct an integrated transit corridor between Punjabi Bagh flyover and Raja garden, an integrated transit corridor between Jwala Heri Market Red Light to Jwalapuri Red Light, a comprehensive scheme for Decongestion of Mukarba Chowk, Decongestion of Main Burari Road Junction on Parallel Road at Burari Delhi and construction of Road Over Bridge (ROB)/ Road Under Bridge (RUB) on Railway crossing no. LC-12 on Khera Kalan to Khera Khurd Road to ease congestion.The government is still working on three ambitious projects, which have been in planning for a long time, to decongest the city. The projects are: the East-West Corridor (elevated and tunnel road between Tikri and Anand Vihar), the North-South Corridor (elevated and tunnel road from the Signature Bridge to the airport) and an outer road running parallel to the Yamuna from the Signature Bridge to Sarai Kale Khan. Sisodia said that the government is waiting for UTTIPEC’s approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-budget-2021-allocation-for-urban-infra-up-govt-to-work-on-decongestion-101615276581027.html
09-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC warns of 'gatecrashing' wedding if Covid-19 norms not followed||Amid a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, its civic body BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has issued a warning that it will 'gatecrash' those wedding celebrations where safety protocols are not being followed."As much as we love The Big Fat Indian Weddings, we hope that you are following all Covid norms. After all, 'safety' is the best gift you could give to the newlyweds. And if not, then we'd hate to gatecrash the celebrations - for the safety of Mumbai!," the BMC tweeted on Tuesday morning.As much as we love The Big Fat Indian Weddings, we hope that you're following all COVID norms. After all, 'safety' is the best gift you could give to the newlyweds.And if not, then we'd hate to gatecrash the celebrations - for the safety of Mumbai!#CelebrateResponsibly pic.twitter.com/OF8mhLVLIEThe coronavirus cases in the state of Maharashtra are on a rise since the month of February. The state reported 8,744 new coronavirus cases and 22 deaths on Monday. Mumbai, its capital, reported 1,014 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths on the same day. The city has been reporting daily cases above 1,000 for six consecutive days.As per the data provided by BMC, the active coronavirus caseload in Mumbai stands at 10,779 as of Monday evening.Maharashtra is one of the top contributors to the active coronavirus cases of the country.Also Read | Major fire in a plastic company in Maharashtra’s ThaneSeveral district authorities in Maharashtra have imposed restrictions in a bid to control the spread of the infection. Amravati went into lockdown in February, which was later extended. Thane too has announced lockdown starting from March 13 to last till March 31 in 11 hotspots of the region. Thane reported 610 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the total tally of the city to over 2.70 lakh, PTI quoted the officials as saying.While there no lockdown has been imposed in Mumbai till now, the BMC has been taking measures like these to prevent the spread of the virus. The mayor of Mumbai Kishori Pednekar had earlier too warned the citizens to adhere to the Covid safety measures or strict restrictions will need to be reinforced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-bmc-warns-of-gatecrashing-wedding-if-covid-19-norms-not-followed-101615270868799.html
09-03-2021||Other||One year of Covid: ‘Acceptance of being infected is longest, but first crucial step in path to recovery’||For a 20-something healthy person, the Covid19 infection is like an embodiment of a haiku - it starts off innocuous, quickly grows unpredictable, and leaves you in a mental space that is very different from when it began a short while ago. My family’s face-off with the virus solidified a hypothesis - the virus affects everyone differently. While the immediate effects of the infection are physical, they eventually transcend into psychological and social ones. At the end of August 2020, the month we got infected, my father, an ardent yogi, lost 13kg weight; and I found myself unable to run and in need of a therapist. Insurance had ensured zero financial stress for both of us, but I shudder at the thought of how people with symptoms like ours and no insurance managed. In the third week of July 2020, my father started going back to work after a break of four months. I had been working since the lockdown began and my family and I had convinced ourselves that we had managed to hack a way of keeping the virus out. We followed the purging techniques religiously; the word “sterillium”, had equated itself with water in our household and our olfactory senses are now accustomed to the sneeze-inducing odour. My father developed a cold and was granted medical leave from work. As we were too scared to enter an ENT doctor’s clinic, we decided to treat it with rudimentary cold medicine. Three days later, his cold was better, but he started developing mild cough. My mother, who is a retired nurse, had an instinct but refused to accept that her husband was infected.On July 27, 2020, I travelled to Chakan from Pune on my two-wheeler to report on the murder of a minor girl. The experience, as such stories often are, was confusing, if not traumatic. Therefore, I was not surprised when the set in the next day. By then, my father was practically wheezing instead of breathing. The realisation that an RT-PCR test was imminent settled on our collective conscience as a family. While booking a doctor’s appointment for my father, I started developing a fever and my mother simply froze. The doctor gave my father and me a prescription to get an RT-PCR test and the social anxiety of being the first ones in our residential society to have contracted the virus set in. We decided to drive down to a private laboratory and submit our swabs. Without any doubt, my father and I tested positive while my mother did not. Our doctor suggested that we go to the nearby hospital and get our vitals checked. This was a time when news of bed shortage was rife. As we went to a nearby private hospital, they checked our oxygen levels - my father’s was at 86, and I was at 89. We had gone with simply our phones and one debit card in order to minimise the number of things we bring out of the sanitised bubble in our house. The doctors asked us to get admitted immediately. Standing outside the emergency ward of the hospital, we quickly switched off our emotions to evade the effects of the panic that had started setting in. My mother knew what getting admitted would entail and we all simply shifted mental gears to the practical. What followed was two weeks of virtual paperwork, uncertainty, and laboured breathing, while being trapped inside the Covid-19 ward of the hospital. It was only at the end of day two in the hospital that I started experiencing the laboured breathing that my father had been experiencing for days. I was breathless even if I stood up too fast. We were both put on a course of 13 tablets, two injections, cough syrup, and an occasional steroid injection. My menstrual cycle went for a toss in the months to follow. I stopped experiencing symptoms after six days in the hospital while my father required oxygen support; experimental homeopathy treatment prescribed by the hospital; and 14 days to test negative. He entered the hospital wheezing. A husk of him came out of the hospital with a car parking bill of ₹7,000. Since he was not carrying any money, the hospital security let him drive out of the hospital after I paid ₹5,000 through an online transaction. The seven-10 days of infection seemed longer than weeks of working days. The infection unintentionally provides excess of that one resource that ambitious youngsters like to believe they have in short supply - time. The acceptance of being infected by the Covid-19-causing virus is the longest, but first crucial step in the recovery of an affected person. My father, an ardent yoga practitioner, has started practicing again, while I have started running, again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/one-year-of-covid-acceptance-of-being-infected-is-longest-but-first-crucial-step-in-path-to-recovery-101615275440484.html
09-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt allocates ₹50 crore in budget for free Covid jab in govt hospitals||Free vaccination against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for Delhi residents in government hospitals and the start of 100 new mahila mohalla clinics specialising in the treatment of women’s diseases were the key announcements in the health sector made by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia in his budget speech on Tuesday. Even as private hospitals have started charging ₹250 per dose for immunising those in the third priority group, people over the age of 60 and those between the ages of 45 and 59 with comorbidities, the minister said that the government will continue to provide free vaccination to all Delhi residents in its own hospitals. The government has allocated ₹50 crore for the same. Also Read | Delhi Budget: Sisodia proposes virtual school, teachers’ training instituteAlthough the Centre has said that the vaccines will be procured and made available for the three priority groups, healthcare workers, frontline workers, and the old and comorbid, there has been no decision on what will be done to immunise the others. “Vaccines are available in private hospitals for ₹250, many people are wondering whether they should spend their earning for their ration or for vaccination... and in the 75th year of independence, nobody should think about that. Our government has decided that Delhi residents will continuously be provided vaccines for free in government hospitals,” said Sisodia in his budget speech. Speaking about the management of Covid-19, the minister said that it was the vision of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to start the process of home isolation and open the country’s first plasma bank that helped manage the high number of cases even as the world’s best healthcare systems crumbled during the pandemic. The government allocated ₹9,934 crore for the health sector, accounting for 14% of the total budget allocation. The minister also announced that after the mohalla clinic programme, the government has taken another revolutionary step in starting mahila mohalla clinics from next year. There will be 100 such clinics established in the first phase, followed by at least one such clinic in each of the 272 wards of Delhi. “We all know our mothers and sisters do not speak about their health issues openly. A woman from the middle class can go to a women’s specialist, but a woman from the lower middle class does not reach a gynaecologist. This is the reason many women live with disease thinking that it is nature. The Delhi government will take the responsibility to make a woman’s specialist and associated tests and medicine available within walking distance,” he said. The government also allocated ₹1,293 crore for the expansion of health infrastructure – the construction of new hospitals in Jwalapur, Siraspur, Madipur, and Vikaspuri, and remodelling of 19 existing hospitals. This will add 14,000 beds to the over 12,000 beds currently in Delhi government hospitals. The minister also said that the government already started two new hospitals – the one in Burari and the other in Ambedkar Nagar – during the pandemic for Covid-19 patients. The 1,241-bed Indira Gandhi hospital in Dwarka will also open up by next year, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-allocates-rs-50-crore-in-budget-for-free-covid-jab-in-govt-hospitals-101615275381114.html
09-03-2021||Other||One year of Covid: Why stamp duty reduction may have single-handedly rescued real estate sector||PUNE The real estate sector in Pune was one of the worst- affected due to the Covid 19 pandemic, as projects halted after migrant workers left the city. Buyers, too, lost their purchasing power. The real estate sector, which provides employment to a large population, came to a complete standstill. However, the decision by the Maharashtra government to reduce stamp duty by three per cent revived the sector. This decision helped ready flats in the city sell, and put money in the hands of developers to start the new projects in Pune. While property registration numbers went up betwween October and December 2020, due to the stamp duty reduction, it did not add to the government coffers as revenue generation from stamp duty reduced.According to the statistics shared by the Inspector General of Registration’s (IGR) office, between September and December 2020, 11,94,013 document registrations were reported.A revenue of Rs11,702 crore was reported for the January to December period. This was against 8,44,963 document registrations bringing in Rs28,989 crore to the government exchequer in the Jan-Dec period of 2019.The centre imposed thee lockdown in March, as a result of which migrants workers were left stranded. By April and May, large chunk of workers left the city. As labour left the city, major infrastructure work like roads, water supply, and metro all got affected. In the absence of workers, municipal corporations were not able to carry out development works, even though they were allowed to, during lockdown. When the government allowed construction activity to resume, the first problem was labour. Without workers no construction activity was able to resume. Satish Magar, national president of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai) said, “Real estate sector was one of the worst affected. Investment was blocked and there was no respite seen. Government’s single decision on stamp duty changed the scenario and buyers also gave a huge response and purchased all the ready homes.” According to Magar, the real estate sector expects more demand from buyers in the coming days as the “work from home concept” will probably have citizens preferring to own their own homes. Prashant Waghware, city engineer, Pune Municipal Corporation said, “PMC got badly affected due to the lockdown as the revenue from building permission came down drastically. It was almost half as compared to previous year as no developer was willing to submit their files for new projects. Maharashtra government have a concession on stamp duty and people started purchasing homes. It helped to move the economy. Even the decision on introducing Unified Development Control Rules helped a lot as many developers are planning to launch new projects. All this will help to bring in more revenue for the building permission department.” Suhas Merchant, Credai Pune president said, “During lockdown, the real estate business came to a complete standstill, as labour went back to their hometowns. We took various initiatives for the welfare of labourers. Labour camps were made aware about the Covid-19 guidelines. Even financial institutes brought down the home-loan rates.” One of the builders, on condition of anonymity, said, “If the lockdown continued for a few months, almost all the small builders would have gone bankrupt. The state government’s 3 per cent stamp duty waiver, changedd the sector entirely. From villas to affordable housing all sold out. Now builders have enough money to start new projects. Even as the sector improved speedily, there is no chance of real estate prices dropping, as the builders’ capacity to hold inventory has increased again.” Stamp duty registration (in rupees)Month / 2019/ 2020 January/ 2,35,066/ 2,12,354 February/ 2,71,180/ 2,69,508 March/ 3,14,372/2, 14,195 April / 2,28,848/ 1,139 May/ 2,66223/ 42,573 June/ 3,20,183/ 1,53,155 July/ 2,58,632/ 1,65,139 August/ 2,21176/ 1,83,515 September/1,90,841/ 2,47,609 October/ 1,93995/ 2,47,601 November/ 2,20,808/ 2,74,773 December/ 2,39,292/ 3,97,396||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/one-year-of-covid-why-stamp-duty-reduction-may-have-single-handedly-rescued-real-estate-sector-101615275320473.html
09-03-2021||Other||One year of Covid: Locked down, but not locked out... families in the time of WFH||PUNE Nothing in Pune was impacted more by the Covid-19 pandemic, in terms of everyday essentials, and even, “cannot-do-without”, as education.The prefix online has now come to define, and as we enter into exam season across the state and even across all educational boards, has come to proscribe any other manner of teaching – from Class 1 to bachelor of engineering students.In the trenches, managing all sorts of inevitabilities, are parents of today.“Think of online education, students and parents as a triangle. There are both positive and negative sides which were seen last year. Students became more tech savvy due to online education; and they got more time to spend with parents, as working professionals were working from home. Initially, it was new for everyone and exciting. Even parents got family and bonding time with their children,” muses Dr Anjali Chaudhary of Sangopan -The Art of Parenting, a child counsellor and parenting coach. “When we talk about negative impact of Covid, there is the overuse of mobile phones and computers which caused various health issues. Students, who were earlier very studious and active, eventually became lazy and more prone to smartphones usage. Screen-sharing time increased, and other activities like sports and hobbies reduced,” Dr Chaudhary believes.“And the same happened with parents. They were already over-burdened with work, the children’s responsibility and their own personal issues. They are now at a point when they cannot wait for offices and regular offline school to start,” adds Dr Chaudhary. Archana Somawanshi, a working mother of two children, said, “The biggest challenge for parents in the last one year was to convince them that they should not go outside, maintain a social distance, wash hands regularly and focus on their studies. For working mothers like me, it was a double challenge, as we had to look after children, family members and our office work. When the lockdown began, our domestic help was let go odd, and till now, I am doing all my household work on my own.” Another parent Kiran Nagpure, sharing his experience of life in the times of Covid, said, “Initially when the lockdown began, we didn’t realise the seriousness of being at home. The first few days were fine, all of us – me, my wife and our five-year-old son didn’t have a fixed routine. Eventually we made a daily routine - household works, family time and work from home. In last one year this routine has helped us bond. This past year has made us understand the importance of having a routine in our daily life.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/one-year-of-covid-locked-down-but-not-locked-out-families-in-the-time-of-wfh-101615275200424.html
09-03-2021||Other||One year of Covid: Crime gets a digital upgrade in face of pandemic||Cyber-crime in Pune city witnessed a spurt during the lockdown months, as online transactions, due to fear of the virus spreading through surfaces, increased. Vegetable vendors accepting payments through online transactions - once advertised as a hopeful future - became par for the course. The year of lockdown was as disturbing as unprecedented for a multitude of reasons. Multiple sectors like health, pharmaceutical, online payment and grocery service providers witnessed a spurt in the user-base… and in their misuser base. The effect was seen directly in the inbox meant for cybercrime-related complaints of the Pune police. “Compared to 2019, the number of complaints more than doubled in 2020,” recalls Bhagyashree Navatake, deputy commissioner of police, Cybercrime and Economic Offence Wing (EOW) of the Pune police. DCP Navatake, a software engineer by qualification, took office in October 2020, after movement restrictions started getting curtailed. As a result of the increased case load and changed leadership, staff strength has increased, and new units were introduced at the EOW and cybercrime cell. “Forming these units has helped us streamline the disposal of the huge number of pending cases. We have started a three-month training module for all officials of the cyber cell. Outside, as well as in-house experts, are called in to explain the basics to staff who have come from various backgrounds. This upskilling is the need of the hour,” said DCP Navatake. With the beginning of vaccination, the cyber-crime cell has started receiving complaints of frauds under the guise of providing vaccines. In the past few months, patient data of at least three hospitals was wrongfully used in fraud cases.In comparison to cyber-crime, registration of crimes like property theft, assault, and crimes against women decreased. During peak lockdown, there were days when the number of criminal cases registered in Pune city - with a population of at least a million people - was zero; a phenomenon unheard of. The number of registered cases of women who died within seven years of their marriage has remained near-constant for the past three years; lockdown could did not affect that statistic. While elaborate property crimes decreased, sporadic cases of theft of cash at pharmacies and grocery stores, the only two kinds of stores permitted to function during lockdown - were reported. CybercrimeFrom 5,523 complaint applications in 2018, the number of complaint applications jumped to 7,795 in 2019, and in 2020, 14,950 complaint applications were received by Pune city cybercrime cell. The largest contributors to these applications have been online fraud – involving dating, cheating, banking, and matrimonial cases; followed by social media-related cases, business-related online cases, hacking cases, and mobile phone-related offences. Online frauds jumped from 4,741 in 2019 to 8,824 in 2020; social media cases increased from 828 in 2019 to 2,174 in 2020; business-related cases increased from 636 in 2019 to 1,269 in 2020; hacking incidents increased from 113 in 2019 to 314 in 2020; and complaint applications about frauds committed using mobile phones increased from 88 in 2019 to 488 in 2020, according to records maintained by the cybercrime cell of Pune city police.Dowry-related deathsSection 304(b) of Indian Penal Code is invoked against the in-laws of a woman married for less than seven years, who dies due to dowry demands. In 2019, 16 such cases were registered in Pune city while 20 cases were registered in 2020. In 2018, 19 such cases were registered while 20 cases were registered in 2017. TheftThe collective number of different kinds of thefts, including house break-ins, chain snatching, mobile theft, and pick-pocketing, among others, was halved from 3,034 in 2019 and 3,544 in 2018, to 1,561 in 2020. The complete lockdown ensured no physical access to hotspots where such crimes were committed, and the looming fear of the virus was palpable in Pune which was one of the hotspots for the Covid19 infection. Vehicle theftAnother notable decline was in the vehicle theft cases. In the first six months of 2020, of which three months were under lockdown, the number of vehicle theft cases reported was 300, as against 1,000 in the first six months of 2019. Cases declined from 1,676 in 2019, to 975 in 2020. MurderThe year of the lockdown, however, did not affect the number of murder cases in Pune city. With 74 cases in 2019, the number of murder cases in 2020 was 71. One of the most violent murders during the lockdown months was that of Viraj Jagtap (20) a Dalit youth who was killed in Sangvi by the family members of a girl he was allegedly romantically interested in. Illegal possession and consumption of alcohol Under the Maharashtra Prohibition Act which prohibit possession or consumption of alcohol without required permits, increased in 2020. From 1,127 in 2019, registered cases went up to 1,243 in 2020. While the rush at liquor shops immediately after they were allowed to open was telling, the cases of theft at liquor shops just before the lockdown rules were brought into effect were also reported||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/one-year-of-covid-crime-gets-a-digital-upgrade-in-face-of-pandemic-101615275080425.html
09-03-2021||Other||Civic Sanskriti: #ChooseToChallenge... We women must raise our voices on issues that make a difference to our lives||About five years ago, at a meeting for the preparation of the Pune Cycle Plan, a waste collector from SWaCH narrated her story: “I was around 35-years old when I decided to learn cycling. It helped me save time and money on travel for work. But, it was not easy for me. People in our community made remarks that I was becoming too bold, and that I might soon leave my husband.”It was dismaying to learn about such prejudices against women in this day and age, in Pune. But, she was courageous. She did learn cycling and has continued to cycle since then. We applaud such women.Women face difficulties because the city is not designed according to our needs, and no one is asking us. We encounter opposition to independent travel, both due to stereotypical attitudes, and out of concern for safety. Whatever be the cause, it restricts a woman’s freedom and ability to have a wholesome life.Among the various ways in which a city can empower women, is enabling independent travel. Women need transport options that work for them, by which they can access work, education and meet domestic and social needs.Ranjit Gadgil, programme director at NGO Parisar, says, “For a lot of women, a vehicle is a luxury, often not in their “control” and hence, public transport in Pune, much like the locals in Mumbai, is key. They do need travel options that are not restricted only to “safe” hours, or only short distances.”Studies here, and in other cities, show that women are more dependent on walking, cycling, use of rickshaws and public buses, and spend more time travelling. These are excellent modes from an environmental point of view, but they also must be designed and managed to be safe, comfortable and convenient for women.The travel patterns of women are also not the same as those of men, because their daily schedules are different. For example, the running of the home and care of children are typically seen as women’s work. Due to this, women may make a series of trips, such as dropping off children to school or day care, going to work, and purchasing domestic provisions on the way back.It is important to go beyond generic study insights to specifics – what type of services are needed and where, which areas feel unsafe? The PMC must enable platforms to engage with the public, and especially with women in all wards of the city, on a regular basis to understand these needs, and act to implement changes. Ward-level planning processes combined with creative mapping and discussion events are useful for this. For example, another SWaCH member had shared that, “Boys are zooming around on motorcycles while girls hesitate to even use a cycle. Why don’t you organise walking- and cycling-day events in vastis too. It will help to change the mentality.” Such events could be used for transforming attitudes, as well as mapping physical changes needed. These might include cycle stands near bus stops; identifying dark spots where street lights are needed; opening up a line of sight with other street users to improve safety; amenities for sitting spaces; trees with shade; drinking water and toilet facilities.It is clear that a city with safe, well-lit and active streets, with facilities to walk, cycle, use share-rickshaws and public transport will make a great difference to women’s lives.The opportunity to contribute to public decision-making, to change attitudes by involvement in civic decisions, and having a city that is safe and comfortable are intertwined.We need transport transformation in Pune, shaped by women. The Maharashtra Government’s Women and Child Welfare Department should take this on as a mission.Extending International Women’s Day to today, I #ChooseToChallenge myself and my sisters to raise our voices for safe, comfortable, affordable mobility. I #ChooseToChallenge the city and state governments to involve everyday women citizens in decision-making about transport facilities and public space.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/civic-sanskriti-choosetochallenge-we-women-must-raise-our-voices-on-issues-that-make-a-difference-to-our-lives-101615274960457.html
09-03-2021||Jaipur||5-yr-old Rajasthan girl killed by leopard while sleeping at home||A 5 year old Rajasthan girl was mauled to death by a leopard while she was sleeping with her father in the courtyard of their house at the Kewda village of Kewda ki Naal area of Udaipur district in the late hours on Sunday night.The leopard attacked Lalita, daughter of Kishan Meena, and then dragged her to a hillock, about a kilometre from her house and left her body there. It was on Monday morning, when the villagers spotted her body and raised an alarm, following which, a team of forest department officials and local police reached the spot.The locals staged a protest demanding the animal be caught. They said this was the third such incident in the area when a leopard killed a human being. Earlier a middle aged woman was killed by a leopard while she was returning home after collecting dry grass from the nearby jungle. In yet another recent incident, another woman was injured by a leopard.The police, however, managed to calm the agitating villagers and shifted the girl’s body to mortuary for post-mortem.Also Read: 2 Pakistani brides cross Wagah border to reunite with their Indian husbandsVictim’s father Kishan Singh said he chased the leopard after he attacked his daughter but he disappeared with the girl in the dark towards the hillock.Deputy forest conservator Mukesh Saini said 3 cages were installed in the area to nab the animal. A forest department team was still present at the spot with tranquilisers to restrain the animal when it is spotted. The victim’s family will be provided Rs. 4 lakh as compensation, said district officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/5yrold-rajasthan-girl-killed-by-leopard-while-sleeping-at-home-101615274283325.html
09-03-2021||Delhi||'Will make education a mass movement': Manish Sisodia announces 'Deshbhakti' curriculum in Delhi budget||Deputy chief Manish Sisodia on Tuesday presented Delhi Budget 2021 where he announced that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government will introduce 'Deshbhakti' curriculum in its schools this year.Also Read: Sisodia proposes outlay of ₹69,000 crore, focuses on patriotismSisodia, who also holds the portfolio of finance, said that at least one period per day in schools will be based on the new 'Deshbhakti' curriculum."We will ensure that every child is proud if his/her country, its systems, its people and respects the it," said Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio. "We will train our children in such a manner that when they become government officials, they think twice before even jumping a red light or thinking about breaking the rules of the system," said the deputy chief minister as he presented Delhi's first paperless budget.Manish Sisodia presents Delhi budget: Track live updatesSisodia further said that many great leaders of the country wanted their people to have access to quality education. "We will make education a mass movement," said the AAP leader.Elaborating on the government's plan, Sisodia said that the they will start a voluntary mentorship programme. "We will prepare students who have successfully completed their education and have good jobs to help those students who are struggling in the absence of resources and information," he said, adding that the programme will be called 'Youth for Education'.Sisodia also presented a proposal to set up a Sainik school and an armed forces preparatory school in the national capital in his budget for 2021-22.Sisodia further said that the apart from these, the AAP government will also take three major steps in the field of education: new syllabus from nursery to Class 8, setting up of Delhi's own school education board and starting 100 schools of excellence in the national capital. The new school education board was recently cleared by Delhi government's cabinet."The idea behind the board and the new curriculum is that we want to prepare staunch patriots who take responsibilities for the country, be good human beings, and become job creators. These are the main goals behind creating Delhi's own board," said Sisodia.The new syllabus will be in line with the New Education Policy (NEP) announced by the Centre recently which stresses on putting primary education in the mainstream.Education is one sector in which the AAP government has made major strides. From setting up new schools, to starting parent-teacher meetings (PTMs), the AAP government has done a lot for the sector. It has also instituted a mechanism where private schools built on DDA land have to seek the government’s nod before hiking annual fees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-budget-2021-will-make-education-a-mass-movement-manish-sisodia-announces-deshbhakti-curriculum-101615271449807.html
09-03-2021||Jaipur||2 Pakistani brides cross Wagah border to reunite with their Indian husbands||On international women’s day on March 8, two cross border couples, living separately on the two different sides of the Indo-Pak border were finally reunited, when the two Pakistani brides arrived at their in-laws home in Barmer in Rajasthan two years after their wedding. Chagan Kanwar, wife of Mahendra Singh and Kailash Bai, wife of Nepal Singh crossed over to India on Monday through Wagah-Attari border along with some family members. They were welcomed by their waiting husbands at the border.After crossing the border they passed through a security check and a Covid-19 test. Nepal’s wife Kailash came to India along with her mother and brother while Mahendra’s wife Chagan Kanwar arrived with her father.Nepal Singh told HT that he was very happy to meet his wife but at the same time was also upset since his younger brother’s wife could not get a visa. “I am thankful to Union minister Kailash Choudhary who helped us at every stage and extended his full support in getting visa to my wife.” He further said that initially his wife was allowed entry only through the air route but since they could not afford the air travel, the Union minister again helped in getting permission for her to cross through Wagah-Attari road route. His brother Vikram Singh’s wife, Pakistani girl Nirmala Bai, was denied visa by the consulate on the grounds that her passport was blacklisted, said officials.Mahendra Singh said that after his wife was denied a visa, he ran from pillar to post but his plight was ignored. “I am very thankful to Kailash Choudhary, who not only understands our plight but helped us in every possible manner,” said Singh.27-year-old Nepal Singh Bhati and his 25-year-old sibling Vikarm Singh Bhati, residents of Baiyaa in Jaisalmer district, last January got married into Pakistani Hindu families, living across the border. After the marriage, both stayed in Pakistan for a while before returning to India without their brides as the Indian consulate denied visas to them on technical grounds.Nepal got married to the daughter of Ranjeet Singh Sodha on January 22, 2019, while Vikarm wed the daughter of Taneraj Singh Sodha on January 25, 2019. Post marriage, they stayed with their in-laws for about three months before returning to India without their spouses. In December, last year, Vikarm’s wife delivered a baby boy.Mahendra, a resident of Khejad Ka Paar in Barmer, got married to a Pakistan girl in April 2017. Both have been living apart since Chagan Kanwar was denied a visa by the Indian consulate. Kanwar is from Sinoi village in Amarkot district of Sindh. Mahendra’s story is more interesting as it is full of twists.Also Read: On Women's Day, Gehlot honours young girl; offers post of police sub-inspectorMahendra’s marriage with Chagan was earlier scheduled for March 8, 2019. But it was deferred due to the tension between the two countries following the Indian Air Force’s air strike on a terrorist hideout in Pakistan’s Balakot. Later, Mahendra went to Pakistan in April 2019 and got married on April 25, 2019. However, he had to return alone without his Chagan since the Indian consulate denied visa to her wife on technical grounds.For the past two years these couples were forced to live separately on the two sides of the border. They recently approached Union minister of state for agriculture and BJP MP from Barmer, Kailash Choudhary, who intervened on their behalf, making the external affairs ministry swing into action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/2-pakistani-brides-cross-wagah-border-to-reunite-with-their-indian-husbands-101615270134603.html
09-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC asks Centre to help fund treatment of minor suffering from rare disease||The Delhi high court has asked the Centre to look into the issue of funding the treatment of a five-year-old girl, who is one of the two persons in the country suffering from one of the rarest diseases Biotin-thiamine-responsive basal ganglia disease (BTRBGD), “a rare genetic disorder which may be recorded in human history”.The disorder manifests itself with varied neurological manifestations, the early identification and treatment of which prevents associated mortality and morbidity.Justice Najmi Waziri, on March 4, took note of the submission by the child’s mother who had contended that there is some hope for treatment of her child in the United States of America, where ameliorative treatment has been administered to some patients similarly afflicted.Also Read | Delhi HC to hear plea challenging new rules to regulate internet contentShe told the court that the treatment involves multiple operations on the brain, over a period of 6 months but for medical reasons, it can be performed only upon a person over 7 years of age. She informed Justice Waziri that the expense in this regard would run into crores of rupees, which she cannot afford.According to the mother, the child has to be kept on a ventilator for approximately 10 to 12 hours a day. For this purpose, a trained nurse was engaged and hence expenses increased. She also told the court that as per an earlier order of Justice Waziri on August 31, 2018, the Delhi government was paying her ₹12,000 for the trained nurse, however the expense had risen to ₹50,000.On August 31, 2018, the court had directed the Delhi government to bear the medical and nursing expenses of the child, considering the circumstances of the case. While hearing a matrimonial dispute between the parents of the girl, the court had asked the Delhi government to step in and extend a helping hand. Considering it was not feasible for the mother to pay the high cost of the treatment, it had asked the Delhi government to offer all possible assistance taking in account the high cost of medicines and expenses towards engaging of a nurse and other specialised, trained staff.The mother had then informed the court that the child had to be kept in a sanitised environment in the house at Sarojini Nagar and attended by competent doctors of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).On March 4, during a hearing of a contempt petition against the husband for the disbursal of maintenance, the woman told the court that the child required some more immediate assistance such as a portable ventilator, tubes and filters, etc in addition to the assistance offered by the Delhi government.She said that the child responds to her mother, her grandmother and a few other persons whom she recognises, and her physical health had has improved with the help of the Delhi government.The court asked advocate Satyakam, additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, to consider the mother’s request compassionately and supply the requisite medical equipment to the mother before the next date in wake of the unprecedented nature of affliction and the uniqueness of the case.It also said that the Centre should step in and “consider this rare case for treatment of its most needy citizen”. The judge issued notice to the Centre, represented by standing counsel Gaurang Kanth, and the Delhi government, seeking to know their stand on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-asks-centre-to-help-fund-treatment-of-minor-suffering-from-rare-disease-101615270280726.html
09-03-2021||Business||Delhi Budget: Sisodia proposes outlay of ₹69,000 crore, focuses on patriotism||Delhi's deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday proposed a budget outlay of ₹ ₹69,000 crore for 2021-22, the highest so far, and around 32,000 crore on revenue expenditures and nearly ₹37, 000 crore on schemes and projects as he presented the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government’s seventh financial document in the assembly.Sisodia also said the theme for this year’s budget will be patriotism to celebrate 75 years of the country’s Independence. Sisodia said the government will allocate funds for a series of events to be held across the city over 75 weeks from starting March 12 to celebrate 75 years of Independence in India.“I present this 'Deshbhakti Budget' today in view of the Centre's celebrations of India's 75 years of Independence with 75 weeks as 'Deshbhakti Mahotsav' from March 12. This budget will focus on India's 75 as well as 100 years of Independence,” Sisodia said.He said ₹10 crore will be allocated on programmes and events on the life of Bhagat Singh and another ₹10 crore for programmes and events on the life of BR Ambedkar.Sisodia also said that Delhi’s population likely to reach 32.8 million by 2047. “We have to set up infrastructure keeping that in mind. The budget will share the government's vision on that,” he said.The government aims to increase Delhi's per capita income and make it equivalent to that of Singapore by 2047, Sisodia said. "It is difficult but not impossible," he said while presenting the budget in the assembly.The AAP leader tweeted about presenting a paperless budget this year. "All set! Today I am going to present my 7th budget in the Delhi assembly under the visionary leadership of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. It would be a paperless budget presentation today. For more on #DelhiBudget2021 ... Stay tuned!" Sisodia, who also holds the finance portfolio, tweeted.Sisodia presented the fourth consecutive Status Report of Outcome Budget of the Delhi government. Delhi assembly Budget Session is scheduled to continue till March 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business/delhi-budget-sisodia-proposes-outlay-of-rs-69-000-crore-focuses-on-patriotism-101615269753980.html
09-03-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata fire: Doctors mull DNA test to identify some bodies||The bodies of some of the nine killed in the fire at a multi-storeyed building in Kolkata's Strand Road area was so badly burnt that they could not be identified, following which doctors were mulling DNA test to ascertain their identity, officials said on Tuesday.The toll in the fire at the New Koilaghat Building rose to nine as two more bodies were found from an elevator in the early hours, they said.Most of those killed are first responders -- four firefighters, one assistant sub-inspector posted at the Hare Street police station and an RPF personnel, officials said.The four firefighters were identified as Girish Dey, Gourav Bej, Aniruddha Jana and Biman Purkayat, a senior official of the state government said."The two bodies are yet to be identified. We have sent them for autopsy," a senior official told PTI.The earlier seven bodies were also found from a lift, officials said.The fire broke out around 6.10 pm on the 13th floor of the building that houses the offices of the Eastern Railway and South Eastern Railway.The post-mortem was completed on the seven bodies at the SSKM Hospital after special permission was granted to speed up the process, an official said.Of the seven bodies, a few were so badly burnt that family members could not identify them, following which doctors were mulling to conduct DNA tests, an official at the hospital said.Meanwhile, police registered a suo motu case in connection with the incident and the fire department constituted a committee to probe the mishap, officials said.The Eastern Railway has also ordered a high-level inquiry, headed by principal chief safety officer Jaideep Gupta, they said.The railway personnel killed in the fire were identified as RPF constable Sanjay Sahni, Deputy Chief Commercial Manager Partha Sarathi Mondal and Senior Technician Sudip Das, police said.A team of the Kolkata Police's forensic department reached the spot in the morning as part of the probe to ascertain the cause of the fire, a senior police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-fire-doctors-mull-dna-test-to-identify-some-bodies-101615269802217.html
09-03-2021||Mumbai||Major fire in a plastic company in Maharashtra’s Thane||A major fire broke out in a plastic company located at Asangaon, Shahapur, located on Mumbai – Nashik highway on Tuesday morning around 7.40 am. No casualty or injury has been reported in the incident as per fire officials of Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC), who rushed to the spot with one fire tender.“The blaze was doused around 9 am, however, it reignited and spread across the company. The fire fighting is still going on. We have sent one fire tender and more were called from Thane and Kalyan too,” said Rajesh Pawar, chief fire officer, BNCMC.As per the Thane regional disaster management cell (RDMC), the fire started in Krishna Promotion, a plastic company. A jumbo water tanker from Thane Balkum fire station was also sent to the spot.Also Read: Maha budget: Concession in stamp duty for women, special SRPF battalionAs per the fire fighting team, the entire company premises have been burnt in the incident while the blaze continues to spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/major-fire-in-a-plastic-company-in-maharashtra-s-thane-101615267756324.html
09-03-2021||Kolkata||'Pained beyond words...': President Kovind mourns loss of lives in Kolkata fire||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday expressed grief at the loss of lives in a fire incident at a building in Kolkata and said he was pained beyond words at the tragedy.“Pained beyond words by the extremely tragic fire accident at a building in Kolkata. My deep sympathy and condolences for the bereaved families. I wish for the speedy recovery of the injured,” Kovind tweeted.Pained beyond words by the extremely tragic fire accident at a building in Kolkata. My deep sympathy and condolences for the bereaved families. I wish for speedy recovery of the injured.কলকাতার একটি ভবনে ভয়াবহ অগ্নিকান্ডের ঘটনায় আমি ব্যথিত। শোকাহত পরিবারের প্রতি আমার গভীর সমবেদনা ও শোকজ্ঞাপন করছি। আমি আহতদের দ্রুত আরোগ্য কামনা করছি।At least seven people were killed in an inferno in a multi-storeyed building in Kolkata, which houses zonal offices of Eastern Railway and South Eastern Railway on Monday, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said.Two more persons were also feared dead, Banerjee, who has visited the spot, said.Railway Minister Piyush Goyal has set up a high-level committee to ascertain the cause of the fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/pained-beyond-words-president-kovind-mourns-loss-of-lives-in-kolkata-fire-101615265615343.html
09-03-2021||Education||Admission irregularities in a Bihar university to be probed||Taking a serious note of protests over irregularities in admissions in non-affiliated colleges, vice chancellor of the Bhim Rao Ambedkar Bihar University (BRABU) in Bihar's Muzaffarpur has set up a committee to probe the matter.It is learnt that 18 non-affiliated colleges have enrolled more than 30,000 students in various undergraduate courses for the first year (2019-20 academic session) against the norms. These colleges also got these students enrolled with the university’s examination department with the connivance of a few varsity employees, said officials.Vice chancellor of the varsity Prof Hanuman Prasad Pandey said he was getting numerous complaints from the students. "The students' organisations have staged a protest ahead of the senate meeting a couple of days ago. I have decided to get it properly probed. And this is why a committee led by Pro VC Ravindra Kumar has been set up to look into the affairs. The committee will find out the reasons and the circumstances under which the admissions and registrations have taken place. It will also find out the names of those persons, who are responsible for the anomalies," he said.He said all found to be implicated will have to face stern legal action. "It has come to my notice that some of the employees have been involved in the dirty game of the admissions and the subsequent registration of the students from the non-affiliated colleges, which are 18 in numbers. These colleges were not given permission for taking admissions during 2019-20 sessions by the state government. But, they have done so to make money after the state government devised on spot admissions to minimise the burden on certain colleges," he said.Also Read: Bihar woman ‘kidnapped and killed for dowry’ 4 years back, returnsThe committee, which held its first meeting on Monday to discuss the issue, has to file a report within two weeks to the office of the VC. It will have its second meeting on March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/admission-irregularities-in-a-bihar-university-to-be-probed-101615265825679.html
09-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s per capita income dropped in 2020-21: What the economic survey says||Delhi’s per capita income, which has been the second-highest in India after Goa’s for years now, dropped from ₹3,76,211 in 2019-20 to ₹3,54,004 in 2020-21. The state gross domestic product (SGDP) shrunk by around 5.68%, according to the economic survey tabled by the Delhi government in the assembly on Monday, which cited impact from the Covid-19 outbreak. Here is all you need to know about the finding:• This is the first time since 2010-11 that the per capita income in the country’s capital has shrunk, a consequence of the Covid-19 pandemic, the economic survey said. • The 5.7% contraction in the SGDP signals the city-state’s economy did better than the national average, which is expected to shrink in the 7-8% range for the financial year. • “The contraction in GSDP in Delhi is 5.68% during 2020-21 compared to a contraction of 8% at the national level in 2020-21,” the economic survey said.• On Monday, the government also tabled the Outcome Budget for 2020-21.Also Read | Delhi L-G outlines govt plans, opens Budget session• Delhi’s finance minister Manish Sisodia said, “The financial year 2020-21 started in the shadow of Covid-19 pandemic and a strict lockdown that brought all socio-economic activities to a halt. While our government put up a brave fight against the pandemic, it caused great distortion in the government’s routine activities. Revenue collection nose-dived and government’s resources and efforts were focused on minimising the impact of Covid-19.”• At market prices, the GSDP of Delhi for FY2021 is ₹7,98,310 crore, which the government said represented a contraction of 3.92% over the previous year.• In 2019-20, government data showed Delhi’s GSDP at market price was ₹8,30,872 crore. • The GSDP is the total value of all finished goods and services produced in a given period of time within the geographical boundaries of a state.• In terms of per capita income, the economic survey projected a drop from ₹3,76,221 in 2019-20 to ₹3,54,004 in 2020-21 – a decrease of 5.9%. • The government noted in its report that Delhi’s per capita income pegged is “almost three times the national average of ₹127,768”.• In 2011-12, Delhi’s per capita income at market price was ₹1,85,001.• According to the Delhi government, the city-state has maintained a “consistent revenue surplus” – this was ₹7,499 crore in 2019-20 and ₹6,261 crore in 2018-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-per-capita-income-dropped-in-2020-21-what-the-economic-survey-says-101615265240769.html
09-03-2021||Other||Covid-19 cases increase steadily in Haryana||For the fourth consecutive week, Haryana recorded a steady increase of 682 more coronavirus infections between March 1 and 7 as compared to the week before. Health officials said the state recorded 1,736 new infections last week as against 1,054 new infections the week before from February 22-28. The continued increase in viral infections after a prolonged spell of decline however has not led to an increase in the sample positivity rate. The cumulative positivity rate which was 4.8% last week further reduced to 4.7%. Officials said the recovery rate was 98.6% and the mortality rate was 1.1%. Inoculation touches 4-lakh mark The vaccination coverage touched the 4-lakh mark (including the second dose to health care workers) on Monday. Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said the health department tested about 1.27 lakh persons last week. It was about 1.15 lakh persons the week before. And 99% of the sampling was done using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) kits, the gold standard test for detecting Covid-19,’’ he said. The ACS, health said total vaccination coverage of health care workers and frontline workers was 326250 and this included the second dose administered to health care workers. “We inoculated 22535 elderly from the 60 plus category on Monday alone. Our total vaccine coverage of those in 60 plus bracket and those in the 45-59 age-group with comorbidities is about 72,000,’’ he said. An all-time low – 534 infections — were reported from Feb 1-7 and state had reported an all-time high of 17,616 cases from September 14-20. Panchkula exits critical category Data showed that Panchkula last week made an exit from the critical category after its positivity rate fell down to 5.9%. Now, only three districts - Faridabad (8.5%), Gurugram (7%), Rewari (6.8%) have a critical positivity rate of more than 6%. Health officials said there are 16 districts in the state which have a positivity rate in the range of 2.5% to 5.5%, thereby meaning it is lower than the critical positivity rate of more than 6% but higher than the desirable positivity rate of less than 2%. Three districts — Nuh, Charkhi Dadri and Jhajjar — have a desirable positivity rate of less than 2%. Number of infections per week December 21-27: 3,263 December 28-January 3: 2,161 January 4-10: 1,887 January 11-17: 1,354 January 18-24: 894 January 25-31: 694 February 1-7: 534 February 8-14: 615 February 15-21: 684 February 22-28: 1,054 March 1-7: 1,736||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-cases-increase-steadily-in-haryana-101615264820522.html
09-03-2021||Patna||Bihar woman ‘kidnapped and killed for dowry’ 4 years back, returns||A woman in Bihar’s Rohtas district, who was allegedly kidnapped and killed by her husband and in-laws for dowry four years back, returned home alive on Sunday. Rukhsana Khatoon, in her 30s, returned to her husband’s home in ward no.7 of Kargahar village.Rukhsana, daughter of one Asharaf Ali of Muradabad village under Sasaram Mufassil police station, was married to Khalid Ansari of Kargahar in the year 2010. The couple had four children from the wedlock.She disappeared with her five year old son in 2017, leaving behind three children and could not be found by in-laws and her maternal family.Her father registered a case of dowry, torturing and kidnapping for murder under Sections 498A, 364 and 120B of Indian Penal Code (IPC) against 10 accused, including her husband Khalid Ansari, husband’s elder brothers Gaffar Ansari and Sattar Ansari, mother Jubeda Khatoon, sister Shaqila Khatoon and her husband Munna Ansari with the Mufassil police station.The poor family said it faced many hardships in the process of getting bails and fighting the case, which was still pending in a Sasaram court.In 2019, Khalid married another woman to look after the three children from his first wife.The news of Rukhsana’s return spread like wildfire and people gathered at the house of her husband. But the boy was missing and she had no satisfactory explanation. The family refused to let her stay and she had to return to her father’s home after much hullabaloo.Also Read: Bihar political churning: RLSP to decide on merger with JD (U) on March 13“We have been jailed and suffered a lot due to the woman and could not keep her for another scandal and case. We have faith in the judiciary and justice will be done,” husband’s elder brother Gaffar Ansari said.Superintendent of police, Ashish Bharti said that police had submitted a charge-sheet in the case for charges of dowry torturing, second marriage in life time of the wife and common intention under sections 498A, 494 and 34 of the IPC. It was not a case of dowry killing. Police never arrested the accused and they got bail from the court, Bharti said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-woman-kidnapped-and-killed-for-dowry-4-years-back-returns-101615264183376.html
09-03-2021||Mumbai||Obscene video case: Bombay HC grants pre-arrest bail to Sherlyn Chopra||The Bombay high court on Monday granted interim anticipatory bail to actor Sherlyn Chopra in connection with a case registered against her by Mumbai Police’s cyber cell based on a complaint about obscene videos uploaded on the internet. In case Chopra is arrested in the case, she will be released on a personal bond of ₹25,000 and two solvent sureties in same amount, said the court.The court has directed the actor to cooperate with the investigation, be at the police station every day from March 15-17, and asked the police to report to it on March 23, which is the next date of hearing.Also Read | Why keen on arresting Eknath Khadse, Bombay HC asks EDThe bench of justice P D Naik heard the anticipatory bail application filed by the actor through advocate Charanjeet Chanderpal in the case registered last year.In her petition, the actor claimed that the content was made for a UK-based company which provided it to users on pay per view platforms and the material available on free-to-view platforms was pirated. She claimed did not have any knowledge about who did it and hence, could not be held guilty.The police told the court that as a part of their inquiry, they wanted to interrogate the director of photography who had shot the scenes of the film which became the basis of the complaint. They said that unless Chopra shared the details with them, they would not be able to get to the root of the obscene content which was available on free-to-view platforms.Chopra approached the court after failing to respond to the police summons following the complaint and hence she apprehended that she maybe arrested when she went to the police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/obscene-video-case-bombay-hc-grants-pre-arrest-bail-to-sherlyn-chopra-101615263140435.html
09-03-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata fire: All 9 victims had used the elevator, says fire services official||Nine people who died in the fire that broke out on the 13th floor of the Eastern Railway’s office in central Kolkata on Monday evening, had all used the elevator, said a fire services official on Tuesday.“The fire which broke out around 6.10pm was brought under control after nearly 11 hours, at around 5am on Tuesday. There are still some pockets where the fire is yet to be doused. Our men are working and all engines are still there,” a said a fire services official on Tuesday morning.Fire broke out on the top floor of the building that houses the offices of the Eastern Railway at Kolkata’s Strand Road on Monday evening. At least 20 engines were pressed into service.The deceased include four fire fighters, a Railway Protection Force personnel, an assistant sub-inspector of the Kolkata Police.Also Read | Kolkata fire: Mamata says no one from railways was present, officials deny claimSeven bodies were found in an elevator, two in another one. “Nearly all (seven) the bodies were lying inside the elevator...They had used the elevator to climb up. As the floor was on fire and it was hot, the moment the elevator door opened, they got charred,” Sujit Bose, state fire minister told mediapersons late on Monday night.Later, the other two bodies were found inside a second elevator, fire brigade officials said.“I learnt from the fire brigade personnel that the victims died because they used the elevator. They got charred because of the blaze. One shouldn’t use the elevator when a fire breaks out...Maybe they were in a hurry...It is very unfortunate and sad incident,” chief minister Mamata Banerjee told reporters from the site on Monday.PM Narendra Modi tweeted, “Saddened by the loss of lives due to the fire tragedy in Kolkata. In this hour of sadness, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. May the injured recover at the earliest.”The state government has announced a compensation of ₹10 lakh for each victim’s family and job to a family member. Railways has ordered a high level probe into the incident.Union railways minister Piyush Goyal tweeted early on Tuesday,“All possible assistance has been provided by the Railways to the State Govt during this unfortunate fire accident. A high level inquiry consisting of four Principal heads of Railway departments has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the fire.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-fire-all-9-victims-had-used-the-elevator-101615261220397.html
09-03-2021||Ranchi||Ranchi youth lynched for ‘stealing’ mini-truck, 2 held, kin allege police laxity||A 22-year-old Jharkhand youth accused of stealing a mini-truck from Ranchi’s wholesale market on Sunday night, was lynched by labourers, leading to the youth’s death on Monday.Police said it rescued Sachin Kumar Verma alias Golu, a resident of Nawatoli, from the clutches of a mob of about 40 labourers on Monday morning and admitted him to Ranchi's Sadar hospital, where he died.Sachin’s family members and other residents of Nawatoli, staged a protest before the Kotwali police station, demanding arrest of the accused. They also alleged police didn’t shift Sachin to the hospital at the right time and kept him in the lockup instead."The deceased's mother Annu Verma informed the police that the truck owner, along with the mob, had grabbed her son and was assaulting him at Neel Ratan street, Nawatoli, behind the civil court. A police control room (PCR) van immediately went there and rescued him. Since he was injured, he was taken to the hospital where he died during the treatment," said Kotwali police station officer-in-charge Shailesh Prasad.He said Annu Verma lodged an FIR against four known persons and 30-40 unknown people."We have arrested two of them namely, Alakh Deo Rai and Indrajeet Rai, who confessed that they were part of the mob that assaulted the boy," Prasad said, adding, hunt is on to arrest other perpetrators of the crime.Prasad said the post-mortem of the body had been carried out and a thorough probe would be done to book each and everyone involved.Also Read: NHRC notices to Jharkhand govt, ministry of social justice over delay of pensionSachin's maternal sister Ranju Devi said he visited her house at Bazra locality on Sunday evening. "He took my two-wheeler along with him with a promise to return it in a few hours. He, however, didn't come back," she said."On Monday morning, when I received the news about his beating, I went straight to Kotwali police station only to find him in the lock up at around 6 am. He was demanding water and was pleading to me to save him. Had he been admitted to the hospital on time, he could have been saved," Ranju Devi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/ranchi-youth-lynched-for-stealing-mini-truck-2-held-kin-allege-police-laxity-101615260612299.html
09-03-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Curbs in place, traffic continues to be hit||Multiple borders of Delhi with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remained closed for vehicular movement fully or partially on Tuesday as farmers continued to protest against the three farm laws at the city’s borders. Tuesday is the 104th day of the ongoing agitation. For motorists coming to Delhi from UP, the Ghazipur border remains closed. Traffic police have advised commuters to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. Commuters can also choose the Chilla border which was opened for traffic after farmers cleared the protest site following Republic Day violence. The entry and exit points between the national Capital and Haryana -- passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari and Saboli and Mangesh -- continued to remain closed on Tuesday. Traffic police have advised motorists travelling between Delhi and Haryana to take alternative routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders or other routes passing through Gurugram and Faridabad.The police have also diverted traffic from Mukarba and Grand Trunk Road. The Jharoda border, which was partially closed all this while, also reopened fully for traffic on Sunday evening. Farmers have been protesting at different borders of the national Capital since November last year, against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-curbs-in-place-traffic-continues-to-be-hit-101615259180578.html
09-03-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 surge: 11 hotspots of Thane to be under lockdown from March 13 to 31||The civic administration in Maharashtra's Thane announced lockdown from March 13 to 31 in 11 hotspots in the wake of rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).News agency PTI said that the order was issued by Thane Municipal Commissioner Vipin Sharma. It said all restrictions that were in place during the nationwide lockdown declared earlier would be in force during this time as well.Also Watch: Maha minister warns of strict action over Covid rules violationsAs on Monday morning, the Covid-19 caseload of Thane district was 2,69,845, including 6,302 deaths. On Monday, 149 fresh cases of infection were recorded in Thane, according to update from its civic body. There were 1,911 active cases too.After recording over 10,000 new coronavirus cases for the last three days, Maharashtra on Monday reported a dip with 8,744 new infections on Monday.The caseload in the state rose to 22,28,471, while the death toll reached 52,500 with 22 fatalities, a health department official said.But in Mumbai, the number of active patients who are undergoing treatment has increased by almost 89 per cent compared to last month. Eight civic wards including Andheri (West), Chembur, Govandi are major contributors to active caseload in the city.Mumbai recorded 1,360 new Covid-19 cases on March 7 while 1,020 patients were discharged. On March 6, the number of active cases in the city jumped to 10,398, from only 5,500 in the first week of February. The cumulative case count of the city stands at 333,564.Three weeks ago Mumbai’s daily Covid-19 count was below 500. The officials of BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said highest number of cases are from high-rise buildings.The civi body has ruled out any plans to impose lockdown in Mumbai, but the city has been brought under strong surveillance with BMC stepping up containment measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-to-be-under-lockdown-from-march-13-to-31-after-surge-on-covid-19-cases-101615258168557.html
09-03-2021||Kolkata||PM Modi announces ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh for those killed in Kolkata fire||The Centre on Tuesday approved an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each from Prime Minister's National Relief Fund for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to the tragic fire in Kolkata, Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said.A compensation of ₹50,000 will be given to those seriously injured, PMO said hours after a massive fire engulfed a high-rise building of the Eastern Railway at Kolkata's Strand Road."Saddened by the loss of lives due to the fire tragedy in Kolkata. In this hour of sadness, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. May the injured recover at the earliest," PM Modi said in a tweet on Tuesday morning.Also read: 9 killed in blaze at multi-storeyed building in KolkataNine people including four fire fighters, one Railway Protection Force personnel, an assistant sub-inspector of the Kolkata Police and one unidentified person died while fighting a massive blaze, fire service minister Sujit Bose said late Monday night.The fire had broken out at the 13th floor of the Eastern Railway’s office in the evening.Two more bodies were found inside a second elevator, fire brigade officials said late on Monday night. The bodies could not be identified. It was suspected that one of them could be the Eastern Railway's deputy chief commercial manager Partha Sarathi Mondal who had been missing since evening.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had also announced compensation and offered assistance from the state government."Money cannot compensate for loss of life but the state government will stand by these familes. Each family will be given a job and ₹10 lakh," she said.Also read: Mamata says no one from railways was present, officials deny claimStating that she didn't want to politicise the issue, Mamata said that Railway officials hadn't arrived yet. "You can see that no railway official has come here so far. It is their property and they have a responsibility," she said."We should always be careful. During a fire we should not use elevators. I am sure those who went up were experts in their field. Probably they wanted to work fast. This is unfortunate," said the chief minister."Railways have their fire-fighting team too. What happened to that? It's our men who did all the work. Not all those who died live in Kolkata. One of them live in Baranagar in north Kolkata, I was told. The families have been informed. They are coming," said the chief minister.Banerjee left the spot at 12.10 am. She also went to SSKM hospital to inquire about the injured."It is difficult to identify the bodies because all are badly charred. Two or three of the deceased can be identified by their colleagues. The post mortem examination, which is mandatory, can be done tonight but how can we hand the bodies to the families without identification?" Banerjee said at SSKM hospital where the seven bodies were taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/pm-modi-announces-ex-gratia-of-rs-2-lakh-for-those-killed-in-kolkata-fire-101615255534557.html
09-03-2021||Patna||Bihar political churning: RLSP to decide on merger with JD (U) on March 13||Former Janata Dal (United) state president and Rajya Sabha MP Bashistha Narain Singh and Rashtriya Lok Samta Party (RLSP) president and former union minister Upendra Kushwaha, walked hand in hand to take Covid vaccination at Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) in Patna on Monday, a gesture full of symbolism and political churning in Bihar.Kushwaha took the first dose of Covid vaccination along with Singh. Soon after, party leaders claimed, chief minister Nitish Kumar congratulated both for taking the vaccine.This has set the political circles agog with now certain merger of the RLSP with the JD(U). The RLSP has convened a meeting of party office-bearers on March 13 and 14 to take the final call. A senior RLSP leader said that Kushwaha held a meeting with his party leaders on Monday as many RLSP leaders left the party after talk of Kushwaha’s growing ‘proximity’ with JD(U) started.Singh, one of the senior most JD (U) leaders, has been negotiating with Kushwaha for the possible merger of the party. Kushwaha had a series of meetings with chief minister Kumar in the last three months, the last one being two days back in which CM, Kushwaha and Singh were present.Several RLSP and JD(U) leaders said on condition of anonymity that the modalities of merger along with Kushwaha’s new role has been decided. Kushwaha may also be given a seat in the legislative council, they added.“Very soon he will come. Let us assume that he is with us from today. He was, is and will remain close to us,” said Singh of Kushwaha, while talking to the media.Kushwaha, on his part, did not say anything on merger but recalled his association with Singh and Kumar. “I have an old association with dada (as Singh is fondly called in political circles). I have been with him since I joined politics and will remain with him in future as well,” he said. “I have a personal relationship with Nitish Kumar and have worked with him,” Kushwaha said.Also Read: Bihar records highest single-day Covid-19 vaccinationJD(U) leaders believe that RLSP merger will suit both sides, particularly since the JD(U) is finding itself on the back foot with the BJP asserting itself in the government.The Kushwaha-led party has a sizable support among the Kushwaha voters and its exit from the NDA fold cost JD(U) its traditional votes. Kushwaha had been to assembly and Rajya Sabha on a JD(U) ticket. The RLSP quit the NDA in December 2018 after the BJP refused to offer more than two seats to the RLSP for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections even as it went out of the way to accommodate Nitish Kumar’s JD(U).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-political-churning-rlsp-to-decide-on-merger-with-jd-u-on-march-13-101615255018817.html
09-03-2021||Delhi||Lockdown improved city’s air, experts say time to think local||The pollution levels in Delhi last year were the lowest since 2014, according to the economic survey report released on Monday. The outcome budget, also presented on Monday, showed that 79% of government projects, to tackle pollution levels in the national capital and improve the environment, are on track.Experts, however, attributed the reduction to the “unprecedented conditions” brought about by the Covid-19 lockdown and called for reforms to curb pollution by local and regional factors.The government data also showed that the average levels of major pollutants, including that of PM10 (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometres), PM2.5 (ultra-fine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) and nitrogen dioxide, have been decreasing steadily over the years.The annual average concentrations of PM2.5 decreased from 149 micrograms per cubic meter (ug/m3) in 2014 to 101 ug/m3 in 2020, the survey report tabled by finance minister Manish Sisodia on Monday showed.The economic survey also said the annual average PM10 level also dropped from 324ug/m3 in 2014, to 187ug/m3 in 2020.In India, the acceptable standard for PM 2.5 is 60ug/m3 and for PM10 it is 100ug/m3. The annual average for PM2.5 and PM10, at all monitoring locations in Delhi, exceeded the prescribed standards, the report said.In the outcome budget, only around 15% of the projects to tackle pollution were behind schedule, a finding that bodes well for a city that has been plagued by rising pollution for long, especially during winter months.“All 26 ambient air quality monitoring stations are functional. Around 621 stack samples regarding the emission of industries, power plants, hotels etc., were tested up to December 2020, against the target of 700 samples during 2020-21,” the outcome budget report said.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) said, “Despite the declining trend (year-on-year basis) due to action taken over the past few years — shift to clean fuels for industry and transport, power plants, trucks, old vehicles — the winter PM2.5 concentration has bounced back, unmasking the impact of local and regional pollution. This demands quicker and more ambitious regional reforms to curb pollution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lockdown-improved-city-s-air-experts-say-time-to-think-local-101615243345078.html
09-03-2021||Delhi||L-G outlines govt plans, opens Budget session||Lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal on Monday outlined measures taken by the city government to fight the spread of Covid-19 along with the Central government during his speech at the Delhi Assembly to mark the beginning of the budget session.The L-G also noted that the economy of the Capital shrunk by 5.6% due to the pandemic. “All economies have been dented by Covid-19 and so has the economy of Delhi. Gross State Domestic Product of Delhi in real terms of constant prices is estimated to have contracted by 5.68% in 2020-21,” Baijal said.The government has undertaken various steps to handle the crisis and job losses due to the pandemic, including raising the number of hospital beds, setting up of plasma bank and allowing home isolation, Baijal said.“My government together with the Central government garnered all resources to ensure preventive and curative actions to safeguard the life of citizens of Delhi,” he said.The House on Monday paid homage to the farmers who died during the ongoing protests against the Centre’s farm laws, and the victims of natural disaster in Chamoli in Uttarakhand.Speaker Ram Niwas Goel on the occasion of International Women’s Day, invited deputy Speaker Rakhi Birla to conduct the proceedings of the House for the day.Leader of the Opposition in Delhi assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said, “It was inappropriate for the L-G to give so much credit to the AAP government for the Covid-19 management work. We condemn that. In reality, the Covid-19 situation in Delhi came under control only when Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah intervened – from increasing tests to setting up the biggest Covid care centre facilities.”Baijal’s office did not respond to Bidhuri’s allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lg-outlines-govt-plans-opens-budget-session-101615242800212.html
09-03-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 hits Metro ridership, total vehicles in city at 11.8mn||The Covid-19 pandemic took a toll on the Delhi Metro in 2020, with its daily ridership nosediving from 5.7 million (before the lockdown in March), to one million since resuming services in the national capital on September 7, the latest economic survey for Delhi has revealed.According to the document released by the government on Monday, Delhi Metro services have been hit mainly due to the Covid-19 induced social distancing protocols. Metro services in Delhi were suspended from March 22, 2020, to September 6, due to the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of the global pandemic.“While state-run buses have been allowed to carry passengers at full seating capacity, the same has not been allowed in the Metro yet. Due to social distancing norms, currently, the average daily ridership has decreased to about one million, including the ridership of the Airport Line and Rapid Metro in Gurugram,” said a Metro official, on condition of anonymity.Transport experts say the Metro ridership may have also suffered on account of the free bus rides for women scheme, launched by the Delhi government on October 29, 2019.The economic survey report stated that the free bus rides for women scheme helped women take 193.2 million trips for free till last year (2020), of which 105.8 million trips were made on Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses and 87.4 million trips on cluster buses.In 2019-20, the combined ridership of DTC and cluster buses had increased to 5.1 million per day from 4.2 million in 2018-19. The report did not state the figures for 2020-21.Adding to Delhi’s pollution woes, a key component of which is automobile emissions, the economic survey indicated that the vehicular population has increased to 11,892,877 (4.4%) in 2019-20 as compared to 113,91,551 in 2018-19.The highest increase was seen in the two-wheeler segment, which now accounts for 7.9 million of the total registered vehicles in the city.As per the outcome budget, the transport department could issue only 4.7 million pollution under control (PUC) certificates instead of the targeted 7.5 million in 2020-21.KK Kapila, chairperson of the International Road Federation (IRF), said, “The only way forward is to keep increasing the number of buses in Delhi and make it so user friendly that more people give up their private vehicles and use buses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-hits-metro-ridership-total-vehicles-in-city-at-118mn-101615242470346.html
09-03-2021||Delhi||Govt stays invested in students, on track to achieving targets||The per student expenditure incurred by the Delhi government has increased by around 35% in the last five years, according to the Economic Survey of Delhi 2020-21 tabled by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia in the Assembly on Monday. The expenditure signifies the resources allocated to schools in accordance with their enrolment for education and learning.The Delhi government on Monday also presented its outcome budget for the last financial year, highlighting the initiatives taken to ensure continuous teaching-learning process at a time when schools were closed and classes shifted online due to Covid-19 pandemic.Sisodia, who also holds the finance portfolio, said despite the pandemic there has been no loss of days in the academic session. “The Covid-19 pandemic necessitated the schools to organise online classes for the benefit of students of government schools. Many creative initiatives were taken to reach out to the students who remained unconnected. The Delhi government has so far conducted educational activities for children for a total of 229 days in this session; a session normally is for about 220 days,” Sisodia said in his speech.According to the economic survey, the per student expenditure in Delhi has gone up to ₹78,082 in 2020-21 from ₹50,812 in 2016-17. Explaining the reason behind the increase in per student expenditure, a senior government official said, “The overall expenditure on education has been rising every year, and as a result the money spent on each student has also gone up.”According to the outcome budget, education was among the sectors where the government was able to achieve maximum targets. Delhi government’s 84% projects on education were on-track, according to the outcome budget.The outcome budget was launched by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in 2017, which basically measures the government expenditure in terms of targets achieved as well as what percentage of intended beneficiaries were reached out.Education has remained the focus of the AAP ever since they were elected to power in Delhi. The government allocated 23.2% of its total budget for education in 2020-21.“Despite Covid-19, the schools distributed textbooks to students of classes 1 to 8. Food security allowances to all eligible students were paid for the month of March 2020 to June 2020 in lieu of cooked food. For the period July to December 2020, kits of dry ration are being provided to the students in lieu of mid-day meals,” Sisodia said.Educationist Meeta Sengupta said education needs additional funding to make up for the lags in outcomes in the past decades, especially for students in government schools. “Both the quantum and quality of the investment matter. This is why transparency in outcomes should be encouraged and shared across states. Besides, increased investment in education should also be seen as an invitation to other states to join the reform story.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-stays-invested-in-students-on-track-to-achieving-targets-101615242201277.html
09-03-2021||Delhi||Ashram underpass gets revised June deadline||The Public Works Department (PWD) is expected to complete work on the 750-metre underpass connecting Nizamuddin Railway Bridge and CSIR Apartments at the Ashram intersection, one of the busiest stretches in the city, by June this year, missing another deadline of April, according to the economic survey report tabled by the Delhi government in Delhi assembly on Monday.In the outcome budget, which was also presented on Monday, the government said that 40% of the work on the underpass was completed until December last year.Senior PWD officials confirmed the extension of the deadline and said the new date factored in the time required for the final inauguration of the underpass. “The work might be completed 10-15 days earlier, but we have taken into account the date of inauguration after the construction work is completed,” a senior PWD official confirmed on Monday.The economic survey report also said that the extension of the Ashram flyover, for which the PWD has started placing barricades around the Ring Road, is also expected to be completed by March 2022.Ashram intersection, where around 350,000 lakh vehicles cross during peak traffic hours, is among the busiest and the most congested stretches in the capital. The stretch witnesses massive traffic snarls even during non-rush hours because of portions of Mathura Road being dug up by the construction agency.“The estimated cost of this project (underpass) is ₹77.92 crore along with shifting of services. The construction work is in progress and 40% work has been completed till December 2020. An expenditure of R 23.74 crores has been incurred till December. The work is likely to be completed by June 2021,” the economic survey report read.Professor Sewa Ram of the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), said while work on many major construction projects was affected because of the Covid-19 lockdown and subsequently the non-availability of labour, the agencies could have made a dedicated plan to speed up work on the Ashram underpass, considering it gets such high volume of traffic.“The initial deadline was December 2020, after which the deadline was shifted again to April this year. Now that the agency has shifted the deadline again to June, they must ensure that resources deployed on site are increased and the road is opened for commuters earlier. Such delays not only result in increased costs but also result in hassle for commuters, which we can see on the stretch,” he said.The survey also said that nearly 56% of work on the construction of two single-carriageway underpasses, between Wazirabad and Jagatpur, and a pedestrian subway near Gandhi Vihar on the Outer Ring Road, was completed during the time the preparation of the document. Work for five foot-over bridges was also completed fully and more than 90% work has been completed for four more FOBs till December last year, the Outcome Budget read.In its last outcome budget, the Delhi government’s status report showed that of all the projects that were factored for assessing the performance of PWD, 40% were off track.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ashram-underpass-gets-revised-june-deadline-101615241454139.html
09-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi among states that tested the most for Covid||Delhi was among the states that conducted the highest number of Covid-19 tests in the country, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Monday while presenting the outcome budget in the Delhi assembly.There were 87.8 lakh Covid-19 tests conducted in the city till December 31, 2020, of which nearly 36% were done using the more accurate RT-PCR method. This ratio has further improved over the past two months, with two of every three tests being conducted using the RT-PCR method.“Just as a comparison, when Delhi was testing at the rate of 4,400 tests per million population daily, Kerala which was the second highest in tests in India (at that time), was testing at the rate of 2,300 tests per million daily. The all India average was 1,300 test per million,” Sisodia said while tabling the outcome budget.He also said the city was able to manage three waves of the dreaded infection – 8,593 cases were reported in a single day during the third wave in November – due to timely augmentation of hospital infrastructure as well as by starting home isolation.At its peak, the city had 18,718 hospital beds, 882 beds in a step-down Covid Health Centres, and 8,273 beds in Covid Care Centres, where patients who had a mild infection and had no facilities for home isolation were admitted.There were 1,463 ventilators, and 6,070 non-invasive ventilation options such as BiPaP and high flow nasal oxygen were also made available across hospitals. The Delhi government also set up a real-time app to ensure that people did not have to go from hospital to hospital in search of beds.“Responding to the surge in cases during this period, Delhi government innovated and created the world’s first home isolation programme. Home isolation meant that patients could recover in the comfort and emotional security of their homes,” he said. The government had distributed over 60,000 pulse oximeters to those in home isolation to regularly check their oxygen saturation and 3,000 oxygen concentrators were also given to those who had trouble maintaining their oxygen levels.Apart from the Covid related work, the Delhi government also opened two newly constructed hospitals in Burari and Ambedkar Nagar amid the pandemic.This was much needed, as the economic survey, also presented on Monday, showed that Delhi’s beds-to-population ratio had dipped in 2019 to 2.74 beds per 1,000 persons, as compared to 2.96 beds per 1,000 persons the year before.The World Health Organization recommends a ratio of five beds per 1,000 population. In terms of absolute numbers, the hospital beds went down to 54,321 in 2019 from 57,709 the year before.Most of this reduction happened in the private sector where the number of hospitals and nursing homes reduced to 1,151 in 2019 as compared to 1,175 the previous year.“Almost 45% to 50% of the CGHS and ECHS beneficiaries live in Delhi and avail of health-care services in city hospitals. Now, the rates for these are very low and the disbursement takes time. This has led to financial crisis in many small centres. Then, there is Ayushman Bharat which also pays less than these empanelment for almost 80% of the procedures. Plus, there is no new investment coming in. All this has led to smaller hospitals closing down,” said Girdhar Gyani, director general of Association of Healthcare Providers (India).Dr Girish Tyagi, who recently stepped down as president of the Delhi Medical Association, said, “Covid-19 worsened the situation because for many months, there were very few patients at smaller hospitals.”The number of beds, however, went up in Delhi government hospitals from 11,770 in 2018 to 12,464 in 2019. The two hospitals in Ambedkar Nagar and Burari will add over 1,300 beds to the government’s total and the hospital in Dwarka-- which is almost complete -- will add another 1,700 beds. In addition to that, another 9,000 beds will be added to Delhi government’s tally with the remodelling of 15 of its existing hospitals, according to the economic survey.A total of 496 mohalla clinic have been set up across the city so far, according to the outcome budget presented by Sisodia on Monday. The government has almost reached the halfway mark of its target of setting up 1,000 such clinics across the city – one per every inhabited square kilometre in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-among-states-that-tested-the-most-for-covid-101615240727276.html
09-03-2021||Delhi||In Delhi, Women personnel take over||To mark International Women’s Day, Delhi Police’s women personnel took the lead on Monday in all areas of field policing — from managing major traffic intersections and driving police control room vans to leading motorcycle patrolling and working at the help desks, as duty officers and as emergency officers in various police stations.On the occasion, the Delhi Police also honoured 22 women personnel for their remarkable efforts beyond the call of duty during the Covid-19 pandemic period and 15 civilian women from various fields such as health services, social services, entrepreneurs and Good Samaritans for their remarkable contribution to society.Nine women, who had delivered their babies in police control room vans while on their way to hospitals, were also invited with their children to the Delhi Police headquarters on Monday to take part in the celebrations. Two women officers who had helped these women during childbirth were also felicitated.Delhi police commissioner SN Shrivastava said the force wants to mark the day in two ways – one, by letting the women force take command roles and manage priority policing and, two, by felicitating women police officers who have done exceptional work in their fields.“On women’s day, major traffic junctions, PCR vehicles and police station functioning were commanded by women. Our idea is to profoundly state that with self-belief, women can and are doing marvellous work, shoulder to shoulder with men, breaking gender stereotypes,” the commissioner said.Awareness events such as a street play on ‘Good Touch-Bad Touch’ was also held.Reiterating Delhi Police’s approach towards crime against women, Shrivastava said last year, the crime against women reduced by 30% in Delhi. “Delhi Police is committed to ensuring the safety of women,” he said.He listed out the women safety measures taken up by Delhi Police such as the Sashakti self-defence programme, the launching of apps such as Himmat Plus, and implementation of Safe City project with 10,000 cameras, and assured the people that Delhi Police is continuously striving to secure and serve women better.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-delhi-women-personnel-take-over-101615239349243.html
09-03-2021||Delhi||Body of newborn found buried in sand at Raisina Road, probe launched||A heavily decomposed, yet to be identified, body of a newborn was found under a mound of sand stored for construction work at the National Media Centre on Raisina Road in Central Delhi on Monday afternoon by the police. The body was sent to the mortuary of a nearby government hospital where it has been preserved for the purpose of identifying the parents of the infant.“A case of concealment of birth by secret disposal of the dead body under Indian Penal Code’s Section 318 has been registered at Parliament Street police station. Investigations in the case is being conducted to identify the newborn and circumstances that might have led to its death,” said deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal.According to the DCP, a call was received at 1.40pm on Monday at the Parliament Street police station regarding the body of a child found that had been discovered behind the National Media Centre. A police team immediately rushed to the spot and found that the body had been buried in a mound of sand that had been unloaded there for construction work at the media centre.“The body was that of a newborn boy who still had a clip attached to his umbilical cord. The body was highly decomposed and seemed very old and was infested with maggots,” he said, adding that the incident spot was inspected by the district crime team.The police said that the contractor of the construction site will be asked to identify the truck that unloaded the sand and the place from where the sand had been loaded. Investigators suspect that the body of the newborn might have been buried somewhere near the Yamuna Khadar and had been dug up and transported in the process of bringing sand to the National Media Centre.“We will first identify the hospital where the child was born or had been admitted after birth. It may help us identify his parents, whose questioning may lead us to the exact circumstance under which the baby died and was buried. Our investigations in the case is on,” said a police officer associated with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/body-of-newborn-found-buried-in-sand-at-raisina-road-probe-launched-101615238824544.html
09-03-2021||Bhopal||'Nari Adalat to open across panchayats to resolve family disputes': MP CM||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday announced that every panchayat will have ‘Nari Adalat’ to settle minor cases of villages.Addressing a function organised on Women’s Day on Monday, Chouhan made several announcements for empowering women.He said, “In villages, families fought with each other. Husband and wife fought on trivial issues. Such small fights shouldn’t reach the police stations so we will start 'Nari Adalat' where women will ensure settlements out of police stations. If required, we will provide police support to these women too.”Chouhan also announced that he will write to the Supreme Court to speed up the process of ensuring capital punishment to minor rape accused.In Madhya Pradesh, as of now, a special court of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) announced capital punishment to 72 people since April 2018 but due to the slow judicial process, the matter is pending before the court, said Chouhan.The chief minister also announced to develop an 'honour fund' or ‘Samman Kosh’ worth ₹100 crore to help women make self-reliant.“We will help self-helped groups by providing work to them. They are already stitching school uniforms. Now, we will allow them to procure wheat on behalf of the state government. The SHGs will also do a different type of surveys in the village to help the government,” said the CM.“We are also making a necessary addition in the Ladli Laxmi Yojna. Now, the 37 lakhs beneficiaries of the scheme will be provided higher education free of cost by the state government,” he added.For maternal healthcare, we will develop 1,600 primary health centres and community health centres into maternity homes. Similarly, women desk will be set up across all district hospitals to deal with women health issues, said the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/nari-adalat-to-open-across-panchayats-to-resolve-family-disputes-mp-cm-101615238491370.html
09-03-2021||Delhi||JEE main result: two top scorers from capital||Two students from Delhi made it to the 100 percentile in the Paper 1 of the Joint Entrance Examination (Main), the results of which was declared by the National Testing Agency (NTA) on Monday.The two who managed perfect scores were Pravar Kataria, 17, a resident of Vikaspuri and Ranjim Prabal Das, 18, a resident of Janakpuri.Kataria said, “It was difficult to focus when the lockdown started because we had just stepped into the new academic session. There wasn’t much motivation to study but gradually, with the support of our teachers, things fell into place.”Das, on the other hand, said his interest in Mathematics led him to opt for engineering. “Since my childhood, I was interested in studying the functioning of different mechanical things like radio or remote-controlled cars. Engineering was a natural choice,” said Das, a resident of Vikaspuri, whose father is a doctor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jee-main-result-two-top-scorers-from-capital-101615238215147.html
09-03-2021||Patna||Bihar records highest single-day Covid-19 vaccination||Bihar created a record of sorts when it inoculated 1,73,137 people — the highest in a single day in the state — on Monday. The day was celebrated as International Women’s Day.“Women accounted for 1,00,209 of the 1,47,461 beneficiaries vaccinated in the state for the first dose on Monday,” said Manoj Kumar, executive director, State Health Society, Bihar vaccinations.The state had mobilised “Jeevika didis” and targeted to inoculate over 1 lakh women on Monday.Bihar had decided to rope in local representatives of panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) as mobilisers and open vaccination centres up to the level of health sub-centres to encourage senior citizens and those with co-morbidities in the 45-59 years’ age bracket to get their jab against Covid-19.“We expect the cohort model to work better in Bihar. We will involve local PRI representatives, along with anganwadi sevikas, accredited social health activist (ASHA) and healthcare workers (HCWs), to boost the elderly people to get them to our health sub-centres for inoculation,” said Pratyaya Amrit, principal secretary, health, after felicitating 21 women healthcare workers at the department on Monday.Health minister Mangal Pandey sang paeans to the role of women HCWs in controlling the spread of the contagion.Bihar has over 10,000 health sub-centres against a target of over 16,600.Amrit accepted that people preferred walk-in on-spot vaccination over pre-registration for vaccination on the portal.The state had so far inoculated around 1.70 per cent of the 1.25 crore target group in the first week of the third phase of the vaccination, which began on March 1, after the inoculation of the HCWs and frontline workers (FLWs).Nearly 1.55 per cent or 1.69 lakh of the 1.09 crore senior citizens (60 years and above) and 29,867 (1.86 per cent) of the 16 lakh people with any of the 20 specified co-morbidities in the 45-59 years of age group, had taken the first jab till Monday.“People, especially those in villages, are reluctant to take the vaccine, as they feel the virus is confined to the urban populace and is non-existent in rural areas. They ask our vaccination mobilisers why they need to take the vaccine shot when the virulence of the disease has ebbed to being almost non-existent in rural areas,” said Amrit.Vaccine hesitancy, he said, was more among senior citizens.“The elderly are apprehensive of adverse reaction post-immunisation though only 91 minor adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) have been reported so far out of the 8.33 lakh people vaccinated in the state so far. The elders feel they are better off without the vaccine shot, and should not take unnecessary risk,” added Amrit.The virus, which had last year spread to all 38 districts of the state, is now confined to 13 districts, with state capital Patna reporting almost 50 per cent of the state’s new Covid-19 cases.Patna accounted for 13 of the 30 new cases on March 6. Begusarai reported 3, East Champaran, Madhepura and Madhubani two each while Aurangabad, Bhagalpur, Darbhanga, Khagaria, Munger, Muzaffarpur, Siwan and Vaishali reported one case each.With a case recovery rate of 99.29 per cent — among the highest in India — and a mortality rate of 0.58 per cent, which was among the lowest in the country, the fear of Covid-19 among villagers is over. It was this fact, which was now weighing heavy against the vaccination in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-records-highest-single-day-covid-19-vaccination-101615237771083.html
09-03-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The Jungle Book—in Gurugram||Baby elephant is standing on the roadside with elephant parent, their trunks raised—as if hailing the green auto parked on the pavement. Not far from them, a blue magpie is spreading her wings, about to take off. A stork is hiding behind tree leaves, perhaps fed up of dust and traffic. And a leopard is tiptoeing down a slanting tree branch.There’s a leery-looking crocodile too.No, you aren’t reading Rudyard Kipling’s The Jungle Book. This is the real world, right in the heart of Gurugram, overlooking the national highway.It is a series of paintings on the outer side of the boundary wall of the Rose Garden, in sector 15. The mural is long, really long, decked with painting after painting. You walk along as if in an art gallery that refuses to end. Each panorama is thoughtful and arresting. Unlike modernist abstraction, where the artist interprets the scene into their own peculiar vision, here’s the old-fashioned way of depicting life, the way it exists on the surface, though with a generous addition of creative licensing. One can spend an entire day strolling along the wall, stopping in front of each work, and gazing upon it for long moments.This wall art has been here for a few years. An attendant in the area’s public toilet says it was created under the supervision of the city administration. His restroom is attached to the painted wall like a limpet. This afternoon, he is sitting on a chair in front of the aforementioned leopard. His white shirt is hanging from a hook pinned just above the leopard’s tail.Further ahead, the theme on the wall changes from wildlife to its sister concern, climate change. One haunting panel shows a bottle floating aimlessly in the sea—the bottle has a tree inside, with its root intact. Another panel shows a pair of hands delicately holding a glass bowl that contains a tree, as if it were the last tree alive. This leafy tree is painted at the top of the wall, but the tree doesn’t seem to end there. Instead, you see it growing into a real leafy tree, which is actually standing just behind the wall.Wall art isn’t a novel concept—check out central Delhi’s Lodhi Colony. But on this stretch everything else is so bleak, so polluted, that this beautifully executed vision in colours gets overwhelming.The most moving panel depicts the famous Chipko Movement. A group of women are possessively gathered around a tree, holding hands, their backs to the trunk.Now a man in mask comes and stares over this painting, looking bewitched. Just the stuff art gallery experience is made of.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-jungle-book-in-gurugram-101615237774662.html
09-03-2021||Jaipur||On Women's Day, Gehlot honours young girl; offers post of police sub-inspector||Rajasthan government honoured a girl with the post of police sub-inspector for her courage against the armed goons who attacked a public transport bus. Twenty-five-year-old Vasundhara Chauhan averted goons' attempt to free their accomplice, a hardcore criminal, from the police custody in Dholpur on March 3.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot decided to directly offer an appointment to the young lady as a step towards promoting women empowerment and as a mark of honour to the girl for showing courage, virility and presence of mind which defeated the perpetrators of crime. The goons were planning on fleeing with a hardcore criminal who was already convicted for life.On March 5, five-armed people intercepted a roadways bus midway from Dholpur to Bharatpur and attacked the police challani guards carrying the convicted criminal named Dharmendra aka Lukka, an official release from CM’s office stated.They stormed into the bus, fired in the air and threw chilli-powder in the eyes of the police guards. As the criminals attempted to snatch away the firearms of the policemen, young passenger Vasundhara and another RAC constable Kamar Singh, who was also travelling in the bus, gathered courage and took on the criminals head-on. She caught hold of the two of them and pushed them in the bus one by one.Her direct fight encouraged others in the bus, including the passengers, crew members and the police guards, to take on the criminals, who then fled away.Previously, the state government gave a Letter of Appreciation to Vasundhara and declared an 'Out of Turn' promotion to RAC personnel Kamar Singh as head constable for their show of bravery.CM Gehlot has also decided to honour the Dholpur resident girl on the occasion of International Women's Day by offering her the post of sub-inspector in Rajasthan Police. She has studied criminology during her Post Graduation degree and is an NCC 'C' certificate holder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/on-women-s-day-gehlot-honours-young-girl-offers-post-of-police-subinspector-101615237341382.html
09-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Budget: Populism at play as Capt govt rolls out doles ahead of polls||Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Monday announced a string of sops in a please-all budget, giving a major push to the populist pitch of Captain Amarinder Singh-led Congress government ahead of the assembly elections due early next year. Even as the economy of the border state has been badly hit by the Covid-19 pandemic with revenue deficit rising to ₹20,730 crore (revised estimates 2020-21), the budget promises significant increase in capital expenditure, and focus on social security net, agri sector, farmers welfare, women, weaker sections and education. Unveiling a ₹1.68 lakh crore budget with no new taxes and levies, the finance minister lavishly opened the purse strings of the debt-choked government in a bid to reach out to almost every section of the electorate. From farmers to employees and school going students to elderly population, the budget has something for all. Dedicating the state budget to farmers protesting against Centre’s three new agri laws, Manpreet announced the next phase of the ‘crop loan waiver scheme’. An allocation of ₹1,712 crore has been made for the purpose. Loans of ₹1,186 crore of 1.13 lakh farmers and ₹526 crore of landless farm workers will be waived, he said. Already, the state government has given a debt relief of ₹4,624 crore to 5.83 lakh small and marginal growers. To improve the income of farmers, Badal also announced a new scheme ‘Kamyaab Kisan Khushaal Punjab’. The other major budget proposal is implementation of sixth pay commission’s recommendations for the government employees from July. Expecting the submission of the report of the pay commission soon, Badal said the recommendations of the pay panel will be implemented from July 1 this year. “I also announce to pay the arrears, if any, in a staggered manner of which the first installment shall be paid in October 2021 and second installment in January 2022,” said Badal in his speech. The government promised to continue free power to over 14 lakh farmers that will cost ₹7,180 crore in coming financial year. With a speech that lasted 105 minutes and was laced with some couplets, Badal also announced a free travel facility for women in the state-owned undertaking buses. In line with its poll promise, financial assistance under ashirwad scheme (to SC girls, daughters of widows of any caste at the time of wedding and to SC widows/divorcees at the time of re-marriage) was increased from ₹21,000 to ₹51,000. Last year, there were near 60,000 beneficiaries of this policy. In what will directly touch nearly 30 lakh people, including 13 lakh from Scheduled Castes, the budget proposes to increase monthly pension of elderly, widows, orphan and people with disability to ₹1,500, up from ₹750. Badal said ₹4,000 crore (72% increase over last year) have been allocated to fund social security pension. Not just this, in what Badal said “tribute to our freedom fighters”, the monthly pension has been hiked from ₹7,500 to ₹9,400. The budget has also tried to boost holistic development the urban sector with ₹7,192 crore allocation (an increase of 68% over 2020-21). A sum of ₹3,822 crore has been set aside for strengthening the health infrastructure, said Badal adding the unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic has only underscored the importance of health infrastructure and related services. Manpreet also gave a push to the promotion of Punjabi language as he proposed to double the award money of Punjabi Sahit ratan and Shiromani award from ₹10 lakh to ₹20 lakh and from ₹5 lakh to 10 lakh, respectively. Though the budgetary proposals will bring smiles on a sizeable section of the electorate, there are numerous financial challenges that can’t be overlooked. For example, the outstanding debt is set to rise to ₹2.82 lakh crore in next fiscal and the burden of committed financial liabilities has been mounting. As per the bulky 101-pages budget that Badal “dedicated to the farmers”, the government expenditure is ballooning and the revenue receipts are dwindling leading to revenue deficit. The FM has projected ₹8,622 crore revenue deficit in the coming fiscal. “Punjab’s economy is today stronger and more stable because this government had the courage to confront the problems and take difficult decisions,” said Badal, who presented fifth consecutive budget and held previous Akali Dal-BJP government responsible for having “ bankrupted” Punjab. “Our government took responsible decisions, shunned short -term fixes and pursued a long term economic plan,” he said amid applause from the treasury benches. While 10 SAD legislators had been suspended earlier, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLAs were present, who were all ears. As per the budget document, the interest payments alone will consume 17% of the total expenditure, salaries and wages (24%), pension and other retirement benefits (10%), power subsidy (9%), while 12% will be spent on creation of assets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-budget-populism-at-play-as-capt-govt-rolls-out-doles-ahead-of-polls-101615235599688.html
09-03-2021||Mumbai||Why keen on arresting Eknath Khadse, Bombay HC asks ED||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday sought to know from the Enforcement Directorate (ED) as to why the apprehension of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Eknath Khadse of being arrested was not unfounded. Khadse submitted that though he was not an accused as per the Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) in the Bhosari land deal case, his refusal to answer may become grounds for his arrest.A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing Khadse’s petition, was informed by senior advocate Aabad Ponda that ED’s argument about maintainability of the petition was not valid as the summons did not mention about any scheduled offences. Ponda submitted that there was an abuse of process by ED.Ponda then referred to Supreme Court judgements which prohibited investigating agencies from summoning anyone for answers and asking them for incriminating material. He added that unlike show-cause notices, there were no provisions against summons; hence he needed to be protected not only against the proceedings arising out of the summons issued by the ED but also future summons.Khade in the petition stated, “I may not be an accused in the current proceedings qua the ECIR, but the subject matter in the FIR and the ECIR is same and asking me questions which will implicate me in the FIR, will be against my rights under Article 20(3) of the Constitution.”After hearing the submissions, justice Shinde asked ED, which was represented by additional solicitor general (ASG) Anil Singh, why arrest was necessary when someone was cooperating. “What happens if you take a ground that he is to be arrested?” asked the bench. The bench added that the apprehension was that the arrest would be made without giving him an opportunity to respond to the proceedings against him.The ASG responded saying that there were separate, independent offences and added that investigation was at a preliminary stage.Justice Shinde then said that as per previous judgements, the accused was to be informed of the offences before arresting him. ASG Singh replied that the summons were issued as they were yet at the stage of collecting evidence.Due to paucity of time, the matter has been adjourned to Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/why-keen-on-arresting-eknath-khadse-bombay-hc-asks-ed-101615232598760.html
09-03-2021||Other||Woman arrested for stabbing husband to death near Mumbai||Virar police on Monday arrested Neha Pawar, 29, for allegedly murdering her husband Lokesh Pawar, 30, in their fourth floor apartment in Virar (East) on Sunday dawn. Pawar had allegedly told relatives that her husband was injured in a road accident. However, family members suspected foul play as Lokesh had stab wounds and his bike was safely parked. Pawar and Lokesh had met through work and got married in 2013 and have a child together. Lokesh was allegedly alcoholic and would often return home drunk, leading to daily fights. The incident took place during one such fight on Sunday when Neha in a fit of rage picked up a knife and stabbed Lokesh multiple times, said a police officer. After the incident, Neha called a few relatives and told them Lokesh met with an accident and was in a critical condition. A cousin reached their home soon and suspected foul play as Lokesh had stab wounds, there was no blood trail from outside, and the bike was parked safely. The cousin then called the police. Police officers have sent the body for post-mortem and are waiting for the report. The police are also trying to ascertain if Lokesh was drunk at the time. Preliminary investigation has revealed that the couple used to live separately for four years. They had recently started living together again and had frequent fights.“We arrested Neha under section 302 for murder and seized the kitchen knife which she had hidden inside the room. We produced her before the Vasai court on Monday which has remanded her in police custody till March 11,” the police officer said, adding that they are probing the case further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-arrested-for-stabbing-husband-to-death-near-mumbai-101615232538690.html
09-03-2021||Bangalore||'Big budget, bigger debts': Yediyurappa's show of Karnataka's finances||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday presented a revenue deficit budget with higher borrowings in what appears to be an attempt to mitigate the deepening distress, depleting resources and rising debt to try and manage expectations of the calamity-prone and pandemic-impacted state.Yediyurappa, who seized power in 2019 by engineering the collapse of the HD Kumaraswamy-led Janata Dal (Secular) or the JD(S)-Congress government with borrowed support, is now also forced to run the remainder of his two-years on higher borrowings.At 2,46,207 crore, the state registered a 7 per cent growth as against ₹2,29,925 crore (revised estimates) presented by the Yediyurappa-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in 2020.Also read: Congress terms Karnataka budget as 'hollow'However, Karnataka's Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) contracted by 2.6 per cent, according to government data.“I have presented a development-oriented budget today without increasing any of the increasing tax rates,” Yediyurappa told reporters at a post-budget press conference on Monday in Bengaluru. Yediyurappa has presented eight budgets so far and termed this one that was one of the most challenging given the circumstances.While the government continued to cite the lack of revenue inflows due to Covid-19, borrowings have more than made up for the shortcomings even though the burden of loans continue to pile up in Karnataka.The fiscal deficit is expected to be ₹59,240 crores in 2021-22 or 3.48 per cent of the GSDP as against ₹46,072 crores in the corresponding year or 2.55 per cent.The revenue deficit was estimated to be ₹15,134 crore in 2021-22 as against a surplus of ₹143 crores in the corresponding year.The total liabilities saw a sharp increase from ₹3,68,692 crore or 20.42 per cent at the end of 2020-21 to ₹4,57,899 crore or 26.9 per cent, registering a 24.19 per cent increase in liabilities. The liabilities stood at 26.9 per cent that is well above the cap to maintain fiscal discipline.“Suitable amendment will be brought to the Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility Act 2002 in this regard,” Yediyurappa said in his budget speech.The state is also expected to borrow ₹71,332 crore this year.Under immense pressure to show some semblance of performance for his two-year-old government that has made more news for internal dissent, bickering and the recent sex-scandal, Yediyurappa presented a budget that is high on allocations but may fall short on delivery since a significant chunk of the funds are expected to come from a cash-starved Union government.Expenditure for the previous budget stood at around 94 per cent.Yediyurappa clarified that there would be no slashing of funds for any of the programmes announced last year.The budget has been broadly classified into six categories: Agriculture and allied activities, welfare and inclusive growth, stimulating economic growth, comprehensive development of Bengaluru, conservation of culture, heritage and natural resources, administrative reforms and public service delivery.Karnataka’s principal opposition party, the Congress, staged a walkout with black armbands in protest of the presentation of the budget.“This budget lacks transparency,” Siddaramaiah, the Congress’s leader of the opposition said in Bengaluru. He said that Yediyurappa had clubbed 34 departments into six broad sectors and has not provided details of allocations.“This budget is anti-people, anti-development, presented to bankrupt the state and without any vision,” Siddaramaiah, who has presented record 13 budgets in Karnataka said.Yeddyurappa has allocated ₹52,529 crore for stimulating economic growth which lists out projects in water, construction of roads and airports, ₹3,000 crore to rectify the regional imbalance, setting up clusters like bulk drugs, research and textile as well as tweaking policies to attract investments among others.“The budget seems to be full of promises but that which is not backed by the capacity to fulfil those promises. The government does not seem willing to bite the bullet as there are no visible measures to bring in some regulation or austerity measures within the government to control expenditure,” said Sandeep Shastri, a Bengaluru-based political analyst and national coordinator for Lokniti, a political research organisation.Shastri added that the revenue deficit is likely to create an alarming effect which is likely to spill over to the next budget as well.At a time of distress, Yediyurappa has proposed to build a guest house in Ayodhya for ₹10 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/big-budget-bigger-debts-yediyurappa-s-show-of-karnataka-s-finances-101615229759701.html
09-03-2021||Mumbai||JEE Mains results out: Student from Maharashtra gets 100 percentile||The National Testing Agency (NTA) late on Monday declared results of Join Entrance Examination (JEE) Mains. Siddhant Mukherjee from Maharashtra was among the top six students to have scored a 100 percentile. Mukherjee is also the state topper. The female topper from the state is Pranita Vasudeva Rao with 99.98 percentile. Arnav Jaideep Kalgutkar from the state was among one of the top scorers under persons with disability (PwD) category.The other five students with 100 percentile are Saket Jha from Rajasthan, Pravar Kataria and Ranjim Prabal Das from Delhi, Guramrit Singh from Chandigarh. A total of 620,000 candidates appeared for the first phase of JEE Mains held in six shifts between February 24 and 26.Late on Sunday, NTA also released the final answer key for JEE Mains, bringing cheer to students. The updated answer key was released barely days after JEE examinees challenged several responses in the previous answer key released last week. According to the final answer key, NTA has accepted some of the changes. This means that the students stand to gain anywhere between four and 12 marks in the final marks, depending on the examination date and session they attended.“Once the answer key was released last week, the errors were reported and we are glad NTA accepted the same,” said Raju Kapadia, an expert and a trainer at a coaching centre.Earlier this year, the Union government decided to conduct JEE Mains in four cycles between February and May. The decision was taken in order to ensure that students do not miss out on the entrance exam if the date clashes with other competitive exams. The first of the sessions was conducted in the last week of February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/jee-mains-results-out-student-from-maharashtra-gets-100-percentile-101615232299806.html
09-03-2021||Mumbai||Maha budget: Concession in stamp duty for women, special SRPF battalion||On International Women’s Day, the Maharashtra government unleashed a slew of measures for women’s welfare in its annual budget, including concessions in stamp duty for property registration, free travel for girls in rural areas, special buses for women in urban pockets and establishment of a first women battalion of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF).State finance minister Ajit Pawar unveiled the Rajmata Jijau Griha-Swamini Yojna, that ensures concessions of 1% in stamp duty if the registration of the house will be done in the name of a woman. Currently, the homebuyer has to pay up to 4% of agreement value of the property as stamp duty. Manju Yagnik, vice-chairperson, Nahar group, said the move will play a vital role in empowerment of women. “It is actually the females who play a vital role in choosing the property. She knows what is needed for her family. When it comes to registration, it is mainly the man who gets preference. However ,now we are seeing many cases of joint ownership. This step will help many women be the sole owners of property,” said Yagnik.Meanwhile, the Krantijyoti Savitribai Phule scheme will allow free travel for girl students in rural areas, from their villages to the schools, via Maharashtra State Transport buses. The state will also make provisions to provide 1,500 environment-friendly CNG and hybrid buses to the State Transport Corporation on a priority basis.Another important scheme is additional buses for the “Tejasvini Yojna” scheme for easy and safe travel of women in metro cities. Pawar said that he has proposed to reserve 3% funds from the District Plan for women and children.He also announced the formation of the first women battalion of the SRPF.Dr Nandita Shah, co-director of Akshara centre, a non-profit organisation (NGO), working for the rights of women, welcomed the initiatives. “For years, women were never given so much importance and if the state is taking steps for their welfare, then it is a welcome move. The issue of mobility is very important from a safety point of view and also families are not ready to shell money for women,” said Shah. She further said that instead of just raising a separate women battalion in SRPF, women should be included in every walk of life. She, however, said that at least 4.50 % of the funds should be allocated to women and children, instead of the proposed 3%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-budget-concession-in-stamp-duty-for-women-special-srpf-battalion-101615232298782.html
09-03-2021||Mumbai||Maha budget: Liquor prices all set to increase as govt hikes VAT||The state government in its annual budget on Monday proposed to hike value added tax (VAT) on all alcoholic beverages by five percentage points.Finance minister Ajit Pawar, in his speech, said, “VAT on the sale of liquor as prescribed in Schedule-B of Value Added Tax Act has increased from the existing 60% to 65%. Similarly, VAT on the sale of liquor as prescribed in Section 41(5) of the Value Added Tax Act has increased from the existing 35% to 40%.” This effectively means that manufacturers will have to pay 65% as VAT, up from the existing 60% if they take into account their manufacturing cost, or else they will need to pay 40%, which is based on MRP.Hotel and restaurant owners have condemned the hike, saying it will only make things worse as their businesses are already reeling from the pandemic and any such hike would only drive away consumers. “We hardly have 40% of our pre-Covid-19 businesses now and the surge in cases from last month has reduced our earnings substantially. This hike will aggravate things further,” rued Shivanand Shetty, president, AHAR. He said in such cases, people tend to move to lower-quality brands.The state also proposed to increase the state excise duty on liquor. Country liquor will be classified into two categories — branded and non-branded — and state excise duty will be levied at 220% of manufacturing cost or ₹187 per litre, whichever is higher, only on branded country liquor. Wine shop owners said the hike was expected. “Since the Government is fighting Covid-19 virus and have very few avenues of revenue, we expected it would hike taxes on liquor,” said Arvind Miskin, president, Association of Progressive Retail Liquor Vendors, a body of wine-shop owners.Savio D’sa, who is a hospitality consultant, said, “Maharashtra levies the highest taxes on liquor and this is impacting business negatively. People are now preferring to drink at home rather than in restaurants. This is also discouraging young entrepreneurs from setting up hotels,” said D’sa. Government needs to understand that lowering of taxes will spur businesses and garner more money for its exchequer,” said D’sa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-budget-liquor-prices-all-set-to-increase-as-govt-hikes-vat-101615232238089.html
09-03-2021||Mumbai||Maha budget: Unprecedented revenue shortfall, decline in growth rate||A huge deficit in revenue, projection of decline in growth and debt of over ₹6 lakh crore – the state is staring at a bleak financial future, if the economy is not revived in a short period. Maharashtra’s economy, which is projected to register -8% growth in the current financial year, is staring at a drop of upto ₹1 lakh crore in its revenue. This has badly affected the spending on development projects and people-centric funds, forcing the government to reduce the expenditure.To make it worse, the debt on the state has mounted to ₹6,15,170 crore in 2021-22, from ₹5,38,304 crore in 2020-21. Finance minister Ajit Pawar, while presenting ₹4,37,961-crore budget for 2021-22, has projected a revenue generation of ₹3,68.987 crore. With the expenditure is expected to be ₹3,79,213 crore, the budget presented on Monday is expected to have deficit of ₹10,226 crore.The pandemic has not only resulted in drop in the revenue, but also high borrowing. With ₹87,190 crore and ₹76,866 crore to be borrowed in 2020-21 and 2021-22, the debt in two years of Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government is ₹1.64 lakh crore, 27% of the total debt on the state. This has resulted in an increase in the borrowing percentage against the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP). The percentage of the debt against the GSDP will stand at 20.22% in 2020-21 and may be 20.64% in 2021-22. The crisis-like situation in state finances can be imagined from the fact that the debt amount had never crossed 20% of GSDP at least in the past 10 years. The state can raise upto 25% of the GSDP as per the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act norms. It was 16.01% in 2019-20.Anticipating the slow pace of revival of the economy in next financial year, the state has projected a rise of only 6.2% in revenue generation over previous year’s target. The state generally sets the target of rise in revenue collection by 10-12% over previous year.The reduction in the revenue receipts has resulted in contraction in spending on development projects. According to the state’s website, the spending of most of the departments hovers around 50%, which is not expected to cross much in the remaining two months of the financial year. The government has already cut on the allocation done in last year’s budget. The expenditure allocation has been reduced to ₹3.36 lakh crore from the proposed ₹3.57 lakh crore.Pawar said the revenue receipts, which have been reduced by ₹57,959 crore, are expected to increase further if the central government does not release the state’s share in tax collection on time.According to state officials, Maharashtra’s outstanding with the Central government is around ₹50,000 crore. “Besides, the dues of ₹30,000 crore towards the outstanding of GST and central taxes devolution of ₹6000 crore is pending with the Centre. A total of ₹13,630 crore are yet to be released toward the centrally sponsored scheme. Of the ₹50,000 crore to be released by the Centre, not more than ₹10,000 crore are expected to be released this financial year. This will result in revenue receipts for the current financial year dropping further to ₹2.50 lakh crore,” the official said.Subodh Kumar, former finance secretary, said, “The state government should have put in great effort for resource mobilization from non-tax sources. It could have helped them in reducing the fiscal deficit to a great extent.”Former finance minister and BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar questioned why the state had not been able to spend more on development despite having proposed to raise huge loans. “They are borrowing more than ₹1.5 lakh crore in two years. Why are they not been able to spend more for general public,” he asked.For the current fiscal year, the state has revised its target of revenue receipts from all major heads. The GST generation expected in 2020-21 is now reduced to ₹88,000 crore from ₹1,07,146 crore, sales tax to ₹34,000 crore from ₹40,000 crore, excise duty to ₹15,000 crore from ₹19,225 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-budget-unprecedented-revenue-shortfall-decline-in-growth-rate-101615232178666.html
09-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s per capita income goes down to ₹3.54 lakh||Delhi’s per capita income, which has been the second highest in India after Goa’s for several years now, dropped from Rs.3,76,211 in 2019-20 to Rs.3,54,004 in 2020-21, while the state gross domestic product (SGDP) shrunk by around 5.68%, according to the economic survey tabled by the Delhi government in the assembly on Monday, which cited impact from the Covid-19 outbreak.This is the first time since 2010-11 that the per capita income in the country’s capital has shrunk, a consequence of the Covid-19 pandemic, the economic survey said. The 5.7% contraction in the SGDP signals the city-state’s economy did better than the national average, which is expected to shrink in the 7-8% range for the financial year. “The contraction in GSDP in Delhi is 5.68% during 2020-21 compared to a contraction of 8% at the national level in 2020-21,” the economic survey said.“All economies have been dented by Covid-19 and so has the economy of Delhi. GSDP of Delhi in real terms at constant prices is estimated to have contracted by 5.68%,” Delhi’s Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal said in his speech addressing the members of the assembly marking the opening of the budget session on Monday.On Monday, the government also tabled the Outcome Budget for 2020-21. Delhi’s finance minister Manish Sisodia said, “The financial year 2020-21 started in the shadow of Covid-19 pandemic and a strict lockdown that brought all socio-economic activities to a halt. While our government put up a brave fight against the pandemic, it caused great distortion in government’s routine activities. Revenue collection nose-dived and government’s resources and efforts were focused on minimising the impact of Covid-19.”At market prices, the GSDP of Delhi for FY2021 is Rs.7,98,310 crore, which the government said represented a contraction of 3.92% over the previous year. In 2019-20, government data showed Delhi’s GSDP at market price was Rs.8,30,872 crore. The GSDP is the total value of all finished goods and services produced in a given period of time within the geographical boundaries of a state.In terms of per capita income, the economic survey projected a drop from Rs.3,76,221 in 2019-20 to Rs.3,54,004 in 2020-21 – a decrease of 5.9%. The government noted in its report that Delhi’s per capita income pegged is “almost three times the national average of Rs.127,768”.In 2011-12, Delhi’s per capita income at market price was Rs.1,85,001.According to the Delhi government, the city-state has maintained a “consistent revenue surplus” – this was Rs.7,499 crore in 2019-20 and Rs.6,261 crore in 2018-19. The upcoming budget (2021-22) document will throw light on the estimated revenue surplus for 2020-21, said a senior government official, asking not to be named.Rajat Kathuria, director and chief executive, Indian Council for Research on International Economic Relations, said, “Incomes have declined across the country. At this point, it is extremely essential for the Delhi government to continue investing in social infrastructure – healthcare, education and public transport among other fronts. The quality of social infrastructure has to be improved by using more inclusive forms of technology. A healthy social infrastructure acts not just as a safety net but also as a stimulant that can help improve state domestic product.”Debolina Kundu, professor at the National Institute of Urban Affairs, said: “Gross state domestic product and per capita incomes have witnessed declines across the country in 2020-21 with people losing jobs and livelihoods because of the Covid-19 pandemic. With incomes going down, households are likely to refrain from spending on what they consider non-essentials. The government has to intervene in the upcoming fiscal year. Enterprises have to be boosted, especially start-ups, and the government should focus on generating jobs at various levels to improve the economic condition of the state.”Avani Kapur, a fellow at the Centre for Policy Research, said the decline in GDP and real income does appear largely to be a result of the pandemic. “The tertiary sector is a major contributor to the GSVA (Gross State Value Added) contributing over 80% to it. This includes things like trade, hotels, restaurants, real estate, etc, all of which saw a hit this year due to Covid-19. But there are some promising trends too. For instance, while we have seen GST being hit everywhere and thus national income, Delhi estimates do suggest the recovery process has started. The main worrying aspect of revenue loss is non-tax revenue, which shows a big decline.”Going forward, she said, it is going to be interesting to see how Delhi prioritises its revenues. “So far, education has been a big priority for the government and given the implications of the pandemic on learning, it is going to be interesting to see if that continues. Those details should come in the state budget tomorrow along with hopefully a plan for fiscal consolidation and recovery.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-per-capita-income-goes-down-to-3-54-lakh-101615231355878.html
09-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records 89% rise in active Covid-19 cases||Amid the spike in daily Covid-19 cases, the number of active patients who are undergoing treatment has increased by almost 89% compared to last month. Eight civic wards including Andheri (West), Chembur, Govandi are major contributors to active case load in the city.Mumbai had recorded 1,360 new Covid-19 cases on March 7 while 1,020 patients were discharged. As on March 6, the number of active cases in the city jumped to 10,398, from only 5,500 in the first week of February. The cumulative case count of the city stands at 333,564.Three weeks ago Mumbai’s daily Covid-19 count was below 500. However, cases started increasing from February 17 when the daily count crossed the 700-mark. Lack in maintaining Covid protocols by citizens, allowing the general public to travel in local trains and opening of various commercial activities were among the reasons behind the current surge in Covid-19 cases, civic officials said.“This was expected with the relaxation in lockdown. However, the situation is better than September 2020 when the city had witnessed a similar spike in cases. The positivity rate had surged to 20% back then, while at present it still stands at 6.8%,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). “Despite the rise in cases, the overall positivity rate in the city stands at 9.76%, which was around 15% in December 2020,” he added.As per the data shared by BMC, the average growth rate of Mumbai stands at 0.30%. However, eight civic wards have a higher growth rate. K-West ward, which covers Andheri (West), tops the list with 0.42% growth rate, followed by H-West ward which covers Bandra (West) at 0.41%. This is followed by F-North (Matunga), T (Mulund), M-West (Chembur), M-East (Govandi), L (Kurla), H-East (Santacruz East) and N (Ghatkopar) wards with 0.41%, 0.40%, 0.36%, 0.35%, 0.32%, 0.32% and 0.31% positivity rate, respectively.BMC officials said highest number of cases are from high-rise buildings. To bring stringent rules, in the second week of February, BMC issued an order asking societies to restrict the number of outsiders allowed to enter the society.“Your society will restrict entry of outsiders to minimum including maids/milkman etc. Measures like thermal screening to be strictly implemented. Positive cases, if any in the society, to follow strict quarantine guidelines by family for 14 days. Others in the family will get tested compulsorily as high-risk contacts. Any other symptomatic person in society to get checked for Covid-19,” the order reads.BMC has ruled out any plans to impose lockdown in Mumbai and the city has been brought under strong surveillance with BMC stepping up containment measures. So far, 2,450 floors have been sealed in buildings where Covid-19 positive patients have been diagnosed. The highest number of floors has been sealed in K-West ward with 493 floors sealed.Kakani said, “In the past six days, we have conducted over 120,000 tests across Mumbai. On March 6, we conducted 23,369 tests, which is the highest number of tests conducted in a day since the outbreak of the virus.”However, experts believe the situation is still under control as despite the surge in cases, fatality rate is still under 1%.“On Sunday, the city recorded 1,300 new Covid-19 cases after almost four months. But, only five deaths have been registered, which is around 0.38% death rate. Though active cases have increased, most symptomatic patients are mildly and moderately infected,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician at Bombay Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-89-rise-in-active-covid-19-cases-101615232118844.html
09-03-2021||Mumbai||Maha budget: Sops for farmers, agriculture sector||The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on Monday announced interest-free crop loan for farmers from this financial year. The farmers will be able to get crop loans up to ₹3 lakh and the interest amount against the loan will be paid by the state, state finance minister Ajit Pawar declared while tabling the state’s budget 2021-22 in the Assembly on Monday. He also announced several measures to help farmers and upgrade agricultural infrastructure. The budget also has sops for farmers in the form of 33% concession on power bills. The state will waive ₹30,411 crore of pending power dues under the scheme, Pawar said. “Paying interest on crop loans is a problem farmers often face. To free them from interest burden, the government has decided to provide zero percent interest crop loans to farmers who take crop loans upto a limit of ₹3 lakh,” Pawar said in his budget speech in the Assembly. Agriculture is the only sector in Maharashtra that has registered a growth in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic, according to the state’s Economic Survey. Pawar announced upgrade of basic facilities at the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC), where farmers bring their produce for sale. “Most of the premises of the APMCs lack the necessary basic facilities for the farmers. It is imperative to provide these facilities. ₹2,000 crore scheme will be implemented for strengthening APMCs,” the finance minister announced. “It has been decided to implement a policy for providing power connection to agriculture pumps of those farmers, who have not yet been provided with power connection. It will be done either through conventional or solar power connection to the applicant farmers. The state government will give a share of capital of ₹1,500 crore every year to the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) to implement the scheme,” he said. The state failed to implement two schemes announced in the last budget owing to the economic crisis that had gripped the state following months-long lockdown. It has also reduced the allocation of funds for agriculture and allied activities this year. The farmers who have been paying their loans regularly in the past three financial years were supposed to get an incentive of upto ₹50,000. It had also declared a discount of ₹2 lakh for one-time settlement against a crop loan. The finance minister clarified that they have put the schemes on hold and they will be implemented when the state’s economy will be back on track. Ajit Nawale, general secretary, Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sabha (AIKS) said that they welcome the number of schemes declared and underlining the role of agriculture in economic growth by the finance minister but the government should consider implementing the schemes declared in the last budget and a demand for waiver in power bills raised by the farmers. During this budget speech, Pawar said that the government intends to implement the “Maharashtra Agro Business Network Project (Magnet) for small and marginal fruit and vegetable growers by spending ₹1000 crore. It will be implemented for six years with an aim to increase farmers’ income. While presenting the budget, the finance minister also supported the ongoing agitation by the farmers against the contentious farm laws. In order to increase the productivity of agribusiness, it is necessary to focus on agricultural research. Though the previous government had announced, but now the MVA government will provide four agricultural universities ₹600 crore in three years ( ₹200 crore every year) for research, which will be useful for agricultural upliftment, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-budget-sops-for-farmers-agriculture-sector-101615232058104.html
09-03-2021||Mumbai||Maha budget: Rs7,500 crore to upgrade health facilities over four years||In view of the crumbling of health infrastructure seen during the Covid pandemic, the state on Monday announced a slew of schemes in its budget to improve facilities across Maharashtra. The state plans to spend ₹7,500 crore for constructing and upgrading health infrastructure over the next four years. It will also spend ₹5,000 crore to improve quality of health services in tier-2 cities in the next five years. Of the total, ₹800 crore will be spent this year. State finance minister Ajit Pawar also announced the opening of new medical colleges in Sindhudurg, Osmanabad, Nashik, Raigad and Satara. In addition, medical colleges will be set up at Parbhani and Amravati. The colleges will be set up through public-private partnership (PPP) policy. This will lead to an increase of 1,990 seats for degree courses, 1,000 seats for post-graduate courses and 200 in super-specialties. “The Covid pandemic has underlined the need for health care reforms in all aspects of the health sector. A project costing about ₹7,500 crore has been prepared to provide quality health care and treatment to people by constructing and upgrading health institutions under the public health department and it will be completed in the next four years. The proposal includes construction of district hospital, psychiatric hospital, trauma care centre, primary health centre and sub-centre, upgrade and construction of taluka level hospital,” Pawar said in his budget speech. He said the government has realised the state must have modern hospitals for treatment of infectious diseases. Consequently, it has decided to set up a modern referral service hospital for infectious disease on the premises of Aundh district hospital. It has planned to set up sub-centres of these hospitals at divisional and district levels in different phases. Also, cardiac cath labs will be set up at eight central locations across the state, as patients with heart disease need angiography within 24 hours. “Considering the spread of infectious diseases, the government intends to make radical changes in the curriculum related to paramedical patient care and give priority and encouragement to branches related to nursing. For this, 11 government nursing schools affiliated to government medical colleges will be converted into nursing colleges. Also, in phases, physiotherapy and occupational therapy colleges will be established in all 17 government medical colleges,” the finance minister said. The state has allocated a fund of ₹16,839 crore for the health department, which comes to 3.48% of the budget size. It is ₹1,091 crore more compared to last year when ₹15,748 crore was allocated. However, the state spent ₹2,348 crore more than the total budgetary allocation owing to the pandemic.This also means the allocation for 2021-22 is ₹1,257 crore less that what is spent in the outgoing financial year. Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, public health expert, said there is a big difference between public health infrastructure in rural and urban areas.“In rural areas, we have better infrastructure, but don’t have qualified doctors and health workers, whereas urban areas have more manpower but are lagging in public health infrastructure,” Pattiwar said. In addition, the state has also declared to start cancer diagnosis facility in 150 hospitals across the state, post Covid Counselling and Treatment Centres in each and every district hospital and government medical college in urban areas, following complaints of lung, liver and kidney ailments as well as mental stress among patients who recovered from the disease. The state had to develop temporary facilities including jumbo hospitals to accommodate patients following a spike in Covid-19 cases, which has gone up to 24,619 in a day on September 17. It also had to request the Kerala government to provide 50 specialist doctors and 100 nurses on temporary basis to handle the need of additional manpower required to run the temporary facilities in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-budget-rs7-500-crore-to-upgrade-health-facilities-over-four-years-101615231999903.html
09-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Covid-19 task force pushes for home vaccination, 24/7 centres||The Maharashtra Covid-19 task force in a review meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday requested the state government to seek permission to initiate home vaccination for the vulnerable population. It also suggested 24x7 vaccination centres to cover maximum population in a relatively short period.The CM held the review meeting with task force members, district collectors and divisional commissioners of the state in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases in the state.The state task force has asked the government to take permission from the Centre since the current norms by the Centre do not allow it. The task force has said that home vaccination will help in controlling the spread of Covid-19 and also bringing down fatality rate of the state.Dr Rahul Pandit of Fortis Hospital, Mulund who is also a member of the state’s Covid-19 task force, said, “We suggested that the vulnerable population be vaccinated as quickly as possible to control the spread. This requires us to take the vaccination drive to the doorstep of citizens. This can be done to cover those who cannot come out or those who are very old.”Dr Pandit added, “This decision of home vaccination will also help us bring down fatality. For this, the state will require the Central government’s permission, and hence we have requested them to take such permission.”The task force has also requested the state government to focus on 24x7 vaccination, which was allowed by the Central government last week. However, state officials said they are having several issues with CoWIN app, due to which they are unable to have 24x7 vaccination centres at the moment.Dr Shashank Joshi, another member of the task force, said, “Apart from home vaccination, 24x7 vaccination is something that has to be looked into aggressively to cover our vulnerable population. Also, in view of the increasing cases, we need to come back to our old drawing board that includes aggressive testing and contact tracing. Mere sealing of floors or buildings is not enough; tracing close contacts up to the ratio of 1:30 has to be activated.”The Central team that visited affected areas of the state has instructed state government to take quick measures to contain the spread of the disease. “Accordingly the chief minister has directed district administrations to earmark micro containment zones. The areas which are most affected and have high positivity rate are to increase tracing to 30 people per infection. They have also been directed to operate the vaccination centres 24/7 in such areas,” an official from health department said.State has around 70 such pockets with high positivity rate than their neighbouring areas. Meanwhile, on Monday, 90,249 general citizens were inoculated across the state. Mumbai saw a record 32,714 vaccinations for citizens that included 29,502 senior citizens and 3,212 beneficiaries aged above 45 years who have comorbidities. Further, in Mumbai on occasion of International Women’s Day on Monday, five sessions were conducted at five vaccination centres in the city exclusively for women, during which 8,092 women were vaccinated.Special centres for women on Women’s DaySeven vaccination centres were set up especially for women in Thane district on Monday to celebrate Women’s Day. Five such centres will fall under Thane Municipal Corporation jurisdiction, one in Kalyan-Dombivli and one at Thane Civil Hospital. A total of 180 women got the shot at the centre in Kalyan.An officer from TMC added, “As it was Women’s Day, we did not want women to wait and hence made provision for a separate centre.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-covid-19-task-force-pushes-for-home-vaccination-24-7-centres-101615231998777.html
09-03-2021||Mumbai||Maha budget: Boost to road, rail, Metro and air infra||In its second budget, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) made a slew of announcements to boost infrastructure in the state. The most significant announcement was the state’s plan to build a Pune-Nashik semi high-speed rail corridor that will connect the cities of Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik. “The speed of this train will be 200 km/hour. The expected cost of the project is ₹16,039 crore,” deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said, while stating the project has been approved by the cabinet on Monday. Pawar made an allocation of ₹7,000 crore for the Nanded-Jalna Expressway connector which will connect Nanded city with the 701-km Mumbai-Nagpur Samruddhi Mahamarg (Expressway). Pawar said that 44% of the works along the expressway have been completed and a 500-km stretch between Nagpur and Shirdi will be opened for traffic from May 1. He said the new connector will provide the Nanded, Hingoli, Parbhani, and Jalna districts of Marathwada. Apart from this, the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) will also take up the works of a coastal highway between Rewas in Raigad and Reddy in Sindhudurg as an alternative to the Mumbai-Goa highway. The road connecting three districts of Konkan is expected to boost growth in this region with focus on tourism and horticulture. The government has proposed an outlay of Rs.12,950 crore for road development in the state. Pawar also said that land acquisition for the ₹26,000 crore Pune ring road will be undertaken this year. “A large number of passengers and goods are transported from other parts of the state as well as from Konkan, Marathwada, and North Maharashtra via Pune. This puts a huge strain on the traffic in Pune city. To avoid this, it is felt necessary to undertake the construction of a ring road around Pune in order to save fuel and time.” The MVA is also looking at starting work on a new international airport in Pune. Pawar said the technical and financial feasibility of the project is being checked. The government is also looking at setting up a greenfield airport in Solapur and services from the Chipi airport in Sindhudurg will also start soon, Pawar said. In its plans to boost cruise tourism in the state, the government is also planning to build a cruise terminal at Bhagwati port in Ratnagiri. In terms of Metro projects, the state announced a broad gauge Metro connecting Nagpur city to Wardha, Ramtek, Bhandara, and Narkhed, ₹2,100 crore Metro Neo lite in Nashik, and the recently-approved ₹7,165 crore Metro lite system in Thane. Experts said any sort of investment in infrastructure, at a time when cities are growing rapidly, would be a force multiplier. Pankaj Joshi, principal director, Urban Centre, Mumbai, said, “We are in a phase where any sort of impetus to urban infrastructure is a welcome step. Our cities are growing by the day and we need to invest in building that sort of infrastructure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-budget-boost-to-road-rail-metro-and-air-infra-101615231878608.html
09-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 8,744 new Covid-19 cases, 22 deaths||After reporting over 10,000 fresh Covid-19 cases for two days straight, Maharashtra on Monday reported 8,744 infections, including 1,014 in Mumbai, along with 22 deaths, taking the tally to 2,228,471 and toll to 52,500. Also, a 65-year-old man died after taking the vaccine, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The death has been classified as adverse effect following immunisation (AEFI). In total, eight cases of AEFI were reported on Monday, the BMC said. The civic body vaccinated 32,714 general public on Monday.There are 97,637 active cases in the state, according to official data. The highest number of active cases in Maharashtra was 301,752 on September 17, 2020, after which the tally went down to around 50,000 in December 2020. However, it has gradually gone up since then. Around 2,077,112 citizens have recovered in the state, taking the recovery rate to 93.20%. As of Monday, Mumbai has seen 334,583 cases, including 10,779 active infections, and 11,508 deaths. Mumbai has conducted 3,434,610 tests with an overall positivity rate of 9.74%Dr Pradip Awate, state surveillance officer, said, “The situation is under control and there might not be a situation like that of the September 2020. However, this is just an assumption. We have to be on high alert for few days.”Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday held a meeting with all district collectors and divisional commissioners along with members of state Covid-19 task force via video-conferencing in view of the alarming surge.Also, the Thane Municipal Corporation on Monday announced lockdown in certain hotspots from March 13 till March 31. “Except Diva and Mumbra, there are a few hotspots in every ward,” said Sandeep Malvi, Deputy Municipal Commissioner, Thane Municipal Corporation.There are 16 such hotspots across Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-8-744-new-covid-19-cases-22-deaths-101615231822496.html
09-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra budget gives fillip to tourism||A cruise terminal at Ratnagiri in Konkan, developing a hill station at picturesque Jawhar in Palghar district, a policy to promote nature tourism and further development of popular hill stations Mahabaleshwar and Panchgani are among the initiatives announced by deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar to boost tourism in Maharashtra. The state government has allocated ₹2,369 crore as a part of its push for tourism in the state budget 2021-22. Pawar said several tourism policies, including beach shack, agro-tourism, etc, have been announced by the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government with an aim to generate employment and attract tourists. The budget also proposed a museum depicting the history of the state and a sugar museum in Pune.While tabling the budget for 2021-22, the finance minister announced a cruise terminal at Ratnagiri’s Bhagwati port and construction of jetty in Raigad district, among other things. “Works to develop jetty for tourism at Kashid in Raigad district’s Murud taluka and to build cruise terminal at Bhagwati Port in Ratnagiri district have been undertaken,” Pawar said. He also added, “The government has announced agri-tourism policy to give a boost to agri business as well as rural economy in the state. The state’s beach shack and caravan tourism policies have been announced to provide employment opportunities to coastal local citizens and to attract tourists. The Maharashtra state nature tourism policy will be announced soon.” There is also a plan to develop a hill station in the tribal-dominated Jawhar taluka of Palghar. “It has been decided to develop a hill station at Jawhar in the new tribal-dominated part of Palghar. We will also take up beach development works in the coastal belt of Palghar,” he said. In addition, the state has decided to develop Mahabaleshwar, Panchgani and Lonar lake, for which the development plan has been finalised and “necessary funds are being made available”.The budget also proposed a “path-breaking project” Sindhuratna Samruddha to harness the potential of nature by developing tourism, fisheries and micro industries in Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts. For this, ₹100 crore will be made available every year over the next three years. Bal Thackeray memorial, a proposed tourist attraction, has been given ₹400 crore.The proposed construction of an international standard tourist complex on the 14-acre site at Worli Dairy complex in Mumbai, which was announced in the last budget, was also mentioned in this year’s speech. Pawar said, “Work is in progress to transfer the site and prepare a detailed project report for the development of the tourist complex.”The cultural affairs department will undertake the construction of a museum to depict the history of Maharashtra. An outlay of ₹161 crore has been proposed for the department. The state has also proposed to construct a sugar museum in Pune at an estimated cost of ₹40 crore to showcase the development of sugar industry, sugar and allied industries. The state has also taken up the task of conservation and preservation of ancient temples in the state. In the first phase of the project, eight temples, including Adishakti Ekveera Mata mandir in Karla of Pune — the family deity of the Thackerays, will be renovated. Political analyst Hemant Desai said tourism outlays bore the stamp of Aaditya Thackeray, who heads the department. He said, “Tourism is hit the most due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Given the financial situation of the state, it is good that it has provided allocation to the department. It will help generate revenue and provide jobs when these projects materialise.”Subhash Goyal, member of the Assocham tourism council and general secretary of Federation of Associations in Tourism and Hospitality (FAITH), said, “Maharashtra is one of the few states that realised the multiplier effect that tourism development has in terms of job creation and revenue generation. Maharashtra has immense scope; and the tourism minister himself is very proactive in this regard. The state has 720-km coastline and can develop beaches with water sports, as adventure sport it restricted only to mountains currently. Scuba diving can also be developed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-budget-gives-fillip-to-tourism-101615231698794.html
09-03-2021||Mumbai||Health and infra get major share in MVA’s second budget||Struggling with paucity of funds owing to a significant shortfall in revenue caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on Monday presented its second budget that aims to spur growth. Presenting a budget of ₹4,37,961 crore for financial year 2021-22 in the legislative Assembly, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar announced interest-free loans for farmers; a slew of infrastructure projects, including a semi-high speed corridor between Pune and Nashik; plans worth ₹12,500 crore for health infrastructure; and sops for women, such as free bus rides for girl students. These announcements were made even though cash crunch is expected to be a major problem for the state, with the economy yet to recover from the impact of the lockdown. Meanwhile, liquor will cost more in Maharashtra from April 1 as Pawar increased taxes on it as the only means to generate some more revenue. Revenue generation in 2020-21 in Maharashtra is expected to drop by a whopping ₹57,959 crore and could even go further up to ₹1 lakh crore if the state’s share of taxes is not released by the Centre in time, according to Pawar. Against the estimated revenue of ₹3,47,457 crore, the state now expects to generate ₹289,498 crore by the end of the ongoing financial year.“This means the shortfall in the revenue generation is  ₹57,959 and if the Centre fails to release our dues towards GST compensation, central taxes devolution and share of centrally sponsored schemes, it may mount up to ₹1 lakh crore,” Pawar said.The agriculture sector, which is expected to register a growth of 11.7% in the current financial year, got a boost in the budget. “The farmers can now avail interest-free loans up to ₹3 lakh. The existing crop loan scheme, which gives interest-free loans up to ₹1 lakh and at 2% for additional ₹2 lakh, has now been revised,” said Pawar. Of the 15 million farmers in the state, around 35% avail the crop loan every year.Pawar also announced 66% concession to farmers in their pending electricity bills under the amnesty scheme the government launched on January 26.In view of the pandemic, Pawar announced a package of ₹7,500 crore for the upgradation of health infrastructure over the next four years. Further, he announced ₹5,000 crore for improving quality of health services in tier-two cities in the next five years. These smaller cities struggled in handling the pandemic. The MVA government will be building a 235-km semi high speed train corridor connecting three major cities--Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik. The train will run at 200kmph speed and is estimated to cost ₹16,039 crore. It is also constructing a coastal highway connecting three Konkan districts--Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg — to promote industries and tourism in the region, which has been a strong support base of Shiv Sena. Also, Pawar announced free bus rides for girls travelling to schools and 1% concession in stamp duty if a new house is bought in the name of a woman. The homebuyers pay 4 percent stamp duty and charges on the agreement value while registering new property. Women buyers will have to pay 3 percent.“This would put a burden of ₹1,000 crore against the waiver,” he said.Eyeing the elections to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which is ruled by the Shiv Sena for more than 25 years, finance minister referred to infra projects, tourism development projects in Mumbai. There was also announcement of a Bal Thackeray memorial worth ₹400 crore, two dedicated cycle tracks on eastern and western express highways and rejuvenation of Mithi, Dharavi, Boisar and Oshiwara rivers.State government has also proposed to build a new water transport route connecting Vasai and Kalyan —both cities are on the periphery of Mumbai — with four passenger terminals between them. The reduction in revenue, outstanding dues with the centre and expenditure incurred on fighting the Covid pandemic has forced the state government to borrow more than expected this year. The borrowing is also expected to grow because of the widening gap between the receipts the borrowing. With ₹87,190 crore and ₹76,866 crore to be borrowed in 2020-21 and 2021-22, the debt stock is ₹1.64 lakh crore, which is 27% of the total debt state raised over years. Total debt on state is estimated to be ₹6,15,170 crore in 2021-22. With little room left for the hike in taxes and duty for mobilization of the resources, the state government has proposed to high 5% value added tax on sale of liquor and rise in the state excise duty to manufacturing of the branded country liquor. Meanwhile, former finance minister and BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar said, “The state has failed to give any package to the most affected sectors like construction, services sector. It gave 1% waiver in stamp duty to women if the houses are registered in their name, and gave 3% waiver to builders. Is it not discrimination? The state government should tell the people of Maharashtra, that how has it used or decided to use ₹1.75 lakh crore being borrowed in two years.”Leader of opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis criticised the budget and said it to be the jugglery of figures. “None of the sectors has got anything from the budget. Youth, farmers, women, backward classes will be disappointed from the budget. The infrastructure projects that have been referred in the budget are existing ones and under implementation via the central government funding. Many of the schemes which have been referred in the budget are ones state government does not spend a single penny on,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/health-and-infra-get-major-share-in-mva-s-second-budget-101615231522374.html
09-03-2021||Chandigarh||Passport racket: Zirakpur hub of fake addresses||Four months after a fake passport racket was busted in Zirakpur with the arrest of four people, including two policemen, it has come to light that as many as 143 passports were made using forged documents and eight people had even travelled abroad. Moreover, all these fake passports had addresses of various housing societies in Zirakpur.After getting the details, the passport office has impounded all fake passports and alerted the embassies concerned.“What was initially thought to be a minor scam is now turning out to be a major criminal operation. The special investigation team so far traced 143 passports made on forged documents. We will be arresting these people soon,” said Satinder Singh, senior superintendent of police, Mohali.Passports impounded, embassies alertedSibash Kabiraj, Regional Passport Officer, Chandigarh, confirmed that they have received the list of all fake passports from the Mohali police. “We have impounded all the passports and alerted the embassies concerned about people who have travelled abroad using fake passports. The moment anyone applies for any passport service, we will alert the police,” he said.It was in November last year when police arrested four people, including head constable Sukhwant Singh and constable Rajinder Singh, both posted at Zirakpur and assigned passport verification duties. The other two were Raman Kumar, the brains behind the racket, and Arvinder Kumar. Following this, the SSP formed an SIT comprising SP Harbir Singh Atwal, DSP Manjit Singh Aulakh and inspector Amardeep Singh to probe the racket. The four accused are presently lodged in jail.Gangsters among clients of racketeersAmong those who got the fake passports were gangster Raju Basodi of Haryana and at least 15 other criminals from Punjab.The Mohali police have already arrested Basodi, whose passport was registered under the name of one Gurveer Singh. Another fake passport was prepared for Ludhiana gangster Gopi Lamber. Ashish Kumar, who is into drug trade, also got a fake passport under the name of one Sandeep Singh of Kapurthala.Key players and modus operandiRaman Kumar, a resident of Dera Bassi, was the brains behind the racket.He was a property dealer operating in Zirakpur and Dera Bassi before he switched to passport services and opened an office in Ambala.He charged ₹50,000-1 lakh per fake passport from his clients, and used to prepare forged documents, including Aadhaar cards and voter cards.His accomplice Arvinder Kumar used to apply for passports on these forged documents in Chandigarh.Hailing from Chamba in Himachal Pradesh and residing in Ludhiana, he used to take a cut of ₹15,000-20,000 per passport.Head constable Sukhwant Singh and constable Rajinder Singh were posted at Zirakpur and assigned passport verification duties.Raman Kumar used to pay them ₹20,000 per passport to turn a blind eye to the racket and verify the fake passports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/passport-racket-zirakpur-hub-of-fake-addresses-101615231518574.html
09-03-2021||Other||Over 50K in Ludhiana have received at least one dose of vaccine so far||As many as 56,696 persons in Ludhiana have so far received at least one dose of the Covid vaccine, data released by the health department has revealed.Of these, 21,636 are healthcare workers who have received the first dose of the vaccine while 13,884 have completed the inoculation process by receiving the second dose as well. Among frontline workers, 9,604 have turned up for vaccination so far and received at least one dose of the vaccine. But merely 3.2% (311) of them have got the second dose as well. In majority of the cases, it was observed that healthcare workers did not turn up for the second dose even after 40 days of receiving the first dose. The prevalence of skipping the second dose has been largely observed among Anganwari workers and Class-4 employees in the civic body.Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia, who is the nodal officer of the vaccination process, said, “We have been able to give the first dose to 60% of the healthworkers in the district and they are slowly turning up for the second dose too. But rumour mongering is proving to be a hindrance.”She said, “In some cases it was observed that the healthcare workers and frontline warriors were monitoring the health condition of others who completed the inoculation process. However, it is important to note that 15 days after receiving the first dose, the body develops nearly 50% immunity against the virus, so the severity of the virus is likely to be less if they catch the virus during the vaccination process.”Encouraging response from senior citizens:She was quick to add that the enthusiasm among elderly persons in getting the vaccination is encouraging. “Senior citizens are setting an example for others. Every day, we witness over 1, 500 vaccinations among senior citizens,” said Dr Kiran. A total of 3, 012 persons received the Covid-19 vaccine on Monday. These included, 218 health workers who got the first dose and 275 who received the second dose. Similarly, 90 frontline workers received the first dose while 104 got the second dose on Monday.Besides, 1, 820 senior citizens and 504 persons between the age of 45 and 60, having comorbidities, also got the first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-50k-in-ludhiana-have-received-at-least-one-dose-of-vaccine-so-far-101615231279084.html
09-03-2021||Other||Ludhiana: 171 couples reunited at mega camp for marital disputes||As many as 171 couples, caught in a matrimonial dispute, buried the hatched and decided to reunite during a mega counselling camp organised by the Ludhiana police on Monday, on the occasion of International Women’s Day. The cases of 81 couples, who were not ready for a compromise, have been forwarded to the courts for divorce. Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal also ordered registration of FIRs in 31 cases.Punjab state women commission chairperson Manish Gulati, who inaugurated the camp, appreciated the efforts of Ludhiana police for resolving such disputes. She said that Punjab is much safer for women as compared to other states because of the efficient handling of such cases by the police. Citing the example of a Gujarat-based woman who had jumped into the Sabarmati river after recording a video message on her mobile phone, Gulati said that the woman was forced to take the extreme step as she lacked moral support from people around her. “If she had got some counselling or support, she would have found the courage to fight the atrocities instead of ending her life. I am glad that the Punjab police have roped in counsellors to deal with such cases,” said Gulati.When asked about the rising cases of sexual assaults on minor girls in Ludhiana’s vehras, Gulati said the women’s commission, along with the police, is working on the issue. “We will work with the factory owners to see if separate rooms can be created in the vicinity, for the children when their parents are at work,” she said. Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said they will rope in NGOs to provide education to such children. Replying to a question over a woman’s allegations that the police was not taking action against Lok Insaaf Party MLA Simrajit Singh Bains against whom she had moved a rape complaint, Gulati said she has asked the police to provide her details of the case. Reunions, separations and tales of gritWhile some couples patched up, it was not such a happy ending for the others.Yudhvir Kaur and Goldenjit Singh of Chheharta were among the lucky few who were able bury the hatchet and agree to sort out their differences. The couple, who has a one-year-old daughter, had got married in 2019 but had decided to separate in October 2020 following some differences. After the couple agreed to patch-up, the women’s commission chairperson took out ₹1,000 from her pocket and gave it to them as a token of blessing. Gulati asked the couple to work out their differences and take care of their daughter. In another case, a couple in a live-in relationship separated following irreconcilable differences. Gulati asked the man to delete all pictures that he had of the girl and warned him of strict action if he made any of it public or uploaded it on social media. 45-year-old woman fights for justice for daughterIn another case, a 45-year-old woman was seen navigating the crowd at the camp to bring justice to her 24-year-old daughter, who is a domestic violence survivor. The 24-year-old woman, who had recently suffered a fracture in a road mishap, said her mother is her hero. “We are natives of Bihar. My daughter had got married to Anand Kumar Singh of Sherpur about five years ago. But he used to beat up my daughter and even threw her out of the house. I have been making multiple rounds of the police station, seeking justice for my daughter but so far, police have not even registered an FIR,” said the 45-year-old woman, who identified herself as Prabha Devi. She tried to meet the state women commission chairperson but remained unsuccessful. Police install sanitary pad dispensing machines at Saanjh Kendras in cityOn the occasion of International Women’s Day on Monday, Ludhiana police installed sanitary pad dispensing machines at 10 Saanjh Kendras in the city. With this, women visiting the Saanjh Kendras will be able to get a sanitary pad by putting a five-rupee coin into the machine.This will especially be useful for female cops, who sometimes have to remain on ground for endless hours. Inaugurating the machine at police lines during a mega camp, Punjab state women commission chairperson Manisha Gulati appreciated the efforts of the Ludhiana police, which, she said, was the first in the state to set up pad dispensing machines at Saanjh Kendras. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 1) Pragya Jain said that any woman who needs a sanitary napkin can visit the Saanjh Kendra. “The pads are of international quality but will be available for woman at a nominal price here. Some women are unable to buy costly sanitary pads sold in shops. For such women, the vending machines will be helpful,” said Jain.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said that the Ludhiana police took this initiative on their own and no help from corporates or NGOs was sought for this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-171-couples-reunited-at-mega-camp-for-marital-disputes-101615231220751.html
09-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh yoga college celebrates Women’s Day||The Government College of Yoga Education and Health in Sector 23, Chandigarh, celebrated International Women’s Day on Monday. The theme on the occasion was “Women in leadership: Achieving an equal future in Covid-19 world” and the aim was to appreciate and acknowledge the contribution of the women in leadership roles.The chief guest on the occasion was Lippi Parida, renowned artist, poet and author. She was accompanied by Jaswinder Kaur, managing director of CITCO; Nitika Pawar, special secretary, Chandigarh administration; Harjit Kaur, deputy superintendent of police, Chandigarh, and Anita Kaushal, principal of Post Graduate Government College in Sector 11, Chandigarh. R Puri, founder- president of Indian Dietetic Association, Chandigarh chapter, was the special guest.Sapna Nanda, principal of the college, spoke about the immense contribution of women in combating the global pandemic.The eminent personalities present on the occasion shared their experiences and challenges faced by them in their journey to success. Parida, in her address, spoke about the innate strength and capabilities of women and need to further empower and facilitate them to help them in achieving their goals.A variety of cultural items were presented by the students of the college which included yoga demonstration, group songs and dance. The special attraction was a skit showcasing the nine colours of womanhood. The celebrations concluded with the National Anthem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-yoga-college-celebrates-women-s-day-101615231159772.html
09-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 60% surge in weekly Covid cases||The surge in Covid-19 cases continued for the third consecutive week in Chandigarh, with 60% rise recorded in the week ending on March 7 as compared to the previous one.Positivity rate also shot up to 4.5% in the first week of March, more than double of that in the first week of February. It is mainly due to the testing numbers not keeping pace with the increasing number of cases. In the last week of February, when cases went up by 85%, testing had increased by 17%. However, in the recent week, the number of tests went up by just 12%.In fact, Chandigarh’s weekly positivity rate is the second highest in the country after Maharashtra. Amid the surge, the Centre last week told the local authorities to increase the proportion of RT-PCR tests from the current 35% to 60% and expand the vaccination drive.Meanwhile, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, has again closed its walk-in OPDs, which were opened after a gap of one year in mid- February. However, no more restrictions have been announced by the administration as of now. “People should take all precautions and follow Covid appropriate behaviour. It has become even more important as various curbs have been lifted,” said Dr VK Nagpal, joint director, UT health department. On the testing numbers, the authorities said teams are being deployed for random testing at places with high footfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-sees-60-surge-in-weekly-covid-cases-101615231039719.html
09-03-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University students demand reopening of campus||Students affiliated to the National Students Union of India (NSUI) and Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) held separate protests outside the office of Panjab University vice- chancellor Raj Kumar on Monday and demanded the reopening of the university.While the NSUI demanded a meeting with the V-C, ABVP started an indefinite strike outside his office. They raised slogans against the PU administration and V-C. Members of NSUI said that Covid can no longer be an excuse for keeping the university closed as all major activities in the country have resumed. “The university should be reopened immediately and the voice of students should not go unheard,” said Manpreet Mahal of NSUI. Representatives of NSUI will meet Kumar on Tuesday.Representatives of ABVP demanded that physical classes resume immediately and option to take exams both online and offline be given to students. They also demanded reopening of all libraries on campus.ABVP’s PU president Paras Rattan, said, “We will continue our strike till the varsity administration fulfils our demands.”Rahul Kumar, former vice-president of Panjab University Campus Students Council (PUCSC), said, “Education has been hampered and the future of students looks dismal due to classes being held online. Crisis can be evaded only through gradual reopening of the university.”Student bodies to hold joint protest todayTo demand the reopening of the campus, a joint protest call has been given by various PU student bodies. Students associated to NSUI, Students For Society (SFS), Ambedkar Students Association (ASA), Students Organisation of India (SOI), Punjab Students Union (PSU-Lalkaar) and Panjab University Students Union (PUSU) will protest outside the vice chancellor’s office at 2pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-students-demand-reopening-of-campus-101615230379408.html
09-03-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali lad among 6 in country with 100 percentile in JEE Main||Mohali’s Guramrit Singh is among six students in the country who have scored 100 percentile in the JEE Main, results of which were declared on Monday. A resident of Mohali’s Sector 74 and a student of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Sector 27, Chandigarh, Guramrit said, “The exam was easy and many questions had come from NCERT, which is why I scored well.” He wants to pursue engineering in computer science from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Bombay. Guramrit said revising daily and paying attention to his teachers helped him in bagging the perfect score. “I am fond of sports and used to play football with my brother daily,” he said. Guramrit’s father Gurudarshan Singh is a businessman and his mother Preeti is a homemaker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-lad-among-6-in-country-with-100-percentile-in-jee-main-101615230318630.html
09-03-2021||Chandigarh||Railway line to connect Chandigarh and Mukerian||The railway line from Chandigarh station that currently goes up to Daulatpur Chowk in Himachal Pradesh will be extended by about 53km to reach Mukerian in Punjab. This was stated by the general manager of Northern Railways, Ashutosh Gangal, while he went for the annual inspection of Ambala division on Monday. Gangal said, “The purpose of this extension is to provide an alternative alignment and access to stations in Himachal Pradesh which are connected through this line.” He said there were some landholding issues which had delayed the project, but the Railways have reached out to both Punjab and Haryana governments. If the issues are resolved, officials hope that this line will be operational by next year. On a query about high fare in unreserved class trains resumed recently in the division, Gangal said the reason behind this is to reduce passenger load.“We don’t know when the pandemic will end, but to give the long-route passengers an option, we resumed 50 such trains last month. When the situation improves, we will surely reduce the fare,” he added. More trains will also originate from the city. A special rain will run from Chandigarh to Lucknow for Holi in addition to an existing one. Officials said they are also considering the request of Malayali Samajam Mohali to resume the Kerala Sampark Kranti Express and the train will restart within a week. On renovation of Chandigarh Railway Station, divisional railway manager, Ambala, Gurinder Mohan Singh, said the contract has been kept in abeyance for at least six months by the Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC). It is likely that the last date for this will be pushed further after it had been extended up to December 2022, he added. Officials said not many bidders are turning up for the commercial plots towards Panchkula side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/railway-line-to-connect-chandigarh-and-mukerian-101615230258616.html
09-03-2021||Chandigarh||Inmates can now request a song to Ambala jail RJs||Almost a week after its inauguration, the radio jockeys (RJs) at the Ambala Central Jail have started taking requests for favourite songs from inmates under the programme “Aap ki farmaish”.The detainees are also encouraged to mention if they want to dedicate the song to their loved ones. Jail superintendent Lakhbir Singh Brar said that 30 requests were received on Day 1 of the programme last week.The jail radio was inaugurated in Ambala on February 26. They are already working in Faridabad and Panipat jails.“This one-hour radio show is completely operated by six of the inmates and issues like health, law and order, education are given priority. We have received an overwhelming response from the inmates. The operating team will be increased in the future,” said Brar, adding that through this medium of communication, the authorities will also try to make the detainees aware of timely intimation in cases of mental issues.The central jail has been in the news for all the wrong reasons in the past: several crime incidents including suicides and recovery of drugs along with mobiles and SIM cards were reported.MBBS doctor among six RJsAs part of the process, six inmates who showed their interest in this initiative were trained by Dr Vartika Nanda, founder of the Tinka Tinka Foundation and head of the department of journalism at Lady Shri Ram College.The six RJs, all men, include a Gurugram-based 65-year-old doctor, who is the senior-most team member along with two local brothers, responsible for handling the technical part, Brar said.“For the last two years, we have been training them in musical instruments and vocals. We might add this into the radio module in the future,” the jailer mentioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/inmates-can-now-request-a-song-to-ambala-jail-rjs-101615230198580.html
09-03-2021||City||AIADMK promises ₹1,500 per month to women heads of households||Chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami on Monday announced an assistance of ₹1,500 to women family heads and with that the AIADMK becomes the third party to promise to pay for women’s unpaid labour at home.On the previous day, the DMK chief MK Stalin, in his ten-year vision document for Tamil Nadu, announced income support of ₹1,000 to female heads of all households. Palaniswami also promised six cooking gas cylinders free of cost to families every year.Also read: ‘Behave humanely with Rohingyas’, Farooq Abdullah tells CentreWhen reporters asked Palaniswami that DMK may call them copycats, the chief minister said that this announcement was part of their election manifesto that they have been preparing in the past ten days and would release soon. “Some aspects of our election manifesto has been leaked so the DMK made this announcement yesterday,” Palaniswami responded. “To ensure economic equality in society, for every family, ₹1,500 per month would be handed over to women heads of families," he said. Both leaders have said that their announcement comes to mark International Women’s Day observed on March 8.Meanwhile, as soon as Stalin unveiled his vision document, actor-politician Kamal Haasan accused the DMK of copying his party Makkal Needhi Maiam’s ideas, including the monthly pay for women and broadband connectivity for rural areas.“The reason why I keep repeating these things is that they will claim they came up with these ideas,” said Haasan at a public meeting Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aiadmk-promises-rs-1-500-per-month-to-women-heads-of-households-101615228468374.html
09-03-2021||Mumbai||'Something fishy': Uddhav after NIA asked to take over Ambani bomb threat probe||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday questioned the Centre’s decision to hand over the probe case of the explosives-laden vehicle found outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). “There is something fishy in the way the probe in Ambani vehicle case is handed over to NIA by the Centre,” Thackeray said.Officials of the central agency said they are currently in the process of registering the case and will send a team to the spot and examine the Scorpio inside which the explosives were found. On February 25, the green Scorpio with 20 gelatin sticks, weighing up to 2.5 kgs, was found abandoned on Carmichael Road which is 600 metres away from Antilia, the residence of the Ambanis. A threat letter addressed to Ambani, the chairman of Reliance Industries, and his wife Nita Ambani was also found in it.Soon after the investigation was launched, a man Mansukh Hiran came forward and said that the SUV was reported stolen from him and that he had reported the theft of his car on February 18. Hiren’s body was found in Kalwa creek on March 5, hours after his family reported that he was missing.Chief minister Thackeray also said that the Maharashtra police’s anti-terrorism squad (ATS), which was investigating the matter until now, will continue to conduct its probe into Hiran’s death. He said the opposition does not have faith in the state machinery and wanted to show it doesn't function. "If that is so, why is it demanding that the state government reduce taxes on fuel?" the chief minister asked.Maharashtra’s home minister Anil Deshmukh also said in the state assembly on Monday that state police were capable of solving the case of Hiren's death and the recovery of the explosives-laden car near Ambani's residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/something-fishy-thackeray-after-nia-asked-to-take-over-ambani-bomb-threat-probe-101615213229407.html
09-03-2021||Mumbai||NCB arrests 3 in Goa, including 1 linked to Sushant Singh Rajput case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday arrested three people, including one who is suspected to be linked to Bollywood actor late Sushant Singh Rajput case, news agency ANI reported.According to NCB Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede, one of the three accused, Maharaj, was suspected to be linked to Sushant Singh Rajput's death case.The arrest comes after the agency raided the premises of an accused, Hemant Saha, at Morjim in North Goa district and recovered 15 blots of LSD (commercial quantity) and 30 gm charas, Wankhede said in a statement.The raid was part of a series of searches held in Goa over the weekend.The accused was arrested on Sunday from Miramar beach village near Panaji following a joint operation by NCB teams from Mumbai and Goa, Wankhede said.The official said the drugs case accused Anuj Keswani and Regal Mahakaal during questioning named Saha as the supplier of LSD and charas.Officials said that Saha - a native of Madhya Pradesh - was running a shack in the Morjim area for the past several years.Rajput was found dead at his apartment Mumbai’s Bandra in June last year following which the Mumbai Police conducted a probe and said that he died by suicide. The case was later handed over to the Central Investigation Bureau (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate and NCB were also roped in to investigate the money laundering and drugs angle.The federal drugs regulatory body has made multiple arrests in the case and has also interrogated several popular Bollywood celebrities to probe a possible drug mafia in the Mumbai based film industry.The NCB recently filed a 11,700-page charge sheet and has named the late actor’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and 32 others in it. The statements of the accused would be corroborated with other evidence such as chats, audio messages exchanged, and relevant bank account entries.The central agency has also claimed that Chakraborty took delivery of drugs at her residence, and so they were stored at her house. The actor allegedly provided funds for purchase of drugs and facilitated a channel of supply of drugs with her brother Showik’s help, the NCB said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-including-one-who-provided-drugs-to-sushant-singh-rajput-arrested-by-ncb-101615190062392.html
09-03-2021||Mumbai||Mansukh Hiran death: Maha ATS registers murder case against unidentified persons||Two days after the body of Mansukh Hiran, the purported owner of the car with explosives found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence here last month, was found in a creek, the Maharashtra ATS on Sunday registered a case of murder against unidentified persons, an official said.The formal orders to hand over the probe into the death of Hiran (46) to the ATS were issued on Saturday late night.The Anti-terrorism Squad (ATS) registered the FIR against unidentified persons on the order of the state home department under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including murder, disappearance of evidence, and a criminal conspiracy, the official said.Accordingly, all the documents related to the case were handed over to the ATS by Mumbra police in Thane district.Earlier, family members of the deceased had demanded registration of a murder case and refused to take possession of his body.However, they finally agreed to claim the body on Saturday on the intervention of senior police officers in Thane.Vimla Hiran, wife of the deceased, had filed a complaint with the police.The body of Hiran was fished out from a creek in neighbouring Thane district on the morning of March 5, hours after he went "missing".Hiran, an automobile accessories dealer from Thane, had purportedly written a letter on March 2 to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and police commissioners of Thane and Mumbai, alleging that he was being harassed by the police and media since the vehicle was found outside Ambani's house.He had also claimed that despite being a victim, he was treated like an accused.The car, a Scorpio, with 20 gelatin sticks inside was found near 'Antilia', the multi-storey residence of Mukesh Ambani in south Mumbai, on February 25.Police had said the vehicle was stolen from Airoli- Mulund Bridge on February 18.The ATS had already taken over the probe into the security scare outside Ambani's residence.In the letter, Hiran claimed that he was being harassed despite not having any knowledge about the culprits, who not only "stole his vehicle but also misused it".A Thane Police official had said that Hiran had left his shop around 8.30 pm on March 4 in an autorickshaw and since then his phone was switched off."His family members had lodged a missing person's report on Friday morning after he did not return home and a case was registered at Naupada police station. By that time, a body was found at Mumbra and it was later confirmed that the deceased was Mansukh," he had said, adding that Hiran's mobile phone is yet to be recovered.Officials on Saturday said the autopsy report of Hiran reserved the opinion on the cause of his death and added that no visible external injuries were found on his body.The viscera of Hiran was already sent for forensic analysis, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hiren-mansukh-death-ats-registers-case-of-murder-101615146853628.html
09-03-2021||Mumbai||Autopsy report of owner of SUV found near Ambani's house 'reserved'||The visecra of Mansukh Hiran, who was in possession of the vehicle that was later found with explosives outside the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani, has been sent to the forensic lab for analysis, police said on Saturday.The autopsy report of Hiran (46), who was found dead in a creek in neighbouring Thane on Friday morning, reserved the opinion on the cause of death, officials said.Hiran's body was fished out of the creek along the Mumbra-Reti Bunder road hours after his family registered a complaint about his disappearance with Thane police.The autopsy report received on Saturday mentioned that there were no visible external injuries, a police official said."The viscera has been preserved and sent for chemical analysis to the forensic sciences laboratory at Kalina in Mumbai," he said, adding that drowning was suspected to be the cause of death.After obtaining the autopsy report, senior police officials visited Hiran's residence in Naupada in Thane and convinced his family members to take possession of the body, said Deputy Commissioner of Police Avinash Ambure.The family had said earlier it would not take the body for last rites until autopsy report was available.A team of the Maharashtra's Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) which has taken over the probe of the entire matter, visited the spot where Hiran's body was found.As per Thane Police, Hiran, who was in vehicle spare business, left his shop around 8.30 pm on Thursday in an autorickshaw and since then his phone was switched off. His family then lodged missing person complaint.Hiran's Scorpio with 20 gelatin sticks inside was found near 'Antilia', Ambani's multi-storey residence in South Mumbai, on February 25. Police had said it had been stolen from Airoli-Mulund Bridge on February 18.Hiran had said in the statement recorded by police that when he was on the way from his shop in Thane to Crawford Market in south Mumbai for some work on February 17, the steering got jammed.He left the car on service road in Vikhroli and took a cab, he said. After finishing work, he met a friend and returned to Thane in his car, he told police.The next day he found that the Scorpio was missing and lodged a police complaint, Hiran had told the media.Speaking in the Legislative Assembly on Friday, BJP leader and Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis pointed out that Mumbai police commissioner's office is close to Crawford Market."He met a person at Crawford Market. Who is that person? The vehicle owner lives in Thane and the police official who was the first to reach the spot (near Ambani's house) also lives in Thane," Fadnavis said, seeking an NIA probe.While the police had maintained that Hiran owned the SUV, the matter got more murky on Friday when Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said in the Assembly that he was not the owner.The real owner had handed it over to Hiran for some interior work, Deshmukh said, while announcing that the probe will be transfered to the ATS.On Saturday, Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil alleged that suspicious death of Hiran looked like a murder, and questioned the "seriousness of the probe".Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said the matter should not be politicised, but the truth must be found to protect the Sena-NCP-Congress government's image and prestige.As to who parked the vehicle near RIL chairman Ambani's house in the early hours of February 25, the investigators have not said anything yet.Police said that CCTV footage showed that the person who drove it there left in another vehicle, an Innova, which is yet to be traced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/autopsy-report-of-owner-of-suv-found-near-ambani-s-house-reserved-101615086749132.html
