10-03-2021||Mumbai||3-year-old girl attacked by stray dog near Mumbai||A three-year-old girl suffered serious injuries on her face after a stray dog attacked her in Bhiwandi on Wednesday afternoon while she was playing outside her home. She was admitted to IGM Hospital in Bhiwandi, which referred her to Chhatrapati Shivaji Hospital or Kalwa hospital where she is now undergoing treatment. The girl, Abrish Fatima Irfan Ansari, is a resident of Noori Nagar in Bhiwandi. Her maternal grandfather Abdul Samad said, “Her father is a loom worker and was at home and her mother was busy with household chores. Abrish was playing outside when a stray attacked her face. Locals tried to rescue her, but she had suffered few serious injuries by then. We took her to IGM Hospital where she got anti-rabies shot.” Samad alleged that IGM Hospital made them wait for over half-an-hour and did not arrange an ambulance to shift the girl to Kalwa. “We had to pay for the ambulance. The doctors at Kalwa hospital said they will have to perform a surgery on her face after 48 hours.” Rajesh More, superintendent of IGM Hospital in Bhiwandi, said, “The patient arrived around 12.30pm on Wednesday. She had third stage of injuries, wherein it is essential to give anti-rabies serum which is available only at district hospitals or medical colleges. We cleaned the wounds and applied first aid. We also gave anti-rabies injection to the patient and recommended her to Kalwa. The family themselves arranged private ambulance.” Bhimrao Jadhav, dean of Kalwa hospital, confirmed that the patient was undergoing treatment at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3yearold-girl-attacked-by-stray-dog-near-mumbai-101615400911112.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||MVA ups ante on Delkar suicide case; Mumbai Police books Praful Patel||The ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) has upped the ante over the suicide of Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar. A day after declaring a special investigation team (SIT) probe in the matter, state home minister Anil Deshmukh on Wednesday told the state Legislative Council that the Mumbai Police booked Dadra and Nagar Haveli administrator Praful Patel in connection with Delkar’s suicide. Patel, , who was named in Delkar’s suicide note, has been booked under Prevention of Atrocities Act.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said the case was registered only after statements of his family members were recorded. “We would have booked him long back, but we waited for his family to come. A case was registered only after recording their statements,” Thackeray told reporters.“We did not jump the guns like opposition has been doing in Hiran case. The case against Patel has been taken only after Delkar’s wife and son gave us statement against him,” he said while taking to mediapersons in the Vidhan Bhavan complex. In Lok Sabha, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MP Supriya Sule on Wednesday demanded a probe by the committee on privileges of the parliament into the allegations made by Delkar in his last speech in September last year. She said the committee should probe the reasons that lay impediments in discharging duties by MPs. Sule also submitted a memorandum in this regard to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla along with MPs from other parties such as the Congress, Shiv Sena, Samajwadi Party, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Trinamool Congress (TMC).The Sena along with other opposition parties also took up the issue of Delkar’s suicide in the Parliament. Sena’s Lok Sabha MP Vinayak Raut said the Union Territory’s administration was harassing the seven-time MP.Delkar, 58, a sitting MP from Dadra and Nagar Haveli, was found dead in a hotel in Marine Drive, south Mumbai on February 22. In his suicide letter, he blamed Patel, who was the minister of state for home when Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the chief minister of Gujarat.“There has been a demand for inquiry in the suicide of Mohan Delkar. His suicide note mentions that he committed suicide due to pressure from Patel. Based on the complaint received by Abhinav Delkar, a case has been registered under Prevention of Atrocities Act, 1989. Dadra and Nagar Haveli administrator Praful Patel has also been booked,” Deshmukh said in the upper House.“The fact that a seven-time member of Lok Sabha was reportedly frustrated to such an extent that it would drive him to extreme despair and steps to end his life is traumatic for all of us. In his last speech in Lok Sabha, he had expressly mentioned the pressure and humiliation mounted on him by officials of the local administration of Dadra and Nagar Haveli... I humbly request you (Speaker) to inquire into the allegations made by the late member on the floor of the House in September 2020 by referring it to the committee on privileges,” she said in the memorandum.“It is not just a loss of life but also a strike on the dignity of the Parliament. The independence and supremacy of the Parliament rests on the discharge of duties by its members fresh of any fear and duress,” states the letter.She also said the Maharashtra government has ordered a SIT to probe his death, and the inquiry by committee of privileges will have no bearing on the criminal investigation by the SIT.“Mohan Delkar, who was an MP for nearly 30-32 years, unfortunately had to commit suicide due to harassment by many administrative officers there. Mohan Delkar wrote a letter in Gujarati and through it we can come to know how much he was harassed by the Dadra and Nagar Haveli administration. He also complained to the privilege committee. Delkar, in the meeting of the committee, had said that if they do not intervene, he would have to commit suicide. Why should such a time arise for a MP to say this,” the Sena MP said in Lok Sabha.“MVA in Maharashtra has given the probe to SIT. I wish to appeal to the Prime Minister to hold whoever is responsible for the death of Mohan Delkar. Superintendent of Police, Administration, Collector, etc should be suspended and booked under [section] 304 [of the Indian Penal Code],” Raut added.On Tuesday, Delkar’s wife Kalaben and son Abhinav met chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy CM Ajit Pawar and the home minister at Vidhan Bhavan. Later, the Mumbai Police recorded Abhinav’s statement at Marine Drive police station.“My late father has named Praful Khoda Patel in his suicide letter, who is the administrator of the Union Territory. His public humiliation is the main cause behind his suicide that was going on for the past 16-18 months,” Abhinav told reporters in Vidhan Bhavan premises.“Formation of a SIT in this case is a big thing for us. We trust the Maharashtra government and the police. We believe that we will get justice in the state. Our only request to the state government is to complete the probe at the earliest and take action against the guilty. The CM (Thackeray) has assured us of the same,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mva-ups-ante-on-delkar-suicide-case-mumbai-police-books-praful-patel-101615400610651.html
10-03-2021||Lucknow||Father of 13-year-old rape survivor run over by truck in Kanpur||The father of a 13-year-old gang rape survivor died in Kanpur on Wednesday after being hit by a truck outside a health centre where the girl was undergoing medical examination. The incident occurred a day after the father pressed gang-rape charges against the son of a local police officer and his friends.In an FIR filed by the brother of the deceased on Wednesday, the family alleged that the incident was orchestrated by the accused. They also alleged that the police was initially reluctant to file a gang-rape complaint and that they made the survivor undergo medical examination five times.“They were not given any protection. We want stern action against those police officers, their tactics broke my brother in a matter of hours, and he is not with us as a result,” said the survivor’s uncle.Superintendent of police (rural) Brijesh Srivastava said the allegations were being looked into.A truck hit the father when he stepped out of the health centre in Ghatampur for a cup of tea, Kanpur deputy inspector general of police Preetinder Singh said. He was rushed to the Lala Lajpat Rai hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries, Singh added. The truck driver was yet to be traced.“The incident is tragic and it will be investigated by a team headed by an ASP-rank officer,” said Srivastava.On Tuesday morning, the father told police that three men dragged her minor daughter into the fields while she went out to collect fodder and raped her. The gang-rape allegedly occurred on Monday evening.The accused were identified as Golu Yadav, Deepak Yadav and Saurabh Yadav. Golu was arrested but Deepak — the son of a sub-inspector — and Saurabh were absconding, officials said. Five teams have been formed to track the accused.The family said shortly after the gang-rape complaint was filed on Tuesday, the accused assaulted the father and were pressuring him to withdraw the case filed under Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act. Police said Saurabh also threatened the minor of dire consequences if she told anyone about the incident.“When my brother was coming to the police station, the accused Deepak Yadav and others accosted and assaulted him,” the uncle said. “They threatened him with dire consequences for pursuing the case,” he added.The family said the police was reluctant from the beginning to register a complaint and sent the minor girl for medical examination five times in a span of eight hours. She was examined twice at the local health centre, twice at the community health centre in Ghatampur and once at the hospital in Kanpur, some 70 km from her village.The girl and her father left for Ghatampur around 11pm on Tuesday for the fifth medical examination. They remained at the CHC the entire night as the doctor was not available.“All these points would be covered in the inquiry that would be conducted by additional superintendent of police level officer,” said a police officer on condition of anonymity.Protests erupted after the death of the father on Wednesday. In a statement, the district administration said the family will be given ₹5 lakh from the chief minister’s relief fund.In 2019, UP reported the most number of crimes against women, roughly one every 10 minutes, according to the National Crime Records Bureau. Experts say that uneven law enforcement, feudal attitudes and lack of education contribute to the lack of safety for women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/father-of-13-year-old-rape-survivor-run-over-by-truck-in-kanpur-101615400151259.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||Praful Patel demanded ₹25 crore from my father, alleges Mohan Delkar’s son||Dadra and Nagar Haveli administrator Praful Patel had allegedly demanded ₹25 crore from late Member of Parliament (MP) Mohan Delkar. Patel also allegedly wanted to take over Delkar’s educational trust, alleged Abhinav Delkar, son of the late Parliamentarian, in his police complaint. Besides booking Patel and others on charges of abetting the suicide, cops charged them under relevant sections of extortion and Atrocities Act.Abhinav has further alleged that Patel conspired with key bureaucrats of Dadra and Nagar Haveli including district magistrate (DM) and superintendent of police (SP) and was allegedly harassing Delkar by various means and left him with no choice but to take the extreme step. Marine Drive police on Tuesday recorded Abhinav’s statement, on the basis of which an FIR has been registered. He has named a total of nine people in the complaint including Patel, DM Sandeep Singh, then SP Sharad Darade, deputy DM Apurva Sharma, sub-divisonal officer Manasvi Jain, police inspector Manoj Patel and Rohit Yadav, Fatehsingh Chauhan and Dilip Patel (Talathi). While Patel was not available for comment, Sandeep Singh and Sharad Darade did not respond to phone calls and messages.Delkar, who hails from Scheduled Tribes and known as a leader fighting for tribals rights, was found dead in a hotel in south Mumbai on February 22. Preliminary probe indicated that the seven-term MP died by suicide. Delkar had left behind a 15-page suicide note which he had written in Gujarati on his official letterhead. In the letter, he had blamed Patel and others for the extreme step, police officers said.His son Abhinav told the police that on Patel’s orders, local administration was targetting and harassing Delkar for nearly one year. “Patel had demanded ₹25 crore as extortion from my father and threatened to jail him under PASA (Puducherry Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act) if he doesn’t do so,” Abhinav alleged.“Patel wanted to take control of SSR College for Pharmacy and Management, which is a renowned educational institute in Dadra and Nagar Haveli, and belongs to a trust established by Delkar. Patel wanted to usurp the college’s land which is worth ₹100 crore in today’s market and was intimidating Delkar through administrative actions,” his son alleged.Patel was threatening the MP since over a year over the college and wanted to have eight of the total 11 trustees. Abhinav has specified seven key instances in the FIR in which Delkar was being targeted by the local administration.He pointed out that his father’s name was removed from the official function of Dadra and Nagar Haveli’s Liberation Day, which is held on August 2. On this day, as part of the 66-year-old tradition, the MP gives a speech after administrator’s speech. But his father’s name was dropped from the function to insult him, Abhinav alleged. Later the parliamentary had also complained about this issue to Lok Sabha privilege committee and Speaker.Abhinav cited a letter of resident deputy DM Apurva Sharma, dated September 2, 2020, in which Delkar was insulted.Similarly Delkar was deliberately not invited in another government function held on December 17-18, last year, in which a Union minister had come to Dadra-Nagar Haveli for an inauguration function. Abhinav also alleged that to target his father, on the directions of then SP Sharad Darade, police inspector Manoj Patel had re-opened an old case (CR 137/2003) in order to try to implicate his father in the case. “One close aide of Patel, Fatehsingh Chauhan during 2019 elections had created a video in which false and serious allegations were made against my father and spread it all over on social media in order to harass him. My father had then slapped him a defamation notice too,” Abhinav said.He further alleged that the Talathi Dilip Patel had on February 18 this year made a false complaint of his father with the administrative office. Delkar’s son alleged that the accused people have conspired together and would not follow his father’s order, would not do his official works, ignore his directions and would not invite him in government functions and also intentionally ignore felicitating him.The FIR also states that between December 18, 2020 and January 19, 2021, Delkar had made complaints against the accused people to the Prime Minister, home minister Amit Shah, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, Lok Sabha standing committee president Bhupendra Yadav. During the hearing of his complaint in Lok Sabha standing committee, Delkar had said, “If harassment to me is not stopped, then I would be left with no option but committing suicide.” However, after this, the accused got more aggressive and allegedly started harassing him more, states the complaint.Abhinav said that he had advised his father to file complaints, but Delkar had told him that he was scared that if he approached the court, Patel would go to any extent to make his life a hell.Patel and eight other accused have been booked under sections 306 (abatement to suicide), 506 (criminal intimidation), 389 (putting person in fear of accusation of offence, in order to commit extortion), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and section 3 (1)(n), 3 (1)(p), 3(2)(ii) 3(2)(va) of Prevention of Atrocities Act, 1989.The allegations made by the complainant are yet to be proved and due verification and investigation would be carried out by the special investigation team ordered by the home department, said a police officer. Deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Shashi Meena refused to speak on the matter as it is an ongoing investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/praful-patel-demanded-25-crore-from-my-father-alleges-mohan-delkar-s-son-101615400371780.html
10-03-2021||Other||Ludhiana teen shooting video while driving mows down 10-year-old boy||A 17-year-old boy, who was recording a video while driving, mowed down a 10-year-old boy with his car in Rishi Nagar on Wednesday evening.After the accident, the accused, a resident of Rishi Nagar, tried to flee, but was nabbed by onlookers and handed over to the police.The victim has been identified as Tanish, alias Tarun, of Mandeep Colony. He was a student of Class 6 at a government school and the only brother of his two sisters.According to police, Tanish was playing with his friend, Prince, 10, when the accident took place. Prince had a miraculous escape and suffered only minor injuries.Prince told the police that he and Tanish were taking a ride on his cycle near the Income Tax Office when they stopped outside a temple to have some water.Suddenly, a Maruti Suzuki Baleno veered towards them and hit Tanish, before slamming him into a pole. The impact of the collision severed Tanish’s arm and killed him on the spot, while Prince had a close shave.Police reached the spot and apprehended the teenager, who has been booked under Sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 427(mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.The victim’s father, Ramji, is a mason, and was at work when he came to know about the incident.“Onlookers said the car driver was driving recklessly and recording a video on his mobile phone while driving, which we are verifying. He will be produced in court on Friday,” said inspector Jaskanwal Singh, station house officer, PAU police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-teen-shooting-video-while-driving-mows-down-10-year-old-boy-101615400370661.html
10-03-2021||Other||Rupnagar medical officer convicted in 2014 graft case||Chandigarh The special court of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Chandigarh, has held a medical officer posted in Rupnagar district jail guilty in a 2014 bribery case. The CBI had arrested the doctor, Rajiv Jassi, for demanding and accepting a bribe of ₹4,000, in July 2014. He had taken the bribe from Dolly Rani, mother of a prisoner named Sandeep, who is lodged in the jail, to refer her son to Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh. CBI court special judge Sushil Kumar Garg held him guilty under section 7 and 13 (1) (d) read with 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The sentence will be pronounced on March 15.As per the CBI, when Sandeep’s mother, Rani, came to meet him in the court, Sandeep asked her to request Dr Jassi, to refer him to PGIMER, Chandigarh for treatment.It was added that when Rani contacted Dr Jassi, he sought a bribe of ₹5,000 to refer her son to PGIMER. After negotiation, the deal was finalised in ₹4,000. As did not want to give the bribe, she filed a complaint with the CBI, which laid a trap.Dr Jassi had called Rani with the bribe amount, in Sector 40, Chandigarh. The accused was in a cab, with driver, Satnam Singh, when they were caught by the CBI for accepting a bribe of ₹4,000 from Rani.Later, Sandeep, had also moved an application in the Chandigarh court alleging that a head-constable, who is allegedly in contact with Dr Jassi, was forcing him to strike a compromise in the case by threatening him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rupnagar-medical-officer-convicted-in-2014-graft-case-101615400310161.html
10-03-2021||Noida||Domestic help decamps with ₹25 lakh cash from sculptor’s house in Noida||Noida: A newly employed domestic help decamped with ₹25 lakh cash and jewellery from the renowned sculptor Ram Sutar’s house in Noida’s Sector 19 on Tuesday evening, police said The incident took place at around 7.30pm, police said. According to Sameer Sutar, the sculptor’s grandson who filed the police complaint, the suspect was hired a few days ago through a placement agency.“He had started on March 3. Yesterday, when we returned home at night, we could not find him anywhere. We discovered that the cupboards and drawers in the bedrooms were rummaged through and cash and jewellery missing,” Sameer said in the complaint.Based on Sameer’s complaint, a case was registered against the 25-year-old suspect, Madan Mohan Das, at Sector 20 police station under section 381 (theft by clerk or servant) of the Indian Penal Code.The 96-year-old sculptor was in the house at the time of the incident, police said. “He was resting when the other family members had gone out. There was another domestic help in the house. The suspect sent him to the market to buy groceries and used the opportunity to decamp with the valuables,” said a senior police official.“We have contacted the placement agency and it appears that they had not done the necessary verification before employing him. We are investigating the case and teams have been formed to look for him,” said Rakesh Kumar Singh, station house officer, Sector 20 police station.When contacted, the family of the sculptor refused to comment on the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/domestic-help-decamps-with-25-lakh-cash-from-sculptor-s-house-in-noida-101615400189395.html
10-03-2021||Noida||Over 100,000 sqm owned by Wave Group in Noida seized, firm says will approach court||NOIDA: The Noida authority on Wednesday said it has seized about over 100,000 square metres (sqm) land belonging to the Wave Mega City Centre Private Limited located in the heart of Noida in Sector 32. Officials said the action comes after the company allegedly failed to pay dues for the land in question, forcing the authority to take possession after cancelling the allotment on February 11, 2021. The realty firm, however, called the action “unlawful” adding that it will approach the courts for relief.The authority had decided to issue a notice to the Wave Group on December 12 last year during its 200th board meeting, warning them that if the realty firm does not pay up, the allotment of the mixed-use land (residential and commercial), located at a prime location in the city, will be cancelled.“Since the Wave Group has not cleared its financial dues of around ₹2,500 crore, even after having been given an opportunity via a notice, the authority decided to cancel the allotment on February 11. On Wednesday, the team of officials from the authority took possession over 108,421.13 sqm of the land. At least 44,853.13 sqm out of the seized 108,421.13 sqm have been developed by the realty firm while the remaining 63,568 is not covered. As of now, the Wave Group has an additional 56,400 sqm of land with it,” said Ritu Maheshwari, the chief executive officer of the Noida authority.The authority said the Wave Group has constructed a 43-story building and another complex where three-10 storey buildings have been built on a covered area of 44,853.13 sqm.“We have sealed these two buildings,” said Maheshwari.The authority had on March 11, 2011 allotted 618,952 sqm to the realty firm in Sector 25A and 32 in Noida for a mega mixed-land (commercial and residential) use project. It was the biggest land deal of the year and the Wave Group had said it had wanted to develop a mega mixed-land use project with premium residential units and commercial space right in the centre of the city, said officials of the authority. However, amid slowdown in the real estate sector, the firm could not develop the land and returned about 454,131 sqm to the authority under a policy.When contacted, a spokesperson for the Wave Group, who asked not to be identified, said the action will affect the interest of investors and other stakeholders.“The Noida authority’s high-handed action is an illegal act which will cause massive loss to all stakeholders, including buyers. For reasons best known to them, the Noida authority is acting against settled norms and its own policies. We believe that we have a strong case. We are in the process of taking appropriate legal recourse against Noida authority so as to protect the interest of all stakeholders,” said the spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/over-100-000-sqm-owned-by-wave-group-in-noida-seized-firm-says-will-approach-court-101615400129880.html
10-03-2021||Noida||After 12 years, Yamuna Expressway authority starts plot registry||The Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) on Wednesday said it has begun the process to register residential plots in sectors 18 and 20 it had allotted in 2009.About 21,000 plots in the two sectors were allotted to individuals. The authority has already facilitated about 5,500 registries in the two sectors. By the end of the month, it aims to executed 2,500.“Work is on in around 11,000 plots. The registry of around 7,000 plots is already under process. Work to develop basic facilities in these two sectors is in full swing,” said Arun Vir Singh chief executive officer of the Yeida.Construction is in its final stages in blocks I and J in sector 18, as well as A, B, C and D blocks in sector 20, he said.Meanwhile, the association representing the association of plot buyers in the Yamuna region have forwarded a six-point demand to the authority before more registries are carried out. “Farmers’ issues in C, D, R, S, T and U pockets of sector 20 are yet to be settled and no construction work can take place till then,” said Safal Suri from the association.“We will soon hold camps to address the problems in certain blocks and facilitate physical possession to the allottees. We are holding meetings with farmers to resolve all issues,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/after-12-years-yamuna-expressway-authority-starts-plot-registry-101615400129372.html
10-03-2021||Noida||Noida: Health dept holds mental health camp at Bhangel CHC||Noida:The Gautam Budh Nagar health department organised a mental health camp at the community health centre (CHC) in Noida’s Bhangel on Wednesday and examined 35 patients from the neighbouring areas.A specialised team of doctors and psychiatrists examined the patients and gave them free medicines.A number of people suffered stress and mental health issues and the camp is important for them, according to Bhangel CHC medical superintendent Dr Yatendra Singh. “People are stressed due to financial problems, family issues and personal issues. People suffer from anxiety and insomnia. On the direction of the Uttar Pradesh health department, we organised a health camp where physicians, psychiatrists and psychologists provided overall treatment and counselling, and prescribed medicines to the patients,” Singh said.The health department started preparations for this camp a week ago. “We had informed the Auxiliary Nursing Midwifery and ASHA workers to visit the neighbouring areas and inform people about the camp,” he said.According to the doctors, lack of sleep, shivering in hands and legs, unnecessarily doubting people, unwanted fear, thinking about the same thing repeatedly, mobile phone addiction, etc. could be a sign of mental issues. “At times, people also fear supernatural elements. It is also a mental health issue,” Singh added.Some of the patients said they lost jobs and started suffering from insomnia, headache and panic attacks.Amit Kumar, a resident of Salarpur village, said he had lost his job during the lockdown and returned to his hometown in Raebareli in April 2020. “I was jobless for about six months and developed symptoms of insomnia. I always wondered how to feed my family. I recently found a job at a private company in Noida. I had gone to the mental camp,” Kumar said.Satvinder Singh, a resident of Noida Sector 101, said he works at a mobile phone company. “I started feeling stressed following the Covid-19 lockdown. There is always a sense of insecurity that if I go outside, I may get infected. I have been suffering from insomnia for a few months,” he said.Dr NK Sharma, president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Noida chapter, said there is a need for more mental health camps. “We need to create awareness about mental health issues among the people. If people sneeze or suffer from fever, they suspect they have Covid-19 infection. They overthink, which leads to mental health issues. Many people lost jobs and are stressed. Private and government hospitals should organise similar camps and help people get out of this situation,” Sharma said.The CHC had also organised a parallel camp for the general Outpatient Department (OPD) where some 275 patients were treated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-health-dept-holds-mental-health-camp-at-bhangel-chc-101615399949405.html
10-03-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: One killed, two hurt as security guard fires at sleeping workers||Ghaziabad: One man died while two others were injured when a 46-year-old security guard early Tuesday allegedly opened indiscriminate fire at some workers of a private firm in the Bulandshahr Industrial Area.Police said the suspect was nabbed by a police team during a search operation and 18 live cartridges were recovered allegedly from his possession.The suspect, Gyandendra Singh, from Farukkhabad in Uttar Pradesh, was booked for murder and attempt to murder (sections 302 and 307, of the Indian Penal Code, respectively) in an FIR lodged at the Kavi Nagar police station. The police also levied provisions of the Arms Act.The deceased victim was identified as Raju Yadav, from Siwan in Bihar, while the two injured were identified as Umesh Kumar and Vijay Kumar. All nine workers on which licensed fun was allegedly fired were engaged in welding and grinding jobs at the company.The incident took place around 3.30am at the guard room situated near the main entrance of the firm, where the nine workers were sleeping.“Hearing a loud noise, I woke up and realised that someone was firing gunshots from the window. All of us woke up and rushed to find corners of the room where we could hide to avoid bullets. The suspect fired two more rounds and one hit Raju Yadav, while others sustained pellet injuries,” alleged one of the survivors, also named Raju Yadav, who filed the police complaint.“After firing three shots, we heard more shots being fired in the air. The suspect was searching for another guard, Satish Kumar, with whom he had had a fight and whom he wanted to kill. But Satish was sleeping in the other room. Yadav (the victim) had the night shift, but he came back early from work and went to sleep. After firing the shots, the suspect latched the room from outside and fled to a nearby park,” the survivor added in his police complaint.The workers then called up the police emergency helpline number and a team was rushed.“The suspect was nabbed from the industrial area after a three hour search. He tried to resist but our team overpowered him. We seized his licensed gun and live cartridges. The suspect had a fight with one other guard (Satish Kumar) and fired into the workers’ room thinking he must be asleep there. But Satish was in the other room and the suspect ended up killing another worker and injuring two others. The victim was rushed to a hospital but was declared dead. The two injured victims are stable,” said Nipun Agarwal, superintendent of police (city 1).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-one-killed-two-hurt-as-security-guard-fires-at-sleeping-workers-101615399649340.html
10-03-2021||Noida||2 Bawaria gang members nabbed in Noida||Noida: The Noida police nabbed two members of the infamous Bawaria gang early Wednesday morning, following a gunfight in which the duo was injured.The suspects were identified as Pawan and Shivram, both residents of Jarcha village in Dadri of Gautam Budh Nagar.Police teams were formed and check posts were set up following an input that the suspects were in Noida and planning to commit a crime in the city, according to the officials. The duo was stopped near a roundabout in Noida Sector 1 around 4.30 am, but they escaped. Other police teams were informed about this and they tried to stop the duo’s motorcycle — which they had stolen earlier — near Sector 14 A.“The duo opened fire at the police team chasing them, and was injured in a retaliatory firing. They were admitted to a district hospital. They are now in police custody,” said additional deputy commissioner of police (zone 1) Kumar Ranvijay Singh.Police have seized an illegal pistol, a knife and a countrymade weapon from the suspects’ possession. They also recovered a gold chain that the duo had snatched from Sector 20 a few days ago, police said.“There are over two dozen cases including cases of theft, snatching, dacoity, murder gangster act, arms act, etc. registered against the suspects in Noida, Delhi and Ghaziabad. Other members of the gang are also on the police radar,” Singh added.We are looking at other cases the suspects were involved in, and efforts are underway to nab their accomplices, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/2-bawaria-gang-members-nabbed-in-noida-101615399349299.html
10-03-2021||Gurugram||HSVP enforcement team clears encroachments from plots in Sector 15||An enforcement team of the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran on Wednesday removed encroachments from two of its plots in Sector 15 Part 1. Four rooms and four toilets constructed on these plots were demolished by the enforcement team, said officials familiar with the development. Sandeep Lot, junior engineer, HSVP, who was part of the team, said that action was taken following directions from the chief administrator and administrator of HSVP, who directed all illegal encroachments on its plots across the city be cleared. “A number of such vacant plots that have been occupied illegally have been identified and these will be cleared in coming weeks,” said Lot. Besides Lot, the HSVP enforcement team comprised Lalit Hans and Anand Kumar, both junior engineers. Senior officials said that directions have also been issued to enforcement officials to clear encroachments in HSVP markets. A large number of complaints pertaining to encroachments and extensions by shopkeepers have been lodged by local residents, they said. In another development, the enforcement team of the Town and Country Planning Department conducted a demolition and sealing drive in Bhora Kalan and Bilaspur, which are located on the outskirts of the city. RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, said that road networks and a few shop structures that had come up on a five-acre plot for an illegal colony were demolished. “A guest house being operated in violation of rules was also sealed following a complaint on CM Window,” said Bhath. DTCP officials also said that registration of properties that are sealed is not allowed till the owners restore the structures as per the building plan and make corrections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hsvp-enforcement-team-clears-encroachments-from-plots-in-sector-15-101615398690699.html
10-03-2021||Gurugram||Four power utility staff injured on duty after family attacks them over unpaid bills||The Gurugram police on Tuesday booked four family members for allegedly assaulting and threatening the staff of Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) in Adarsh Colony of sector 12. The four-member DHBVN team had gone to cut the power to the house of a person named Khilu Ram over unpaid dues when they were assaulted, said police. Police said that this was the third such incident reported this month.The DHBVN staff included linemen Brijmohan and Jitender, and their assistants Rinku and Rahul. When the team asked Ram for their electricity bill receipts for the last four months, which he had claimed he had paid, he went inside the house to fetch it, said Gurugram police commissioner K K Rao. The DHBVN told police that when Ram failed to show up an hour later, they went ahead and disabled the electricity meter, cutting off the power supply.It was then that Ram, his brother and two sons allegedly attacked the staff. “The four of them got the sticks and iron rods and started hitting four of them. Ram asked his son to lock the gates from inside and not let the staff go out,” he said. But by then a team member managed to contact the police who came to their rescue. The victims were sent to a hospital for treatment of their injuries and were stable, said police.A case under sections 186 (Obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) and 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sector 14 police station on Tuesday. No one was arrested till the filing of this report.DHBVN sub-divisional officer Sanjay Mangla said that their teams had called the consumer last week and reminding him of his dues. “He had assured to pay by Monday. Later, he said he will do it online, and after that he stopped responding to calls following which the team was sent to his house,” he said.Manoj Yadav, superintending engineer, DHBVN, Gurugram 1, said that they had prepared a list of electricity bill defaulters. “A team will be sent to each defaulter to remove their electricity metres. Incidents of assault on DHBVN officials have increased this year. We have got case registered in each incident and have hired best lawyers to fight our case to ensure maximum punishments to the suspects,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/four-power-utility-staff-injured-on-duty-after-family-attacks-them-over-unpaid-bills-101615398691273.html
10-03-2021||Gurugram||District administration starts survey to assess women’s safety in city||The district administration has started a public survey to assess the safety parameters of streets, public transport and workplaces for women in Gurugram. From gauging factors important for safety on roads to identifying black spots where women feel unsafe, the survey, which is being conducted online, will help the administration and other government agencies to take necessary measures for increasing security for women in the city. “The ultimate aim of the survey is to get an account of the problems at the ground level — like areas where women feel the most unsafe, identifying black spots so that police patrolling can be increased and similarly, changes required in the public transport system to make women feel secure,” said Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram. The survey is part of the women’s safety campaign that is going to be launched on March 12. It has been divided into parts to gauge safety in public places, workplace and awareness and effectiveness of existing systems and services for women in distress, such as women helpline number and one-stop centre. A link to the survey has been made available on the social media pages of the district administration. It includes topics of public safety on streets, taking into account important factors of the presence of streetlights, people, street vendors and women on the streets, public transport connectivity, condition of footpaths and presence of CCTV cameras. The survey will assess safety in popular markets, malls, parks and religious places, and also gauge accessibility, functionality and maintenance of public toilets in Gurugram. “The purpose is to get quantitative and qualitative suggestions on existing public safety in the city along with awareness regarding existing government services. For this, the district administration has aligned with different departments to resolve concerns that will emerge through the survey,” said Nayonika, associate, Chief Ministers Good Governance Associate (CMGGA) Programme, who has been handling the project. The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), Gurugram police and Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) are also aligned with the programme. The survey also seeks suggestions on creating pedestrian-only stretches and seeks opinion on cycle tracks and safe pedestrian crossings to encourage non-motorised transport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/district-administration-starts-survey-to-assess-women-s-safety-in-city-101615398690065.html
10-03-2021||Gurugram||Realtors, industrialists bank on upcoming budget for relief||City-based industries and businesses that are still reeling under the after-effects of the Covid-19-induced lockdown last year are expecting the Haryana government to announce relief measures in the upcoming state budget. Representatives of various organisations are hopeful of some relief to stakeholders as well as a boost to consumer sentiments. While the real estate industry, which is trying to make a comeback, wants tax cuts and stamp duty reduction, factory owners are seeking a package for small and medium industry to overcome the impact of the lockdown. The first budget since the lockdown will be presented by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday. Khattar had met industry leaders in Gurugram and Manesar on February 13 and 14, and taken feedback from the stakeholders over their expectations for the forthcoming budget. He had subsequently announced that the feedback would be taken into consideration while formulating the budget. Prashant Solomon, the spokesperson for the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI), NCR, said that the government should try to cut stamp duty and taxes, which constitute almost 25% of a real estate cost and also create a mechanism to ease terms for finance to execute projects. “Neighbouring states have reduced taxes but Haryana has a higher rate, which makes housing expensive. Also, there is a need to create investment options like Reits (real estate investment trust) so that retail investors can put money in residential realty,” he said. Developers and industry leaders also want the Haryana government to review the local job quota introduced recently. “Entire labour force in the construction industry and allied works comes from outside. This move will greatly impact real estate and other industries and must be reviewed. The recent move to increase the tax on property registration in municipal areas is also a regressive move,” said Praveen Jain, vice-chairman, National Real Estate Development Council. Owners of factories engaged in manufacturing processes based in Udyog Vihar and Manesar want the government to provide easy funds for upgrading technology and machinery, measures to reduce pollution in industrial areas and also financial support to switch to green technologies. Associations have also sought that the government regularise non-conforming industrial areas as promised in 2017 and improve infrastructure in the industrial estates. JN Mangla, president, Gurgaon Industrial Association, said that industrial zones in non-conforming areas should be regularised and infrastructure in industrial estates and Industrial Development Centre, Gurugram, should be upgraded on priority. “Conversion charges for converting from industrial to commercial plots is very high at present and needs to be reduced. The augmentation charges for use of increased FAR should also be reduced. A relief package for the industry is the need of the hour,” he said. Deepak Maini, general secretary, Federation of Indian Industry, Haryana chapter, said that there is a need for budgetary support to upgrade machinery, allocate for pollution control and infrastructure augmentation in non-conforming industrial zones. “The government needs to take steps to ensure manufacturing remains competitive and sustainable if it wants the state to prosper, and see job growth. Special measures will have to be taken so that pollution is curtailed and industry can switch to green fuels,” he said. Many city-based factory owners also want the government to announce welfare measures for workers who are staying in unauthorised colonies and rented accommodation in villages. “There is a need to announce some monetary benefits for workers by the government, apart from what the industry is contributing to insurance and provident fund. There is a need to announce measures for promoting industrial and rental housing on a large scale,” said Pawan Yadav, president, IMT Industrial Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/realtors-industrialists-bank-on-upcoming-budget-for-relief-101615398689375.html
10-03-2021||Gurugram||Power department to remove meters of bill defaulters||The state power distribution company has directed its officials to remove electricity meters of 15,000 bill defaulters in the city in an attempt to recover dues, as non-recovery of bills has created a revenue deficit, officials familiar with the matter said.Officials of the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) said that over 15,000 consumers have not paid the electricity bills for over two cycles (four months), which roughly amounts to a revenue gap of ₹30 crore.Manoj Yadav, superintending engineer, DHBVN, Circle 1, said that they aim to make defaulters pay their bills by March-end. He said that officials will be making phone calls or be visiting the premises of defaulters. “If consumers fail to clear their dues or part of it within the given time period, we will disconnect the power supply to them and remove the meters from their premises,” he said.Officials said that the drive would continue till April-end, with the power supply to 5,000 defaulters, who owe ₹8 crore to the DHBVN, has already been disconnected.Residents across the city have previously complained of inflated electricity bills, with many having received more than double the amount they had paid for the corresponding period last year. Residents alleged that the problem has intensified since the DHBVN started issuing bills based on average consumption, following the installation of smart meters. It has also been alleged that the slow dispute resolution system of the power corporation has left them in the lurch. Several protests had taken place across the city last year due to the inflated bills.DHBVN caters to approximately 400,000 consumers in the city. As per official figures, 300,000 consumers are domestic users while the remaining comprises commercial, small power, medium supply, large supply, and bulk supply users. On average, the department generates annual revenue of ₹500 crore.Yadav said that they disconnected power after repeated notices elicited no payment. “If the payment is not made, DHBVN would have no option but to disconnect power. The consumer has to make the payment in every cycle and only then the electricity will be restored,” he said.The number of defaulters generally ranges between 6,000 and 8,000, and it has increased this time around, he said.A senior official said they have found that many consumers who rented properties had shifted their locations without paying their bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/power-department-to-remove-meters-of-bill-defaulters-101615398629747.html
10-03-2021||Gurugram||Sohna to check rainwater drains in Aravallis, act against encroachers||The Sohna Municipal Council has begun surveying the rainwater drains in the Aravallis to ensure it is ready to take the inflow when the Monsoon begins. It will act against those who encroached onto the drains, officials said. A council appointed team will conduct the survey and submit a detailed report. Sandeep Malik, executive officer of Municipal Council, Sohna, said, “Waterlogging is a serious issue in this area as despite having rainwater drains and channels, the water flows through the city even during light showers. To solve this issue, a team of advisors were consulted who are studying the drains and will soon file a detailed report, based on which action will be taken.” The official further said that the municipal body has learnt that encroachments have taken place over the rainwater drains, leading to overflow of water in the city. “Appropriate action will be taken against those who have encroached upon these drains after going through the report filed by the team. We are making a list of all illegal encroachments and notices will be sent to them, after which a decision will be taken whether to demolish the structures or not,” added Malik. However, the official did not mention any specific deadline. Further, with the help of the advisory team, the municipal council will also start work on building new check-dams and ensuring functionality of existing check-dams before the monsoon season. The council is also in the process of sending notices to owners of illegal properties constructed on Aravalli forest land. The urban local body has sent show-cause notices to over 50 illegal farmhouse owners, since last week. The property owners are being given seven days’ time to respond to the notices which will be assessed by a five-member committee. The notices are being sent as part of compliance of a high court order from June last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/sohna-to-check-rainwater-drains-in-aravallis-act-against-encroachers-101615398629273.html
10-03-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka forms panel to look into quota demand||hindusThe Karnataka government on Wednesday formed a panel to look into the demands made by various communities of the state to re-evaluate the existing reservation system. The high-level committee will be headed by retired high court judge Subhash Adi and consists of retired chief secretary Ratna Prabha and Maharani College’s assistant professor BV Vasanth Kumar. The panel will look into the constitutional and legal aspects of the demands raised by various communities.“Retired high court judge Subhash Adi will head a high-level committee to examine the constitutional and legal framework of various demands on reservation as requested by the cabinet along with retired chief secretary Ratna Prabha and Mysuru’s Maharani College’s assistant professor BV Vasanth Kumar,” Karnataka chief minister’s office said via a series of tweets. The decision to form the panel was taken on last week.ಸಚಿವ ಸಂಪುಟದ ತೀರ್ಮಾನದಂತೆ, ಮೀಸಲಾತಿ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ಇರುವ ವಿವಿಧ ಬೇಡಿಕೆಗಳನ್ನು ಸಂವಿಧಾನಾತ್ಮಕವಾಗಿ ಹಾಗು ಕಾನೂನಾತ್ಮಕ ಚೌಕಟ್ಟಿನಲ್ಲಿ ಪರೀಶೀಲಿಸಲು ಹೈಕೋರ್ಟಿನ ನಿವೃತ್ತ ನ್ಯಾಯಾಧೀಶರಾದ ಸುಭಾಷ್ ಆಡಿ ರವರ ಅಧ್ಯಕ್ಷತೆಯಲ್ಲಿ, ನಿವೃತ್ತ ಮುಖ್ಯಕಾರ್ಯದರ್ಶಿ ಕೆ.ರತ್ನಪ್ರಭಾ ಮತ್ತು... (1/2)ಮೈಸೂರು ಮಹಾರಾಣಿ ಕಲಾ ಕಾಲೇಜಿನ ಸಹ ಪ್ರಾಧ್ಯಾಪಕ ಡಾ|| ಬಿ.ವಿ.ವಸಂತಕುಮಾರ್ ಸದಸ್ಯರಾಗಿರುವ ಉನ್ನತ ಮಟ್ಟದ ಸಮಿತಿಯನ್ನು ರಚಿಸಲಾಗಿದೆ. (2/2)Karnataka currently provides 15% reservation to Scheduled Castes (SCs), 3% reservation to Scheduled Tribes (STs) and 32% reservation to Other backward classes (OBCs) which adds up to 50%. The state had recently seen agitations from several communities demanding reservation. Last month, the Panchamasali Lingayat community gathered at the Palace Grounds in Bengaluru demanding the community’s inclusion under the Category 2A in the state quota. Demands for reservation have also come from the Vokkaliga and Veerashaiva-Lingayat community. Last month, the chief minister himself faced criticism from his partymen for not responding to the demands.Karnataka law minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that the retired judge will look into the legal and constitutional aspects while the retired administrator will focus on the administrative aspect. Bommai said that a social scientist has been added to the committee to prepare a comprehensive report on the issue, according to news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-forms-panel-to-look-into-quota-demand-101615397554398.html
10-03-2021||Other||Allow private coaching classes to reopen, say students||PUNE As the dates of Class 10 and 12 board examinations have been declared, students and parents have demanded to reopen private coaching classes.The exams will be held from April 23 to May 21, 2021.There are around one lakh private class operators in the state and more than 5,000 in the Pune district. Last month the private coaching classes had reopened after a long gap but were again closed down due to a rise in Covid cases.Shruti Mitra, a Class 12 student, said, “I have completed my syllabus last month and now I am revising for all subjects. As the schools and classes are closed, it is becoming difficult to resolve my queries while studying.”“As the exams are nearing it is important to clear all doubts. So the coaching classes should reopen,” she said.“Most of the public places have reopened, so why are private coaching classes closed down again. We have already suffered financially in the last year. We demand to start the classes from March 15 with a capacity of 25 students. We will follow all Covid safety norms,” said Bandopant Bhuyar, state president, Coaching Classes Teachers Federation and Social Forum of Maharashtra State.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allow-private-coaching-classes-to-reopen-say-students-101615397069192.html
10-03-2021||Other||China violating Tibetans’ rights with heightened censorship, surveillance: CTA||Censorship and surveillance in Tibet have reached unprecedented levels further escalating the violation of the Tibetan people’s fundamental rights, president of Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) Lobsang Sangay said on Wednesday.Sixty-two years ago, on this day (Tibetan National Uprising Day), thousands of Tibetans in Lhasa rose in unison to protest against occupying Chinese regime.Heavily fortified in a digital cage, Sangay said, it is near impossible to get information out of Tibet.“This past January, we received news of the self-immolation protest by 26-year-old Shurmo from Driru Shagchukha village, five years after the event. This sheds light on the extent of information control and surveillance being carried out in Tibet,” he said.Sangay said that on December 24, 2020, authorities in the so-called Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) announced criminal prosecutions against individuals who use online communication tools to “split the country” and “undermine national unity”.It is not surprising, the 52-year-old exiled leader said, that China has been listed as the worst internet abuser in the world in Freedom House’s 2020 report on internet freedom.Similarly, China is ranked at the near bottom at 177th in the 2020 World Press Freedom Index, compiled by Reporters Without Borders (RSF), he said.“Today, China’s tentacles have reached beyond Tibet by using its growing economic clout to jeopardise global democracy, according to Freedom House,” added Sangay.The political heir of the Dalai Lama said China conducts the most sophisticated, global, and comprehensive campaign of transnational repression in the world. It highlights the CCP’s efforts to control and pressure Chinese citizens, he said, political dissidents and minority communities such as Tibetans, Uighurs and Hong Kong beyond its borders. The democracies around the globe must come together to thwart such assaults on global democracy.Over a million Tibetans have lost their lives in the past six decades under Chinese rule. Today, we have come together to collectively mourn this loss, said the Tibetan leader.But we are also here to mark the undaunted resilience of people in Tibet. Even under the threat of losing their lives, they continue to protest by protecting and preserving our language, our religion, our land, and our identity, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/china-violating-tibetans-rights-with-heightened-censorship-surveillance-cta-101615395449830.html
10-03-2021||Other||20,000 beneficiaries get vaccine on Wednesday||PUNE Since the Covid-19 vaccination drive has begun for senior citizens, from the beginning of March, the numbers have gone up. On Wednesday, 20,000 senior citizens and those aged between 45-59, with comorbidities, took their first Covid-19 shot. The district has vaccinated 112% of the 2,2556 target beneficiaries in PMC, PCMC and Pune rural. The district operated 208 vaccination sites, of which 82 are in PMC, 105 in Pune rural and PCMC had 21 sites. Totally, 67,700 senior citizens and those aged between 45-59, with comorbidities, have been vaccinated in nine days. On Wednesday, 589 people got their second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. Of the total of 25,241 people who got the vaccine, 1,428 are health care workers and 2,563 are frontline workers. No adverse effect following vaccination was reported on Wednesday. Pune has seen a total of 0.222 million vaccinations, of which 67,000 are senior citizens. Totally close to 18 lakh people await vaccination under phase two in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/20000-beneficiaries-get-vaccine-on-wednesday-101615395389058.html
10-03-2021||Other||Staff booked for allegedly stealing 4 UPS from CID headquarters in Pune||PUNE A sanitation staff member working at the head office of the crime investigation department (CID), Maharashtra, was booked on Tuesday for allegedly stealing four UPS inverters from the office at Ganeshkhind road.The accused has been identified as Anant Vishwanath More (34), a resident of Vidhate Vasti, Baner.Since the incident, the man is on the run. The act has been caught in the CCTV cameras of the building while stealing the inverters from a room in the office at Ganeshkhind road.The local police are now on the lookout for the accused.A case under Section 381 (theft by clerk or servant of property in possession of master) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Chaturshrungi police station against the sanitation worker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/staff-booked-for-allegedly-stealing-4-ups-from-cid-headquarters-in-pune-101615395209133.html
10-03-2021||Other||Farm stir: PSPCL asks staff to switch to Jio, draws flak||Jalandhar At a time when farmers’ protest against the three farm laws on the borders of Delhi for nearly four months has also expressed strong resentment against corporate house, Reliance Group, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is planning to give mobile SIMs from Reliance Jio to its employees. Punjab’s farmers have also targeted malls and petrol pumps belonging to Reliance, and have not allowed them to function. On March 8, deputy chief engineer, administration, PSPCL north zone, Jalandhar, issued a letter to other deputy chief engineers, superintendent engineers and others, seeking details of SIMs that the department has issued to employees. The letter had gone viral on social media. “Employees will be given Reliance Jio SIM, replacing the current Vodafone-Idea. You must send details of Vodafone-Idea SIM cards of your respective jurisdiction by 3pm. If details are not received, then the information of those who send in the details will be forwarded to the headquarters,” added the letter that RSP Randhawa had written. “This information was sought by the headquarters, so my office issued this letter. The contents of the letter (especially on Jio SIM cards) was written by mistake by the staff.” PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director A Venu Prasad said, “We had floated tenders for mobile services for our employees. Three companies Airtel, Vodafone-Idea and Reliance Jio took part, with Reliance Jio the lowest bidder and Vodafone-Idea the second lowest bidder in the tender process. The difference was around ₹60 lakh. As per rules, the tender went to Reliance Jio. No final decision has been taken yet.” With the letter going viral, several netizens and social media users slammed the Punjab government for, what they claimed, was its hobnobbing with Reliance Jio. Some comments also dubbed the move a betrayal of farmers’ cause. In January, Reliance Jio had moved the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking action against those involved in damaging its infrastructure and other properties in the state, amid the agitation against the three farm laws. The company claimed that over 1,500 of its telecom towers had been vandalised, crippling its mobile network in Punjab, where it has 14 million subscribers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farm-stir-pspcl-asks-staff-to-switch-to-jio-draws-flak-101615395090437.html
10-03-2021||Other||Cop shoots dead wife, in-laws in Jammu||A policeman was arrested after he allegedly shot dead his wife and her parents with his service weapon in Phallain Mandal area of the district on Tuesday night.As per information, around 9pm last night, the cop — Rajinder Kumar of Gajansoo Marh — fired upon his wife Seema Devi, mother-in-law Raj Kumari, and father-in-law Romesh Kumar with his fully-loaded AK-47 assault rifle at their home in Allora village. While Raj Kumari died on the spot, Seema and Romesh were shifted to Government Medical College and Hospital, Jammu. Later they succumbed to the injuries as well.Locals claimed that he (Rajinder) would have killed his wife’s two brothers also had they not locked themselves into a room.After arresting the accused, a police officer attributed the incident to marital discord between the couple. “Married for the past eight years with two children, the couple were having a marital discord. His wife along with the kids had come to live with her parents a few days ago,” he said.The relatives of the deceased alleged that the accused is an alcoholic and used to harass his wife over petty issues. They have demanded capital punishment against the accused cop.A case under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC has been registered against the accused at Satwari police station and investigation has been initiated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cop-shoots-dead-wife-in-laws-in-jammu-101615394851328.html
10-03-2021||Other||J&K DDC members call off stir after L-G gives word||Following lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha’s assurance, the newly elected district development council (DDC) members called off their agitation here on Wednesday.They were protesting for better status in the warrant of precedence and a dignified monthly honorarium.J&K BJP president Ravinder Raina said the DDC members’ demands will be heard and addressed by the L-G on Friday.The DDC members had on Tuesday boycotted a two-day training programme here and staged a protest in support of their demand for better status and monthly honorarium.Consequently, L-G Sinha had to cancel his inaugural session.It may be stated here that the agitating DDC members belong to all parties including the BJP.The maiden DDC elections to 280 seats — 14 each in 20 districts — were held in November-December last year and the chairpersons and their deputies in the districts were elected last month.The DDC members staged the protest after the UT administration amended its warrant of precedence, placing the DDC chairpersons equivalent to administrative secretaries, vice-chairpersons to vice-chancellors of universities and the DDC members to district magistrates.As per the government order, the DDC chairpersons would get monthly honorarium of ₹35,000 including ₹1,500 travel allowance and ₹500 telephone charges. Vice-chairpersons will get ₹25,000 including ₹1,500 for travel and ₹500 phone allowance, while the members will be entitled to ₹15,000, including ₹1,500 travel and ₹500 phone allowance.“We have received a message from the L-G, who is presently out of the station, and is coming back on March 12, for a meeting to address our genuine demands,” said DDC chairperson and senior BJP leader Bharat Bushan.Bushan was flanked by other DDC members affiliated with different parties including the Congress, National Conference, PDP, CPI (M) and Independents who had assembled at the Exhibition Ground here to resume their protest this morning.Bushan said they were calling off the stir on the assurance of L-G Sinha that “injustice will be undone”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-ddc-members-call-off-stir-after-l-g-gives-word-101615393649693.html
10-03-2021||Other||Nexus of Army recruitment paper leak is widespread||PUNE The nexus of the people selling the question paper for the common entrance exam for Indian Army relation recruitment is wider than it appears with more arrests in the case.With the arrest of two major-rank officers, who are suspected to be the primary source for the distribution of the leaked question papers, the police are now investigating where the two got the paper from.Two separate cases have been registered by Pune police based on the information provided by the Military Intelligence (MI). So far, a total of ten persons including two majors have been arrested in cases lodged at Wanowrie and Vishrantwadi police stationsThe ones arrested in the case registered at Wanowrie police station have been identified as Major Vasant Kilari (45), Major Thiru Murugan Thangavelu (47) who was arrested from Tamil Nadu and Kishore Mahadev Giri (40), Malegaon in Baramati; Madhav Sheshrao Gitte (38) a resident of Sappers Vihar colony in Pune; another accused called Bharat Lakshman Adakmol (37) from Pachora, Pune; Gopal Yuvraj Koli (31) a resident of BEG Center in Dighi; and Uday Dattu Auti (23) a resident of BEG Khadki.Koli works as a physical trainer at Training Battalion-2 and Auti works in the Regimental Police.The ones arrested in the case registered at Vishrantwadi have been identified as Ali Akhtar Khan (47), Azad Lalmohammed Khan (37) and Mahendra Chandrabhan (37).Among the ones arrested so far, Major Kilari was set to be the largest benefactor and was supposed to get paid money to the tune of ₹25,00,000, according to assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Laxman Borate of the anti-extortion cell of the Pune police crime branch.“He denies that he was supposed to get paid, but the other accused agree that the money was to be sent to him,” said ACP Borate.According to a police officer close to the investigation, Major Kilari allegedly sent the paper to Major Thangavelu who then sent it to Adakmol who is a retired Hawaldar from the Indian Army. Adakmol is then alleged to have sent the paper to two groups - one led by Giri from Baramati and one including the two serving Hawaldars from Pune.Along with the students from Giri and from the two serving Hawaldars, Adakmol had offered ₹25,00,000 to Major Thangavelu, according to the police.“The ones who provided the paper (close to the leak) took the money in one go. The coaching centre management gets the money from the aspirants who make it through the exams. These coaching centre owners are generally ex-servicemen,” said ACP Borate.The police are investigating multiple links between the serving and the retired servicemen who are on the radar and will be arrested during the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nexus-of-army-recruitment-paper-leak-is-widespread-101615393229044.html
10-03-2021||Other||Sopore encounter: Al-Badr chief’s killing a big success, says J&K Police||Terrorist outfit Al-Badr’s commander Ganie Khwaja was neutralised during an encounter in Sopore late on Tuesday night, informed Kashmir inspector general of police (IGP) Vijay Kumar, terming the militant chief’s elimination a big success.The IGP said the Khwaja was gunned down during an operation launched at Tujjer Sharief on Tuesday night after receiving a specific input. This was achieved without any collateral damage, Kumar said.“During the search operation, as the presence of militants was ascertained, they were given the opportunity to surrender, however, they fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party, which was retaliated, leading to an encounter,” a police spokesperson said, adding that one terrorist (Khwaja) was killed in the encounter and his body was retrieved from the site.Police said Khwaja was involved in several terror cases including attacks on security forces and civilians, besides being the main recruiter.“Dozens of cases have been registered against him in north Kashmir, which include grenade blast at Sopore bus stand in which 19 civilians sustained injuries on October 2019; rifle-grenade attack at Warpora police post which injured two cops in March 2019; attack on joint police/ CRPF party at Bismillah Colony, Sopore, in which four CRPF personnel got seriously injured and one among them, while being evacuated to hospital, succumbed to injuries; among several others.”Police said he was also involved in providing arms and ammunition to overground workers of the terrorist outfit for carrying out subversive activities in the area.“He was operating in the areas of north Kashmir, including Langate, upper/lower Qaziabad, Handwara, Sopore, Zainageer, Tujjar, Barahampora etc,” the spokesperson said.Incriminating materials, including arms and ammunition, were recovered from the site of the encounter. “All the recovered materials have been taken into case records for further investigation and to probe his complicity in other terror crimes.”IGP Vijay Kumar said, “He was a resident of Kralgund, Langate, and one of the old militants who went to Pakistan in 2002 and returned the same year. A few years ago, he became an active terrorist again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sopore-encounter-al-badr-chief-s-killing-a-big-success-says-j-k-police-101615393173101.html
10-03-2021||Lucknow||UPPCB, traffic dept to identify pollution hotspots in UP cities||Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), along with the traffic department, is set to identify pollution hotspots in seven major cities of Uttar Pradesh with an aim to improve air quality in these cities.The move has come in the backdrop of a recent report of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) that found air pollution in major UP cities to be severe.According to experts, the construction work and the vehicular emissions are the major sources of air pollution in big cities. The UPPCB will aim to identify spots where the air pollution levels are high in a city so that effective measures can be taken to prevent it.The survey will be held in Ghaziabad, Noida, Kanpur, Lucknow, Prayagaraj, Varanasi and Agra.Barring, Varanasi and Prayagaraj, remaining cities usually record, poor, very poor, or severe, Air Quality Index as per CPCB data.“Our teams will work with local traffic department to identify crossings or certain sections of road where the air pollution levels are recorded higher than other places. If needed, we will divide the city into grids and work to identify the grids with higher air pollution. The focus will be on identifying areas with higher air pollution and permanent source of pollution which causes it,” said VK Singh, senior environmental engineer, UPPCB.“Once the two factors are identified we will work to eliminate source of the pollution in coordination with concerned departments,” Singh said.As per UPPCB officials, the survey will begin by late March and will take at least a month to complete. The board has also proposed a similar survey during winters to get more reliable data. “Pollution sources can change over a period of time. For example, in summers, emissions from generators cause more pollution than in winter. The survey will look into such aspects,” said Singh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uppcb-traffic-dept-to-identify-pollution-hotspots-in-up-cities-101615392808931.html
10-03-2021||Other||Three-day ‘Urs’ of Shah Jahan begins at Taj Mahal||The three-day annual ‘Urs’ of Mughal emperor Shah Jahan began at Taj Mahal in Agra on Wednesday. As part of the ritual, the doors of the basement, which otherwise remain closed, were open for public.The said doors provide access to original graves of Shah Jahan and his wife Mumtaz Mahal.The entry to Taj Mahal was also made free from 2 pm on Wednesday till the same time on Thursday.On the third and final day of the Urs on Friday, the entry to the monument will be free, said a notice issued by Archaeological Survey of India. The ‘Urs’ began with the ‘gusl’ (bath) ritual after doors were opened amid recital of ‘azaan’. “This is a rare occasion when devotees get the opportunity to view the original graves of the Mughal emperor and his queen,” said Munawwar Ali, convenor, Uttar Pradesh Aman Committee.After the traditional ‘gusl’, ‘dua’ (prayers) were made for peace and harmony in nation and thereafter ‘phoolon ki chadar’ (floral mat) was placed on the graves that are located under the main mausoleum. “The tradition of applying sandalwood paste on the graves will be observed on Thursday and ‘chadar-poshi’ (offering of ‘chadar’) will take place on Friday,” said Ali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/threeday-urs-of-shah-jahan-begins-at-taj-mahal-101615392508941.html
10-03-2021||Other||Army paper leak case: Another major-rank officer gets police remand till March 15||PUNE A second major-rank officer was remanded to the custody of the Pune police by a local court on Wednesday. He has been remanded to police custody until March 15 in the Army paper leak case.He has been identified as Major Vasant Vijay Kilari (45) and was arrested from Delhi Cantonment by the crime branch on Tuesday.The remand was granted by the court of special judge SR Navander with public prosecutor Premkumar Agarwal and advocate Jyoti Pawar as the defence advocate.According to police, about 30,000 candidates were to appear for the common entrance exam at 40 centres across India on February 28. However, the exam was cancelled as the paper leak was detected by Military Intelligence (MI) sleuths.“Accused (Kilari) had forwarded the question paper to accused number 6 (Major Thiru Murugan Thangavelu). The accused was hiding and avoiding arrest. Considering the prospects of the case, sufficient time for interrogation is required,” said the judge in the open court.The others arrested in the case include Major Thiru Murugan Thangavelu (47), who was arrested from Tamil Nadu and Kishore Mahadev Giri (40), Malegaon in Baramati; Madhav Sheshrao Gitte (38), a resident of Sappers Vihar colony in Pune; another accused called Bharat Lakshman Adakmol (37), from Pachora, Pune; Gopal Yuvraj Koli (31), a reading of BEG Centre in Dighi; and Uday Dattu Auti (23), a resident of BEG Khadki.Koli works as a physical trainer at Training Battalion-2 and Auti works in the Regimental Police.“They were both isolated from the police for days and it was not easy to get them out of the places from where they were arrested. We have initiated the process to recover their phones,” said public prosecutor Agarwal.Advocate Pawar, who also represents Adakmol, made the same argument that the legal representative of Major Thangvelu had made, that the phone of the accused had already been seized and that the calls can be retrieved using the phone number.The men have been arrested in a case registered under Sections 420, 409, 34 of Indian Penal Code, Sections 6 and 7 of Maharashtra Prevention of Malpractices Act university, board and other specified examination act, 1982; Sections 7, 12, and 13 of Prevention of Corruption Act, and Section 66(c) of Information Technology Act at Wanowrie police station.The ones arrested in Vishrantwadi have been identified as Ali Akhtar Khan (47), Azad Lalmohammed Khan (37) and Mahendra Chandrabhan (37).A similar case has been registered at Vishrantwadi police station against the three. The case in Vishrantwadi is being investigated by Unit 4 of the Pune police crime branch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/army-paper-leak-case-another-major-rank-officer-gets-police-remand-till-march-15-101615391968880.html
10-03-2021||Pune||Pune district records more than 2,500 new cases in 24 hours||Pune: According to the state health department, Pune district on Wednesday reported 2,507 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours. It is the highest reported number in 2021. Also, two more people from Pune have lost their lives to the infection. The total count of Covid cases in the district has now gone up to 4.27 lakh of which over 4 lakh have recovered, 8,144 have been declared dead and over 18,474 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation. Pune city reported over 1,300 new cases which took the total count to over 2.18 lakh cases and with two more deaths, the death toll went up to 4,596. Pune rural reported 533 more cases which took the count to 1.01 lakh and with no more deaths which took the count to 2,166. PCMC reported 590 which took the count to 1.06 lakh and with zero deaths the death toll was 1,343. Also 9,913 patients were discharged on Wednesday taking the count to 20.99 lakh Covid patients discharged after full recovery. The recovery rate in the state is 93.21%. Also, 13,659 new cases were reported in the state on Wednesday. And 54 more virus deaths were reported in the state taking the final death toll to 53,842. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.34%. Of 17,115,534 laboratory samples, 2,252,057 have been tested positive (13.16%) for Covid until Wednesday. Currently, 471,187 people are in home quarantine and 4,244 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-records-more-than-2-500-new-cases-in-24-hours-101615391848736.html
10-03-2021||Other||Goyal flags off 3000 HP cape gauge locomotive for export to Mozambique||VARANASI: Union Minister for Railways, commerce & industry and consumer affairs, food and public distribution, Piyush Goyal flagged off the 3000 HP Cape gauge locomotive indigenously developed by Banaras Locomotive Works (BLW), Varanasi via video conferencing along with Union minister of skill development and entrepreneurship, Dr Mahendra Nath Pandey and Mozambique’s minister of transport and communications Janfar Abdulai. The export of locomotives to Mozambique shall boost the Indo-African relationship and pilot the economic empowerment through export. Indian Railways is exporting the first batch of two locomotives as part of the total order of six locomotives of 3000 HP cape gauge and 90 stainless steel passenger coaches to Mozambique. These locomotives are developed indigenously by Banaras Locomotive Works under Make-in-India.. Speaking on the occasion, Goyal said, “Under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visionary leadership and his commitment to further strengthen African-Indian relations, we will work as Mozambique’s trusted partner. With significant innovation, re-modelling and upgradation, Indian Railways wishes to become the preferred supplier for Mozambique & countries around the world for all their requirements. We are willing to support further development of rail network in Mozambique. By 2030, we plan to become a net-zero Railway and power our entire electricity requirements by renewable energy. We will be the first large railway in the world to become 100% electric traction driven.” Dr Mahendra Nath Pandey said good quality products manufactured by Indian Railways symbolised the mantra of Aatmanirbhar Bharat given by Prime Minister narendra Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goyal-flags-off-3000-hp-cape-gauge-locomotive-for-export-to-mozambique-101615390948700.html
10-03-2021||Other||Tikait exhorts east UP farmers to march to Delhi post harvest||VARANASI: Bharatiya Kisan Union national spokesperson and Sanyukta Kisan Morcha convener Rakesh Tikait on Wednesday appealed to the farmers in eastern UP to march to Delhi with their tractors in protest against the new agri laws, after harvesting their crops. Tikait was addressing first Kisan Mahapanchayat in Sikandarpur of Ballia to mobilize the farmers of this region in support of the farmers’ movement. Tikait said, “Harvest your crops. After that a tractor and 15 people from every village should march to Delhi in support of the farmers’ movement against the new farm laws. As soon as the 15 farmers with a tractor each from the villages in the region will start marching towards Delhi, the government will have to repeal the laws.” Taking a dig at the centre, Tikait said, “The new agri laws are meant to snatch the lands of the farmers. Despite 12 rounds of dialogue and continuing farmer movement against these laws, the government is neither ready to repeal them nor making a concrete law on minimum support price (MSP).” Tikait alleged that the government ws plotting to divide the farmers. The farmer movement was sometimes referred to as the movement of Punjab and then movement of farmers of Haryana and then it was linked to Khalistan. But the farmers didn’t move away. Now it had become the movement of every farmer, he said. Tikait said that the farmers’ movement against the new agri laws was being discussed all over the world today, but the government was ignoring it. He said 2021 would be year of farmers’ movement, which would continue till the government repealed the farm laws and enacted a concrete law on MSP to give minimum support price to the farmers. He alleged that the centre wanted markets and small shops closed. “If small shops are closed, employment will come to an end. This is not only the fight against three farm laws but a fight for the self-respect of farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tikait-exhorts-east-up-farmers-to-march-to-delhi-post-harvest-101615390768664.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||Decision on lockdown not easy, review meet to be held in next few days: Uddhav||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday said that the state government cannot easily adopt the decision to impose a lockdown in the state. He also said that a decision will be taken after reviewing the situation.“The option of imposing a lockdown cannot be easily adopted but we will have to take a firm decision soon. We will review the situation within the next few days and take a decision,” Thackeray said.He said a second lockdown can be avoided only if citizens in the state follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. “We still appeal to people to adhere to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour to avoid the second lockdown,” the Maharashtra chief minister further added.The Mumbai civic body on Wednesday warned against not adhering to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and said that violators will face strict action. The civic body also outlined that 90% of the Covid-19 cases which are reported in the city are from housing societies. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) also issued a fresh order where it said that buildings with more than 5 patients will be sealed for any movement. Mumbai has reported more than 1,000 cases for the past week.The civic body earlier on Tuesday had said that there was no need for an immediate lockdown in the nation’s financial hub. The BMC said that the rise in the number of daily cases is due to increased Covid-19 testing. The civic body is currently conducting 20,000 tests per day, according to a report by news agency PTI.Maharashtra has been recording more than 8,000 since the last week. Nagpur, Pune and Thane have an active caseload of more than 10,000 since last week as well. Thane, Jalgaon and Amravati have imposed lockdowns in hotspots to curb the spread of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/decision-on-lockdown-not-easy-review-meet-to-be-held-in-next-few-days-uddhav-101615389996667.html
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||Question Hour: Speaker backs demand for probe into vending space allotment ‘scam’||CHANDIGARH The Manohar Lal Khattar-led government in Haryana found itself on the back-foot on the issue of corruption after Congress legislator Neeraj Sharma highlighted irregularities in allotment of space for vendors in Faridabad and speaker Gian Chand Gupta forcefully backed Congress lawmakers’ demand for a high-level probe. During the Question Hour, Sharma, who represents Faridabad NIT assembly segment, wanted to know the action government had taken in, what he said, “scam” pertaining to allotment of space for vendors in Dabua vegetable market of Faridabad and why it was not cancelled. The MLA alleged that corruption of the highest order had taken place in allotment of space/sites and that it was in sharp contrast of government’s lofty claim about providing transparent and corruption-free governance. In a written reply, agriculture minister Jai Prakash Dalal said the concerned secretary-cum-executive officer of market committee Faridabad was suspended in November 2019 for not following the guidelines of allotment policy. Dalal said the official was reinstated in October 2020. As Sharma informed the House about the gravity of the matter, agriculture minister offered to hold a fresh probe, repeatedly promising that guilty will be punished. Backing the stand of Congress MLA, speaker Gupta asked the minister: “Hold a high-level probe...very serious allegations have been levelled against the government.” The agriculture minister said he would hand over the probe to a senior IAS officer. Illegal sale deeds and action takenResponding to a question of Congress MLA Bharat Bhushan Batra, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said 6,223 sale deeds were registered in violation of the norms last year from February 1 to December 31. The deputy CM said registered sale deeds violating section-7 of the Haryana Urban Development Regulation Act-1975 cannot be cancelled. Chautala, who also holds the charge of revenue department, said the state government has chargesheeted eight registrars and sub-registrars in this regard. The case is presently under police investigation. He further said that these officers have been deployed in another division so that police investigation is not influenced. The deputy CM said strict action was taken against illegal colonies and 2,127 FIRs were lodged against such violators. The government will continue to take strict action in such cases. In response to another question, he said the state government has taken numerous steps to bring in transparency in the functioning of the revenue department, which has helped the people to get their land registered with ease. He further said that anyone can take online appointment for registry of land deed. Besides this, no objection certificate can also be availed online by depositing the outstanding fee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/question-hour-speaker-backs-demand-for-probe-into-vending-space-allotment-scam-101615389989705.html
10-03-2021||Other||Cut one tree, but plant three: Tree Authority to NHAI on Navale bridge chowk work||PUNE The Tree Authority of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has given permission for trees to be cut for road-widening purposes, near the Navale bridge chowk. The Katraj to Navale bridge stretch has been identified as being accident-prone, and with no proper service roads, accidents have been happening regularly.The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has started to build service roads on the Katraj to Navale bridge chowk stretch, but 500 trees are to be cut for this purpose, for which NHAI had submitted a proposal to the PMC.“On Tuesday a meeting was held of the tree authority and it was decided to give permission, but, at the same time NHAI has been instructed to create a green belt on both sides of the road. A 3:1 tree ratio has been given to them. So when three trees are planted, one tree can be cut,” said Shilpa Bhosale, PMC tree authority member. Suhas Chitnis, director of the road project, said, “Now that we have got permission, the road widening will continue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cut-one-tree-but-plant-three-tree-authority-to-nhai-on-navale-bridge-chowk-work-101615389328646.html
10-03-2021||Other||7th pay commission to put burden of ₹585 crore on PMC coffers||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has given a nod to disburse grade pay to its employees as per the 7th pay commission. With limited resources and a lack of revenue collection, the municipal corporation will have to bear an additional burden of ₹585 crore to pay the arrears to its employees.Central and state government implemented the 7th pay commission on January 1, 2016.In the special general body meeting on Tuesday, corporators gave the approval to implement the 7th pay commission.According to PMC statistics, there are around 17,000 employees working in the corporation’s different departments which include 91 Class I employees, Class II-448, Class III-4,262 and more than 13,000 Class-IV employees.As mentioned in the proposal which is sanctioned in the general body meeting, PMC will have to pay the arrears from January 1, 2016, to March 30, 2020.Murlidhar Mohol, city mayor, said, “More than 17,000 employees will benefit from the implementation of the 7th pay commission. But the civic body will have to bear a burden of more than ₹10 crore every month.”Shivaji Duandkar, chief, labour officer of PMC, said, “Implementation of 7th pay commission was delayed due to Covid pandemic. Now, that the civic body has given a nod the amount will be disbursed in instalments.”Currently, PMC is already facing a financial crunch due to a lack of revenue collection amid the pandemic. The standing committee approved the ₹8,370 crore budget for the year 2021-22. The opposition political parties, meanwhile, criticised the standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane for inflating the budget with limited revenue resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/7th-pay-commission-to-put-burden-of-rs-585-crore-on-pmc-coffers-101615389088705.html
10-03-2021||Other||Officials expect Pune circle’s vaccine order to be filled with Covishield jabs||PUNE A total of 1,753,200 doses of the Covid vaccine are needed by the Pune circle to vaccinate its residents, as per information with the state health department.Of this, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has ordered 350,000 doses, and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has ordered 100,000 doses of the vaccines. Dr Sanjog Kadam, deputy director, Health Services, Pune Circle, said, “In this new batch of vaccines, PMC and PCMC will not get Covaxin but they will get Covishield. There is no shortage of vaccines.”The state government is expected to approve the order by March 11. “With 1,722,200 doses of Covishield, 31,000 doses of Covaxin have also been ordered. However, there is no procurement of Covaxin for PMC and PCMC, as most centres give Covishield. The state government will supply us. Vaccines will be supplied in batches. And we are expecting the first lot by March 11,” said Dr Kadam.“We have received stocks with different amounts of doses since January 13. With greater demand, there is less wastage. Moreover, earlier there were 20 vials in one package. Now there are only 10, which has further reduced the wastage,” noted Dr Kadam.Talking about the needs of Pune city, Dr Ashish Bharti, chief of PMC’s health department said that the department has demanded a total of 350,000 doses of vaccines.“We will be getting 90,000 vaccines in the next two days. This should be sufficient for the coming 10 days. The doses of vaccines come to us in small batches. Our total demand will be met in the coming week. There is no shortage of vaccines in the city limits,” said Dr Bharti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/officials-expect-pune-circle-s-vaccine-order-to-be-filled-with-covishield-jabs-101615388908651.html
10-03-2021||Other||COEP Jumbo centre will be ready to admit patients by March 20: div comm||PUNE Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, on Wednesday, insisted that the COEP Jumbo Covid facility will be ready to admit patients by March 20.HT reported on Tuesday how tenders to operate the facility had not yet been issued by the Pune municipal corporation (PMC)>“We have already received the structural stability and electrical stability report of the facility and it is favourable. The process of floating the tender for operators will be carried out by the PMC. By March 20, the COEP Covid facility will be able to admit patients,” Rao said.Earlier, additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal had said that the process of floating tenders had not been started because the PMC hadn’t received orders from the divisional commissioner’s office.The decision to restart the Jumbo facility, in the light of the increasing numbers of Covid cases had been taken by the Pune district administration at least a week ago. According to public health experts, PMC should not delay the reopening of the Jumbo facility any longer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/coep-jumbo-centre-will-be-ready-to-admit-patients-by-march-20-div-comm-101615388128643.html
10-03-2021||Other||London-returned Punekar priest infects the needy with basic necessities||PUNE It has been a terrifying one year for Sagar Shukla, a Punekar, who has been residing in London for the last 10 years. Shukla is a trained Hindu priest, and works part-time in the back office of the London police.Shukla has returned to Pune to help to in this time of Covid-19, and he has by providing those in need with two months of ration, and he has donated vegetables and fruits to visually and physically challenged girls in a hostel on Wednesday. “Last year, in February, Covid cases started increasing all around London. Suddenly the daily death count started going up. It was the toughest time of my life. I used to do on an average of four to five final rites of Hindus in London, who died due to Covid. As I was working on the frontline and also with the London police, I had a pass to go out for work,” said 35-year-old Shukla.Shukla is an ex-student of S P College in Pune, and went to London in 2007 to study business management. During his graduation, he, along with his friends, caught a Somalian thief in a bus who was trying to steal their mobile phones. Appreciating his bravery, the Brent police department in London offered him a job. Since then, Shukla has been working with the London police. “I was eagerly waiting to come back to India, but due to Covid restrictions I was not able to get flight tickets. Finally, last week, I managed to fly in and the first thing I decided to do was help the needy. Some of my friends back in London, and myself, we contributed and donated rations, vegetable and fruits to an organisation working for the visually and physically challenged girls,” added Shukla.The organisation he helped is the Saiguru Seva Sanstha based in Narhe Ambegaon.Sachin Jamage, founder and president of the Vande Mataram organisation, that aided Shukla’s endeavour, said, “He contacted us desiring to help the needy. Accordingly, we contacted this hostel.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/londonreturned-punekar-priest-infects-the-needy-with-basic-necessities-101615387649154.html
10-03-2021||Lucknow||Discoms barred from levying electricity duty on those buying power from open market||The state’s all the five government-owned power distribution companies (discoms) have been restrained from realizing the electricity duty (ED) from the industries that buy power from other states through Open Access.The ban, according to a senior energy department official, comes after some industry captains recently met chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari and urged him to issue orders preventing discoms from levying ED on open access consumers against the rules, failing which, they cautioned, many industries might shift to other states for cheaper power.The development is being seen as a big ‘shock’ to the cash-strapped UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) that holds the five discoms since for it this will mean loss of around ₹800 crore revenue that it realises as ED from the Open Access consumers alone. Open Access is a system that enables consumers with heavy load to buy cheap power from the open market. This allows consumers to choose from a number of competitive power suppliers anywhere in the country rather than being forced to purchase electricity from local power utility. The local utility may realize wheeling charges from such consumers for wheeling other company’s power to them.Present rules allow any consumer having a contracted capacity of 1 MW or above, connected to an 11 kv or above to procure power under Open Access in UP. The electricity duty is charged on consumption at the applicable rate per unit of power consumed which means higher the consumption, higher the duty. The current ED rate in the state is 7.5% and it matters more to big consumers with heavy power consumption.Though electricity duty is levied and belongs to the state government, the same is collected by the UPPCL through monthly power bills but retains the entire amount as revenue grant by the government. UPPCL chairman M Devraj wrote a letter to all the discoms on March 2 asking them to keep in abeyance the realization of the ED from the Open Access consumers till the state government issues directions in this regard.“Presently, there is no clarity on the levy of electricity duty on the Open Access consumers. We have sought guidelines from the energy department in this regard. In keeping with the facts brought to our notice it would be desirable to keep the recovery of electricity duty liability from the Open Access consumers suspended till the UP government gives directions in this regard,” Devraj said in his letter.The development came after Gini Filaments Ltd chairman and managing director Shishir Jaipuria met chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari handing over a representation to him on the behalf of all industries here on February 12.In his representation he complained that discoms were recovering ED even from those industries that bought power from other states through the Open Access.Quoting the UPERC’s December 10, 2019 regulations, he pointed out that the regulations only talked of levy of Open Access charged and nowhere did they mention levy of electricity duty. “In any case, electricity duty cannot be levied on inter-state purchase of power and also the same cannot be levied on consumers as the duty is levied on the licencee,” Jaipuria argued.Demanding that the levy of ED on purchase of power under Open Access be withdrawn immediately to mitigate heavy financial burden on industries badly hit by the unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic, he cautioned that not doing so might force many industries to migrate to neighbouring states in search of cheaper power.Earlier, Amit Gupta of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) and Ranjeet Mehta of the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry also made the same demand through separate representations to the CS and then additional chief secretary, energy, Arvind Kumar.Another energy department official aware of the issue said industries’ demand for abolition of levy of ED on inter-state sale of power was legally justified. “The UPPL may try to get the rules changed to get the legal right to levy the ED on Open Access consumers but it is unlikely to succeed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/discoms-barred-from-levying-electricity-duty-on-those-buying-power-from-open-market-101615387648512.html
10-03-2021||Other||New Uttarakhand CM, wife have a strong UP connect||LUCKNOW: New Uttarakhand (UK) chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat and his wife Dr Rashmi Rawat have a strong Uttar Pradesh connect. Tirath Rawat, 56, known for his affable nature and a calm temperament, had served in various organisational capacities in the erstwhile undivided UP and was in fact the member of legislative council (MLC) when the hill state was carved out from the state. Tirath would now lead the BJP into the Uttarakhand polls due in February 2022, party leaders said. Interestingly, UK governor Baby Rani Maurya who administered the oath of office and secrecy to Tirath, also hails from western UP and was the first woman mayor of Agra. Tirath’s wife Rashmi, now a psychology teacher in DAV College, Dehradun hails from Kharkhauda village of Meerut. Rashmi’s family, including mother and brothers, now live in proper Meerut where there are many people who remember the couple’s deep association with western UP. “She was a student of psychology in CCS University from where she also contested student union polls for the post of president on ABVP ticket,” recalled Manoj Kumar Tripathi, a former lecturer of political science at CCS University. “The one thing that stands out about the couple is their easy approach as they are down to earth,” Tripathi recalled. “While Dr Rashmi is very humble, the new Uttarakhand CM also has a cool temperament. I remember the time when I was also in ABVP. There was BJP government in the state and we had gone to Garhwal for the ABVP convention when some political opponents burnt down the gate of the convention. Tirath was ABVP’s national secretary and yet he exercised great restraint and told us to not lose our cool. He said only dialogue could bring lasting peace,” Tripathi recalled. Ashwani Tyagi, an old RSS hand, treasurer of Bharatiya Kisan Sangh’s UP chapter and close family friend of the Rawats was expecting them in his village in Meerut sometime later this week. “They are fabulous people and I was expecting them at my place next week. But, now of course, it won’t be possible. I will invite them later,” Tyagi (who was present at the swearing-in ceremony) said on phone from Dehradun. Lal Singh Deshbandhu, an old RSS hand and another close family friend of the Rawats, said he was present when the Uttarakhand CM got married. “The marriage took place in Meerut. The couple knew each other from their ABVP days,” said Deshbandhu, who back then was an RSS functionary in Meerut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-uttarakhand-cm-wife-have-a-strong-up-connect-101615387408519.html
10-03-2021||Other||Lockdown not “useful” now, but might be inevitable of people don’t follow rules: advisor to state govt on Covid-19||PUNE Even as multiple districts in the state are under lockdowns, or some sort of a curfew, Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor to the Maharashtra government on Covid-19, said that while lockdowns would restrict transmission, it would not be useful for the economy. Pune has been reporting the highest number of cases in the state over the past few days, with 2,000 cases being reported in a 24-hour period. An earlier study conducted by the National Centre for Cell Sciences, Pune (NCCS), BJ Government Medical College, and the Armed Forces Medical College (AFMC), found that transmission of the virus was restricted during the lockdown. In the next two days, the state government is likely to take a review meeting to decide on local lockdowns, if need be. However, Dr Salunkhe is of the view that there is no need for a lockdown at this stage. He said, “Lockdown is not necessary as of now. While it does help in stopping transmission, it will prove counter-productive. If a lockdown is imposed then it would have to be parallel to the incubation period of the disease; so at least eight-10 days of lockdown would be needed. Those who are active right now have to stop the spread of the disease, so localised restrictions like micro-containment zones, contact tracing and testing is needed in these areas.” Dr Salunkhe added, “The focus should be on the concerned areas instead of imposing a lockdown on the entire city. I will project this same view in the upcoming meeting too.” A genomic study of samples of suspected Covid-19 patients were collected in April and May 2020 by the NCCS, BJ Medical and AFMC study.The samples were then confirmed positive by a real-time PCR for Sars-Cov-2 by the three institutes. The study published states: “A distinct novel pattern of mutations in closely located different districts of the same state, perhaps due to a strict and effective lockdown. In Pune, a novel variant has overtaken other strains. “Satara and Nashik also have unique mutations, but at a lower frequency. It would be interesting to study how these mutations affect viral fitness and virulence. Nonetheless, the lockdown resulted in an independent evolution of the Sars-Cov-2 viral variants.” The sudden rise in the number of cases in the district is raising questions of a second wave in Pune. Dr Salunkhe further added, “If cases keep rising this way and citizens continue to avoid Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, then the administration might be forced to impose a lockdown.” A Covid review meeting is to be held on Friday, and will be attended by officials and public representatives, including MPs, MLAs and health experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lockdown-not-useful-now-but-might-be-inevitable-of-people-don-t-follow-rules-advisor-to-state-govt-on-covid19-101615386868709.html
10-03-2021||Other||HP Cong hits at BJP for spiralling fuel prices||The Congress party on Wednesday hit out at the NDA government over spiralling prices of petroleum and increasing inflation in country.Congress staged a protest rally in the vicinity of Vidhan Sabha at Ambedkar Chowk. All India Congress Committee in-charge for Himachal affairs Rajeev Shukla condemned the NDA regime.Shukla, in his speech, called ex-CM Virbhadra Singh ‘Sher-e-Himachal’.Addressing the protesters, he recalled PM Modi criticising the Congress party over inflation. “Oil prices are skyrocketing and the government says it’s not in their control. Then who should be held responsible?” he wondered.“Government properties are on sale and Modi is selling them one by one. It is clear that Modi is working for the capitalists. He doesn’t have any concerns for the country or the people,” he said.“In a way, the country’s heritage is being sold. Factories are being sold. It is clear that the country is not in safe hands,” he said.Shukla criticised the BJP and said that the party came to power by showing dreams of good days, but has pushed the country into unemployment and inflation.He heaped praises on the UPA government’s fiscal management and said that the government had kept inflation and prices well under control.“Despite reduction in crude oil prices, petrol and diesel are being sold at double the cost,” he said.Shukla accused BJP of trying to undermine the farmers. He said the government is buckling under pressure of corporate giants.State party chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore, during the rally, said he is working dedicatedly on implementation of programmes assigned to him by the party high command.Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri slammed the Jai Ram Thakur-led Himachal government for it’s “financial mismanagement”.He hit out at the government over increasing unemployment rate. He even accused the government of making back-door recruitments.Former CM Virbhadra Singh also credited Congress for the country’s development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hp-cong-hits-at-bjp-for-spiralling-fuel-prices-101615386273406.html
10-03-2021||Other||TCS-Prayas report forecasts worst-case Covid scenario for Pune: Cases at 60% of last year’s peak||PUNE A joint report prepared by Tata Consultancy Service (TCS) and Prayas Health Group has suggested more curbs in Pune to control the number of Covid cases. The report has also predicted that in a worst-case scenario, Pune will have 60 per cent of the number of cases when the Covid infection was at its peak in September-October last year. A final decision on restrictions will be taken on Friday at the Covid review meeting, chaired by Pune guardian minister and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. “Experts from TCS and Prayas have compared the proportion of infections prevailing last year and the percentage of infection today. They have also taken factors such as herd immunity and sero-prevalence into account, which was there last year. It has been correlated with the present scenario. They have forecast that in a worst-case scenario, the situation is not going to be as bad as last year. In quantifiable terms, the recount infection and the number of positive patients will not cross 60% of last year’s peak,” said Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, following a meeting with the experts and the district and municipal authorities. To control the spread of infection, the report has suggested interventions. The continuation of closure of schools and colleges for at least the next two months has been recommended. Restrictions on bars, restaurants and eating joints have been recommended, but the type of restrictions has not been specified.“They have come up with the conclusion that bars, restaurants or any other place where people sit together for more than 30 minutes and interact with each other makes for low compliance of Covid norms. Hence, chances of infection are very, very high. So there should be clear measures and restrictions on these activities,” Saurabh Rao said. The report has also analysed the impact of reopening of gardens and playgrounds on the spread of Covid and it has been concluded that these places could be potential sources of infection. The report has also recommended a very low number of attendees at social, political gatherings and wedding ceremonies. Currently, 200 people are allowed to be present at public gatherings and wedding ceremonies. “There will be a pointwise discussion on Friday and decisions will be taken. MPs and MLAs have also been invited for the meeting on Friday,” Saurabh Rao said. Reacting to the curbs, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol denied any possibility of a lockdown, but hinted at more restrictions. “It is true that the number of Covid patients has been increasing in Pune. The number of active patients has reached around 7,000 in a month. We had imposed some restrictions earlier, but the number hasn’t reduced as expected. There will not be a lockdown, but to break the chain of the infection more restrictions are under consideration. Restrictions on gardens, swimming pools and marriage halls are under consideration,” Mohol said.Dr Vinay Kulkarni, coordinator, Prayas Health Group, clarified that the report can only guide the administration in the decision-making process, but the ultimate decisions are taken by the administration. “This is just an agent-based model. We just try to modulate the requirements of the administration. I do not give recommendations per se. Through our modelling, we can only indicate the cause and effect aspect. Those are futuristic predictions. We can only make predictions. Ultimately, administration has to decide,” Dr Kulkarni said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tcsprayas-report-forecasts-worst-case-covid-scenario-for-pune-cases-at-60-of-last-year-s-peak-101615385968500.html
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||83 more Sainik School Kunjpura students test positive for Covid||Karnal Eighty-three more students of Sainik School Kunjpura tested positive for Covid -9, taking the number of infected students to 140 in a week.Karnal chief medical officer Dr Yogesh Sharma said the samples of 300 students were taken on Tuesday and 83 students and one teacher were found infected with coronavirus. As per the school authorities, the infected students are in the age group of 14 to 17. Most of the infected students are asymptomatic . School principal Col VD Chandola refused to share any information, saying he was out of station. Last week, 57 students of the school were found infected, forcing the school authorities to suspend classes. The infected students have been isolated in hostel rooms.As per the school authorities, the school and hostels were opened as per the government’s guidelines on February 14 after Covid-19 RT-PCR test of all students was conducted. First, students of classes 10 and 12 were called and later students of classes 9 and 11 were allowed to attend their classes.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said 138 people, including 91 students and four teachers, were found infected on Wednesday. The DC held a meeting of the Covid19 task force and issued instructions to the district police and 18 duty magistrates to ensure implementation of Covid19 norms in all the schools of the districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/83-more-sainik-school-kunjpura-students-test-positive-for-covid-101615385609285.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||One year of Covid: ‘We were never short of food’||Mohammad Shamshad Sher, 41, runs a small-scale embroidery business in Dharavi, catering to designers, tailors, wedding parties, and apparel brands. He had to shut shop on March 24 when the national lockdown was announced to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.At the time, Mohammad rented three gallas, or makeshift shops in Dharavi, from where he operated his business. On his request, his landlords waived his rent, which cumulatively came to ₹45,000 a month, during the lockdown. Most of the 60 employees were migrants and returned to their villages in Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, and North Maharashtra, soon after the lockdown was announced.Mohammad’s business was affected almost immediately. With barely a few thousand rupees in the bank, he had several payments from customers still pending and unfinished consignments left to deliver. All work came to a standstill and even routine customers, customers spread across Maharashtra in Jalna, Aurangabad, Akola, Jalgaon, Mumbai and Pune, refused to advance him money.What followed were months of uncertainty and financial instability for Mohammad and his employees.“In our line, we have money only if there is work. We need a pipeline of consignments to earn. There is no concept of saving as such. It’s not hand to mouth, but it is close. Lockdown months were hard. I had no hope of recovering my losses and debt began to mount month after month. But the situation was worse for my employees,” said Mohammad.Also Read: Lessons in lockdown in MumbaiSome who remained continued to live in the gallas -- each galla has an attached toilet and a small stove to cook meals on; the work tables are folded up and set against the wall at night to make space for sleeping -- but they could not continue to work due to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's instructions, despite having pending items on their list.Food was available in plenty, because of the charity work many organizations took up in Dharavi during lockdown. “We never had to worry about what we will eat. Someone or the other came and gave us food packets. But then, we lived through eight-nine months with no concept of savoury food. Everyone ate whatever they got,” he said.By November, some of his former employees began to return to work, but Mohammad cannot afford to hire more than 10 people. Work has come down to four days a week, from six. “I cannot call my labour back from their home towns. If I do, I have to guarantee them work. But what if another lockdown is announced? I am giving employment to whoever has come of his own will.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/one-year-of-covid-we-were-never-short-of-food-101615383518127.html
10-03-2021||Other||Nepalese worker drugs cashier, steals ₹6 lakh from Ludhiana factory||A Nepalese worker stole ₹6 lakh from a hosiery factory after drugging the cashier and also made off with his employer’s scooter in Sunder Nagar on Tuesday.The matter came to fore after other employees found the cashier unconscious and the accused, Raju, missing.Factory owner Navratan Sharma of Swami Vivekanand Apartments, Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, told the police that Raju had been working as an office boy at his t-shirt factory for the past four years.On Tuesday, Raju served tea to some workers and the cashier, Shawal Mall. The tea served to Mall was spiked with a sedative. As he lost consciousness, Raju stole ₹6 lakh in cash from the safe and fled with his scooter as well, Sharma alleged.Sub-inspector Davinder Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Daresi police station, said a case under Sections 381 (theft by clerk or servant of property in possession of master) and 328 (causing hurt by means of poison, etc., with intent to commit an offence) of the Indian Penal Code had been registered against Raju.His father and brother also work at the same factory, but have claimed ignorance about his intentions and whereabouts.Police have launched a manhunt for Raju’s arrest.Employees on the prowlJanuary 27: A Nepalese domestic help stole ₹11 lakh in cash and jewellery worth ₹18 lakh from his employer’s house. The employer had not gotten his police verification doneJanuary 2: Hired just five days ago, a domestic help decamped with ₹6 lakh in cash, and gold and diamond jewellery from the house of a hosiery unit owner in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar. At the time of the incident, the owner was at his factory, while his family had gone out October 7, 2020: A Nepalese domestic help, along with his two accomplices, stole cash and jewellery from the house of a hosiery owner in Gurdev Nagar. An elderly woman, along with another servant, aged 11, and a security guard were present at home, while the other family members had gone out for dinner when the crime was executed. The accused had sedated the security guard and injured the child February 12, 2020: An attempt by a domestic help and his three accomplices to drug a Model Town Extension family and rob them was foiled by alert neighbours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nepalese-worker-drugs-cashier-steals-6-lakh-from-ludhiana-factory-101615384108986.html
10-03-2021||Other||57-day Magh Mela to end with Maha Shivratri bathing||The ongoing 57-day annual Magh Mela-2021 will come to an end with last official bathing of Maha Shivaratri on Thursday. According to mela officials, around 5 lakh devotees are expected to take a dip in Sangam during the day. Mela officer Vivek Chaturvedi said all preparations, including security arrangements, had been completed for the sixth and last bathing of the annual fair. Noted astrologer and director of Uthan Jyotish Sansthan Pandit Diwaker Tripathi Purvanchali said the auspicious timing for the bathing begins from 2.52pm on March 10 and lasts till late evening on March 11. The Magh Mela commenced with the first official bathing of Makar Sankranti on January 14 wherein 4.5 lakh devotees had taken the holy dip. The second official bathing of Paush Purnima held on January 28 had witnessed 2.8 lakh devotees taking bath in Sangam water while 30 lakh devotees had taken the dip on Mauni Amavasya on February 11. Further on the fourth official bathing of Basant Panchami on February 16 around 15.5 lakh devotees had taken a dip in Sangam while the fifth official bathing of Maghi Purnima on February 27 also marked end of month long kalpwas even as 7 lakh devotees had taken the holy dip. 
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||5 booked for murder after water-carrier dies of poisoning||Five people were booked for murder after a water-carrier working with Haryana Police died of poisoning on Tuesday. The victim, Ranbir of Sonepat, was currently posted at DSP (CID) office in Ambala. Ranbir joined duty on Tuesday morning after spending a night at his village in Baroda and died during treatment at GMCH, Chandigarh, his son Shivraj told the police. “My father informed my cousin that he has been given poison by 3-4 people and was taken to a hospital. We left from our place and reached GMCH, Sector 32, Chandigarh, where we got to know that he was poisoned at 9am and also had a fight with one Jagbir. We also found a note in his pocket stating that Jagbir, his wife, his son, Harpal and Sishpal forcefully gave him poison,” Shivraj said. An FIR was lodged under sections 302, 328 and 34 at Baldev Nagar Police station against the accused. They are yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5-booked-for-murder-after-water-carrier-dies-of-poisoning-101615380388871.html
10-03-2021||Other||Jobs are coming, no need to migrate, Yogi tells Bundelkhand youths||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday the youth of Bundelkhand would now on not have to migrate out for jobs as sufficient number of jobs would be available to them within the region in Uttar Pradesh.“The youth will not have to migrate from Bundelkhad to get jobs. The land of Bundelkhand will produce gold… agriculture will make people self-reliant,” said Yogi while addressing a public meeting after launching projects worth ₹1000 crore in Chitrakoot division on second day of his visit to Bundelkhand.He used the occasion to list measures initiated by the Centre and the state government for welfare of people and said his government had given projects worth ₹3000 crore to the Bundelkhand region in the past two days. He dedicated Rasin dam project, drinking water projects under ‘Har Ghar Nal Yojana’ and reviewed Lahchura Dam of Arjun Sahayak project in Mahoba involving a cost of ₹2600 crore. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi would be requested to dedicate the project to the people after its completion in next two months.Yogi defended the three farm laws and said, “If you are getting Minimum Support Price, it is because of Prime Minister Modi. The previous government used to take away the funds meant for farmers. But the Prime Minister decided to send the funds to you through direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme. The PM as repeatedly said the MSP will not go.. Mandis have been here and will remain here.”He targeted the opposition for ‘misleading’ the farmers and urged the people to give it a befitting reply. “They are the people who don’t want to see the farmers happy. They are the people who don’t want the youth to get jobs. They are anti-development. They need to be given a befitting reply, ” he said.He asked the district administration to associate the local youth in the implementation of ‘Har Ghar Yojana’ and employ them. “Those who have engineering degrees or polytechnic background be employed as supervisors. Those who have passed the ITI be given training and employed as a plumber to ensure that the youth get jobs.”He said the youths of the region went to serve the armed forces on the borders but now the guns and fighter planes of Bundelkhand would defend borders of India.He said his government was also launching air services in the region.“This land has been witness to lord Rama’s period of crisis. So the people of the region were happy when Prime Minster Narendra Modi laid foundation stone of Ram temple in Ayodhya.” Amid shouts Jai Sri Ram, he said Maharishi Valmiki, who wrote the Ramayana in Sanskrit, was also born in this part and Goswami Tulsidas wrote the Ramcharitmanas here. “It is a matter of pride that Ram temple is being constructed in Ayodhya,” he said while pointing out that there were people who opposed the construction of Ram temple as well.He said the previous governments indulged in loot of the region whereas those indulging in corruption were being sent to jails now. He said his government was involving the self help groups in implementation of government schemes. “A new scheme has been brought for empowerment of women. We have earmarked ₹200 crore for it,” he said.Referring to fight against Covid-19, he said 2020 was challenging year for the world as normal life was disrupted. He said under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi relief was provided to the people.He said the people in 60 year plus age group or those above 45 years with comorbidity were being given vaccine free of cost in government hospitals. “This vaccine costs ₹5000 in other parts of the world. But you will get this vaccine free of cost in government hospitals,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jobs-are-coming-no-need-to-migrate-yogi-tells-bundelkhand-youths-101615379908171.html
10-03-2021||Noida||Air quality improves in NCR, 'moderate' in Noida, Gurgaon, Faridabad||The air quality improved across Delhi-NCR a day after a spell of rain, with the index reaching "moderate" levels in Noida, Gurgaon and Faridabad and "poor" in Ghaziabad and Greater Noida, according to data issued by a government agency on Wednesday.Pollutants PM 2.5 and PM 10 also remained high in the air of the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, as per the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).An AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Wednesday was 221 in Ghaziabad, 239 in Greater Noida, 152 in Noida, 163 in Faridabad and 122 in Gurgaon, according to CPCB's Sameer app.On Tuesday, it was 334 in Ghaziabad, 339 in Greater Noida, 293 in Noida, 277 in Faridabad and 272 in Gurgaon.The CPCB states that an AQI in the "poor" category may lead to breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure, while "moderate" may cause breathing discomfort to people with lungs, asthma and heart diseases.The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all monitoring stations there.Ghaziabad, Gurgaon and Noida have four such stations while Greater Noida and Faridabad have two stations each, according to the app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/air-quality-improves-in-ncr-moderate-in-noida-gurgaon-faridabad-101615379308464.html
10-03-2021||Lucknow||CJM court holds 21 jamaat members guilty under Epidemic, Foreigner Acts||Holding them guilty of violating the Epidemic Act and the Foreigners Act, the court of Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM), Bareilly, on Tuesday imposed fine on 21 members of Tabhligi Jamaat arrested from different parts of UP during the Covid-19 pandemic.The court of CJM Yash Pal Singh Lodhi, while imposing fine on them, also ruled that their sentence of punishment was limited to the extent of term they had already spent in prison. Of the 21 accused, 16 were from Indonesia while others were from Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. All of them had participated in the religious gathering held at Delhi Markaz prior to the lockdown. However, after the lockdown was imposed, these Jamaat members had dispersed to various districts of Uttar Pradesh. They were arrested from different places on charges of spreading Covid-19 infection and violating norms under Foreigners Act.Of those convicted on Tuesday, eight Jamaatis hailed from Indonesia and were arrested by the police during lockdown from a religious place in Moradabad. On March 30 last year, the police had also arrested eight Jamaatis from Indonesia and five other Jamaatis from a religious place in Nagina town of Bijnor.The Jamaatis had moved an application seeking discharge from the charges of violation of Epidemic and Foreigners Acts.However, their application was turned down after the hearing, after they submitted an application pleading for minimum punishment. The court on Tuesday imposed penalty of ₹44,900 each on the Indonesian Jamaatis who were arrested from Moradabad and a penalty of ₹7,900 on the Indonesian Jamaatis arrested from Bijnor.The court imposed penalty of ₹2,900 on other Jamaatis.Earlier, the Allahabad high court has directed that all matters related to the members of Tablighi Jamaat in Uttar Pradesh will now be heard only by the CJMs of Lucknow, Meerut and Bareilly. It had also directed the CJMs to decide the matter within eight weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cjm-court-holds-21-jamaat-members-guilty-under-epidemic-foreigner-acts-101615378288164.html
10-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 370 new Covid-19 cases, highest since January 12||Delhi recorded 370 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday taking the tally to 642,030. The Capital recorded a spike of 50 cases compared to the 320 cases recorded on Tuesday. The city recorded 3 deaths in the last 24 hours taking the death toll to 10,931.This is the highest number of infections recorded since January 12 when the city had recorded 386 infections. Delhi had reported 279 cases on Monday and had reported more than 300 cases on March 5 and March 6.Delhi conducted 71,153 tests on Sunday out of which more than 45,000 tests were RT-PCR, CBNAAT and TrueNat, tests which are considered to be more accurate. The number of tests rose by 4,409 compared to the 66,744 tests carried out on Tuesday. The positivity rate stood at 0.52% recording a marginal rise while the case fatality ratio stood at 1.70%.Delhi also recorded a rise in the number of active cases. It currently has 1,900 active cases, which is a rise from the 1,812 cases recorded on Tuesday. The containment zones in the city also remained above 500, according to the Covid-19 bulletin. A total of 982 patients remained in home isolation while 279 people recovered from Covid-19 taking the tally of the recovered to 629,199.Delhi health authorities have said that the sudden rise in cases can be attributed to the flouting of Covid-19 norms. The government has asked people to adhere to Covid-19 preventative measures to stop the spread of the disease. Delhi along with seven other states has been warned by the Union health ministry which said that it falls among states and Union Territories contributing to the daily cases recorded nationwide. The city has been asked to test more and increase the pace of vaccination by the Centre on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-370-new-covid-19-cases-highest-since-january-14-101615377213555.html
10-03-2021||Pune||PIFF deferred again, online screening on March 18-25||Pune: Following reports of rising Covid cases in the city, the Pune Film Foundation has decided to postpone the upcoming Pune International Film Festival (PIFF). The 19th edition of the fest was to be inaugurated on March 11. New dates of the festival shall be declared shortly, said organisers. “Due to the current Covid situation, film enthusiasts have apprehensions about enjoying PIFF inside theatres. A lot of delegates inquired to check if their registration for PIFF in theatres can be converted to online format. As organisers, we would always want the festival to be enjoyed by maximum number of film aficionados and thus have decided to postpone the festival to be held in theatres,” said Dr Jabbar Patel, festival director, PIFF. “However, we also believe that the ‘show must go on’ and have decided to host PIFF in its online format between March 18 and March 25. The online format is postponed only by a week primarily to facilitate the conversion of delegate registration from offline to the online format for those who wish to do so. As informed earlier, about 26 films from the world cinema category shall be showcased in the online format of the film festival,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/piff-deferred-again-online-screening-on-march-1825-101615377568181.html
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||Medical store owner murdered in Hoshiarpur||A medical store owner was found murdered with a sharp-edged weapon at Attowal village in Hoshiarpur district on Wednesday. Tarsem Singh, 60, was a resident of Hoshiarpur’s Ravidas Nagar and had been running the shop in the village for 30 years. A customer spotted the blood-soaked body of the victim and informed the police. In the CCTV footage, a man is seen entering the shop at 7.58am and coming out at 8.03am. Mehtiana station house officer Des Raj said that the police are trying to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/medical-store-owner-murdered-in-hoshiarpur-101615377388945.html
10-03-2021||Other||PMC scraps Y-shaped flyover project at Market Yard||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to scrap the proposed Y-shaped flyover at Market Yard after objections from traders and members of the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC), Pune.PMC will now work on a new proposal to extend flyover towards Gangadham chowk in future, said civic officials.PMC project department had invited bids for a Y-shaped flyover at Gultekdi, Market Yard for an estimated cost of ₹15 crore, but traders and APMC took objection to the flyover saying it will add to the chaos instead of solving traffic problem congestion.Traders approached Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) of Parvati, Madhuri Misal and explained to her the problem. Following the meeting, Misal met PMC commissioner and discussed the issued.After MLA’s intervention along with constant opposition from traders and APMC, PMC decided to cancel the tender. The proposal has been sent to PMC commissioner for approval.Abhijit Ambekar, executive engineer of PMC project department, said, “We have decided to cancel the proposal for the Y-shaped flyover. We haven’t given work order to anyone yet. Therefore, there is no legality arising after the cancellation of tender so far. We will return the deposit to the contractor.”He further said, “APMC and traders have demanded an extension of flyover up to 150 metres towards Gangadham chowk area. We had already completed all the necessary planning and technical drawing. Therefore, it was not possible to extend the flyover. So, PMC took the decision to cancel the project.”“We will consider the demand of APMC in future with a fresh proposal of the flyover with extension up to Gangadham chowk,” he said.PMC standing committee had approved around 15 crore to construct another Y-shaped flyover at Warehouse chowk near Market Yard to avoid traffic congestion which will be created due to Dice plot slum area to Giridhar Bhavan fly over.The Poona Merchant Chamber had also demanded to extend the flyover stretch. However, the municipal corporation sanctioned the original plan of a Y-shaped flyover.According to APMC officials, Shivneri road and Nehru road are passing through APMC premises and are a part of APMC. A Y-shaped flyover is being constructed in the APMC area.“We had already demanded to extend the flyover towards Gangadham chowk by 150 metres to avoid traffic congestion on Shivneri road. More than 100 shops will be affected if the flyover will not be extended. We had raised our concern during PMC officials’ site visit for the project,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-scraps-y-shaped-flyover-project-at-market-yard-101615377028029.html
10-03-2021||Other||2016 Munak canal breach: CBI court frames charges against three||The special court of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has framed charges against three accused in the 2016 Munak canal damage case, wherein the canal in Sonepat district was damaged by pro-Jat quota protesters resulting in severe water crisis in Delhi for around two weeks.Originating from Munak village in Karnal, the 22-km-long canal carries 700 cusecs of water to Delhi. The canal, which channels water from north Indian rivers, accounts for about 60% of Delhi’s water supply.The Centre had to rush the army, which took control on February 22, 2016, after the canal was breached at several places by the protesters.There are eight accused in the case, while five are absconding, charges have been framed against three - Mahaveer, Inder Singh and Neeraj.The chargesheet mentions that on February 20 and 21, 2016, in Sonipat (Haryana), accused armed with deadly weapons viz lathis and sticks in prosecution of common object, indulged in disobedience to the orders duly promulgated by public servants.It mentions how they did acts of omission and commission, indulged in mob violence, blocked roads, attacked and caused obstruction to public servants, and caused disruption in the law and order situation.The chargesheet mentions that they “…assembled/reached at Mandora head, where a water regulation system is set up, captured and damaged it, breached the essential water supply of the canals viz Delhi branch and CLC branch and diverted into drain no 8 through the gates of regulation point and caused substantial loss to public property.”On Tuesday, special judge, CBI, Jagdeep Singh framed charges under Sections 148 (rioting), 149(every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public servants), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of duty), 333, 341 (wrongful restraint), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), and 432 (mischief by causing inundation or obstruction to public drainage attended with damage) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under Section 3 of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984.” Now the case is listed for prosecution evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2016-munak-canal-breach-cbi-court-frames-charges-against-three-101615375288659.html
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||Rift in SAD after Kairon backs kin on Valtoha’s turf for 2022 poll||A rift in the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has come to the fore with former minister Adesh Partap Singh Kairon announcing his support for a family member in Khemkaran constituency, the turf of SAD leader Virsa Singh Valtoha, in the 2022 assembly elections in Punjab. Though the elections are scheduled early next year, Kairon has started holding village meetings in Khemkaran. He addressed public meetings at Punian, Margindpura, Khara Ram Singh and Amarkot villages of the constituency on Tuesday and a gathering at Sursingh village on Wednesday. During his address at one of the meetings, Kairon said that voters of Khemkaran have been asking him to serve in the area and he couldn’t ignore their request. “After discussing with my family, I’ve accepted the people’s decision. A member of our family will serve you. Though we will all serve you, but the candidate will be from our family,” Kairon said. He said at the time of his grandfather and former chief minister Partap Singh Kairon, many villages of Khemkaran were a part of Patti constituency. He said his family was emotionally attached to the people of the area and promised that he would be available whenever the need arises. Kairon lost the Patti seat in 2017 to Harminder Singh Gill of the Congress. Kairon’s political adviser Gurmukh Singh Ghulla of Balehar village in Khemkaran has been at the forefront of organising the recent public meetings. Akali rally at Amarkot on March 15 Former Khemkaran MLA Valtoha termed Kairon’s actions as an attempt to join the Congress. Valtoha said Kairon and his family members can fight the election from Khemkaran, but not on the Akali ticket. “The SAD is not the party of Kairon’s father. He has already lost ground in Patti, where he has not shown up. I will urge the party high command not to give him the ticket from Patti as he has been betraying us for years. If the party allows, I’ll field one of my family members to contest from there,” Valtoha said. There are reports that the Kairon family wants to put up its loyalists in Tarn Taran, Khadoor Sahib and Jandiala constituencies also. This comes days before the Akali Dal rally at Amarkot in Khemkaran on March 15 against the working of the Congress government in the state. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal will be at the rally. Valtoha confident of getting SAD ticket Valtoha said, “I’ll fight the election from Khemkaran on the SAD ticket. The party chief will announce this from Khemkaran.” An aide of former minister Bikram Singh Majithia, Valtoha is also the party’s Tarn Taran district president. Kairon and he have been at loggerheads, though not publicly, for the last one decade. Valtoha won the 2007 and 2013 assembly elections on the party’s ticket from Khemkaran. He lost to Sukhpal Singh Bhullar of the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rift-in-sad-after-kairon-backs-kin-on-valtoha-s-turf-for-2022-poll-101615374868657.html
10-03-2021||Other||Now, get KV temple prasad at home through speed post||Lucknow Devotees will soon be able to get prasad of Kashi Vishwanath temple at home through speed post, just by sending an e-money order of ₹ 251 .Postmaster General of Varanasi region Krishna Kumar Yadav said on Wednesday that the prasad would be made available through speed post under an agreement between the Department of Posts and Kashi Vishwanath Temple Trust.Under this scheme, an e-money order of only ₹ 251 has to be sent to the senior superintendent of post offices, Varanasi (East) division from the nearest post office. Prasad will be sent to the addressee immediately by the department of posts as soon as the e-money order is received. The prasad will be in a tamper-proof envelope with proper packaging. Yadav said that the image of Kashi Vishwanath Jyotirlinga, Mahamrityunjaya Yantra, Shri Shiva Chalisa, 108-bead Rudraksha garland, Bel Patra, coin having Shiva’s image inscribed with Mata Annapurna, dry fruits, bhasma, sandalwood, Raksha Sutra and mishri packets etc would be included.Senior superintendent post offices, Varanasi East division Sumit Kumar Gatt said that the prasad could also be obtained from the counter of Varanasi city post office for just ₹ 201. Apart from this, special stalls will be set up for prasad at Dashashwamedh Ghat, Assi Ghat etc. by the postal department on Mahashivratri.Caption: Postmaster General Krishna Kumar Yadav giving Sri Kashi Vishwanath prasad to a woman devotee. SourcedRajeev MullickHindustan Times||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-get-kv-temple-prasad-at-home-through-speed-post-101615374569173.html
10-03-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal announces free Ayodhya pilgrimage for senior citizens||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday announced free pilgrimage to the Ram Temple in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya for senior citizens when it will be ready. Speaking in the assembly, Kejriwal invoked Lord Hanuman, Lord Ram, and the idea of Ram Rajya to present 10 principles for governance in Delhi including those related to access to food, quality education, shelter, water, electricity, and employment.“Lord Ram is revered by all. I am a devotee of Hanuman and Lord Ram. Ram Rajya [the rule of Lord Ram] is considered an ideal welfare state. If we can take inspiration from Ram Rajya to achieve an ideal welfare state in Delhi, our lives will be successful. In Delhi, we are now trying to do that. Therefore, we have made 10 principles based on Ram Rajya, which my government will follow,” Kejriwal said.The first principle, which he said will be followed, is to ensure nobody is left hungry in normal times or in a Covid-19 pandemic-like situation. He added the remaining principles will ensure quality education for every child, universal access to good medical services, clean water, electricity, respect of senior citizens, shelter, the safety of women, equality for all irrespective of religion, caste, economic status. Kejriwal said the excuse that the Delhi police is not under the state government for ensuring the safety of women will not do.Also Read | Kejriwal calls budget inclusive, says education will be made a mass movementKejriwal highlighted how his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government installed CCTV cameras across the city and now plans to set up mohalla clinics exclusively for women.“Delhi cannot progress if it does not respect the senior citizens living in the city. For them, we launched the Mukhyamantri Tirth Yatra Yojana, which allows them to visit various places of worship across the country free of cost. Everything from their travel, accommodation, and food is taken care of by the Delhi government under the scheme,” he said.“Now, the grand Ram temple is being built in Ayodhya. Once the temple is ready, the Delhi government will include Ayodhya’s Ram temple also to its free pilgrimage scheme,” Kejriwal said.He took a swipe at his Uttar Pradesh counterpart, Yogi Adityanath, for “staging” a government school inspection in what he called “Manish Sisodia style”. Sisodia is the deputy chief minister and education minister of Delhi, who recently challenged the Uttar Pradesh government for a debate on the condition of government schools in the Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled state as compared to those in Delhi under the AAP government.“It was evidently a set-up location for the video. But I am happy that ministers are now focusing on such aspects of governance... The work done on the education front in Delhi by the AAP government in the last 5-6 years is a revolution. But why did it not happen in the last 70 years?” he asked. “The two main political parties that ruled this country for decades seem to have deliberately kept its people uneducated so they could serve as crowds at their rallies and public events... would never question their policies effectively. The two parties deliberately kept people uneducated to create their vote banks, so the rich could get cheap labour. If the people of this country get access to good education, then these parties will be routed just like the Congress got wiped from Delhi,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-announces-free-ayodhya-pilgrimage-for-senior-citizens-101615373968587.html
10-03-2021||Dehradun||Tirath Rawat emerges as BJP's surprise selection for CM post in Uttarakhand||The BJP leadership on Wednesday morning named Pauri Garhwal MP Tirath Singh Rawat as the new chief minister of Uttarakhand, ending the buzz around the likes of cabinet minister Dhan Singh Rawat, former CM and Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and Rajya Sabha member Anil Baluni.The decision however, surprised many including state leaders and ministers as till Tuesday night nobody thought about Tirath's name for the post until the BJP legislature party meeting on Wednesday morning, presided over by party’s central observers including former Chhattisgarh CM Raman Singh and state unit in-charge Dushyant Kumar Gautam."With the names of Dhan Singh, Nishank and Baluni making the rounds since the last few days, nobody in the party expected that MP Tirath would be named for the CM post," said a party MLA on condition of anonymity.He said, "We all were surprised when his name was announced as it was the decision of party central leadership."Another party leader and a senior cabinet minister said they never expected Rawat to emerge as the chief ministerial candidate till Tuesday night. "Dhan Singh and Central minister Nishank" were among the top two candidates."Dhan Singh was seen as a balancing act being a Thakur from Garhwal division as the party state president is a Brahmin from Kumaon division. Also, he is a close aide of Trivendra Singh Rawat. On the other hand, former CM Nishank was strongly lobbying for the post since the last three days. His aides in Haridwar were in Dehradun projecting Nishank as the new CM," said the minister.He however, added that despite running ahead in the race, both Dhan Singh and Nishank's names had some constraints."Dhan Singh would not have been accepted by other leaders as he is a junior among the major party leaders and his closeness to Trivendra Singh Rawat would have again created a problem among other senior leaders, who don't have a good equation with the outgoing CM. On the other hand, Nishank would have also faced opposition within party, as he too doesn’t have good equation with many senior leaders," said the minister, adding, "Tirath is a non-controversial person and rose in the state politics after starting as an RSS member, which went in his favour."State school education minister Arvind Pandey, who was present in the legislature party meeting on Wednesday morning, said Tirath's name was proposed by Trivendra Singh Rawat."It was Trivendra Singh Rawat who proposed his name in the meeting which was supported by all. In BJP, organisation is always big and not any leader. Today's decision made this fact evident," said Pandey.Also Read: Tirath Singh Rawat sworn-in as Uttarakhand CM, to be in office for nearly a yearThe Opposition Congress, however, attacked the BJP by saying that the change in leadership "confirmed that four years of this government were a complete failure."Leader of Opposition, Indira Hridayesh said, "Since the last four years, we have been saying that this government is anti-development and a complete failure. Now, our claim has been confirmed by the BJP high command which changed the CM.""However, nothing will happen with this change as the public has decided to throw BJP out of power in 2022," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/tirath-singh-rawat-s-choice-as-new-uttarakhand-cm-surprised-many-party-leaders-101615373703071.html
10-03-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 9 including 5 women held for assaulting & stripping girl, mother||Nine persons have been arrested by Rajasthan police for allegedly assaulting and stripping a 19-year-old girl and her mother, police said on Wednesday. Police came to know about the incident after the video of the assault was highly circulated on local groups on social media.“During investigation we came to know that the incident was almost one month-old and the root cause of the scuffle was ‘Nata’,” said a senior police official familiar with the development of the case.Nata Pratha, a centuries-old custom in Rajasthan, allows men to live with women they are not married to. Women who follow the regressive practice leave their children behind when they go to live with another man. In this tradition, a man has to pay money to the woman he wants to be with, outside his marriage. And the amount is decided by the woman's parents and members of her community.“This social evil still exists in many communities of the state. In this case too, the victim got married to a man some five-years-ago and later went on Nata with another man. Further, the victim entered into a relationship with another married man, whose family is accused in the case. Both decided to live together,” the police official said.Also Read: Rajasthan CM: 1st dose of vaccination stopped at health centers due to shortageHe added, “On February 6, when the victim and her mother went to convince the family members of the wife of the accused, they stripped the mother-daughter duo naked and also beat them. Somebody filmed the entire incident and two days ago, the video went viral. However, when police investigated the case, the matter was settled in a community gathering in writing. But on Monday, the video was circulated in the groups after which a case was registered, and nine accused were identified and arrested.” Five of the nine accused are women. Further investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-9-including-5-women-held-for-assaulting-stripping-girl-mother-101615370816154.html
10-03-2021||Delhi||A home away from home||One often relates old age and retirement with a sedentary lifestyle, giving up one’s own interests and only having familial responsibilities to look after. However, as times change, many are willing to treat these golden years of life as the time to be independent and socially connected within a safe environment, instead of battling isolation, social poverty and being dependent on their children.“In old age, there are three categories. There is young-old (60-75 years), middle-old (75-85 years) and old-old (85-plus), where one typically needs support in day-to-day living due to various personal or medical reasons,” says Arun Gupta, managing trustee and chief executive, Age Ventures India (AVI), which has been working with real estate developers and other social organisations, supporting them in setting up retirement homes as well as providing care and service to the elders. After successfully running two such homes in Bengaluru and Ahmedabad, new ones are set to come up in Gurugram, Kolkata and Jabalpur.There’s also a new vertical — AVI Care Home — for elders needing assistance with activities of daily living, care for dementia, Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s and post-surgery care for short to long term. There will also be a day care facility. Elaborating on the need for elderly day care, Gupta says, “It could get difficult for the elderly to stay with three different generations. Maybe their children are going to work, grandkids are at school; who will be there to take care of the aged then?” He states that these care homes — one such named Hibiscus-AVI Care Home in Gurugram — allows elders to spend time among people of their own age group and build new bonds rather than being lonely.The facility in Gurugram has a medical room, physiotherapy room, wellness corner, a well-equipped kitchen, and a multi activity room. As per their website (www.ageventuresindia.org), there are three types of rooms — a fully-fitted high dependence care room, a semi-fitted flexible dependence/ normal care room, and suites as well. Residents can opt for single rooms, shared rooms or on double occupancy basis. The monthly cost of day care facility starts from ₹30,000. Long-term care for a couple with normal medical care, physiotherapy, rent, meals, power, etc. costs roughly over a lakh a month, excluding taxes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/a-home-away-from-home-101615369470174.html
10-03-2021||Delhi||JNU students reclaim library, reading room spaces||With the month of May approaching, students of the Jawaharlal Nehru University are nearing their deadline to submit thesis, dissertations and research papers. The students of JNU protested on the campus on Wednesday - after days of requesting the administration - to reopen libraries in the campus, so that they may be able to complete their research work in time. The BR Ambedkar library and reading rooms, have been one of the focal points of congregation for all research scholars on campus, who often head to these facilities for a study and research session in their day to day student life at JNU. “There was a demand of opening the library by the students since a long time. The need for the library and reading rooms has become urgent now because we have our NET and JRF papers by May and students also have to submit their thesis by then,” shares Qasim Masumi, an MPhil student who was one amongst the scores of students who had protested physically for the library to open. “Hundreds of students gathered, protested, entered and reclaimed the library premises at JNU today,” adds Masumi.The students protested and entered the library claiming myriad of reasons that have been impacting their studies. “Some students had left books and reading materials in library. How will we do our research work without access to the journals there? All students facing these problems united to protest along with the university’s student union. The guards were stopping us from entering the library but we managed to step in. We maintained all Covid guidelines inside the library. And now we are trying that the administration doesn’t shut the library down again, by studying there and we will make sure we use it so it’s not shut down. The library won’t be empty any time soon. We have our exams coming up and we need this space,” says Vasudev Chakravarti, a Master’s student.Online classes aren’t much help to research scholars and students in the university and the need for books and reading rooms is felt by hostellers too. “Hostels don’t have proper reading rooms or places to study. If now the university doesn’t take regard of our needs then there will be drop outs. We are research students. We need access to reading material. Online classes and webinars won’t suffice. Students in JNU come from rural areas of our country and don’t have internet access or smart phones so it is a complete digital divide. We protested because we had no other choice,” says Harendra Sheshma, a PhD student at JNU.Aishe Ghosh, president, JNUSU shares that many students had been reaching out to her regarding the problems they were facing in absence of access to libraries. “The JNUSU , time and again had reminded the JNU Administration, to re-open library along with seating capacity, which didn’t come to any conclusion. Today, we had given a call for a protest to study at library, thereby reclaiming the library which was forcefully locked for past one year,” she adds.Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jnu-students-reclaim-library-reading-room-spaces-101615368330086.html
10-03-2021||Kolkata||Split in Gorkha Janmukti Morcha may help BJP in Bengal's hill region||Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee’s efforts to establish peace between her allies, the two rival factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM), by leaving three assembly seats in the Darjeeling hills for the party has not yielded any result. It is the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that stands to gain from the split in GJM, the biggest outfit representing the Gorkhas, feels a section of local leaders.The GJM factions, led by Bimal Gurung and Binoy Tamang, are allies of the TMC but both groups said they will contest each other even if that leads to a triangular contest with BJP in the fray with some allies.Till October last year, Gurung, who founded the GJM and was the most popular Gorkha leader, was an ally of the BJP. With his support, the BJP won the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat thrice since 2009 and even wrested the Darjeeling assembly seat in the 2019 by-poll, defeating Tamang by more than 46,000 votes.In sharp contrast, the Darjeeling assembly seat was won by the undivided GJM in 2011 and 2016 although the BJP held the Lok Sabha seat with its support.This time around, the BJP is planning to contest all seats in the hill region as an ally of the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) and the Communist Party of Revolutionary Marxists (CPRM).Though the GNLF was the most powerful force in the hills in the 1980s and 1990s and its founder, Subash Ghising, started the violent movement for Gorkhaland, the party is now a much smaller force. The CPRM, on the other hand, has presence only in a few pockets.Gurung and Tamang have plans to field candidates at Darjeeling, Kurseong and Kalimpong assembly constituencies that Banerjee left out for the GJM while announcing the names of 291 TMC candidates last week.Elections in the hills will be held in the fifth phase on April 17. Bengal has 294 seats.Before the Lok Sabha poll in 2019, the BJP promised to find a permanent political solution to the long-standing demand for Gorkhaland and accord schedule tribe status to 11 Gorkha sub-communities.The Gorkhas have been fighting for a separate state since the 1980s and 11 people were killed in police firing during a violent agitation in 2017 when the Darjeeling and Kalimpong hills witnessed a 104-day general strike. A police officer was also gunned down.BJP’s Raju Bista won the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat in 2019 but so far his party has not delivered on its electoral promises. In the north Bengal region, the BJP won seven of the eight seats and bagged 18 out of Bengal’s 42 Lok Sabha constituencies.Gurung went into hiding in 2017 after he was charged under anti-terror law by the state government because of the violence witnessed during the Gorkhaland stir. After coming out of hiding in October last year Gurung said he will no longer support the BJP. “The BJP has betrayed the Gorkhas,” Gurung said.A section of local political leaders feels that in the coming elections, the BJP may get a significant number of votes although it has not delivered anything since 2009 and has no political base of its own in the hill region.The apprehension of these voters is based on the strong differences between the two rival factions of the GJM.Roshan Giri, general secretary of the Gurung faction said, “We will contest all three seats on our own. There is no question of entering into an understanding with the Tamang group.”Leaders of the Gurung faction have promised to back the TMC in the rest of the 14 seats in Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts.Anit Thapa, general secretary of the Tamang faction and chairman of the board of administrators in the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) said “It is going to be a triangular contest in the three seats in the Darjeeling hill region. We left Gurung long ago.”The only thing common in Tamang and Gurung is their strong stand against the BJP. Many people feel that it is this opposition to the BJP that may help the saffron camp.Tilak Chandra Roka, the former chief coordinator of the GJM (Gurung faction) has joined the BJP with this belief. He said, “The BJP is the only party in the country that has delivered on its promises. Take for example the abrogation of Article 370 in Kashmir, ban on instant triple talaq or construction of the Ram temple. Promises that TMC made to the Gorkhas are just an eyewash.”Sardha Subba, the TMC’s former Darjeeling district (hill segment) women’s unit president and a popular face, has joined the BJP as well. “I believe that if it comes to power in Bengal the BJP will fulfill the promises. It is time to think rationally,” she said.Subba was the TMC’s candidate from the Darjeeling assembly seat in 2016 and she also unsuccessfully contested as an independent in the 2019 by-election.On December 1, Nimesh Sundas retired as deputy director of the pension department at Uttarkanya, the TMC government’s secretariat in Siliguri. Surprising many, he joined the BJP on January 12.Also Read: West Bengal: CM Mamata Banerjee files nomination from NandigramSundas said, “Prime Minister Narendra Modi believes in serving common people. The BJP has been waiting for the Bengal polls because it can introduce laws only when it is in power in the state.”Not willing comment on record on Mamata Banerjee’s strategy for the hills, a TMC core committee member said, “The chief minister does not want the Gorkha population to feel that she is interfering in their politics. Hence, she gave both factions of the GJM the opportunity to represent the people. Now it is up to them to decide whether they will contest as a united force against the BJP or as opponents.”Dr G S Yonzone, former principal of Kalimpong College and a noted academician in the region, however, feels that it is too early to predict the winner."Everything is in mess in the hills and the situation is fluid. The hills, which suffer from so many problems, need the right people at the right place. However, the political players as well as the common people need to take things more seriously. It is difficult to say which party has an edge in this election," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/split-in-gorkha-janmukti-morcha-may-help-bjp-in-bengal-s-hill-region-101615367423255.html
10-03-2021||Delhi||Parliament passes bill to regularise unauthorised colonies in Delhi||Parliament on Wednesday passed the National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Second (Amendment) Bill, 2021, to regularise unauthorised colonies in Delhi.While the Rajya Sabha had passed the Bill on February 9, it sailed through the Lok Sabha on Wednesday.Minister of State (Independent Charge) of Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri told the Lok Sabha that the Bill would give protection to unauthorised colonies from sealing till December 31, 2023.Puri while replying to a debate on the Bill said the population of Delhi as per the 2011 census is 1.6 crore. "I expect the population of Delhi in 2021 census will be close to 2 crore, if not higher," Puri added.He said the "history of the problem of unauthorised colonies in the NCT of Delhi has been that prior to this, no government took up this issue with any degree of seriousness".There are around 1,700 unauthorised colonies in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/parliament-passes-bill-to-regularise-unauthorised-colonies-in-delhi-101615364406899.html
10-03-2021||Bhopal||Suspecting her character, MP man chops off wife's hand, leg||Suspecting her character, a man allegedly chopped off his wife's left hand and left foot with a sharp-edged weapon in Madhya Pradesh's Bhopal city, police said on Wednesday.The incident took place on Tuesday night, when the accused Preetam Rajput (28) returned to his home in Vishwakarma Nagar in an inebriated state and allegedly attacked his wife Sangeeta (26) who was sleeping with their son, city superintendent of police (CSP) Anil Tripathi said.Rajput allegedly chopped his wife's left hand from the wrist and also hacked her left foot, the official said.Neighbours were alerted by the victim's screams and informed the police when they found the accused brandishing a sharp weapon, he said.The accused was subsequently overpowered by policemen and the woman was rushed to the government-run Hamidia Hospital, where she underwent a surgery, the official said.The victim worked with a private firm in Indore and visited her family once every fortnight, he said, adding that that the accused was allegedly upset about it.According to the police, Rajput, a native of Seoni Malwa town in Hoshangabad district, was unhappy with his wife's decision to visit home every fortnight and insisted that she travel to Bhopal from Indore every week, and suspected her character. The accused has been arrested under IPC section 307 (attempt to murder) and further probe is underway, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/suspecting-her-character-mp-man-chops-off-wife-s-hand-leg-101615364206381.html
10-03-2021||Bangalore||Varun Tej: I want to entertain all, not just one section of audience||Changing physique and training for roles brings the character alive on screen and Varun Tej knows that. The actor has worked hard for his next film Ghani, where he plays a boxer. “I have been training for the role for a while now. It involves a lot of discipline, both mentally and physically. I have a personal trainer and a nutritionist for the film along with a National Level Champion Boxer, Neeraj Ghoyat, whose training me for the role and teaching me the nuances of the game. It is a lot more complex when you put on the gloves, but I am getting the hang of it and hopefully you will be amazed with the output as we are trying to get it as real as possible We have faced quite a few challenges due to the pandemic, but we are back on our feet with our gloves on,” says the Antariksham 9000 KMPH (2018) actor. After six years in the business, the actor admits that he puts in a conscious effort to be different from each movie and role. “I am always learning with every film, as every film teaches you something different either personally or professionally. As an actor, I would say, I am still figuring that out as every day is different and our goal is to reach and entertain all and not just stick to one section of the audience. I like to challenge myself. The scripts and roles I pick are based on the screenplay and the narrative. The art of storytelling, the characterisation of the role and the conviction/confidence in the director is what I look for before I green light any film,” he says, adding that last year, he learnt a lot of new things and got the chance to “view matters from a different perspective in life”, while professionally, he is glad to be “back to doing what we love”. With two films lined up this year - F3 and Ghani and two others that he is working on, the actor shares that he prefers this pace. “I always love to work, the more busy I am the better because entertaining the audience is what we aim at, along with keeping our passion alive on day-to-day basis. I never force myself into projects, if it is interesting and I believe I can pull it off to give a different experience to everyone watching, I’ll take the leap of faith and hope for acceptance for the risk.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/varun-tej-i-want-to-entertain-all-not-just-one-section-of-audience-101615364968440.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||Fadnavis moves privilege notice against Maharashtra home minister Deshmukh||Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday moved a breach of privilege notice against state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, accusing the latter of making a false allegation against him.Speaking in the Assembly, Fadnavis said Deshmukh on Tuesday accused him in the House of a "cover up" in the Anvay Naik suicide case in 2018.Naik, an Alibaug-based interior designer, allegedly killed himself in 2018. Journalist Arnab Goswami had been arrested in connection with the case.Fadnavis said a Supreme Court ruling clearly stated that the FIR filed by the state government under Indian Penal Code Section 306 regarding abetment to suicide was prima facie wrong."What Deshmukh said was contempt of court and also amounted to preventing me from conducting my duties as a member of the Legislature," he said.Deputy Speaker Narhari Zirwal said he would examine the notice and take an appropriate decision.Later talking to reporters outside the House, Fadnavis said the state government decided to transfer API Sachin Vaze under pressure.Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh On Wednesday announced the removal of Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze from the Crime Intelligence Unit till the inquiry into the mysterious death of automobile parts dealer Mansukh Hiran is not completed.Fadnavis said, "If the government can decide to remove minister Sanjay Rathod from the cabinet, why is Vaze so important that the government is scared to take action against him.""We will continue to fight till Hiran gets justice," he added.Hiran was in possession of the SUV with explosives found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in south Mumbai on February 25.Police said the vehicle was stolen from Hiran's possession on February 18. The mystery deepened after Hiran's body was found in a creek last Friday in neighbouring Thane.Hiran's wife has alleged in her statement to the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) that police officer Sachin Vaze might have killed her husband.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fadnavis-moves-privilege-notice-against-maharashtra-home-minister-deshmukh-101615363586899.html
10-03-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM: 1st dose of vaccination stopped at health centers due to shortage||Rajasthan chief minister (CM) Ashok Gehlot claimed that 'inadequate' supply of Covid vaccine by the Union health ministry led to suspension of first dose at primary and community health centers in the state since Tuesday.CM appealed to the Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan to provide vaccine in sufficient quantities to the state at the earliest. “Rajasthan is the leading state in the country in immunisation. The lack of vaccine availability here will not only have an adverse effect on the pace of the vaccination campaign but will also weaken the enthusiasm of the citizens of the state and the Corona Warriors,” he said.He said that the Center's claim of having provided 37.61 lakh Covid vaccine doses to Rajasthan, including 24.28 lakh administered doses by Monday, was completely wrong. “Till March 8, Rajasthan had a stock of only 31 lakh 35 thoursand and 340 vaccines, of which, 2 lakh 15 thousand and 180 vaccine doses were made available to the army,” Gehlot said.Gehlot said that 29, 30, 160 vaccine doses have been made available according to the order of priority and till March 8, 23, 26, 975 vaccine doses have been administered and 1,62, 888 vaccine doses were wasted, which is less than the 10% limit allowed by the central government.“More than two lakh people are being vaccinated every day in the state. In this way, on March 8, the vaccine was available only for two days of vaccination, so the state government demanded additional vaccines from the center. After which, the state received 85 thousand vaccines on March 9,” Gehlot said.Also Read: Illegal opium farming on Jaipur outskirts, 13 cases found in a year: PoliceGehlot said that the Central government officials should be told not to give “false” information about Rajasthan on Covid 19 vaccines.He said that the ‘delay’ in sending vaccines and ‘misinformation’ on the drive in the state will hurt people’s spirits in the state and disappoint the Corona Warriors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-cm-1st-dose-of-vaccination-stopped-at-health-centers-due-to-shortage-101615362163029.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||Mansukh Hiran: The mysterious death that has gripped Mumbai||Maharashtra leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis claimed in the Assembly on Tuesday that Mansukh Hiran, a 48-year-old auto spare parts businessman, was likely murdered and demanded the arrest of a police officer of the Mumbai crime branch.Fadnavis based his claims on the statement that Hiran’s wife, 43-year-old Vimla, gave to the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) investigators two days after her husband’s body washed up on the Reti Bunder creek in Mumbra, Thane district. Vimla told investigators that she was certain her husband had been murdered, and that she suspected Vaze had a hand in it.Till he went missing on the night of March 4, Hiran cooperated with the police who questioned him repeatedly after an SUV that he had been driving for three years and reported stolen on February 18, was found parked outside Antilia, the house in which billionaire Mukesh Ambani lives with his family. The car had 20 sticks of gelatin (no detonator or timer) and a threatening letter addressed to Ambani.Who owned the SUV parked outside Ambani’s house? Who is Vaze? What were the events that preceded Hiran’s death? Why does Vimla think that her husband was murdered and did not drown? Read our explainer of what we know so far.A Scorpio outside AntiliaOn February 25, police sub-inspector Amit Kadam was on duty as station house officer at Gamdevi police station when he received a call around 3pm. Bharat Patil, a security officer at industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, Antilia, informed Kadam of a Mahindra Scorpio SUV parked on Carmichael Road near Shikhar Kunj building. What piqued their suspicion, Patil told Kadam, was that the registration number of the vehicle was the same as that of a Range Rover that is part of Nita Ambani’s security convoy.By the time Kadam reached the spot with a constable, Ambani’s security personnel had also called the Mumbai police control room, after confirming that the vehicle did not belong to them.Also Read | ‘Something fishy’: Uddhav after NIA asked to take over Ambani bomb threat probeKadam called the Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad (BDDS) team, which examined the vehicle with the help of sniffer dogs and bomb detection equipment. The teams found a blue sack with a Mumbai Indians logo on the co-driver’s seat left seat, (an Indian Premier League team owned by the Ambanis) which contained 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening letter addressed to the Ambani family.Two identical sets of three different registration number plates were kept beneath the rear seat of the vehicle. Bharat Patil, the security officer at Antilia revealed that all the three registration numbers belonged to vehicles registered in the name of Reliance Industries Limited.The BDDS squad and the Gamdevi police found that the plates that carried the engine number and body number of the vehicle were removed, and even the chassis number embossed on the car near right front wheel was wiped out. Clearly someone had gone into great trouble to remove traces of all identification from the car.The same day, the Gamdevi police registered an offence in connection with the incidence against unknown persons under sections 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance), 465 (punishment for forgery), 473 (making or possessing counterfeit seal), 506(2) (criminal intimidation, if threat be to cause death or grievous hurt), 120(B) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and section 4(a)(b) (1) (punishment for attempt to cause explosion, or for making or keeping explosive with intent to endanger life or property) of the Indian Explosives Act, 1908.Other police officers including senior police inspector Rampiyare Rajbhar of Gamdevi police station, Rajiv Jain deputy commissioner of police, Zone 2 and a crime branch team including assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze of the Criminal Intelligence Unit (CIU), arrived at the scene. Vaze was later to be made the lead investigator in this case.A BDDS officer present there that day said on the condition of anonymity that the 2.5 kg gelatin was enough to trigger a low intensity blast, but that the gelatin sticks found in the SUV were not in the form of an assembled explosive device. The mark of a Nagpur-based company found on the gelatin sticks indicated that the explosive was procured from Nagpur where it is commonly sold for mining purposes.At 5pm, the SUV was towed to Gamdevi police station at Girgaon Chowpatty, and was later shifted to Yellow Gate police station premises.The real owner of the SUVShortly after Hiran’s body washed up in a creek in Thane district on March 5, his family stopped talking to the media. Till then, Hiran — who left his home at night on March 4 never to return — Vimla; brother, Vinod (50), and older son, Meet (21), had understood and even addressed the scrutiny that accompanied the discovery that the Scorpio, found parked outside Ambani’s home on February 25, had been traced back to them.On March 7, Vimla gave a statement to the Anti Terrorism Squad (ATS) investigating team, in which she said that she was certain that her husband had been murdered. She also said that Sachin Vaze, the police officer from CIU who went to Antilia on February 25, was probably involved in the death.Based on her statement, the ATS filed a case of murder against unknown persons, and began to treat Hiran’s death not as a case of suicide or accidental drowning.Also Read | Ambani security: ATS registers murder case in SUV owner’s deathIt was this statement, among others, that caused uproar in the state assembly when leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis brought up Hiran’s death on the penultimate day of the House in session.In her statement, Vimla told the investigators that the vehicle belonged to a certain Dr Peter Newton who was known to her deceased husband. The Scorpio, however, was in possession of the Hirans for the past three years. Hiran, who knew Vaze well, lent him the Scorpio in November 2020. Vaze’s driver dropped off the car at Hiran’s shop in Thane, on February 5, 2021.On February 17, at around 6.30pm, Hiran took the vehicle heading towards south Mumbai, the statement read. However, its steering was not smooth which prompted Hiran to park the car on the side of the road, and continue his journey in a taxi. The following day, the statement added, Hiran took a mechanic with him to bring the vehicle back to his shop. However, when he reached the spot, he found that the car had been stolen following which he lodged a complaint with Vikhroli police station.In fact, it was Hiran’s FIR that gave the investigators their first break in the case.What initial investigation revealedOn February 26, home minister Anil Deshmukh released a video statement stating that the Mumbai crime branch would investigate the case. Vaze, who heads the CIU, took the lead in the investigation.But the investigations had already kicked off the previous evening. The Mumbai crime branch formed several teams apart from the CIU including officials of unit 2, unit 3, and property cell. They were assigned different tasks such as checking CCTV camera footage, making enquiries about stolen, gathering footage from toll points, among other things.The police checked the footage of CCTV cameras installed outside a departmental store called Vijay Store, just across the road from where the Scorpio was parked. They found that two vehicles, the Scorpio and an Innova, coming from Peddar Road and heading towards Altamount Road, reached Carmichael Road an hour past midnight on the intervening night of February 24 and 25. The Scorpio stopped opposite Vijay Store, and the Innova stopped, a few metres behind it.“The Scorpio driver was seen sitting for about two hours,” store owner Rajesh Singh who also saw the footage, said. “There was hardly any movement inside or outside the vehicle. Two hours later, the Innova moved ahead slowly, but it is not clear as to when the driver of the Scorpio came out of the car and where he went.”It is likely that the Scorpio driver left the car from the left hand side rear door [an angle that would not be caught in the CCTV camera], the police claimed.Investigators further found that the Innova had entered the city at 1.20pm on February 24, from the Mulund toll naka. After leaving Carmichael Road, it returned to the toll point at 3.05am on February 25 morning. Police claimed they could not track the Innova after that as the CCTVs in Thane area captured blurred images due to night hours. The registration number of the Innova car was also found to be a fake and the police suspected that this vehicle too was stolen.Also Read | Uncovering truth behind Mansukh Hiran’s death crucial for MVA: Sanjay RautDuring investigations, the police came across a report filed in Vikhroli about a green coloured Scorpio that had gone missing. The police placed a call to Hiran, asking him to visit the CIU office located in the police headquarters near Crawford Market.“On February 25, an ATS official named Salvi called my husband and asked him to meet him in the building compound. My husband and son went down and met Salvi, who showed them a picture on his phone of an SUV found near Ambani’s house. My husband identified the vehicle and also informed him that he had filed a complaint with the Vikroli police station that it had been stolen. He also showed the FIR copy to him,” Vimla’s statement to the ATS, read.The same night, ATS officer Shivaji Chavan visited their residence and took Hiran to the Vikroli ATS unit. There, he was shown some CCTV footage. He was brought back to his house at 6.30am on February 26, the statement added.Later that day, Hiran reached the CIU office, where the police recorded his statement. Emerging from the building, Hiran spoke to mediapersons and told them that the car was indeed his, but it had not been in his possession for over a week.Between February 25 and March 4, when Hiran left his home in the evening, he was questioned by several police officers, Vimla’s statement said.Vimla’s statement to the ATSOn March 2, Hiran wrote a letter to various authorities complaining that he was being harassed by police of various units and police stations and a particular media person, who kept calling repeatedly.The following day, Hiran told her that Vaze had advised him to get arrested in case and he would be out on bail within a few days, the statement read.On March 4, Hiran returned from his shop at 8.30pm and told her that he was going to meet a police officer named Tawade, somewhere along Ghodbunder Road.Vimla told the investigating team that when she tried calling her husband at 11pm, his mobile phone was switched off. Later at night, her son spoke to Hiran’s brother, Vinod to inform him that Hiran had not returned home. Vinod called Vaze, who reportedly expressed surprise at the meeting and informed Vinod that Hiran had not mentioned that he was going to meet Tawde.The following morning, Meet and Vinod lodged a missing person’s report at Naupada police station. Hiran’s body was found by fishermen on March 5 around 10.30am. The Mumbra Police handed over the body to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Hospital in Kalwa and filed an Accidental Death report. Prima facie, the police said, it seemed that Hiran had died by suicide. But Vimla contested that claim. In her statement, she told the ATS team that Hiran was too good a swimmer to have drowned. Besides, the body had no identifying markers on it — his wallet, gold chain, gold ring studded with a pukhraj stone and wrist watch were not found on him when his body was recovered. What’s more, his body was found in a creek at Mumbra with handkerchiefs stuffed into his mouth, which was also covered by a scarf.The missing person’s report filed by Hiran’s family helped identify the body. Later, on March 6, Vimla gave a statement to the press — Hiran was cooperating with the police; there was no reason why he would try and die by suicide. She demanded an investigation into his death. The family asked for another autopsy to be conducted, as the earlier one released a post mortem report that said the cause of death was inconclusive, and the viscera needed to be tested further. Hiran’s family showed the report to four doctor friends of the family.“Our doctors said his lungs were not filled with water and were soft. His death happened 10 to 12 hours before he was found dead at the creek. Therefore to investigate further we have asked to preserve his lungs and demanded a diatoms test which established death by drowning,” Vinod told the press.Later that evening, the family cremated Mansukh Hiran.On March 7, an ATS team questioned the family for over three hours and filed an FIR against unknown persons for the murder of Mansukh Hiran.“Taking into consideration all the above circumstances, I am sure that my husband was murdered,” the last few lines of Vimla’s statement read. “I suspect Sachin Vaze could have committed the said murder.”Sachin Vaze did not respond to repeated calls and messages. The story will be updated when and if he responds.Mark of respectOn March 8, the family organised a prayer meet for Hiran, which several people attended. His community remembered his as a helpful neighbour and a musician who loved to play the guitar.A resident of the society where the Hirans live said, on condition of anonymity, that Hiran had taught the neighbour’s 12-year-old son how to swim. “Mansukh often taught children how to swim. He loved children and got along well with them. He was always so happy when he played the guitar and he would always encourage children to get involved in different hobbies.”Ashok Badla, Hiran’s relative said, “Mansukh was involved in various sport activity and always took out time to play old medleys on his guitar. This was one of his favourite pastimes.” Badla said that Hiran was also deeply involved in charity work offered by the Terapanth community, a group within the Jain community.At his place of business, shopkeepers downed their shutters for five days as a mark of respect for their friend.“He was like an older brother to all of us. He taught us how to expand our business. We met each other daily during the day and spoke on various issues. Around 10 of us collectively took the decision to keep our shops closed as a mark of respect till the death rituals were completed,” said D Anand, whose car accessories shop adjoins Hiran’s.Kamlesh Jain, another businessman and friend recalled how Hiran had helped one of his employees set up a business in his native village. “He used to encourage his staff to start something of their own. Who trains their own employees in different skills to help them set up their own business? The employee could not control his emotions after he learned of Mansukh’s death.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mansukh-hiren-the-murder-mystery-that-has-gripped-mumbai-101615362148177.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||Vaze transferred, Dadra Nagar Haveli administrator booked: Anil Deshmukh||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Wednesday announced that Sachin Vaze, the police officer who is under the scanner in the Mansukh Hiren case, will be transferred out of the Crime Branch of Mumbai Police. The Opposition had created a ruckus in the legislative council demanding Vaze’s suspension. The home minister also announced that Dadra Nagar Haveli administrator Praful Patel has been booked under Prevention of Atrocities Act in connection with the suicide of MP Mohan Delkar.The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party said that Hiran’s widow suspected Vaze’s involvement in his death. The Opposition sought his suspension and threatened to not allow House proceedings to continue.Also Read | Ambani bomb scare: BJP reiterates demand for cop’s arrest in Thane bizman deathAmid din in the legislative council, Deshmukh said, “We have decided to transfer Sachin Vaze. He will be moved from Crime Branch. An impartial inquiry will be done and whoever is guilty will face action.” He added, “The truth will come out. If the Opposition has any evidence, they should bring it forward. The government is not going to back anybody in this case. The guilty will be punished, be it Sachin Vaze or anybody else.”The home minister added that the police has booked Praful Patel on the complaint received by Delkar’s son Abhinav. “There has been a demand for inquiry in the suicide of Mohan Delkar. His note mentions that he killed himself due to pressure from Praful Patel. Based on the complaint received by Abhinav Delkar, a case has been registered under Prevention of Atrocities Act, 1989. Dadra Nagar Haveli administrator Praful Patel has also been booked,” Deshmukh said.Meanwhile, BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis demanded Vaze’s arrest and triggered an uproar in the assembly as legislators traded accusations.Fadnavis referred to the statement of Hiran’s widow, Vimla, 43, to the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) after her husband’s body was found washed up in a creek in Thane district neighbouring Mumbai on March 5, hours after his family had reported him missing since the previous night.In the statement reviewed by HT, Vimla said she was sure that her husband was murdered, and assistant police inspector Vaze, who heads the crime intelligence unit of the Mumbai police crime branch, and was known to Hiran, may have killed him.“In her statement, Mansukh Hiran’s wife has said that the car found outside Antilia, industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s South Mumbai residence, was in possession of Sachin Vaze from November 20 last year. The car was given to him for use as Hiran knew Vaze, who was the former’s customer. The vehicle was with Vaze before it was returned to Hiran after four months,” Fadnavis said on Tuesday. On March 7, the ATS registered a case of the murder of the 48-year-old Thane businessman against unknown persons based on Vimla’s statement.Sachin Vaze did not respond to repeated calls and messages. The story will be updated when and if he responds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaze-transferred-dadra-nagar-haveli-administrator-booked-anil-deshmukh-101615361368418.html
10-03-2021||Other||Sutradhara’s tales: Pataleshwar cave temple is rock-cut legacy and monolithic marvel of Rashtrakuta period||Did you know one of the oldest monuments in Pune was never built? It was excavated. You may have passed it innumerable times as you moved around Deccan and Shivajinagar gaothan. To truly know this monument you have to literally climb down a historical staircase, to enter a nether-land.“Mangal Desha, Pavitra Desha” is the famous poem by Ram Ganesh Gadkari describing Maharashtra in his lucid style. He aptly calls Maharashtra, “Dagdanchya desha”, or stone country. This basalt rock-dominated area provides unique material for raising rock-cut monuments.Capitalising on this resource, Maharashtra, especially western Maharashtra, sees intense rock cutting activity since the second century BCE, starting at places around Pune such as Bhaje, Karla, Bedse, and Junnar, as part of a Buddhist religious endeavour. The Vruddheshwar caves on the Fergusson hill and the cave at Hinjewadi mark the Buddhist viharas and water tanks used in the early historic period. However, the Brahmanical cave excavations begin some centuries later at multiple centres (Konkan, Badami and Central India). The Punya Vishaya from the Rashtrakuta copper plate inscriptions we discussed last week did not provide us with a material manifestation of what Pune might have been during that period. This can be seen in the form of the Pataleshwar cave, excavated underground on a huge bedrock of basalt, next to the Jangli Maharaj Math, and on the road by the same name. This area was once part of the Bhamburda village, which forms an older part of the Shivajinagar suburb today.The Pataleshwar cave is not an isolated monument, but connects with the larger rock-cut landscape of the Deccan. The Pataleshwar caves can be accessed by a flight of stairs, which takes us to an open square-shaped courtyard with a central rock-cut monolithic mandapa. This free standing mandapa is the highlight of the entire cave.This vahana manadpa is built to house the mount of the central deity, in this case Nandi, the mount of Shiva. The current Nandi installed is much smaller in size and might be a later addition.At the entrance of this mandapa is Chandra-shila or a moon-shaped stone. This free standing mandapa and a similar one at Ambejogai, are precursors to the elaborately carved monolithic Kailasa rock temple at Ellora (Unesco world heritage site) under the Rashtrakuta dynasty. The courtyard once had a stepped well to provide for water, but was buried due to frequent water contamination and lack of upkeep.The horizontal and vertical rows of rectangular pillars occupy a major portion of the east-facing hall to leave space for three connected shrines facing the entrance. Each shrine has a chandrashila flanked by auspicious symbols.The doorways of the three shrines are decorated and the lintel has miniature shikharas carved in relief. A circum-ambulation path is carved around the three shrines. As you circum-ambulate the shrines you notice a big chunk of uncut rock left at one of the corners. This feature, combined with roughly chiselled surfaces, is tell-tale sign that the cave has been left incomplete. Flanked by pillars, wall niches on all sides show some signs of carving, while others are plain. Thus, based on comparison with Ambejogai cave, Rameshwar cave at Ellora and Elephanta caves, we can identify some episodes with sufficient certainty. There also exists an inscription at the entrance in Nagari script, but it is quite illegible except for a few alphabets. Thus, the enigma about the creator of Pataleshwar still remains firmly buried. The central shrines, today, house Shivlinga and modern idols. However, based on the analysis of architecture and symbols, Dr Manjiri Bhalerao proposed that the three shrines might have been dedicated to a trinity. We do not know exactly, when the Pataleshwar or Panchaleshwar name stuck to this cave temple. But, the medieval archives inform us that in 1810, Bajirao II offered a dakshina to all the temples in, Pune including donation of 1 rupee to “Bhuyaratil Mahadev”, which has to be Pataleshwar.James Wales, the artist under the patronage of Sir Charles Malet at the Peshwa court in the 1790s was fascinated by the rock-cut caves around Pune and has drawn a picture of “Pandoo’s cave”, aka Panchaleshwara. James Wales in September 1792 had sent his assistant Robert Mabon to make a drawing of “Pandoo’s cave”, and he almost certainly visited it himself later. When James Douglas visited the temple in 1882, the temple was occupied by small group of fakirs. They prohibited him from entering, fearing he would make them leave.The occupation of Jangli Maharaj (1806–1890) brought a new identity to the place and subsequently, the expansion of Pune city, the building of the road in 1952 (named Jangli Maharaj road), made it a part of the core city. Excavated 1,300 years ago (eighth century CE), the Rashtrakuta period’s Pataleshwar cave temple stands as a testament to Pune’s first religious expression in timeless rock-cut form. It is our collective misfortune that insensitive modern infrastructural development in the form of roads, flyovers and underpasses, threatens the existence of Pune’s first monument.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sutradharas-tales-pataleshwar-cave-temple-is-rock-cut-legacy-and-monolithic-marvel-of-rashtrakuta-period-101615360167431.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||BJP reiterates demand for Sachin Vaze's arrest in Mansukh Hiran death case||The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday reiterated its demand for action against police officer Sachin Vaze for his alleged role in Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran’s death.Hiran, an auto parts dealer, was linked to the SUV found parked outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence on February 25 with 20 explosive sticks of gelatin and a threatening letter.Meanwhile, home minister Anil Deshmukh announced that Sachin Vaze, the police officer who is under scanner in the Mansukh Hiran case, will be transferred out of the Crime Branch of Mumbai Police.Amid din in the legislative council, Deshmukh said, “We have decided to move Sachin Vaze. He will be moved from Crime Branch. An impartial inquiry will be done and whoever is guilty will face action.”BJP lawmaker Pravin Darekar said Hiran’s widow suspects Vaze’s role in her husband’s death. “[Former chief minister] Devendra Fadnavis readout [her]... letter in the assembly yesterday [Tuesday] but still the government has taken no action against Vaze. I demand that Sachin Vaze should be arrested or we will not let House proceedings go on. The government is shielding the officer to destroy evidence,” said Darekar on the last day of the Maharashtra assembly’s current 10-day session wheren the government needs to get the budget cleared.Also Read | Ambani security threat: Political slugfest over death of car ownerFadnavis on Tuesday demanded Vaze’s arrest and triggered an uproar in the assembly as legislators traded accusations. The ruling Shiv Sena lawmakers brought up other unrelated cases, including the death by suicide of Dadra Nagar Haveli parliamentarian Mohan Delkar in Mumbai last month. The House was adjourned several times on Tuesday.Deshmukh on Tuesday announced that a special investigation team will be formed to probe Delkar’s death by suicide. In a note, Delkar referred to an administrator of the Union Territory, who had been a minister in a BJP-led government in Gujarat.Fadnavis accused the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government of shielding Vaze and called for his arrest under Section 201 of the Indian Penal Code, which pertains to causing the disappearance of evidence of an offence or giving false information.Fadnavis referred to the statement of Hiran’s widow, Vimla, 43, to the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) after her husband’s body was found washed up in a creek in Thane district neighbouring Mumbai on March 5, hours after his family had reported him missing since the previous night.In the statement reviewed by HT, Vimla said she was sure that her husband was murdered, and assistant police inspector Vaze, who heads the crime intelligence unit of the Mumbai police crime branch, and was known to Hiran, may have killed him.“In her statement, Mansukh Hiran’s wife has said that the car found outside Antilia, industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s South Mumbai residence, was in possession of Sachin Vaze from November 20 last year. The car was given to him for use as Hiran knew Vaze, who was the former’s customer. The vehicle was with Vaze before it was returned to Hiran after four months,” Fadnavis said on Tuesday.On March 7, the ATS registered a case of the murder of the 48-year-old Thane businessman against unknown persons based on Vimla’s statement.Sachin Vaze did not respond to repeated calls and messages. The story will be updated when and if he responds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ambani-bomb-scare-bjp-reiterates-demand-for-cop-s-arrest-in-thane-bizman-death-101615360108257.html
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||9 killed as bus falls into gorge in Himachal’s Chamba district||Nine people died and an equal number were injured when their bus skidded off the road and fell into a 200-metre gorge in the remote Churah sub division of Chamba district in Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday morning. The mishap took place at 10.15 am at Colony Mod on the Bondedi-Tissa road in the sub-divisional headquarters of Bhanjraru, 66 km from Chamba, deputy commissioner DC Rana said. Six people died on the spot, while three succumbed to injuries on the way to the civil hospital at Tissa. Rana said there were 18 passengers on board the private bus (HP73A 1316) that was on its way from Bondedi to Chamba when the accident took place. Also read: Two killed, 3 hurt in road accidents in Chandigarh tricityThe injured were rushed to the medical college and hospital at Chamba, where the condition of three of them is stated to be critical. He said the teams of the revenue, police, health and fire departments carried out the rescue operation and evacuated the deceased and injured. “Efforts are on to trace any missing persons,” he said. Relief announced, CM expresses grief Immediate relief of ₹ 20,000 has been given to the next of kin of the deceased and ₹5,000 to the injured. A probe by the Tissa sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has expressed grief over the loss of lives in the Tissa accident. He said that the district administration has been directed to provide all help to the victims. The injured will be provided free treatment. Vidhan Sabha deputy speaker Hans Raj, who represents the Churah assembly segment where the accident took place, also expressed grief. He immediately left for the constituency from Shimla, where he was attending the budget session of the assembly. Hans Raj said more fatalities would have occurred but most passengers, including students, travelling on the bus had alighted at Bhanjraru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/eight-killed-as-bus-falls-into-gorge-in-himachal-s-chamba-district-101615359029946.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||Police officer at the centre of a political slugfest in Mumbai transferred||Sachin Vaze, the police officer who is under scanner in the Mansukh Hiran case, has been transferred out of the Crime Branch of the Mumbai police, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh announced on Wednesday, rejecting the opposition demand that the officer should be suspended and arrested.“We have decided to move Sachin Vaze. He will be moved from the Crime Branch. An impartial inquiry will be done and whoever is guilty will face action," Deshmukh told the legislative council on Wednesday amid the din.Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has fronted the opposition attack on the Maharashtra government, demanding the police officer's arrest in connection with the death of auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiran. The businessman is said to be the owner of the vehicle found parked outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence last month with 20 sticks of gelatin and a threatening letter.The vehicle, a sports utility vehicle, was found near Ambani’s house on February 25. Hiran, a 48-year-old Thane resident, claimed it was stolen from his possession a week earlier.Hiran was found dead in a creek in Thane on March 5; handkerchiefs stuffed in his mouth. His wife, Vimla, blamed police officer Sachin Vaze for the murder.Fadnavis has extensively cited Vimla's statements to target assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze. On Tuesday, the BJP leader cited the statement by Mansukh Hiran’s wife where she claimed that the car found outside Antilia, industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s South Mumbai residence, was in possession of Sachin Vaze from November 20 last year."The car was given to him for use as Hiran knew Vaze who was the former’s customer. The vehicle was with Vaze before it was returned to Hiren after four months,” Fadnavis said on Tuesday.Vaze, who heads the crime intelligence unit (CIU) of the Mumbai police crime branch, has not commented on the charges despite several requests to seek his comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sachin-vaze-police-officer-at-the-heart-of-bjp-shiv-sena-slugfest-in-mumbai-transferred-101615358725832.html
10-03-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Two more arrested in Pamela Goswami drugs case, 10 held so far||Two more arrests were made on Wednesday from Kolkata in connection with the drug haul case in which Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Yuva Morcha leader Pamela Goswami was arrested earlier in February.The latest arrests are that of 25-year-old Daim Akhtar and 26-year-old Farhan Ahmed, both of who have been identified as drug peddlers.Around 10 gm of cocaine was seized from the possession of one person who was picked up from Entally, and another was arrested from the KIT building in the Poddar Court area on Tuesday night, a senior officer was quoted as saying by news agency PTI."The two are drug peddlers and have been helping persons who were earlier arrested in connection with the New Alipore cocaine haul case. They will be produced at a city court later in the day," he said.A case has been registered against them under relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, the officer said.Earlier this week, the Kolkata Police informed that one Priyanka Singh (alias Sweety) was arrested in connection with the New Alipore PS drug case (Pamela matter).The woman, who was arrested from the New Town area on Monday, used to purchase drugs from the two, the police said, adding that sleuths have so far apprehended 10 people in connection with the case.BJP youth leader Pamela Goswami, her friend Prabir Kumar Dey and private security guard Somnath Chatterjee were arrested last month from south Kolkata's New Alipore area with allegedly around 90 gm of cocaine that was found in her car.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-two-more-arrested-in-pamela-goswami-drugs-case-10-held-so-far-101615357320563.html
10-03-2021||Jaipur||Illegal opium farming on Jaipur outskirts, 13 cases found in a year: Police||More than a dozen illegal opium farms discovered by the Jaipur Rural police in the last one year indicate that areas located on the periphery of the state capital have become hot spots of illegal cultivation of opium, also known as ‘black gold’.The Jaipur Rural police, under its campaign ‘Highway’, seized 13 illegal opium farms between February 1, 2020 and March 4, 2021.“The farms were found in Andhi, Chaksu, Shivdaspura, Pragpura, Jobner, Jamwaramgarh and Dudu. In all, 320,699 opium plants were seized and 11 cases were registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act 1985 and 11 people were arrested,” said Shankar Dutt Sharma, superintendent of police (SP), Jaipur rural. “Besides 103 kg lanced poppy husk was also recovered, which is a by-product of opium plant,” he added.In India, opium cultivation is prohibited under Section 8 of the NDPS Act, 1985, except under a licence issued by the Central Bureau of Narcotics (CBN) under Rule 8 of the NDPS Rules, 1985. In Rajasthan, opium cultivation can be done only in Chittorgarh and Pratapgarh districts.“The drug smugglers have understood the fact that in Pratapgarh, various agencies like CBN, police and NCB keep a strict watch on opium cultivators. Hence, they have started targeting areas of various other cities where opium can be cultivated, as it needs certain weather conditions for growth. Most of the farms where opium was grown on Jaipur outskirts were amid fields of paddy and mustard surrounded by hills,” Sharma said.He said some big smugglers lure the farmers to grow opium offering them huge profit. “Analyses of our cases revealed that most of the arrested people were farmers and they would buy seeds from Madhya Pradesh. The smugglers would pay them between ₹1 and 1.5 lakh per kg opium,” he added.“From planting to uprooting, accused learned illegal cultivation in Chittorgarh and Pratapgarh, which produce 60% of the total opium production in India. We have identified big smugglers involved in the illegal cultivation. Soon, they would be arrested,” Sharma said.Also Read: Rajasthan, Centre at odds over supply of Covid-19 vaccineOpium poppy or papaver somniferum, a medicinal herb, produces a variety of alkaloids such as morphine and codeine, and is best known as a pain reliever in modern medicine. It is used for a range of treatments, from post-operative pain management and palliative care for terminal cancer patients to treating accident-related trauma and chronic pain syndromes.However, large consignments of opium that includes its bulbous flowers, stems and raisins—all of these are used in making narcotics like charas and heroin.In the last three years, the number of narcotics cases in Rajasthan has increased by 45.42%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/illegal-opium-farming-on-jaipur-outskirts-13-cases-found-in-a-year-police-101615357674636.html
10-03-2021||Delhi||Two firing incidents in south Delhi; BSES contractual driver, policeman injured||A 45-year-old man, working as a contractual driver with BSES, is battling for his life at AIIMS after being shot in the neck by a bike-borne assailant near the Electricity Grid in south Delhi’s Andrews Ganj on Wednesday morning, police said.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said that the Defence Colony police station received a call at 9.11am regarding firing near Andrews Ganj electricity grid.“A police team reached the spot and learnt that a biker had shot a person in a car,” said DCP Thakur, adding that the injured man, identified as Bhimraj, was rushed to AIIMS where his condition is critical.Also Read | Red Fort violence: Dutch national from Punjab, Delhi-based man arrestedPolice said Bhimraj is a resident of Chirag Delhi and works as a contractual driver in the BSES. He suffered a single bullet injury in his neck. A case under the relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Arms Act is being registered at the Defence Colony police station.“Prima facie, the motive appears to be enmity. It is being investigated. Multiple teams are working on the case,” said DCP Thakur.He said that another firing incident was reported a few minutes before the one in Andrews Ganj, near the BRT corridor falling under the jurisdiction of the same police station. A policeman was injured when two bike-borne assailants fired a bullet at his leg when he attempted to stop them. The policeman, identified as constable Naveen, was coming towards the Defence Colony police station from BRT corridor when he spotted a motorcycle without a number plate.He started chasing the bike carrying two men. He also called out to his colleague, constable Manish, to cordon the area at which one of the suspects fired at Naveen’s leg. However, the two constables managed to overpower the suspects and snatch the pistol used in the firing. The suspects have been identified as Dharmender and Navdeep. A case is being registered, DCP Thakur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/firing-near-delhi-s-andrews-ganj-electricity-grid-bses-driver-injured-101615357948030.html
10-03-2021||Patna||AIIMS Darbhanga: Technical team to assess pre investment preparedness||A three-member Central technical team will arrive in Darbhanga to advise on the pre investment activities at the proposed site for All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS). The team comprising of GP Shrivastava, superintending engineer from AIIMS, Rae Bareilly, Rajiv Kanaujia, senior architect with Union health and family welfare ministry and a senior civil engineer will be arriving here on March 13 to inspect the site and suggest the roadmap for pre investment activities and related issues.N K Oza, director, Prime Minister Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY) has sent a missive to the principal secretary (medical education), Bihar government in this regard. The letter requested the state government to ensure fulfilment of its commitments with regard to establishment of AIIMS Darbhanga and cooperation with the technical team.Also Read: Centre's push for generic drugs yet to gather pace in BiharDarbhanga MP Gopal Jee Thakur said he had recently requested the Union health minister to send a team for expediting the spade work for proposed AIIMS. The Union Cabinet had approved establishment of a new All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Darbhanga. The institute will come up under the PMSSY at a total cost of ₹1,264 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/aiims-darbhanga-technical-team-to-assess-pre-investment-preparedness-101615356309906.html
10-03-2021||Delhi||Pet parents ahoy! Here’s a team of experts at service of furry friends||In the middle of the night, if your pet hurts itself, the first thought that comes to the mind is to rush to the nearest healthcare facility available and consult the vet. But honestly, how many places do really provide emergency services to pets when needed?And not just emergency cases, even in moments when your pet needs some warmth and care, there’s no better feeling than having an animal expert standing by its side, tending to it. “Once I took my dog for a surgery, and after that we had to carry it back in a bedsheet since the clinic was to be shut. It broke my heart to see that there are hardly any post-operative care services for pets. And that’s what drove my love for animals into the passion to create a place where a pet parent could bring in their pets and feel relaxed, for we are there to take care of its needs,” says Pratapsinh Gaekwad, founder of Crown Vet. Pet parents in Delhi, worry not for Gaekwad’s team of next generation passionate animal lovers have now ventured into the Capital, to provide state-of-the-art animal care with five senior vets, seven junior vets and a well-trained staff including two receptionists and even a pharmacy, which is open from 9am to 9pm.The recently opened clinic of Crown Vet in Delhi’s Lajpat Nagar, is an extension of the team’s initiatives they have been taking in Mumbai and Pune. “We came in the essential services group when the lockdown happened last year. So even though we had to send cars with drivers to pick and drop the doctors, we did that and incurred all costs so that pets who needed consultation, could be attended online. Touch wood, none of our staff in Mumbai and Pune tested Covid positive,” adds Gaekwad, who is so dedicated to the cause of animal care that he has plans to open a training academy for vets. “Finding trained vets is where the bottleneck is today. Training of vets is very important,” says Gaekwad, adding, “To train a few vets and make them part of a clinic is easy, but once we open an academy, then we can position them at different centres. And then eventually we can also have more animal lovers receive training and get going.” Talking about the facilities available at the clinic, Sheroy Wadia, chief executive officer, says, “We have a dedicated waiting area, and encourage appointment based visits (+91 11-40810640) because vets need time with pets. Alongside, we have a fully equipped theatre, an imaging room, and we rely heavily on diagnostics. Also, we maintain all records for the pets so that when you come in, you don’t really have to carry any files or papers since we’ll have all their history. What’s special about our service is that the vets are here to ensure that pet owners have a stress-free, comfortable environment for their pets.” Author tweets @HennaRakhejaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pet-parents-ahoy-here-s-a-team-of-experts-at-service-of-furry-friends-101615355335901.html
10-03-2021||Patna||Centre's push for generic drugs yet to gather pace in Bihar||Despite the Centre's push, the Bihar health department is yet to ensure that the state-employed medical practitioners prescribe generic drugs to patients. It also does not have a well laid down plan to open Pradhan Mantri Bharatiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana (PMBJP) outlets on hospital campuses for the sale of high quality generic drugs at heavily discounted price compared to branded medicines at retail outlets.One such initiative by the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), an autonomous institute of repute, has failed to make much headway after becoming the first among state-run or autonomous medical colleges to offer patients a discounted package for cataract surgery in January last year, the system is yet to be fully functional in other departments.Hospital officials say the process of listing requirements in terms of drugs, implants and consumables required for different procedures at clinical departments was going on. The consolidated list will be sent to the Pradhan Mantri Bharatiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana (PMBJP) outlet and the Amrit store, set up on the hospital campus, to arrange for the supply of generic drugs and implants.Depending on the cost of drugs and implants, the institute would work out packages for different procedures and integrate them with its hospital management information system (HMIS).This would immensely benefit patients in getting standard, quality medicines and implants at a heavily discounted price, as compared to branded medicines available at retail outlets. Besides it will weed out touts and attendants of patients will not need to run around and arrange for medicines that are not available in the hospital formulary after a patient has been admitted.“We are in the process of collecting the list of requirements for different procedures and hope to introduce the package system of charging patients for different procedures around May, this year,” said Dr Manish Mandal, medical superintendent, IGIMS.Patna’s AIIMS has had the package system for over the last two years but does not have a PMBJP outlet on its campus.“No one has approached us with proper authorization for opening the PMBJP outlet on our institute campus. We will be happy to lease out our space for such an outlet if we get a proper proposal,” said AIIMS-Patna director Dr Prabhat Kumar Singh.He, however, was critical of the Amrit store, managed by the HLL, a PSU of the Central government that supplies generic drugs and implants, existing on its campus.“The Amrit store is unable to fulfill all our requirements,” said Dr Singh.Also Read: Over 16K CCTV cameras installed in Patna for strict surveillanceMeanwhile, the state health department will on Wednesday hold a meeting with representatives of the Bureau of Pharma PSUs of India, a PSU of the Central government, to work out modalities on preparing a standard operating document for opening PMBJP outlets on campus of government hospitals.The state has only 222 outlets against the requirement to have at least one outlet under the PMBJP in each of its 534 blocks.The state registered a 57% increase in sales under the PMBJP, when it rose from ₹3.19 crore in 2019-20 to ₹5 crore between April 2020 and February, this year. This was, however, 3% less than the national average growth of 60% till February, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/centres-push-for-generic-drugs-yet-to-gather-pace-in-bihar-101615354683177.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||NCP student wing asks Mumbai varsity to refund excess fee or adjust it next year||The student wing of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Tuesday approached the office of the pro-vice chancellor of University of Mumbai (MU) demanding that the university refund excess fees charged from students for the current academic year. In their letter, representatives of the students’ wing have highlighted that several MU-affiliated colleges charged students fees for laboratories, ID cards as well as educational tour fees, all of which were not implemented in the current year as classes were being held online.“Computer labs, ID card fees as well as other such heads which are only applicable if students physically study in colleges have been applied in the fee structure of several colleges, which is unnecessary. The university should send a clear message to all such colleges to either refund such fees to the students or adjust this amount in the fees they will charge in the next academic year,” said Amol Matele, advocate and president of the NCP students’ wing.Also Read | 17,921 new cases of Covid-19 take India’s tally to above 11.26 million; 133 deaths recorded in 24 hoursIn September last year, the Association of Non-Government Colleges (ANGC) had approached MU asking that the varsity refund 60% of the examination fees that all affiliated colleges had paid the University in advance. This academic year, due to the Covid-19 imposed lockdown, the exams were held online by individual colleges and therefore, said ANGC, colleges’ expenses increased and they were in need of the refund.“In the last one year, MU has reached out to colleges on various occasions and asked them to accommodate students, especially since many are facing financial crises due to loss of income of their family members. Keeping the same spirit, MU should also consider this demand,” added Matele.In October last year, less than a month after colleges reopened and started holding virtual classes, the University of Mumbai released a circular addressed to all affiliated colleges asking them to let students, whose families are facing the economic strain of the Covid-19-imposed lockdown, pay fees in instalments. During admission to first-year courses for the 2020-21 academic year as well, several colleges had dropped the basic admission fee in order to accommodate all students.Reopening of colleges, for the time being, has been put on hold after the city and several parts of the state started witnessing a rise in Covid-19 cases. The winter 2021 examinations for the current semester are also, as of now, slated to take place in online mode only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncp-student-wing-asks-mumbai-varsity-to-refund-excess-fee-or-adjust-it-next-year-101615353328403.html
10-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police upgrades its technological initiatives amid Covid-19 pandemic||During the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic last year, Delhi Police successfully upgraded several of its technological initiatives.Joint Commissioner of Police of the Economic Offences Wing (EOW), Dr OP Mishra had officially launched the website of EOW. "The website of EOW was formally launched by Commissioner of Police, Delhi on June 24, 2020, at Vimarsh, New Police Headquarters," he said.Following this, the digitization of the Guard Files Monitoring system also took place. A new Guard Files Monitoring System namely, Document Management System (DMS) is operationalized in EOW whereby all the iOS will upload their all Guard files in the system. The card files to in digital format.Also, a comprehensive online complaint lodging application has been developed for Economic Offences Wing wherein complainants can file a complaint regarding economic offences. This is linked with the Integrated Complaint Management System of Delhi Police (ICMS).Further, a comprehensive, powerful and easy to use bank statement analysis software for the purpose of investigation has been provided to all the investigating officers of EOW.The year 2020 has projected a Victim friendly face of the Economic Offences Wing. The relentless endeavour of apprehending absconding economic offenders has enhanced the professional credibility and trust of the general public, said Mishra.Disposal of old cases and complaints in a dedicated time frame will continue to be the top-most professional priorities. Educating Citizens and creating awareness will remain focus areas. The community outreach initiatives of Economic Offences Wing will get a new boost with the acquisition of a Mobile Training Van equipped with sophisticated audio-visual equipments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-upgrades-its-technological-initiatives-amid-covid-19-pandemic-101615351983521.html
10-03-2021||Other||Punjab will see 3,000 cases a day by March 22 if SOPs not followed: CMCH||The number of daily Covid-19 cases are likely to double from 1,000 (current average figure) to 2,000 in Punjab by March 15 if corrective measures are not taken and guidelines are not strictly adhered to, a report shared by Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) here has revealed.CMCH principal Dr Jeyaraj Durai Pandian said the report — compiled by the community medicine department and released on March 5 — has highlighted that if Covid-related norms are not followed, then the infection will reach its peak by March 20 and witness a decline thereafter.The report states that if people fail to stick to Covid-safe behaviour, the cases may start to rise and by March 22, the state could be witnessing nearly 3,000 cases every day. With the current growth rate, the cases in the state are likely to reach 4,000 by the end of March.School, colleges fuelling infectionsThe CMCH report has mentioned that schools and colleges have turned out to be the major drivers of the pandemic. It has been observed that youngsters carry a high viral load but mild symptoms of infection which could result in the spreading of the virus among the elderly leaving them seriously ill.The reports suggest that grandparents are at greater risk. “Majority of us have joint families with the elderly living in the same house. The parents and grandparents who drop and collect the children from school have a higher risk of catching the infection,” say experts.As per the report, after a spike in Covid cases in SBS Nagar, Jalandhar, Patiala, Hoshiarpur, Rupnagar and Gurdaspur, the number of infections will increase in other districts, including Ludhiana, Amritsar and SAS Nagar.The CMCH community medicine department, which is sharing its observations with the state health department since June last year, has advised that schools and colleges should strictly adhere to Covid-safe behaviour. The report has also appreciated the fact that senior citizens were showing enthusiasm in getting themselves vaccinated.“Coronavirus has not gone anywhere, and it is important to adopt the guidelines of social distancing, wearing masks, avoiding visits to crowded places and washing hands frequently,” said an expert from the department.The expert has urged the healthcare and frontline Covid warriors to get inoculated at the earliest.Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia, who is the nodal officer of the vaccination process, said, “It is important that people follow the guidelines even after inoculation as it lessens the severity of the virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cmch-warns-of-doubling-of-virus-cases-in-punjab-if-sops-not-followed-strictly-101615352727945.html
10-03-2021||Delhi||Red Fort violence: Dutch national from Punjab, Delhi-based man arrested||A Dutch national of Indian origin and a Delhi-based man have been arrested for their alleged role in the violence at Red Fort on Republic Day, taking the total arrests in the case to 14, the Delhi Police said on Wednesday. Twenty-three-year-old Dutch national, Maninderjit Singh, was arrested from IGI Airport as he was allegedly trying to fly out on a fake identify in the face of a lookout circular against him. The other suspect,21-year-old Khempreet Singh, was held from West Delhi’s Khyala on a tip-off, said Monika Bhardwaj, deputy commissioner of police (west). Both men were nabbed on Tuesday. While Maninderjit was produced in court and remanded to four days in police custody, Khempreet is yet to be produced in court. Also Read | Delhi HC directs UP police to give post mortem report of farmerThe DCP said that the evidence against Maninderjit is in the form of video footage that shows him in the company of spear-wielding rioters and taking an “active part” in rioting. Khempreet, on the other hand, was caught on video attacking police personnel inside the fort, the officer said. Bhardwaj said that Maninderjit’s family has its roots in Gurdaspur in Punjab, but his father is a Dutch national. They are settled in Birmingham in UK where Maninderjit works as a labourer in construction field, said the DCP. He had arrived in India in 2019, but stayed on due to the lockdown last year. The officer said that Maninderjit is allegedly involved in two other criminal cases and was planning to fly to Nepal and from there to UK after being under “pressure” and “anticipating” his arrest. Khempreet, meanwhile, lives in Swaroop Nagar with his family. The police are gathering details on his work profile. One of his relatives has already been arrested in connection with the same violence in the past, the DCP said.Farmers have been protesting at the borders of the national capital since November 26 last year against three new farm laws. During their tractor rally on Republic Day this year, many of them allegedly deviated from their route and indulged in rioting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/red-fort-violence-dutch-national-from-punjab-delhi-based-man-arrested-101615351707626.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Saamana editorial warns of another lockdown in Maharashtra||Amid an increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana warned of an impending lockdown or stringent restrictions to tackle the resurgence. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana said that people should maintain self-discipline to avoid restrictions.Mumbai’s guardian minister Aslam Shaikh on Tuesday said that a decision on imposing restrictions or lockdown in the metropolitan city will soon be taken by local authorities. “In a meeting on Monday, the chief minister [Uddhav Thackeray] instructed the municipal corporation and the collector to decide on the imposition of lockdown. It can be a night curfew, complete or partial lockdown. [Coronavirus] cases are on the rise in Mumbai and other parts of Maharashtra. Nightclubs are likely to be shut first,” Aslam Shaikh said.The local administrations imposed restrictions in Thane and Nashik districts on Tuesday. In Thane, 16 hotspots were put under lockdown.Also Read | 17,921 new cases of Covid-19 take India’s tally to above 11.26 million; 133 deaths recorded in 24 hours “Is Maharashtra heading towards another lockdown? Cases across the country are increasing and Maharashtra’s contribution is major, which is a cause of concern... People should maintain self-discipline and put some restrictions on themselves.Take care, else lockdown or strict restrictions are unavoidable,” the editorial said on Wednesday. The Sena mouthpiece further slammed Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and ministers, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, for not following Covid-appropriate behaviour. “BJP wants to hoist their flag in victory in West Bengal. But at least the Prime Minister should follow Covid protocol. The union health ministry said that there is no threat of Covid-19 in West Bengal. It seems till Prime Minister’s grand rallies and BJP leaders campaign visits end there would be no Covid-19 there,” the editorial said. There was no immediate response o the editorial from the BJP.The editorial also asked what the Union government was doing to help Maharashtra tackle the Covid crisis. “The rulers in Delhi have expressed concern over the rising cases in Maharashtra, and we are grateful for the concern shown. But what are you going to do to help fight Covid? What use is your hollow concern to Maharashtra?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-saamana-editorial-warns-of-another-lockdown-in-maharashtra-101615351348043.html
10-03-2021||Patna||Over 16K CCTV cameras installed in Patna for strict surveillance||16,808 CCTV cameras have been installed in Patna’s nooks and crannies as a crime containment measure amid residents’ concerns over law and order. Senior officials held a security review on Tuesday, where measures like CCTV surveillance were discussed.In the review meeting on Tuesday, attended by Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, district magistrates, superintendents of police, traffic SPs, municipal commissioner and other officials, it was pointed out that 15,122 cameras have been installed at residential apartments, 1345 at malls and 341 at police stations, while installation work was going on at several other places. Officials said that cameras were being installed at residential apartments, jewellery shops, hospitals, petrol pumps and banks in the Patna division.Agarwal instructed the concerned officials to identify places without CCTV cameras at present and ensure their speedy installation. He also asked the municipal corporation to provide a police station-wise list of apartments for better coordination.“We often receive complaints from apartment residents and societies regarding poor security in their buildings. To check on unscrupulous activities, it is mandatory to install CCTV cameras at the main entry, stairs, lift, parking, every floor and at an outer location from the gate. For future constructions, it is mandatory to indicate CCTV camera points while passing the construction map for apartments and commercial complexes. Camera surveillance is a helpful tool for effective monitoring and tracking crime by scanning the footage of entry and exit of people,” said Agarwal.Also Read: Bihar woman ‘kidnapped and killed for dowry’ 4 years back, returnsHe also stressed on keeping the cameras in working condition to serve the purpose.“Police superintendents and municipal commissioners should ensure proper functioning of CCTV cameras. Defunct cameras should be repaired at the earliest and the maintenance of all cameras is important. For this, they can review the working of cameras under their respective places on a monthly basis,” he added.Earlier in February, Agarwal had ordered mandatory installation of CCTV cameras at public establishments and repair of defunct cameras latest by March 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/over-16k-cctv-cameras-installed-in-patna-for-strict-surveillance-101615348732391.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC junks bail plea based on forged medical reports||The Bombay high court has refused bail on medical grounds to a Pune resident booked in a MCOCA (Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act) case after noticing that the man had forged medical record to claim that he had a malignant tumour and required multiple cycles of chemotherapy. The man, Nilesh Baswant, was out on temporary bail for about ten months on the basis of the forged documents.Kondhawa police in Pune had, on August 5, 2016, arrested Baswant in connection with a 2015 attempt to murder case. Later, stringent provisions of the MCOCA were invoked against him.Baswant’s first bail application was rejected by the local designated MCOCA court on October 24, 2017 and second one on July 9, 2018. He then moved the high court. His plea was rejected on January 30, 2020 in view of the evidence collected by the police against him. This prompted him to approach the Supreme Court. Also Read | Bombay HC to hear plea seeking suspension of Kangana’s Twitter accountBefore the Supreme Court, he claimed that he was diagnosed with neuroendocrine neoplasm, akin to a cancerous tumour, which required urgent and detailed investigation. Accepting his plea, the Supreme Court on April 8, 202, granted him bail on medical grounds for four weeks. The temporary bail was then extended by the Supreme Court twice, first on May 8 and later on May 26, when it was extended for three months.On June 13, 2020, he again filed a bail application before the designated MCOCA court at Pune, relying on his medical reports. On July 9, 2020, the designated court rejected his bail plea, primarily in view of the fact that he required chemotherapy and the facility was available at state-run Sassoon Hospital at Pune.Baswant then moved the high court, challenging the MCOCA court order, and also filed a miscellaneous application before the Supreme Court and on August 25, secured a fourth extension of for two months, and on October 27, a fifth extension for three months.However, when his plea came up for hearing before the high court, additional public prosecutor AA Takalkar pointed out that there was no question of considering Baswant’s case for bail on its own merit as a similar plea was rejected on January 30 and there was no change in circumstance to reconsider it. Regarding his claim of serious illness, Takalkar pointed out that Baswant had relied on false medical records to obtain bail on medical grounds and he suffered only from tuberculosis for which he was treated at Sassoon Hospital. He was now cured and medication had been stopped in January 2021.She further pointed out that on February 23, 2021 Shivaji Nagar police station in Pune had registered a fresh FIR against him for fabricating medical records.The high court accepted her contentions, noticing that a medical investigation by Sassoon Hospital in February 2021 ruled out possibility of cancer and the police investigation that led to the registration of fresh FIR against him revealed that the man had relied on fabricated medical records. “In the light of these circumstances, it is apparent that the applicant has been misleading the courts,” said justice PD Naik. “The applicant is not entitled for bail on merit as well as on medical grounds,” the judge added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-junks-bail-plea-based-on-forged-medical-reports-101615348407718.html
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||Light intensity quake in Himachal’s Lahaul-Spiti||A minor earthquake struck Lahaul-Spiti district of Himachal Pradesh at 11.34pm on Tuesday. The epicentre of the 2.8-magnitude tremor was located at a depth of 5 km, according to the meteorological centre in Shimla. Authorities said no casualty or damage to property was reported. Earlier, three light intensity tremors jolted Chamba district on Monday and Tuesday. Almost the entire state of Himachal Pradesh falls in the high damage risk zone, while parts of Chamba, Kangra, Una, Mandi, Kullu, Hamirpur and parts of Lahaul-Spiti fall in the very high damage risk zone of the earthquake hazard map. A quake of 7.8-magnitude had killed more than 20,000 people in Kangra in 1905 when hill towns of the region were reduced to rubble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/light-intensity-quake-in-himachal-s-lahaulspiti-101615347868450.html
10-03-2021||Delhi||Draw of lots for DDA flats live from 11am today||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) will hold the draw of lots for its housing scheme of 2021 , which will be live streamed 11am onwards, on Wednesday.In a first, the entire process has been moved online.The DDA has put 1,354 flats, mostly in the High Income Group (HIG) and Middle Income Group (MIG) category located in Dwarka and Jasola, on sale in its latest housing scheme. The land-owning agency received over 22,000 applications for the housing scheme announced in January this year. DDA officials said that the response has been good despite the slump in the real estate sector.“The response has been very good. We have received 22,750 applications for 1,354 flats. The draw of lots will be live streamed. We have moved the entire process online due to the pandemic so that people don’t have to make frequent trips to our offices to get the work done,” said the official.Also Read | DDA gives nod for eco-friendly revamp of green belt villages in cityThe draw of lots can be viewed at https://dda.webcast.ml.The DDA has received over 7,000 applications along with payment for its 1,011 High Income Group (HIG) and Middle Income Group (MIG) category flats located in Dwarka and Jasola. The 254 HIG flats are located in Jasola, Vasant Kunj, Rohini and Dwarka. There are 757 two- and three-bedroom MIG flats located in Dwarka, Rohini, Vasant Kunj, Janahgirpuri and Madipur.While 215 flats in Jasola have been put on sale for the first time, the remaining were returned by allottees in the previous housing schemes. The cost of HIG flats, which are 87.9sqm to 177.3sqm in size, varies between ₹69.62 lakh to ₹2.14 crore.Apart from the location of the flats, DDA officials said that the quality of construction, facilities at the housing complex, two parking spots per flat in HIG etc are some of the reasons why people are keen on applying for these flats.Despite the slump in the real estate market, DDA officials are optimistic that 254 HIG flats in Jasola will find many takers. The cost of HIG flats, which are 87.9sqm to 177.3sqm in size, varies between ₹69.62 lakh to ₹2.14 crore. “These are spacious flats, located on the Delhi-Noida border and well-connected to the rest of the city via Metro and other public transport systems. There is a dual piping system as the complex has its own sewage treatment plant. The most important thing is that each flat has two parking spots. The ₹2.1 crore cost is as per the market rate,” said a senior DDA official.Spread over 64.04sqm to 129.98sqm, the cost of MIG flats varies between ₹40.64 lakh to ₹1.24 crore. Of the 757 flats, 711 are located in Dwarka sub-city—one of the planned residential areas developed by the DDA. There are 291 flats for the Economically Weaker Section and 52 in the Lower Income Group category in Dwarka and Rohini. After nearly a decade, a senior DDA official said, MIG flats in such large numbers have been put on sale in Dwarka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/draw-of-lots-for-dda-flats-live-from-11am-today-101615346847597.html
10-03-2021||Bhopal||MP to hold Ram Leelas to remind tribals of Hindu ‘past’ amid call for Sarna code||At the time some tribal groups are demanding a distinct religious code for themselves, the culture department of Madhya Pradesh has decided to hold Ram Leelas in the 89 tribal blocks of the state this April to inform them about the 'influence' of Lord Ram in their lives, a state government official said.“When there is a debate going on whether tribals were Hindus or not, the cultural department of MP has decided to organize three Ram Leelas to establish the fact that tribals were followers of Lord Ram,” said Ashok Mishra, coordinator of the project and officer of the culture department.“Through Ram Leelas, we would be telling tribals that Shabri, a tribal woman and a tribal ruler Nishad Raaj, were ardent followers of Lord Ram. Also, the Gonds in MP and Chhattisgarh had their own version of Ramayan.”Mishra said that the state government decided to conduct research on Shabri, a tribal sadhvi, and Kevat, a tribal who helped Lord Ram to cross river Ganga to prepare Ram Leelas to inform tribals about their roots and how Lord Rama belonged to them.“After research for five months, I prepared scripts of three Ram Leelas for tribals,” said Yogesh Tripathi, the senior scriptwriter of these Ram Leelas. He said there were a lot of documents to suggest that Lord Ram spent most of his 14 years in exile with tribals and learnt a lot from them.“In all three Ram Leelas, we will try to explain that Lord Ram belongs to the tribals and the tribals belong to Ram. Through Shabri, we will present how a tribal woman dedicated her whole life to Lord Ram. Through Kevat and Nishad Raaj, we will present courage and self-respect among tribals and how they helped Ram and their emotional connection with Lord Ram,” said Tripathi.Tribal rights activists, however, termed the decision as an attempt to “spoil” the tribal culture.A Dindori based tribal rights activist, Naresh Biswas, said it was “surprising” that the government had taken over the RSS programme to 'enforce' Hinduism on tribals.“It is surprising that the state government is trying for ‘Hindukaran’ of tribals. It is a dangerous move and will change the traditions of tribals,” he said.An expert on tribal culture and tradition, Vikram Acchalia, said, “Tribal communities existed before the advent of religions. Like Hindus converted into Islam after Mughals came to India, some tribal also adopted Hinduism but it doesn’t mean that the tribal is a Hindu.”He said the tribal tradition and festivals are based on nature and not on any idol worship. “We celebrate Diwali to honour our cattle, which help us in ploughing,” he said.“Among tribals, most of the rituals are performed by women only. Tribals offer non-vegetarian food and liquor to god and goddess, but in the Sanatan Dharm, non-vegetarian food and liquor are consumed by demons only,” he added.Jay Adiwasi Yuva Shakti convener Dr Anand Rai said the tribals in Madhya Pradesh want a separate column in Census to identify their religion as separate from the Hindus.Tribal bodies in Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Odisha have demanded inclusion of a separate Sarna code in the Census to formally register tribal population as non-Hindus, and the Jharkhand assembly even passed a resolution over the matter in December 2020.Also Read: MP Assembly: Uproar on farm loan waiver, Congress members walk out“Tribals were not Hindus in the past, nor are they Hindu now,” Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, the only tribal CM in the country, said at a Harvard University virtual seminar on January 19.Madhya Pradesh’s minister of culture and tourism, Usha Thakur, said, “A section of people are trying to prove that tribals have no religion, but we know that these ‘vanvasis’(forest dwellers) are Hindus. Ramayan is one of the most ancient books and it clearly says Shabri, Kevat and Nishad Raj were tribal and followers of Ram. We will entertain and inform people through Ram Leelas.”Her department has allocated ₹70 lakh for scriptwriting, costume designing and for paying the artists to perform Ram Leelas in the state.“To avoid confusion, the culture department recorded all the dialogues and music of the script. Now, the artists need to just lip-sync. The culture department will choose tribal artists to present the Ram Leelas,” Tripathi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-to-hold-ram-leelas-to-remind-tribals-of-hindu-past-amid-call-for-sarna-code-101615345665426.html
10-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi heats up as maximum temperature crosses 34°C-mark||Delhi recorded a maximum temperature of 34.2 degrees Celsius (°C) on Tuesday, 5°C above normal, and also the highest yet this season. The minimum temperature on Tuesday was 5°C above normal at 18.8°C.According to the India Meteorological Department, partly cloudy skies are likely on Wednesday but the maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be 33°C and 18°C respectively.Under the influence of two fresh Western Disturbances (WD) in quick succession, rain and snow is expected over Western Himalayas. A Western Disturbance is lying as a cyclonic circulation over West Rajasthan and another is approaching on March 11.Isolated rainfall with thunderstorm, lightning and hail is likely over north-western plains, including Delhi-NCR, on March 11 and 12. “We are expecting light rainfall activity and clouding over the plains in the next 2-3 days. Over Delhi, rain is expected around March 12. Widespread rain and thunderstorms are expected over the hills. There may be a marginal dip in maximum temperatures over Delhi after the WD moves away but that will be only for March 13 and 14,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre. He added that maximum temperatures normally go up when a WD is approaching due to a change in wind direction which now has an easterly component (blowing from the direction of Bay of Bengal). Once the WD moves away, the wind direction will switch to northwesterly, bringing cooler winds from the direction of Western Himalayas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-heats-up-as-maximum-temperature-crosses-34cmark-101615346068366.html
10-03-2021||Delhi||Traffic remains diverted at several Delhi borders due to farmers’ protest||Several borders of the national capital with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh (UP) continued to remain closed for vehicular movement on Wednesday due to the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three new farm laws.Ghazipur border remained closed to travellers to Delhi from Uttar Pradesh. The traffic police advised them to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. The commuters can also take the Chilla border route. The entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Saboli and Mangesh, have continued to remain closed. Also Read | India condemns UK parliament debate on farm stir, says it’s ‘vote bank politics’The traffic police has advised commuters to take alternative routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK Road. Commuters can choose other border routes such as the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches between the two states to travel. Farmers have been protesting against the laws at three Delhi border sites, Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu, for over three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/traffic-remains-diverted-at-several-delhi-borders-due-to-farmers-protest-101615345167519.html
10-03-2021||Real||DDA Housing Scheme 2021 draw of lots today: All you need to know||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) will hold a draw of lots for its housing scheme for the year 2021 on Wednesday. The draw of allotment, which will be based on a random number generation system, will be live streamed, the DDA said in a notification.The land-owning agency received more than 22,000 applications for the housing scheme announced in January this year.Here’s everything you need to know about the scheme and the draw||https://www.hindustantimes.com/real-estate/dda-housing-scheme-2021-draw-of-lots-today-all-you-need-to-know-101615344324395.html
10-03-2021||Delhi||Light rain likely over Delhi this Friday, says IMD||Widespread rain and snowfall is likely over the Western Himalayan region till March 13, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). Scattered rain and thunderstorm are likely over parts of Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, West Uttar Pradesh and north Rajasthan during the next two days.Under the influence of two fresh Western Disturbances (WD) in quick succession, rain and snow is expected over Western Himalayas. A Western Disturbance is lying as a cyclonic circulation over West Rajasthan and another is approaching on March 11. “Scattered to widespread rainfall or snowfall with isolated thunderstorm or lightning/hail is likely over Western Himalayan region during March 11 to 13 with heavy falls likely over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad on March 11 and 12 and over Himachal Pradesh on March 12,” IMD said.Also Read | Delhi: February this year second warmest since 1901, says IMDIsolated rainfall with thunderstorm, lightning and hail is likely over north-western plains on March 11 and 12. “We are expecting light rainfall activity and clouding over the plains in the next 2-3 days. Over Delhi, rain is expected around March 12. Widespread rain and thunderstorms are expected over the hills. There may be a marginal dip in maximum temperatures over Delhi after the WD moves away but that will be only for March 13 and 14,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.Due to the confluence between easterlies and westerlies and trough (area of low pressure) at lower levels, isolated rainfall with thunderstorm or lightning is likely over Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Vidarbha during March 11 to 13 and over Jharkhand and Bihar during March 12 and 13. Isolated hailstorm is also likely over Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh on March 12. The maximum temperatures are likely to be 2-5 degrees Celsius above normal over most parts of northwest, central and adjoining east India and below normal or near normal over most parts of the rest of the country. No significant change in maximum temperatures is likely over the country during the next three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/light-rain-likely-over-delhi-this-friday-says-imd-101615344807444.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai airport Terminal 1 reopens today; 5 domestic airlines to operate||The Terminal 1 (T1) of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) resumes operations from Wednesday, after remaining shut for nearly a year due to the coronavirus pandemic. With the terminal back in action, five domestic airlines will use the terminal starting midnight, according to officials.“For the kind attention of Domestic passengers flying to and from Mumbai! CSMIA will be re-opening Terminal 1 from March 10th 2021. @goairlinesindia @OfficialStarAir @AirAsiaIndian @FlyTruJet @IndiGo6E #ImportantUpdate #WeCare #CSMIA #COVID19 #Travel #MumbaiAirport #Passengers,” the Mumbai airport said in a tweet on Tuesday.On the first day, 102 flights will operate across 27 destinations from and to Mumbai airport’s T1, officials said. The reopening of the terminal will facilitate social distancing measures and uphold passenger safety and ensure a seamless transit, they added.The domestic terminal will witness a total of 51 departures and 51 arrivals. It will cater to all domestic flight operations of GoAir, Star Air, Air Asia and Trujet, and also select flights of IndiGo (with subset series 6E 5500 – 6E 5900). The rest of the IndiGo flights will continue operations from Terminal 2.For the kind attention of Domestic passengers flying to and from Mumbai! CSMIA will be re-opening Terminal 1 from March 10th 2021.@goairlinesindia @OfficialStarAir @AirAsiaIndian @FlyTruJet @IndiGo6E #ImportantUpdate #WeCare #CSMIA #COVID19 #Travel #MumbaiAirport #Passengers pic.twitter.com/dBDen6BY3cAccording to a CSMIA statement, the airport will have 38 check-in counters across the five domestic carriers to avoid crowding. Eight Common Use Self Service (CUSS) kiosks have also been put up on the curbside of the terminal to let passengers to complete their check-in process without having to directly interact with airport personnel. The flyers can print their boarding pass and generate their baggage tag before proceeding for security check at the kiosks, the statement added.The terminal will also have registration desks and six testing booths where passengers can undergo the RT-PCR test at the airport for a minimal cost of ₹850, it added.“Adhering to the protocols laid down by governmental and regulatory bodies, a dedicated room has also been identified for the isolation of any suspected symptomatic passenger before transferring them to the designated facility. Hand sanitisers have been strategically placed through the premise, and contactless payments will be encouraged,” a spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-airport-terminal-1-reopens-today-5-domestic-airlines-to-operate-101615342583928.html
10-03-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata fire: High-level committee to submit probe report within 3 weeks, says official||After nine people, including three railway officials and a Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel died in the Monday evening fire that broke out at a multi-story building in Kolkata, a senior Railway official said that report of the high-level committee set up to probe the incident will be submitted within three weeks."We are deeply saddened by the demise of nine persons including three Railway officials. A high-level probe committee led by Senior Chief Security Officer has been formed, as per the rules. Reports will be submitted within three weeks," DJ Narain, the Additional Director General (Public Relations), Railways, told ANI.Meanwhile, the Kolkata Police has registered a case in the incident and the investigation is being carried out by its Detective Department.The fire on the 13 th floor of the New Koilaghat building on Strand Road, which houses offices of the Railways at Kolkata's Strand Road claimed the lives of four firefighters, two railway officials, an assistant sub-inspector of Kolkata Police, a Railway Protection Force official and a security person.The fire brigade reached the incident site at around 6.30 pm and started operations to control the fire, which was brought under control by 11 pm.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday expressed his grief at the tragedy and approved an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each from PMNRF for the next of kin of the deceased as well as ₹50,000 to those seriously injured in the incident.West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had earlier announced a ₹10 lakh compensation and government jobs to one member of the deceased person's next of kin.Reacting to the incident, West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday called for a technical overhaul of fire and municipal services.Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal announced that a high-level committee will be set up to ascertain the cause of the fire. Goyal said that that assistance has been provided by the Railways to the state government and that officials were working for rescue and relief efforts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-fire-high-level-committee-to-submit-probe-report-within-3-weeks-says-official-101615339287151.html
10-03-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Meet the bare peepal tree||Leaves are falling. As brutal summer inches closer, scores of trees across Delhi have started shedding their leaves. If it’s windy the yellowed leaves drop continuously in a gentle shower. By noon, roads are carpeted with a golden-coloured layer. Many leaves find their way onto the subway stairs, into ATM cabins and even into the open kettles of roadside tea vendors. In the evening, when office-goers reach the parking stands, they first have to wipe the papery leaves from their cars’ windshields.One recent morning in Panchsheel Park, leaves were falling like a steady snowfall upon and around a security guard stationed outside a bungalow. He remained absorbed by his mobile phone.Indeed, one of the more stunning sights in the city these days is the spectre of currently leafless trees—their naked branches raised upwards like limbs of mourners, their shadows on the ground looking like wrecked umbrellas.And one of the most stunning bare trees to be seen is in Lodhi Garden, on the west-facing side of the Bada Gumbad monument. This evening, even as the garden’s life continues in its usual hyper-energy (Bollywood dance practice, badminton matches, push-ups, yoga, photography, dog walking, etc.), this peepal tree, almost the height of the adjacent monument, is looking even more grand than it would with its leaves. You can see all its branches—there are hundreds of them, thick and thin, densely entwined into each other, and making such a web that in some sense they don’t seem bare at all. A few black birds are perched at different places, freely flitting from one branch to another as if playing badminton. The shadows of these branches have made a pattern on the monunent’s wall too, where it is looking like an embroidery set on stone. Some of the higher branches taper into barely perceptible stalks.In the western world, leaves fall in autumn. In Delhi, the patjhar, or leaf fall, arrives for certain trees after a short spell of spring, heralding the coming of harsh dry months. For a tree to survive in prolonged drought, it temporarily shuts down by dropping its leaves so as to stop transpiring water.But new leaves will come soon in most of these bare trees. So come to pay your respects to this naked peepal as soon as you can. It’s already glinting with spotlights of new green.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-meet-the-bare-peepal-tree-101615327052473.html
10-03-2021||Delhi||Opposition slams Delhi budget, says it lacks vision||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress on Tuesday criticised the Delhi government’s budget for the year 2021-22, calling it “hollow” and “directionless” and “visionless”.Leader of the opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said the budget had fewer allocations for development projects that could be taken up in the next one year.“What is even more shocking is that there has been no mention of Trans-Yamuna Development Board or the Delhi Gramin Vikas Board in the budget, indicating the anti-rural and anti-people mindset of the Kejriwal government,” Bidhuri said.“There is no concrete plan to deal with the menace of pollution in Delhi despite Delhi’s air turning poisonous and deadly. The budget is hollow, directionless, lacking in vision and is a tale of broken promises by the Kejriwal government. The people of Delhi have been left to fend for themselves,’’ the leader of the opposition added.The Delhi Congress called the budget a pointless exercise. “It was a pointless exercise to sell a distant dream, as far away as 2047 when Delhi’s quality of living will be supposedly turned into Singapore-like, instead of addressing the existing issues, of here and now. They said that the budget proposals, instead of taking Delhi 100 years ahead, will drag it back by 100 years,” former Delhi minister Kiran Walia said.Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said the budget 2021-22 is silent on the present and states no short-term plans for Delhi.“This must be the first state budget in the country which shows dreams to people for what could possibly happen 26 years later. The budget is silent on today’s deteriorating pollution and public transport situation in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/opposition-slams-delhi-budget-says-it-lacks-vision-101615326063812.html
10-03-2021||Delhi||Covid shock: Tax revenue estimate slashed by 33.5%||The Delhi government on Tuesday pegged the revised estimate (RE) of tax revenue for fiscal 2020-21 at ₹29,300 crore, down from a budget estimate (BE) of ₹44,100 crore. The government attributed the estimated loss in tax collection to the Covid-19 pandemic.For the upcoming fiscal, the government has pegged tax revenue at ₹43,000 crore (BE), on the hopes that the economy will recover soon. Finance minister Manish Sisodia said the government is working on a multi-pronged strategy to ensure optimum tax collection the coming fiscal and that involves improving GST collections, scaling up excise revenue through a new policy and boosting real estate sales.Sisodia, who tabled the Delhi Budget in the assembly on Tuesday, said tax collections were severely hit by the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020-21 — by an estimated 40% of the budget estimate till January 2021.In 2020-21, the budget estimate for tax revenue was ₹44,100 crore, which has now been revised to ₹29,300 crore.“This is an extreme revision,” said a senior government official who did not wish to be identified. For instance, the BE for tax revenue for 2019-20 was ₹42,500 crore and the RE was ₹39,550 crore.The actual tax revenue figures for 2020-21 would reflect in the 2022-23 budget.The break-up of the budget tax revenue of ₹43,000 crore for 2021-22, showed a share of ₹6,000 crore from state excise, ₹5,000 crore from stamp duty, registration fee on properties and land revenue tax, ₹2,000 crore from motor vehicles, and ₹30,000 crore for state goods and services tax (GST) and value-added tax (VAT) taken together.In 2020-21, budget estimates of tax revenue through state excise was ₹6,300 crore, stamp duty and registry was ₹5,297 crore, motor vehicle tax was ₹2,500 crore and GST along with VAT was ₹30,000 crore.Sisodia said the government will work on a multi-pronged strategy to increase revenue.“We shall use data analytics and business intelligence to prevent any possible leakages in taxes this year. We have commissioned a study on improved GST implementation. We have started keeping an eye on the commercial vehicles going in and out of Delhi through RFID (radio frequency identification) and have initiated a dialogue through SMS with businesspersons on tax issues,” the deputy chief minister said.Sisodia further said, “Comprehensive changes are being made to the excise policy to improve the collection of taxes. This will include preventing the sale of non-duty paid liquor (smuggled from other states) and various new changes to bring liquor shopping in Delhi up to international standards. To come out of extraordinary circumstances, we often need to take extraordinary measures.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-shock-tax-revenue-estimate-slashed-by-335-101615324436467.html
10-03-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Blame game starts after high-rise fire||A day after nine people were killed in a fire on the 13th floor of the Eastern Railway’s office in central Kolkata, a political blame game started with the BJP and the TMC accusing each other days ahead of the assembly elections in West Bengal.Even governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, who visited the spot, blamed the Mamata Banerjee-led state government. A case of negligence under Section 304A of the Indian Penal Code was lodged and Kolkata police started a probe. The fire department and the railways ordered separate probes into the incident.By Tuesday afternoon, authorities could identify all the nine bodies which were found on the top floor of the building.“I salute the bravery of 3 Railway personnel, including RPF Constable Sanjay Sahni, Dy Chief Comm. Mgr. Partha Sarathi Mondal & Sr Technician Sudip Das, along with 5 firefighters & a police ASI, who laid down their lives to stop fire at Eastern Railways Strand road office, Kolkata,” Piyush Goyal, Union railway minister, tweeted.On Monday night Banerjee said, “The property belongs to the railways, it’s their responsibility but they were unable to provide a map of building. I don’t want to do politics over the tragedy but no one from the railways has come here,” she said.BJP leaders hit back with a alleging that there had been no improvement in firefighting over the past decade. “WB needs a proactive disaster management policy, equip local bodies with fire-fighting equipment and put in appropriate protocols... Pishi has failed Bengal,” tweeted Amit Malviya, BJP’s IT cell head.Meanwhile governor Dhankhar, who has acrimonious relations with the Banerjee administration, blamed the TMC government after visiting the spot.Preliminary investigations revealed that all the nine persons who died used the elevator.“Nearly all (seven) the bodies were lying inside the elevator. One or two were just outside the elevator. They had used the elevator to climb up,” Sujit Bose, state fire minister told media persons late on Monday night.Later two more bodies were found inside a second elevator.Banerjee announced compensation of ₹10 lakh for each victim and a government job for one family member.The Prime Minister’s Office also announced compensation. “Saddened by the loss of lives due to the fire tragedy in Kolkata. In this hour of sadness, my thoughts are with the bereaved families...” tweeted PM Narendra Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/blame-game-starts-after-high-rise-fire-101615322102306.html
10-03-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand jinx: Except ND Tiwari, no other CM could complete 5-year term||Politicians across the political spectrum believe that whosoever lives in the CM house in Dehradun is not able to complete his five-year tenure in the state.With Trivendra Singh Rawat’s resignation as the chief minister a year before the completion of his five-year tenure, the belief has got stronger in the state's political circle.The state has seen chief ministers change almost ten times in the past 20 years since it was carved out of Uttar Pradesh after a violent agitation in 2000.The only chief minister to complete his tenure of five years was Congress' Narayan Dutt Tiwari who became the chief minister in 2002.Also read: Replacing Rawat - 3 frontrunners, 2 parliamentarians in race for post of U'khand CMIndira Hridayesh, leader of opposition said it was Vijay Bahuguna first who had lived in the CM house and couldn’t complete his term. “When Harish Rawat became the CM, due to fear of the jinx, he didn’t live in the CM House. He lived in the Bijapur area in Dehradun. ND Tiwari was the only CM who completed his five-year term and also stayed there. Due to the fear of this jinx, many CMs didn’t live there. But Trivendra Singh Rawat chose to live in the CM house. I think some Vastu experts had also been brought to check it in the past,” she said.Historian Shekhar Pathak said though many believe in this jinx, the fact is that it was the weakness of the respective governments that the chief ministers couldn’t complete their terms.“There is another jink that may be talked about now. After the Kedarnath tragedy in 2013, Vijay Bahuguna lost his post of CM and now post the Chamoli tragedy the same has happened with Rawat. But these are just speculations. People, including politicians, try to see a pattern in such developments,” he said.Professor MM Semwal, a political analyst from Garhwal University, said this jinx has been always talked about in state politics as no CM except for ND Tiwari could complete his five-year term. “But from a logical point of view, I don’t think we can link political developments to such superstitions. All these major political changes in the state over the years have political reasons. One house cannot affect or bring such changes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-jinx-except-nd-tiwari-no-other-cm-could-complete-5-year-term-101615320470264.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||3 hammer, stab senior citizens in Goa, arrested in Mumbai||The Mumbai crime branch along with Goa police arrested three accused from Dadar on Tuesday for allegedly killing two senior citizens – son and mother-in-law – in Goa over payments. The victims were hit with a hammer and iron rod on their head on Monday morning.The arrested accused are RavinKumar GhanshyamKumar Sada, 18, Akash Ajaykumar Ghosh, 20, Adityakumar Kharwal, 18. Sada is originally from Bihar, while Ghosh and Kharwal are from Jharkhand.According to police, the deceased, Minguel Miranda, 65, stayed in Ambaji in South Goa, along with his family and 86-year-old mother-in-law, Caterrina Pinto. Miranda was a contractor. Miranda had not paid the three accused for the past three months, said police official. The incident occurred on Monday around 8:30am, when the accused visited Miranda’s residence and asked for their money. The argument turned into a fight. Pinto who was in the house tried to intervene when an accused pushed her and she fell to the ground, said official. “In a fit of rage, one of the accused picked up a hammer lying nearby, while another picked up an iron rod and started hitting the two on the head, said a police officer from Goa.“Another accused then picked up a kitchen knife and stabbed Miranda. They took a train to Mumbai,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-hammer-stab-senior-citizens-in-goa-arrested-in-mumbai-101615320384164.html
10-03-2021||Delhi||Big push for health in Delhi's budget||The Delhi government on Tuesday presented its budget for 2021-22 with a total outlay of ₹69,000 crore, themed around “deshbhakti” (patriotism), promised to make the per capita income in the city state equivalent to that in Singapore by 2047, and get the Capital ready to bid to host the 2048 Olympic Games.The budget, tabled by Delhi’s finance minister (and also deputy chief minister) Manish Sisodia in the legislative assembly, saw an increase of 6.15% from the previous year’s budgeted outlay of Rs65,000 crore, now revised to Rs59,000 crore. This is the government’s first budget after the emergence of the Covid-19 pandemic, which led to a revenue loss of around 40%, said Sisodia.Sisodia announced an “aam aadmi free covid vaccine” scheme under which the Delhi government will provide free Covid vaccination at all state-run health care centres. In private hospitals, however, doses will cost up to ₹250 per dose. He also said the government will increase its daily Covid vaccination capacity from 45,000 persons to 60,000 in the “next few days”.Like its last six budgets, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government proposed the highest share for the education sector in which it plans to build a “virtual model school” and a university specifically for teachers’ training. The proposed outlay for education is ₹16,377 crore, which is 23.7% of the total budget estimate, and an increase of ₹1,285 crore from the previous year’s budgeted allocation on education. This was followed by the health sector, which has been allocated ₹9,934 crore, an increase of ₹2,230 crore more from last year’s budget– the highest sector-wise increase. “The vaccine for freedom from Covid-19 will be available in the market for ₹250, but we have families in Delhi who would have to choose either to buy a full month’s ration for their family or get the vaccination for corona from their monthly salary,” said Sisodia.The announcement drew flak from the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which alleged that the same scheme is being run by the central government across all states and union territories.Dr K Srinath Reddy, president of Public Health Foundation of India, said: “Extensive vaccine coverage is needed even for people below the age of 60, because of a high prevalence of comorbidities in younger age groups. Many people with those health conditions are unaware of them, especially in the lower socio-economic groups. Both to protect such people and to slow down the transmission, vaccines have to be administered free of cost in government hospitals. The decision for free vaccine administration for all in government hospitals is a welcome move.”With around at least 2,300 new buses, including 1,300 electric buses, planned over the next one year, the Delhi government allocated ₹9,394 crore for transport and road infrastructure which is an increase of ₹2,050 crore from last year.The budget also laid out the government’s vision for the next 25 years, which includes bidding for the 2048 Olympics and making Delhi’s per capita income equivalent to that of Singapore’s by 2047. Delhi’s current per capita income is ₹3.54 lakh a year; Singapore’s is around $60,000. To be sure, comparisons will also have to factor in purchasing power parity.To commemorate 75 years of independent India (August 15, 2022 is the 75th independence day), the government allocated ₹45 crore for installing Indian flags, like the giant one in Connaught Place, across 500 locations in the city. The Indian tricolour in Connaught Place is hoisted on the top of a 207 feet high mast. The flag is 60 feet in width and 90 feet in length.The government also plans to organise patriotic programmes running for 75 weeks at a stretch, a daily class to teach patriotism in government-run schools, and also allocated a separate budget for events to celebrate the lives of Bhagat Singh and BR Ambedkar .Addressing a press conference after the assembly session, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the Delhi budget is a reflection of “efficient financial management” as the Capital’s revenue continued to be in surplus despite actual collections declining by 40% against the targeted budget estimate due to the strict lockdown. He explained that despite the pandemic, the budget is 6% more than the previous year’s outlay which was possible because the Delhi government kept its establishment costs (cost incurred on running the government machinery) at 45% and assigned 55% of the proposed funds towards subsidy schemes, programmes and infrastructure projects. “The budget covers all aspects of the society, from women to the elderly, students, youth, all religions, and all castes. This budget has laid the foundation for what India should be like in 2047 when she completes 100 years of independence. The aim for 2047 is to bring Delhi’s per capita income at par with Singapore.”Sudhir Krishna, former chairman of the 5th Delhi Finance Commission, said: “The primary sector of agriculture and secondary sector of industry contribute as much as 37% to the GDP of India as a whole, whereas for Delhi, it is just about 20%. Owing to environmental and geographical constraints, Delhi cannot expect to push these sectors and needs to strengthen the tertiary sector such as trade, hotels, restaurants, and real estate, which contribute as much as 80% to the Gross State Value Addition (GSVA) of Delhi. Therefore, Delhi should work on travel, tourism including medical tourism and education tourism and service activities like call centres, BPOs etc. Enhancing the quality of life of the residents through the improved safe water supply, cleaner air and water, quality education and healthcare would not only provide greater well-being for Delhi residents, but would also attract visitors from within India and abroad, which will add to Delhi’s GSVA.”On plans to host the 2048 Olympics in Delhi, Kejriwal said his government will take up whatever infrastructure and other necessities are needed to be created for the same. “We will also discuss this with the Central government as without their efforts achieving this dream would not be possible,” he said.In the budget the government emphasised on women’s empowerment with new schemes such as Mohalla clinics for women, using its anganwadi hubs as a resource to help women entrepreneurs develop micro business enterprises and promoting self-help groups, enhancing safety at tourist spots, and setting up 33 self-help units to make women aware of existing government schemes for women such as free bus rides, widow pensions, scholarships for school-going girls, etc.Sisodia cited a government survey and said that before the Covid crisis, in February 2020, 26% of women in Delhi were unemployed. In February 2021, this statistic was 40%, he said. “This reveals that among the women of Delhi, who are available for employment, 40% are unable to find any work; 45% of these women have completed 12th class and 60% of these women are less than 30 years of age. It is essential to economically empower these women and integrate them with the economy of the family and the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/big-push-for-health-in-delhi-s-budget-101615319176597.html
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||ED raids Punjab MLA Khaira, 8 others over ‘links with drug syndicate’||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday raided premises belonging to Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira and his son-in-law Inderveer Singh Johal along with seven others for allegedly being part of an international drug smuggling syndicate having links in Pakistan and the UK as well as a human trafficking racket, agency officials familiar with the development said. The central agency registered two cases a few weeks back to investigate money laundering, the first on the basis of a trans-border drug smuggling network unearthed in Fazilka, Punjab, in 2015, in which 1,800g heroin, 24 gold biscuits, two weapons, 26 live cartridges and two Pakistani SIM cards were seized by police; and the second pertaining to a fake passport racket being run in Delhi. Nine smugglers were sentenced in the Fazilka case in October 2017, including Gurdev Singh, Manjit Singh, Harbans Singh and Subhash Chander, raided by the ED on Tuesday. Khaira, who was present at his Sector 5 bungalow in Chandigarh during the ED raid, denied any wrongdoing. “Those who speak against the government are often targeted by them. It has not happened for the first time. My father and I have been fighting injustice throughout our lives and my crusade continues,” said Khaira, adding that those supporting the farmers’ protest and speaking against the central government were being targeted by the Centre. “There is no question of any money laundering. In fact, I am under debt. I have taken an agriculture loan of ₹2 crore, for which I am paying ₹22 lakh as annual interest,” he said. Khaira was elected to the state assembly in 2017 on an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ticket but later quit the party and launched his own political outfit. Khaira’s name cropped up in the case in 2017. Although not named in the Punjab police charge sheet, Khaira was issued summons by a Fazilka court on November 30, 2017. He was Punjab’s leader of the opposition as an AAP legislator at that time. However, the Supreme Court granted him relief by staying the proceedings against him. An ED official, requesting anonymity, said: “Sukhpal Singh Khaira was actively aiding and supporting the gang of international smugglers and enjoying the proceeds of crime”. The lawmaker is likely to be called for questioning at the agency’s Delhi office. After the raids, Punjab MLAs cutting across party lines raised the issue in the state assembly and described the move as “political intimidation” by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ed-raids-punjab-mla-khaira-8-others-over-links-with-drug-syndicate-101615319547486.html
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||PU student bodies protest, want campus to reopen||Student bodies on Tuesday held a joint protest outside Panjab University vice-chancellor Raj Kumar’s office and demanded reopening of the university.Students affiliated to Students For Society (SFS), National Students Union of India (NSUI), Ambedkar Students Association (ASA), Students Organisation of India (SOI), Youth For Swaraj (Y4S) among others raised slogans against the varsity’s administration.The protesting students demanded a meeting with the V-C and tried to enter his office premises by breaking barricades. But, they were stopped by security personnel.Later, five student representatives were called for a meeting with PU authorities. The students said that they have agreed to open the library from 8am to 10pm for all students and research scholars and messes of girls’ hostel 2 and boys’ hostel six.Nikhil Narmeta, NSUI’s PU president, said, “They have agreed to include student representatives in the committee for reopening of hostels. We demanded that a proper roadmap is prepared regarding the reopening of campus. If our demands are not met in a week, we will protest again.”The protest comes a day after students affiliated to NSUI and ABVP held two separate protests outside V-C’s office over the same demand. Meanwhile, members of NSUI met the V-C on Tuesday. Rahul Kumar, former vice-president of Panjab University Campus Students Council (PUCSC), said, “The V-C has assured us that the campus will be reopened in a phased manner. Students were approaching us for a long time as their academic career was at loss. We have made our intentions clear to the PU authorities and we hope for a positive action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pustudent-bodies-protest-want-campus-to-reopen-101615318467527.html
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University allows more research scholars in hostels||Panjab University has allowed the research scholars who were enrolled till March 5 this year to avail hostel accommodation on the campus.The recommendation for this was made by a PU panel during a meeting held last week which has been approved by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar. The varsity is reopening its hostels on campus in a phased manner and an 11-member committee has already been constituted by PU to make recommendations.So far, the varsity has allowed research scholars and MPhil students to return to hostels. Also, the final-year students of various courses, which come under different regulatory bodies, including master of dental surgery (MDS), MPharma, nuclear medicine and medical physics, have been allowed to stay in hostels.After students submitted several representations, the matter was again taken up by the panel last Friday and they had recommended that research scholars who enrolled March 23, 2020 onwards should be given hostel accommodation.Based on the recommendation made by the panel, the varsity has allowed all MDS students of its Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Science and Hospital to avail hostel accommodation. Till now, only final year students of the course were allowed to stay in hostels.Besides this, PU has also allowed all final-year postgraduation students, who are in final semester and require laboratory work to complete their dissertation, to stay in hostels. Guidelines for studentsHowever, to avail the hostel accommodation, a student has to get a test done for Covid-19 a week prior to the joining and undertaking will have to be submitted by residents to the hostel warden forwarded by the chairperson of the department that they will follow all necessary standard operating procedures (SOPs) to avoid spread of infection.The students have been advised to go through the SOPs already issued by the varsity. Moreover, guests and visitors’ entry is not allowed in hostels till further orders. For the time being, the facilities of shops will not be provided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-allows-more-research-scholars-in-hostels-101615318404672.html
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||Two killed, 3 hurt in road accidents in Chandigarh tricity||Two persons lost their lives while three sustained injuries in two separate hit-and-run incidents in Chandigarh and Mohali on Tuesday. In the first case, a 45-year-old man was killed and two of his relatives were wounded after the pick-up vehicle they were travelling in was hit by an SUV that jumped a red light at sector 8/9/17/18 traffic junction in the wee hours. The deceased is Kishanpal of Hoshiarpur, father of five daughters, while those injured are Raju and Kishan. Sonu, a vegetable seller, who was driving the pick-up vehicle, said the victims were his relatives and they had gone to Sector-26 mandi. He said the victims were sitting in the back of the vehicle where impact of the collision was the strongest. They were rushed to GMSH-16 where Kishanpal was pronounced dead on arrival. Sonu said the number plate (PB-13Z-4545) of the SUV had fallen at the accident spot which he handed over to the police. Cops have identified the vehicle and are in process of tracing the owner. An FIR under Sections 279, 304 A and 337 of the IPC has been registered against the SUV driver.In the second accident, a 24-year-old man was killed while his friend sustained serious injuries after a car hit their motorcycle at a traffic junction on the Zirakpur-Patiala road. The deceased is Anoop Kumar, while the injured is Raman Kumar. They were on their way to Rajpura. The victims were rushed to the Zirakpur civil hospital, where Anoop was declared brought dead. Raman has been shifted to PGIMER owing to his critical medical condition.The police have registered a case against the unidentified driver of the car, who fled the site soon after the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-killed-3-hurt-in-road-accidents-in-chandigarh-tricity-101615318284409.html
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||2 HC judges test Covid +ve in Chandigarh, 4 others isolated||Two Punjab and Haryana high court judges have tested positive and four others have been quarantined in the past two days, an official spokesperson said on Tuesday. Family members of all these judges have also been quarantined, the official said, adding that the next few days seem to be crucial as Covid-19 cases have been steadily rising in and around Chandigarh. The HC had reopened for physical hearings on February 8 after restricted functioning through video-conferencing since March last year.The total strength of judges at the HC is 47. Currently, only nine benches have been designated for physical hearings, and most judges are still hearing cases through virtual mode. 100+ cases in city, GMSH-16 restricts OPD timingsMeanwhile, for the second time in four days, Chandigarh reported more than 100 fresh cases.With 105 cases, the number of active ones has reached 778. As many as 22,502 people have tested positive so far, of whom 21,368 have recovered and 356 have died. Amid the surge, Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, on Tuesday decided to restrict the timings for OPD registrations till 10am and will also put a cap on the number of patients to be seen in one day. Earlier, Government Medical College and Hospital had suspended walk-in OPDs which were resumed just recently.Senior officials of the UT administration are expected to meet on Wednesday to take a call on restrictions in the city. 68 test positive in Mohali district, 44 in P’kulaIn the neighbouring Mohali district, 68 people tested positive while one patient succumbed to the virus. Of the fresh cases, all but one are from Mohali city.Of 21,039 people tested positive so far, 19,724 have recovered and 391 have died. The number of active cases stands at 924.Panchkula district reported 44 new cases, highest this year. The same number of cases was reported once earlier in the month as well. The total has reached 11,100, with 277 cases still active. While 10,674 people have recovered, 149 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-hc-judges-test-covid-ve-in-chandigarh-4-others-isolated-101615318224547.html
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||Old water rates till pandemic lasts, resolves Chandigarh MC||After a heated debate over the water tariff hike, which saw the opposition Congress and ruling Bharatiya Janata Party councillors coming face-to-face in the well of the House several times, the Chandigarh municipal corporation on Tuesday resolved to roll it back.The old rates, in effect before the UT administration notified the hiked water tariff in September 2020, will continue till the Covid-19 pandemic lasts, the House stated in its resolution.With residents already getting inflated water bills, the MC House decided that these would be adjusted in subsequent bills.After the pandemic gets over, the MC House proposed a partial rollback to the September hike (see box).The resolution will now be sent to the administration for its approval and withdrawal of the notification.Notably, this is the third resolution and second within six months, in which the MC has sought reduction in water tariff rates after its initial December 2019 resolution to increase it.Admn had asked MC to reconsider rollback resolutionIn September 2020, the administration had notified up to threefold hike in water tariff, depending upon the category of users and consumption level.After facing a public outcry and criticism from the opposition, the MC House had passed a resolution in October, asking the administration to withdraw the notification and stick to the existing rates till the pandemic lasts. However, the administration this year asked the MC to reconsider its resolution, citing the huge revenue losses in water supply management.BJP-Cong indulge in blame game, commissioner opposes moveDuring the debate, Congress and BJP councillors exchanged heated jibes. The House proceedings were disturbed when Congress councillors offered bangles to BJP councillors, who in turn presented them with lotus flowers. Both groups kept shouting “shame, shame” against each other.Demanding a rollback, Congress councillor and leader of opposition Devinder Singh Babla criticised BJP for imposing the hike. During the entire House proceedings, Chandigarh Congress president Subhash Chawla sat on a dharna outside the House.Chandigarh BJP chief and councillor Arun Sood said: “Rates should not be increased till the Covid-19 pandemic lasts. After that, it should be increased only gradually, so that there is no financial burden on residents. MC’s financial health should also be improved.”MC commissioner KK Yadav said the rollback would negatively impact the civic body’s capacity to improve water supply. He also contended that slashing of water tariff hike would benefit only those who are wasting water.For post-pandemic times, rates revised, sewerage cess slashedFor the post pandemic period, the House decided to slash the hike in two consumption slabs of residential supply. For households with monthly consumption of 31-60 kilolitre, in which most consumers fit, the rate has been cut from ₹12/kl to ₹9/kl. For the top slab, with monthly water consumption over 60kl, it has been slashed to ₹16/kl from ₹24/kl.Charges for industrial establishments have been cut from ₹30/kl to ₹25/kl (there are no consumptions slabs for them), while for shops and booths, the House has recommended doing away with flat minimum charges and imposition of rates as per actual consumption.Meanwhile, the hefty sewerage cess has also been proposed to be reduced from 30% of the water bill to just 5%.When it comes to the annual hike, the UT notification imposed 3% rise in water tariff every year. The House in its latest resolution decided to go for 5% automatic hike on the basic rate after every three years.Penalty for misuse of drinking water has also been revised. Instead of a flat rate of ₹5,000, it has been stratified. The MC House decided that the first violation will invite a fine of ₹3,000. If there is a second violation within 30 days of the first one, it will lead to ₹5,000 fine, and subsequent ones will also lead to the same fine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/old-water-rates-till-pandemic-lasts-resolves-chandigarh-mc-101615318044635.html
10-03-2021||Lucknow||CISH’s seed exchange concept to boost garlic farming||LUCKNOW The Central Institute of Subtropical Horticulture (CISH) has come out with a new seed-exchange concept, which, the scientists say, will not only help in meeting the increased demand of garlic but will also act as an alternate source of income to farmers.What is the seed village or seed-exchange concept? Shailendra Rajan, director CISH said that under this, the first thing the scientists do is to identify the high-yielding crop that can be cultivated by farmers of a particular place. Once identified, the farmers of the area are provided with the high variety seeds so that they can multiply the variety by sharing the seeds among farmers hailing from other villages and areas.“However, in this case, a particular variety of garlic seed—Yamuna Safed that was procured from National Horticultural Research and Development Foundation (NHRDF) were supplied to farmers so that they can multiply this variety which has bold clove and higher yield than local clove,” said Rajan.He said, the initiative will not only help farmers successfully produce garlic for their own use but will also help them in increasing the farming of garlic, which in turn will bring down its prices.Initially, the institute has picked farmers from Mall, Kakori and Malihabad development blocks for the seed-exchange concept.Rajan said that recently, the CISH had also organised a field day in Thari village of the Mall block. The event was attended by the more than 200 farmers from Kakori and Mall blocks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cishs-seed-exchange-concept-to-boost-garlic-farming-101615317984006.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||Aircrew to be unfit to fly for 48 hours after being innoculated: DGCA||As the innoculation process is gathering pace in the country, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Tuesday issued a circular for temporary unfitness for flying for all the cabin and cockpit (pilots) crew getting inoculated or are in middle of the innoculation. The aviation regulator said air crew getting inoculated will be monitored for 30 minutes at the Covid-19 vaccination centre for any anaphylactic and idiosyncratic reaction, following which, they will be termed to be medically unfit for flying for 48 hours after getting inoculated. “We have laid down the protocol for vaccination of the flight crew and it will be applicable with immediate effect,” said Arun Kumar, director general of DGCA. DGCA said any and every air crew that has no reactions even after 48 hours of getting inoculated, will be declared fit to resume their ‘unrestricted’ flying duties. The circular read, ‘If, after 48 hours, the pilot experiences any symptoms, he/ she will be reviewed by treating physician/ company doctor or his/her AMA. Such pilots can be declared fit for flying duties provided they are asymptomatic without any medications and a ‘medical cure certificate’ to this effect to be obtained.’ However, DGCA clarified that if the air crew’s medical unfitness, post his/her inoculation is more than 14 days old, then a ‘special medical examination’ will be required to ascertain their fitness for operating flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aircrew-to-be-unfit-to-fly-for-48-hours-after-being-innoculated-dgca-101615317684511.html
10-03-2021||Lucknow||MP’s son accuses woman, who claims to be his wife, of trying to blackmail him||LUCKNOW Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Kaushal Kishore’s son, Ayush, on Tuesday shared a video on social media in which he accuses a woman, who claims to be his wife, of honey-trapping him and then forcing him to go against his family and provide money to her. In the video, Ayush also accused the woman and her brother Adarsh of opening fire on him to kill him when he refused to heed to her demands. On March 2, Ayush was injured after allegedly being shot at his house near Chatta Mill in Lucknow’s Madiaon area and the woman’s brother Adarsh was arrested by police. The police had registered an FIR against the Ayush and Adarsh under IPC sections 420 (fraud), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 505 (1)(b) (misleading police through fake information). Ayush has been missing since then after being treated at trauma centre of King George Medical University here. Adarsh confessed that he fired gunshots, but it was Ayush who asked him to do it. According to Adarsh’s statement, Ayush wanted to frame 2-3 people with whom he had enmity, following which he scripted the story of the attack on himself. Later, the woman in question interacted with media persons and accused Ayush, his father, who is an MP from Lucknow’s Mohanlalganj constituency, his mother Jay Devi, who is a BJP MLA from Lucknow’s Malihabad, and other family members of hatching a conspiracy to defame her and frame her in a fake case. She apprehended a threat to her life and demanded security as well as an independent probe into the matter. She also visited Madiaon police station to register an FIR against Ayush and his family members but it was not registered till last reports came in. Ayush’s mother Jay Devi also gave a statement to media persons accusing the woman of honey trapping her son. Talking to media persons, the MP said police were investigating the matter and he didn’t want any innocent person to get framed in the case. He said he was cooperating in the investigation||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mps-son-accuses-woman-who-claims-to-be-his-wife-of-trying-to-blackmail-him-101615317563902.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 11-year-old dies by suicide after argument with neighbour||An 11-year-old girl allegedly died by suicide in the Mankhurd area in the eastern suburbs of Mumbai after a heated argument with a woman in her neighbourhood who had thrown garbage in front of the minor’s house. The police have arrested the woman for abetting the suicide of the minor.Trombay police said the mother of the deceased lodged complaint stating that in the morning of March 6, while doing household work, she heard a commotion.When she went out she saw that her minor daughter was arguing with the neighbour after the latter threw garbage in front of the complainant’s house.“During the heated argument, the accused woman abused the complainant and her daughter and also went to an extent of threatening to kill the girl. The altercation stopped only people in the neighbourhood intervened,” said an officer from the Trombay police station. The 11-year-old later hanged herself with a dupatta when she was alone at home and her mother and siblings had gone to a relative’s place. She was rushed to Shatabdi Hospital, where doctors declared her dead on arrival. The mother of the deceased has blamed the neighbour for her daughter extreme step. Police have registered a case under sections 305 (abetting the suicide of a minor), 504 (abusing) and 506 (criminal intimidation). Siddheshwar Gove, senior inspector of Trombay police station said, “The accused woman has been arrested on the charges of abetment to suicide. She was produced in the court that sent her into judicial custody. We would soon file a charge sheet in the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai11yearold-dies-by-suicide-after-argument-with-neighbour-101615317504415.html
10-03-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s Covid tally crosses 28,000-mark||With three deaths and 125 fresh infections in the last 24 hours, the cumulative count of Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana crossed the 28,000 mark on Tuesday. What’s worrying is that the latest 1,000 cases have been added to the tally in just 10 days. It was on February 27 that the infections had crossed the 27,000-mark.While it took 22 days for the cumulative count to reach 27,000 from 26,000 cases, the journey from 25, 000 to 26, 000 had taken 28 days (January 8 to February 5).12 teachers, 11 students among new casesTwelve teachers and 11 students are among those found infected on Tuesday. The teachers include six from St Joseph School, Dugri, five from GSG Khalsa College, Sudhar, and one from Government Senior Secondary School, Hans Kalan.The infected students include five from Sacred Heart School, two from Government Multipurpose, one from DAV School, BRS Nagar, one from Gulzar Group of Institutes and another one from Government Middle School, Gharkhana. Besides, two healthcare workers also tested positive.With three more deaths, the district’s Covid casualty count has reached 1, 041. The dead include a 55-year-old male from Jagraon, a 60-year- old male from Koom Kalan and a 66-year-old male from Payal.The district now has 869 active cases.3, 267 receive vaccine jabsAs many as 3, 267 persons received the Covid-19 jabs on Tuesday. These include 1, 725 senior citizens (aged above 60) who got the first shot of the vaccine and 595 persons aged between 45 and 60, having co-morbidities.As many as 196 healthcare workers also got the first dose while 351 received the second dose.Among frontline workers, 161 received the first dose and 239 got the second dose.As many as 59, 983 persons in the district have so far received at least one dose of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-covid-tally-crosses-28000mark-101615317385643.html
10-03-2021||Lucknow||JEE (Mains): Ghaziabad girl emerges topper in UP||LUCKNOW Ghaziabad girl Pal Aggarwal scored 99.988 percentile and emerged as the UP topper in the Joint Entrance Exam (Mains)-2021 conducted in February session, according to the results declared by the National Testing Agency (NTA) late on Monday evening.Pal aspires to become an astronaut and wants to graduate in aerospace engineering. “It was a double celebration at our house. First, I emerged as UP topper in JEE (Mains) and second, it happened on International Women’s Day,” said the 17-year-old student of Seth Anandram Jaipuria School, who will be appearing in CBSE Class 12 examination in May this year. She said she was delighted over the achievement because normally it’s the boys who usually topped in JEE. “This is like a dream come true,” said Pal whose mother, Rakhi Aggarwal, is a clinical psychologist and father, Vishal Aggarwal, a businessman. School principal, Manju Rana, showered praise on Pal for bringing laurels to the institution. Meanwhile, Ravija Chandel, a student of City Montessori School, Lucknow cleared the exam with 99.963 percentile. She said the NTA’s decision to hold JEE (Mains) four times will allow students with ample opportunities to better their prospects. Ravija wants to pursue the computer science engineering stream. Her father, Anand Kumar Singh, is a lawyer and mother, Dr Sudha Singh, a medical practitioner. Yashasvi Tripathi brought laurels to the city with 99.803 percentile.Six candidates got 100 percentile in the February 2021 exam. They are: Saket Jha of Rajasthan, Pravar Kataria of Delhi, Ranjim Prabal Das of Delhi, Guramit Singh of Chandigarh, Siddhant Mukherjee of Maharashtra and Ananth Krishna Kidambi of Gujarat. The JEE (Mains) examination for B.E./B.Tech was conducted by NTA from February 24 to 26. A total of 6.52 lakh candidates were registered for paper 1 (BE/B Tech) in this examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/jee-mains-ghaziabad-girl-emerges-topper-in-up-101615317263874.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Gangster Ravi Pujari’s police custody extended till March 15||The special Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) court on Tuesday extended the police custody of gangster Ravi Pujari till March 15 after he pleaded for an extension of his remand, claiming that he wanted to share more information with the police.Pujari was produced before the special MCOCA court on Tuesday morning after his custody period expired. Pujari is arrested by Mumbai Police in connection with a case of firing outside the Gajalee Hotel, on October 22, 2016, in Vile Parle.The public prosecutor Sunil Gonsalves sought his further custody claiming that they needed to confront Pujari with several facts. The prosecution claimed that his confession statement has been recorded and the investigating officer needs to question him on his statement. Meanwhile, the plea was objected by Pujari’s lawyer DS Manerkar.After hearing both the side when the court was to pass an order, Pujari stepped into the witness box to make submissions before the court. To everyone’s surprise, Pujari pleaded the court to send him to police custody for five more days has he wanted to reveal more information.After hearing the prosecution and Pujari, the court extended his custody till March 15. Pujari was brought to Mumbai from Bengaluru on February 22 in connection with the 2016 firing case. As per the prosecution, a few men of Pujari’s gang fired at the complainant to intimidate the hotel owner. They allegedly gave the owner Pujari’s contact details, threatening to kill him if he didn’t call the gangster.Last year in November, the Mumbai Police did not get the custody of gangster Ravi Pujari from Bengaluru court as Pujari’s defence lawyer claimed that the Senegal authority had not permitted any cases registered by Mumbai Police against Pujari. The Senegal court extradited Pujari to India only in one case, which was registered in Karnataka in February 2020.The Mumbai crime branch had then approached Senegal court through the ministry of external affairs (MEA) again in January 2021 and sent details of 10 cases that were approved by the Senegal court last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-gangster-ravi-pujari-s-police-custody-extended-till-march-15-101615317085097.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||Mansukh Hiran death: Fadnavis demands cop’s arrest||Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday demanded the arrest of a police officer Sachin Vaze in connection with the death of Mansukh Hiran, an auto parts dealer linked to the SUV found parked outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence on February 25 with 20 sticks of gelatin and a threatening letter. Fadnavis’s comments in the Maharashtra assembly caused uproar among the legislators, who traded accusations and brought up other unrelated cases, including the death by suicide of Dadra Nagar Haveli parliamentarian Mohan Delkar in Mumbai last month, leading deputy speaker Narhari Zirwal to adjourn the penultimate day of the House in session several times. Later in the day, state home minister Anil Deshmukh announced that a special investigation team (SIT) will be formed to probe Delkar’s death by suicide. In a note, Delkar referred to an administrator of the Union Territory who had been a minister in a BJP-led government in Gujarat. Fadnavis accused the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of shielding Vaze and called for his arrest under section 201 of Indian Penal Code, which pertains to causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information. Fadnavis referred to the statement that Hiran’s wife, Vimla, 43, had given to the Maharashtra Anti Terrorism Squad (ATS) after her husband’s body was found washed up in a creek in Thane district neighbouring Mumbai on March 5, hours after his family had reported him missing since the previous night. In the statement reviewed by HT, Vimla stated that she was sure that her husband was murdered, and assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, who heads the crime intelligence unit (CIU) of the Mumbai police crime branch, and was known to Hiran, may have committed it. “In her statement, Mansukh Hiran’s wife has said that the car found outside Antilia, industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s South Mumbai residence, was in possession of Sachin Vaze from November 20 last year. The car was given to him for use as Hiren knew Vaze who was the former’s customer. The vehicle was with Vaze before it was returned to Hiren after four months,” Fadnavis said on Tuesday. On March 7, the ATS registered a case of murder of the 48-year-old Thane businessman against unknown persons based on Vimla’s statement. “She had said her husband was with Vaze on February 27, 28 and March 2. The complaint letter (of Hiran) addressed to the chief minister, home minister and police commissioners of Mumbai and Thane which surfaced in public after his death, was written on the instructions of Vaze,” Fadnavis said. Hiran wrote the letter on March 2, after sustained interrogation by several police officers starting February 25. Fadnavis said Hiran’s wife also claimed in her statement that her husband had told her that Vaze had asked him to get himself arrested and he would ensure his bail in a few days. “On April 4, Mansukh told his brother Vinod to speak to a lawyer for anticipatory bail as he might be arrested. But, the lawyer said anticipatory bail will not be accepted as Mansukh is not an accused,” Fadnavis said. Vaze did not respond to several calls and messages seeking his response to the allegations made by Vimla and the former chief minister. Fadnavis further claimed that Hiran’s last location was found with Dhananjay Vithal Gawde, against whom an FIR was lodged in 2017 for seeking a ransom of ₹40 lakh. The other person who was mentioned in the FIR is Sachin Vaze, Fadnavis said. “The last location of Hiren before his death was at Gawade’s office in Thane, 40-km away from the creek where the body was found. The Anti-Terrorism Squad has been investigation case of murder, but Vaze should first be arrested under section 201 of Indian Penal Code,” Fadnavis said. “I deny of any involvement with Sachin Vaze or Mansukh Hiran,” Dhananjay Gawde, a former Shiv Sena corporator in Vasai, said. “I closed my old office two years ago so how can anyone say that the location [of the body] was near my office,” Gawde, who was later expelled from the party, added. Vimla’s statement The days leading up to Hiran’s mysterious death saw him cooperate with various police officers investigating this matter, Vimla told the ATS investigators. The vehicle belonged to a certain Dr Peter Newton who was known to her deceased husband. The SUV – a Scorpio -- was in possession of the Hirans for the past three years. Hiran, who knew Vaze well, lent him the Scorpio in November 2020. Vaze’s driver dropped off the car at Hiran’s shop in Thane, on February 5, 2021. On February 17, at around 6.30pm, Hiran took the vehicle heading towards south Mumbai, the statement read. However, its steering was not smooth which prompted Hiran to park the car on the side of the road, and proceed further by a taxi. The following day, the statement added, Hiran took a mechanic with him to bring the vehicle back. However, when he reached the spot, he found that the car had been stolen following which he lodged a complaint with Vikroli police station. “On February 25, an ATS official named Salvi called my husband and asked him to meet him in the building compound. My husband and son went down and met Salvi, who showed them a picture on his phone of an SUV found near Ambani’s house. My husband identified the vehicle and also informed him that he had filed a complaint with the Vikroli police station that it had been stolen. He also showed the FIR copy to him,” Vimla’s statement read. The same night ATS officer Shivaji Chavan visited their residence and and took Hiran to the Vikroli ATS unit. There, he was shown some CCTV footage. He was brought back to his house at 6.30am on February 26, the statement added. For three days, Hiran was called for questioning by the Mumbai police crime branch and he had told his wife that Vaze had been with him throughout, the statement said. On March 2, Hiran wrote a letter to various authorities complaining that he was being harassed by police of various units and police stations and a particular media person, who kept calling repeatedly. Vimla said that she had asked him if he had been tortured, which Hiran denied.The following day, Hiran told her that Vaze had advised him to get arrested in case and he would be out on bail within a few days, the statement read. On March 4, Vimala said that her husband returned from his shop at 8.30pm and told her that he was going to meet a police officer named Tawade, somewhere along Ghodbunder Road. Vimala told the investigating team that when she tried calling her husband at 11pm, his mobile phone was switched off. Later at night, her son spoke to Hiran’s brother, Vinod to inform him that Hiran had not returned home. Vinod called Vaze, who reportedly expressed surprise at the meeting and informed Vinod that Hiran had not mentioned that he was going to meet Tawde. The following morning, Hiran’s son Meet and Vinod lodged a missing person’s report at Naupada police station. Hiran’s body was discovered later in the afternoon, and Vinod went to identify it at Kalwa hospital in Mumbra. Hiran’s body was found in a creek at Mumbra and when police removed it, five to six handkerchiefs were stuffed in his mouth, and the mouth was covered by a scarf. Vimala claimed that her husband was a good swimmer and could not have died by drowning. “Taking into consideration all the above circumstances, I am sure that my husband was murdered,” the last few lines of the statement read. “I suspect Sachin Vaze could have committed the said murder.” Shiv Sena leader and parliamentary affairs minister Anil Parab demanded action in Delkar’s suicide in response to Fadnavis’s accusation. Parab said that Delkar mentioned administrator of the Union Territory Praful Kheda Patel in his suicide note. Patel was earlier a minister in the Narendra Modi-led cabinet in Gujarat. Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh later announced that a Special Investigation Team (SIT) would probe Delkar’s suicide. The Union government on Monday asked the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to take over the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mansukh-hiran-death-fadnavis-demands-cop-s-arrest-101615317083974.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||Submit report on impact of construction on Banganga tank: Bombay HC||After the Bombay high court (HC) had permitted two developers to continue the piling and construction activity around the Banganga tank last week, the court on Tuesday directed the Central groundwater board to be made party to the petition filed by the trust opposing the piling and construction work. The court has issued directions to study the impact of the construction activity on the spring water, which flows into the tank, to ensure that the supply does not dry up, and the grade I heritage structure should not become dead. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the petition filed by the Temple Trust of Walkeshwar temple and Banganga tank, was informed that as per the directions of the bench last week a survey had been done of the water in the tank while construction activity was on and a sample of the water was also brought before the court. After hearing the apprehension of the trust, through the petition that the state-protected grade I heritage structure was under threat due to the piling and construction activity undertaken close to the temple and tank premise. The petition had alleged that there was water contamination which caused an imminent threat to the water springs. The court had stayed the construction and asked the director of archaeology and museums to conduct a survey to verify the allegations. After the report said that the allegations were incorrect, piling and construction work was allowed to restart. Another survey was ordered, while the work was in progress. However, on Tuesday, after the report was submitted, the petitioner still had grievances that the directorate of archaeology and museums and the Geological Survey of India, were not the proper authorities to survey and comment on the potential damage to the lake due to the piling and construction work. The bench took cognizance and observed, “These are natural springs by virtue of which Banganga lake survives. It’s acknowledged that some activity is affecting natural springs. Now the direction of the spring is to be studied. Also, will Banganga become a dead monument if complete water supply is gone? It is a serious issue. It should be studied by an authority which deals with spring water/deep water study,” said justice Kulkarni. He added that the underground report submitted by the state government, based on the finding of geologists, was insufficient. Thereafter the chief justice asked the petitioner to add the Central Groundwater Board as a party to the petition and posted the hearing to Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/submit-report-on-impact-of-construction-on-banganga-tank-bombay-hc-101615316964469.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||No coercive action against Usmani during interrogation: State assures Bombay HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday directed Sharjeel Usmani, the former student leader of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), who is booked for making a provocative speech during the Elgar Parishad conference at Pune, to add Pradeep Gawade - the complainant, as a party to the petition and also asked Usmani to attend the police station for interrogation. The court has posted the hearing of the petition to March 15.The directions were issued after the police orally assured the court that no coercive action would be taken against Usmani when he attends the police station.A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing Usmani’s petition seeking quashing of the first information report (FIR) filed against him by the Swargate police station on February 2 for the alleged provocative speech, was informed by senior advocate Mihir Desai that the complaint was frivolous. He said some of his client’s statement was being taken out of context to show that he was inciting people and creating enmity between different communities.Desai further submitted that while the petition sought quashing of the FIR and proceedings arising out of it, protection was also sought against coercive action while attending the police station where he has been called for interrogation. Desai said that Usmani was willing to cooperate and attend the police station, but he must be provided protection, lest he be arrested. Before the bench or police could respond, advocate Aniket Nikam sought permission to intervene in the petition on behalf of Gawade, the regional secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Yuwa Morcha (BJYM), the student wing of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) who had given a letter to Swargate police station alleging that Usmani’s speech was against the Hindu community and aimed at creating animosity between communities. Usmani was thereafter booked under section 153 (A) of the Indian Penal Code.On its part, the state through additional public prosecutor JP Yagnik informed the court that Usmani had been called for initial interrogation and also gave an oral assurance that under the notice issued to Usmani, the police could not take coercive action, hence the apprehension of Usmani of being arrested on attending the police station was unfounded. After hearing the submissions, the HC directed Usmani to add Gawade as a party to the petition and also directed him to attend the police station and posted the petition for hearing on Monday, March 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-coercive-action-against-usmani-during-interrogation-state-assures-bombay-hc-101615316784334.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||No lockdown or night curfew for now, says Mumbai civic chief||Amid the recent surge in Covid-19 cases and consequent tightening of norms to contain the spread in Mumbai, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Tuesday said no new lockdown measures will be announced in Mumbai and also no night curfew, as of now.This was after Chahal’s review meeting with Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday evening. Chahal told HT: “No new lockdown measures are introduced in Mumbai. There are no micro containment zones in Mumbai.” Also, in a significant development, the civic body has also allowed vaccination centres in the city to work 24x7 and even on Sundays. Meanwhile, there has been a substantial increase in the number of sealed buildings in the city, in view of the spike in infections since the first week of February. According to its protocol, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has been sealing buildings with more than five cases and floors of buildings that house a single case. A senior civic official said, “BMC has already reduced containment zones to prevent inconvenience to the people. It is sealing one entire building, or just a single floor of a building on the basis of our protocol.” As of March 8, Mumbai has 21 containment zones, and 214 sealed buildings. In the past week, this figure has substantially increased. On February 28, Mumbai had 12 containment zones, and 137 sealed buildings. According to BMC’s press note of February 18, however, there are 57 containment zones and 258 sealed buildings in the city.On Monday, Thackeray had asked district and city administrations to earmark micro containment zones. He also directed that areas that are most affected and have a high positivity rate should increase tracing to 30 people per infection. A containment zone is an earmarked area that has a high Covid-19 positivity rate or presence of large number of cases. The number of cases needed to earmark an area as containment zone depends on the density of population. In a city like Mumbai, an area can become containment zone if four-five cases are found. An entire building can become a containment zone and hence sealed, preventing movement of people. A micro containment zone is relatively smaller in area or in places like Mumbai it could just be a floor instead of an entire building. Micro zones are suggested to minimise inconvenience to people and for better management of containment measures as movement can be restricted effectively to check spread of the epidemic.In Mumbai, containment zones are typically slums or chawls, which do not have a compound or gate to seclude them naturally from the rest of the area. In case of high-rise buildings or gated communities, buildings are sealed.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, in-charge of BMC’s public health department, said, “Our containment zone and sealed building policy is as good as micro-containment zoning. In such cases, no one is allowed to enter to exit a sealed building. Essential goods can be left at the gate of the building.” In case of sealed buildings, it is the job of the secretary of the housing society to ensure everyone follows containment rules. Regarding the CM’s directions of increasing the number of contacts traced per positive patient to 30, Kakani said, “We are in fact doing more and exploring other options in contact tracing as well. When we come across a case, we go back 15 days to see where all the person went, whom he or she met, if he or she attended any function or ceremony. This way it becomes easier to trace the source of the infection.” As per data available on Monday, within 24 hours leading to Sunday evening, BMC traced over 6,000 high-risk contacts. Presently, BMC traces up to 25 high-risk contacts per Covid-19 patient.On February 18, at a meeting with top civic officers, including deputy municipal commissioners in charge of the zones in Mumbai and assistant commissioners in charge of wards, Chahal directed the administration to tighten containment and quarantine measures in the city. Following this, the number of sealed buildings and containment zones increased.Among these measures, were hand stamping of high-risk contacts, so that they can be easily identified should they break home quarantine rules; reverting to the older practice of sealing an entire building if more than five cases are found in them; and increasing the number of contacts traced per patient to 25, from the earlier 15 or 16. BMC also filed police complaints against anyone who broke home quarantine rules, which can result in a jail term up to 6 months or fine, or both.A senior civic official said, “We still have a larger number of cases from buildings than from slums. Moreover, we are able to seal one building, even in a gated community of say eight or nine buildings. Hence the number of sealed buildings is more than containment zones.”When a building is sealed, no resident can exit it during the duration of its containment, which is usually 14 days from the time five cases or more are discovered in the building. No visitor can enter the building either. Essential workers and frontline workers who are residents of the building can take permission from the ward officer to report to work every day. Essential commodities can be supplied by relatives or vendors at the gate of the building.In case a floor is sealed, residents of the remaining floors of the building can exit the building, but no one is allowed to enter the floor. High-risk or close contacts of Covid-19 patients have to be under home quarantine. Other residents of the floor do not have strict restrictions on mobility.An assistant commissioner who did not wish to be named said, “In case of containment zones, of slums, it is becoming increasingly difficult to manage mobility. It was easier during lockdown. Now with the entire city unlocked, and in slums that have multiple entry exit points, it is not possible to ensure strict quarantine.” BMC institutionally quarantines a large number of high-risk contacts from slums. During the February 18 meeting, Chahal also directed the administration to increase the number of Covid Care Centres (CCC1) by reactivating dormant CCC1s to quarantine high-risk contacts of patients, to at least one centre per ward.Vishwas Shankarwar, deputy municipal commissioner in charge of north-west Mumbai, said, “We mark lanes that lead out of containment zones, typically slums, and we shut the entry with bamboos or tin sheets. The security aspect of this is managed by the police, who station policemen at entry or exit points. Containment zones are demarcated if we see a large cluster of cases being reported from a single area.”The BMC has now given blanket permission to all vaccination centres in the city to operate 24X7 and even operate on Sundays, according to Kakani. He said, “It is their call to operate 24X7, depending on resources available. But we have intimated all hospitals to do so.” Presently there are 68 active vaccination centres in the city. Kakani said, “15 more private hospitals are being added to the list of vaccination centres to increase our capacity. They can start the centres from Wednesday itself.” Meanwhile, a day after announcing lockdown in hotspots, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has backtracked and said there will be no complete restriction on movement and all facilities as per the state government’s “Mission Begin Again”, will continue as before. Only a few restrictions will be imposed in these containment areas as per government guidelines. The corporation is also making a list of micro containment zones based on guidelines from the state. (with inputs from Ankita G Menon)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-lockdown-or-night-curfew-for-now-says-mumbai-civic-chief-101615316724815.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Fadnavis demands Vaze’s arrest; MVA govt announces SIT probe in Delkar suicide case||Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday raised suspicion over the role of police officer Sachin Vaze in businessman Mansukh Hiran’s death case and demanded his arrest. This led to an uproar in the state assembly.From the treasury benches, Shiv Sena and Congress demanded the arrest of those involved in Dadra and Nagar Haveli’s member of Parliament (MP) Mohan Delkar’s suicide and accused Fadnavis of hushing up Anway Naik suicide case when he was at the helm of the state.Meanwhile, Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh announced that a special investigation team (SIT) will probe the Delkar suicide case.Fadnavis, while raising the issue in the state assembly, alleged that Hiran was murdered in a car and his body was thrown in Thane creek last week and Vaze should be immediately arrested under section 201 of the Indian Penal Code for his involvement in it. Fadnavis accused the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi of shielding Vaze by not initiating action against him.“In her statement to the police, Mansukh Hiran’s wife has said that the car found outside Antilia, industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s south Mumbai residence, was in possession of Sachin Vaze from November 20, last year. The car was given to him for use as Hiran knew Vaze, who was the former’s customer. The vehicle was with Vaze before it was returned to Hiran after four months,” he said.Fadnavis said that Vaze and one Dhananjay Gawade were named in an FIR lodged for extortion in 2017. “The anti-terrorism squad has been investigating the case of murder, but Vaze should first be arrested under section 201 of the Indian Penal Code,” said Fadnavis.Vaze was the investigation officer in the case being probed by the Mumbai crime branch after the vehicle was found abandoned outside Ambani’s house. It had some sticks of gelatine, an explosive.Fadnavis also said that according to the statement, Vaze had asked Hiran to get arrested in the case which was being investigated by the Mumbai crime branch. “The letter submitted to the chief minister, home minister and police commissioner of Mumbai by Hiran was written on behest of Vaze,” alleged Fadnavis.Hiran’s body was found near Retibunder area in Thane creek last Friday hours after he went missing. Hiran, a Thane businessman, was the owner of the vehicle found outside Ambani’s residence in Mumbai two weeks ago. In response to the allegations by Fadnavis, Shiv Sena leader and parliamentary affairs minister Anil Parab demanded action in Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar’s suicide in Mumbai two weeks ago. Parab said Delkar had named the union territory’s administrator in his suicide note, despite which, no arrest has been made so far. Congress’s Nana Patole said that Delkar, who was found dead in a south Mumbai hotel on February 22, has held the administrator of the union territory responsible for his suicide in a note left behind.Shiv Sena member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) and former minister Bhaskar Jadhav accused Fadnavis of hushing up the Anway Naik case when the latter was chief minister and home minister. “Vaze is being targeted because he was in the team which arrested Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami for the alleged involvement in Anway Naik case. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) does not want Vaze to remain in the investigation team, hence the pressure is being mounted for his suspension. Fadnavis had hushed up the Naik suicide case,” he alleged.Naik died by suicide in 2018, holding Goswami and the other two responsible for non-payment of the interior design work allotted to his firm.Fadnavis told reporters outside the house that the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government was worried that Vaze might disclose links to some people in the government if he was grilled. He also said there is one more officer from the anti-extortion cell involved in the entire case. He added that one more vehicle used in the case is missing and he would soon reveal more details. “After we raised the issue in the lower house, state home minister admitted during our meeting in the presence of deputy speaker Narhari Zirwal to suspend Vaze. However, the latter chief minister intervened and the decision was changed,” he said.Responding to allegations in the Hiran case, home minister Anil Deshmukh told the assembly that the ATS (which is probing the case) will investigate the case thoroughly. “Nobody will be spared if found guilty in the case,” he insisted.In response to the accusation of suppressing the Anway Naik case, Fadnavis dared the state government with his inquiry in Naik case. He said that the government should not threaten him just because he raised questions over Vaze’s involvement in the Hiran case. Fadnavis also raised questions over Vaze’s reinstatement in the police force. The officer was suspended from the force in March 2003, on charges of the alleged custodial death of Khwaja Yunus, a suspect in the December 2002 Ghatkopar bomb blast case. In June 2020, the MVA government reinstated him in the force.Meanwhile, Deshmukh also announced an SIT to probe Mohan Delkar’s suicide. He said that the family members of Delkar will be given necessary protection.The announcement of the SIT was made by the home minister in Assembly after the opposition raised the issue of police officer Sachin Vaze’s alleged involvement in Mansukh Hiren’s death case. Deshmukh said in the lower house that in his suicide note, Delkar had named Dadra and Nagar Haveli’s administrator responsible for his suicide and chose Mumbai to take the drastic step as he was sure that he will get justice in Maharashtra. Deshmukh said that Delkar’s wife Kalaben and son Abhinav met him and sought thourugh investigation. Kalaben and Abhinav also met chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and home minister Anil Deshmukh at Vidhan Bhavan on Tuesday. Abhinav alleged that public humiliation, harassment by administrator and administration in Dadra and Nagar Haveli forced his father to take extreme step. Deshmukh said that police will ensure protection to Delkar family.Delkar found dead in a south Mumbai hotel on February 22. Pandemonium in the house led to eight adjournments and was later adjourned for the day after opposition continued to raise demand for the suspension of Vaze. Inputs by Faisal Malik||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtrafadnavis-demands-vaze-s-arrest-mva-govt-announces-sit-probe-in-delkar-suicide-case-101615316664411.html
10-03-2021||Lucknow||On Kanshi Ram’s anniv, BSP to hold events across UP||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) has decided to use the occasion of birth anniversary of founder Kanshi Ram on March 15 to activate the cadre for the 2022 assembly election.BSP chief Mayawati on Tuesday directed the office-bearers and workers to celebrate the birth anniversary of Kanshi Ram in all districts.The main function will be organised at Kanshi Ram memorial in Lucknow.The BSP workers will gather in strength to pay tribute to the founder at events to be organised in all 403 assembly segments as well.The party leaders and in-charge of the assembly seats will address meetings to enlighten the party workers about the policies of the BSP and views of Kanshi Ram, said a senior BSP leader.A meeting of the office-bearers was held under the chairmanship of Mayawati to review the preparation for the panchayat elections on Tuesday.Mayawati directed the chief sector in-charges to release the name of the zila panchayat candidates after approval from the party. After the panchayat election, the party will start preparations for the assembly election. The party organisation should be strengthened from the district to the booth level, she said.BSP chief was camping in Delhi since March last year after the central government announced lockdown to fight Covid pandemic. She arrived in Lucknow in February first week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/on-kanshi-ram-s-anniv-bsp-to-hold-events-across-up-101615316603721.html
10-03-2021||Lucknow||No substitute for development, says Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday targeted the Congress for neglecting the Bundelkhand region and said instead of working for welfare of the poor, the party caused hindrance in the construction of Ram temple. “The Congress ruled the state for nearly 55 years. It did not work for development of villages and the poor. It also did not take ahead the development projects and instead caused hindrances in the way of construction of Ram temple,” said Yogi while addressing a public meeting at Lalitpur. At Jhansi too, the chief minister referred to the Congress without naming the party, saying when his government was fighting the Covid-19 pandemic, he was being given fake numbers of buses. The Congress party had offered 1000 buses to the state government to carry the migrant labourers to their native places. Yogi, who earlier reviewed progress of Bundelkhand Expressway at Jalaun and later addressed two public meetings at Lalitpur and Jhansi, said there was no substitute for development. He said his government had given in principle approval for an airport at Lalitpur that would enable the people to fly to New Delhi in an hour and Mumbai or Bangkok in two hours. “Besides laying a network of roads, we are also giving an airport to Lalitpur. We have given in principle approval to the project. Now, you will be able to travel to New Delhi in an hour and to Mumbai or Bangkok in two hours. A medical college is also coming up here. I can see the enthusiasm you have. We will make Bundelkhand a heaven,” he said. Once the Bundelkhand expressway is constructed, it would go a long way in ensuring socio-economic development of the area that had been neglected for decades, he claimed.At Jhansi, Yogi said he had laid foundation stones of projects worth ₹500 crore and launched projects of ₹1100 crore. If projects involving such a large amount had been brought to the Bundelkhand, the region would have been a heaven by now, he said. He also referred to the valour of Jhansi Ki Rani and said the people were not able to visit the region due to poor connectivity. He said the state government was working to provide better road and air connectivity and the upcoming defence corridor project would bring the region into focus. “The fighter planes to be manufactured at the defence corridor would demolish the enemy,” he said. Listing projects launched by his government for development of the region, he said the poor could not get their basic facilities that were like a dream for the poor. He said the state and central government were now providing these facilities. He said the government proposed to provide insurance of ₹2 lakh and health cover of ₹5 lakh to the poor. He said this would ensure that those who move out for work in India and abroad would get the insurance cover there too. Earlier, the chief minister reviewed the progress of Bundelkhand Expressway and enquired about the pace of implementation and steps taken to ensure quality. Additional chief secretary (Home) and CEO UPEIDA Avnish Kumar Awasthi informed the chief minister that the Covid-19 pandemic did not have any impact on the project that was being implemented ahead of the schedule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-substitute-for-development-says-yogi-101615316483779.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||No lockdown, only a few curbs: Thane civic body||A day after announcing a lockdown in hotspots, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) backtracked and claimed there will be no complete restriction on movement and the facilities opened up as per the state government’s Mission Begin Again will continue as before. Only a few restrictions will be imposed in these containment areas as per the state government’s guidelines. The corporation is also making a list of micro containment zones based on the guidelines from the state. On Monday night, the civic body announced a list of 16 hotspot zones, most of which include high-rises in Majiwada-Manpada ward. Moreover, plush societies from all other wards except Diva and Mumbra are part of the hotspot list. The notice claimed there will be lockdown in these zones till March 31, which led to panic among residents who believed there will be restriction on movement and other curbs. The TMC though clarified the notice was merely to make people aware about the containment zones in the city and ensure all Covid protocols are followed strictly, said TMC officials. The TMC has appealed to residents to not panic or believe in rumours, as they will continue to get all basic facilities and can step out for essentials as well. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, Thane, said, “There is no complete lockdown anywhere in the city, people should not believe such rumours. There will be restrictions only in micro containment zones, apart from that there will not be any lockdown. We are currently preparing a list of areas where there is an increased number of cases; these will include a floor or wing of any building.” Sharon Abrol, 38, resident of Hiranandani Meadows, said, “We got calls and messages from relatives and friends regarding the lockdown in the city. Our society was also among the hotspot areas listed by the civic body, however, we had no idea if the lockdown meant that we would get our regular supply of groceries and milk. Also, my husband goes to work every alternate day and we had no idea if he could continue to do so. The clarification issued has put us at ease.” G. Mohiuddin Jeddy, Navi Mumbai The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation has ordered curbs in the city to control the spread of the virus. Municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar on Tuesday ordered all restaurants will now shut at 11pm, while shops will down shutters at 10pm. Restaurants in Navi Mumbai were earlier allowed to remain open until 1am, while shops till 11pm. Cases in Navi Mumbai that had dropped considerably in the past couple of months have been showing an upward trend with over 100 cases being reported daily. Bangar said, “I have ordered all canteens, restaurants, café, dining halls among others to operate at 50% capacity only till 11pm. All malls, including shops, will be allowed to remain open till 10pm. We will strictly implement the orders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-lockdown-only-a-few-curbs-thane-civic-body-101615316184462.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||Three of Khar family booked for forging Covid report to take a flight to Rajasthan||The Khar police have booked three members of a Khar family, including a minor, who had tested positive for Covid-19, but allegedly forged a Covid report, claiming they all were negative, in order to travel to Jaipur.Police said the accused Lakhmichand Thavani, 53, is a 15th Khar Road resident. Thavani, his wife, Leena, 51 and their 15-year-old daughter wanted to travel to Jaipur on February 27. “As per the rules, they could travel only if they tested negative for Covid. Hence, the family underwent testing through a private lab on February 26. Their report came positive on the morning of February 27,” said a Khar police official.As the family wanted to catch a 9am flight to Jaipur, they didn’t disclose the findings of the report to anyone and left for the airport. But as the private lab had already intimated the concerned BMC officials, a civic doctor called Thavani for assistance. However, Thavani told the doctor that his family has already left for airport as they all tested negative for Covid. When the doctor asked him to send the report, Thavani allegedly sent him a forged report that showed all three family members Covid-19 negative, another officer said.By the time Thavani reached outside the airport, the BMC doctor informed him that they already received original report from the private lab and warned the family from traveling.The family returned home and was directed to remain in home quarantine. After conducting an inquiry, the BMC official on Tuesday approached the Khar police station. On their complaint, the police lodged an FIR under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease danger¬ous to life), 465 (forgery) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the Indian Penal Code. Senior inspector of Khar Gajanan Kabdule said they would arrest the accused after their quarantine period is over and they test negative for Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/three-of-khar-family-booked-for-forging-covid-report-to-take-a-flight-to-rajasthan-101615316063820.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra districts asked to ramp up measures to curb Covid surge||With the number of cases of Covid-19 increasing in the state, district administrations have been asked to implement measures to control the surge. These include identifying micro-containment zones; increased contact-tracing; and not allowing any large gatherings, which includes weddings as well as political and religious events. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is expected to address citizens this week. On Tuesday, Maharashtra recorded 9,927 cases of Covid-19 and 56 fatalities, taking the Covid tally to 22,38,398. Of these, 95,322 are active cases. There were 12,182 recoveries on Tuesday. The total death toll stands at 52,556. Mumbai recorded 1,012 new cases of Covid-19 and two deaths on Tuesday. The city’s Covid tally is 3,35,595 cases and the total number of deaths from Covid is 11,510. Mumbai guardian minister Aslam Shaikh said the possibility of imposing partial lockdown or night curfew in the city could not be ruled out. Local authorities have been empowered to take a decision on enforcing a lockdown as and when necessary, he said. “If numbers continue to rise the same way then there is a possibility of night clubs being closed down first in the city. We cannot deny the possibility of a night curfew or partial lockdown if this continues. We are fining people for not wearing masks. We may have to shut places like beaches and Gateway of India where people gather in the evenings. People need to take precautions,” said Shaikh. On Monday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had held a meeting with the state’s task force and district collectors. The task force has also asked the state to ramp up vaccination drive and consider door-to-door services. Thackeray may address citizens later this week. Officials said Maharashtra has around 70 pockets with positivity rates that are higher than their neighbouring areas, officials said. “Districts have been asked to increase contact tracing to 30 people in these specific pockets,” a state official said. On Tuesday, Thane district released a list of 16 zones where lockdown will be in place till March 31. Thane Municipal Corporation has announced limited lockdown in micro-containment zones in 16 hotspots, which include prominent areas like Hiranandani Estate, Srinagar, Runwal Garden city, Balkum and Shivai Nagar. On Tuesday, Thane city and Pune city reported 210 cases and 1,110 cases of Covid-19 respectively. Last week, Pune Municipal Corporation had identified containment zones in areas like Hadapsar-Mundwa, Bhavanipeth and Kotrud. Jalgaon district administration announced a janata curfew between March 12 and March 15. District collector Abhijit Raut said only essential services will be allowed to function during this period. Jalgaon has reported over 400 cases daily for the past three days. On Tuesday, Jalgaon (city and rural) recorded 761 cases. In the past month, lockdown has been enforced in Akola and Amravati districts, while weekend lockdowns were in place in Aurangabad and Nagpur districts. Some districts also imposed night curfews to restrict movement. So far, there are no restrictions on inter-district movement. Jitendra Papalkar, district collector of Akola, said, “The state machinery has been asked to make sure Covid protocol is strictly adhered to. While these measures have been in place over the year, all districts have been asked to ramp it up.” Even districts that are not seeing as sharp a spike in cases are exercising precautions. Nidhi Chaudhary, district collector of Raigad, said, “While cases in Raigad have not increased as much as compared to Jalna, Akola or Amravati, we have been asked to not permit any big gatherings.” Chaudhary said that those eligible for vaccination in containment zones will be permitted to visit the nearest centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-districts-asked-to-ramp-up-measures-to-curb-covid-surge-101615316004370.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||Indian Ocean humpback dolphin washes ashore Bandra||MumbaiAn Indian Ocean humpback dolphin that washed ashore in Bandra was reported to the forest department (mangrove cell) late on Monday night, by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s disaster management cell. The dolphin was found dead and subsequently buried at an undisclosed location soon after it was retrieved from the Carter Road promenade around midnight. Officials in the mangrove cell said this is the second such incident reported this year in Mumbai. In January, a dead dolphin had washed up at Bandra Bandstand. Though unable to provide official data, deputy conservator of forests (mangrove cell) Neenu Somraj said, “We see between 40 to 50 marine wildlife deaths annually and they are dominated by sea turtles. Dolphins are much fewer, definitely not more than 10 each year. We believe they are mainly natural deaths. They live in shallow, coastal waters and the carcasses sometimes end up on our beaches.” They usually wash up on the shoreline between Bandra and Versova, said S Deshpande, the mangrove cell’s range forest officer in the western suburbs. Since the Indian Ocean humpback is a schedule I species, an autopsy is mandatory unless the carcass is extremely decomposed. “As with most cases, the carcass we found on Monday night was already very putrefied and cause of death could not be established. There were no grievous injuries or signs of struggle on the animal,” said Deshpande. Protected under schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, and categorised as endangered by the International Union for Conservation of Nature, the Indian Ocean humpback dolphins have sporadic distribution and are found in localised areas, mainly in shallow waters, close to the shore (less than 20 metres deep; less than 1.5km from the shore; and around river mouths or estuaries), according to the Marine Mammal Research and Conservation Network of India. This dolphin species feeds primarily on fish including mackerel, mullet, sardines and pomfret. Experts said deaths of Indian Ocean humpback dolphins around Mumbai are frequent and sightings of carcasses have been on the rise. E Vivekandan, former chief scientist and national consultant, Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute. said, “I would say that over the past two or three years, the number of deaths reported is increasing not just from Mumbai, but also places further down the coast, like Kochi. This may be because there are simply more eyes on the ground, but we cannot rule out other causes. Ideally, we should be collecting data from autopsies to know why these animals are dying. A coordinated effort is needed so that their deaths are reported more quickly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/indian-ocean-humpback-dolphin-washes-ashore-bandra-101615315944320.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||India, UK scientists form consortium to solve environment problems||Scientists from India and the United Kingdom (UK) have formed the Innovation and Sustainability Chemistry Consortium, which aims to bring together scientists from both countries to solve challenging sustainability problems pertaining to the environment or industries. The consortium aims to start taking up projects from April this year. On February 26, led by the Institute of Chemical Technology (ICT), Mumbai, a consortium of 14 scientists — seven each from India and UK— was officially launched. It has received a seed fund of £100,000 from UK’s department of business energy and industrial safety. Founding member of the consortium and assistant professor at ICT Anant Kapdi said, “The aim of the consortium is to establish research collaborations to tackle fundamental questions with potential commercial applications; promote academia-industry partnerships to solve key problems associated with current chemical process developments, optimisations, environmental remediations; as well as the proliferation of future technologies and conduct outreach programs using virtual reality to spread scientific awareness, encourage mentorship and training of early-career scientists and wider audiences.” The seven scientists from India are from institutes such as the Indian Institutes of Technology, Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune, and Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai. “We are spanning areas such as environment, future technologies, flow chemistry, electrochemistry, sustainable material and technologies, alternative and efficient synthetic pathways. Some of the selected members also have extensive experience collaborating with industries and would be beneficial in creating a conducive environment for promoting more such interactions,” said Kapdi. Kapdi said the consortium expected to be “ completely functional” by April and would take up projects related to challenges associated with academia and industry. “This is a first of its kind in India and would promote a more conducive dialogue between academia and industry. Mentoring the next generation to further proliferate this idea along with the sustainability goals would be achieved as a part of the consortium,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/india-uk-scientists-form-consortium-to-solve-environment-problems-101615315823706.html
10-03-2021||Other||Privatisation of vizag plant: Protests grow as Centre sticks to plan||Hyderabad : Massive protests erupted again in the Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL) in Visakhapatnam, also known as Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), following a statement by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Lok Sabha on Monday that the Centre would go ahead with the privatisation of the steel plant. Following a call given by the Joint Action Committee of trade unions of the steel plant, thousands of workers took to the streets on Monday night and blocked the traffic on the Visakhapatnam-Kolkata national highway (NH-16) till midnight, raising slogans against the Centre for taking a unilateral decision to privatise the steel plant. RINL made a loss of ₹3,910 crore in 2019-20, as per the latest data available. The plant, which makes steel products used primarily in the construction sector employs around 17,000 permanent and 14,000 contractual employees. Later, the workers observed a sit-in protest near the steel plant’s gate at Kurmannapalem through the night. On Tuesday morning, the protestors laid siege to the administrative block of RINL and refused to allow senior officials to enter the premises. They gheraoed Varanasi Venkata Venugopal Rao, director (finance) of RINL Visakhapatnam, held him captive for nearly six hours, and refused to allow him enter the office. They let him go at around 3 pm after the police intervened and the trade union leaders, who held talks with the top management, assured the workers that their demands would be taken up. “We shall intensify our agitation. There is no question of allowing the steel plant to be sold out to the private parties at a throw-away price. It is a question of do-or-die battle for the workers,” said J Ayodhya Ramu, president of Centre for Indian Trade Unions (CITU), the recognised union of the RINL. On Monday, the Union finance minister, replying to questions raised by Visakhapatnam MP M V V Satyanarayana and Araku MP Goddeti Madhavi, asserted that the Centre would go in for 100% disinvestment of Government of India’s shares in Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). The Centre would also withdraw RINL’s stakes in other joint ventures through strategic disinvestment. “While deciding conditions for strategic sale of RINL, concerns of employees and other stakeholders will be suitably addressed through share purchase agreement,’’ she said. Sitharaman also said the Andhra Pradesh government did not have any equity in the RINL, but the Centre was consulting the state government in specific matters as and when needed and would solicit its support in the matters that required its intervention. The privatisation of RINL is part of the government’s effort to divest in stake in state-owned companies. The government hopes to raise ₹1.75 lakh crore from its divestment programme in 2021-22 according to the Union Budget. As the agitation by the steel plant workers began to intensify and with the elections to the Greater Viskahapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) scheduled to be held on Wednesday, the YSR Congress Party government led by chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy quickly began a damage control exercise. On Tuesday morning, the chief minister dashed off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressing grave concern over Sitharaman’s statement in the Lok Sabha. He sought an appointment with the Prime Minister at the earliest, so that he would explain the situation on ground and discuss the alternatives to revive RINL. Jagan also offered to lead an all-party delegation and also take along trade union representatives to Delhi to discuss the issue with the Centre. He said the steel plant would definitely turn profitable, given some support from the Centre by implementing some turnaround measures such as allotting captive iron ore mines to bring down input costs, swapping high-cost debt with low-cost debt, converting debt into equity through equity conversion, and monetization of vacant land. “We, together, can revive the plant for unlocking greater value to the society and in particular to the people of Andhra Pradesh,” Jagan wrote in his letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/privatisation-of-vizag-plant-protests-grow-as-centre-sticks-to-plan-101615315764708.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||ED swung in action only after I changed party: Eknath Khadse to Bombay high court||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday was informed by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Eknath Khadse that the inquiry by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) against him in the Bhosari land deal case was only after he changed the political party. Khadse submitted that while the land deal complaint was registered in 2016 and a closure report was filed in 2018, ED had not been in the picture but came only after he changed party loyalties, hence he was eligible to seek protection against the ED summons. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing Khadse’s petition, was informed by senior advocate Aabad Ponda that there were multiple grounds to prove the maintainability of the petition and he was justified in seeking protection against coercive action by ED officers. While reiterating the argument that there was no option for appealing against summons, hence the writ jurisdiction of the HC was the only avenue for Khadse, Ponda said that as per the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) any person not cooperating with the investigation was liable for arrest. In light of this, Khadse had a valid apprehension of being arrested when he responded to the ED summons as he would not disclose any incriminating material during the interrogation. Ponda then added that as an economic offence case was made out against Khadse and there was no bail for such offenders, hence through the petition, Khadse was seeking recourse before any action was initiated against him. Lastly, on the point of maintainability, Ponda submitted that as Khadse was having multiple health problems and had to be hospitalised regularly. His petition seeking quashing of proceedings arising out of the summons issued by ED and all future summons was valid, and his prayer from protection against coercive action was also valid, Ponda said. While making submissions on the ED action, Ponda submitted that after Khadse shifted loyalties from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to NCP in October 2020, the ED proceedings were set in motion and he was summoned in December 2020. “Till then, ED was not in the picture. While the case was of 2016, the closure report was filed in 2018, ED was not involved. However, in June 2020 the ED filed the Enforcement Case Information Report and after I (Khadse) moved to another political party, the ED summons were issued,” Ponda said, on Khadse’s behalf. Due to paucity of time, additional solicitor-general Anil Singh on behalf of ED, could not argue against the contentions canvassed by Ponda, hence the bench adjourned the hearing till Monday, March 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-swung-in-action-only-after-i-changed-party-eknath-khadse-to-bombay-high-court-101615315764244.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra government looks at redevelopment of slum clusters||The state government on Tuesday it was tapping the possibility of redevelopment of slum clusters in Mumbai through Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) and Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) for quicker development and monetisation of the land. Housing minister Jitendra Awhad told the legislative Assembly that redevelopment through the government agency may help the government earn revenue from these prime plots worth crores. Congress MLAs Zeeshan Siddique and Amin Patel raised the issue of delayed development of the SRA project at Khar Golibar road, claiming it was forcing residents to live in transit camps for years. Other Mumbai MLAs, including Ashish Shelar and Yogesh Sagar, raised questions related to the other SRA projects in the city. They questioned if the residents who have been deprived of their homes can be financially assisted by the SRA and the state was revising the rule related to the sale of the redeveloped flats in such schemes. Replying to the question, Awhad said his department was tapping the possibility of development of the slum projects by Mhada and SRA. “The plots from Bandra to Cuffe Parade are worth crore of rupees. Builders delay projects for years, depriving slumdwellers from rightful homes. We are thinking of developing such plots. This would help the SRA and Mhada earn revenue out of the saleable components after rehabilitating the tenants. I will discuss this with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and state cabinet,” he said. Awhad said the state government had decided to bring down the mandatory period of 10 years for which slum dwellers are prohibited from selling their apartments in redeveloped buildings to five years. “Before we could issue the order, the decision was challenged in the court. By reducing the period, we want to reduce the hardship of the slum dwellers. We have informed the court about our resolve,” he said. Awhad said of the 5,572 eligible slumdwellers at Khar Golibar Road, only 1,944 have been rehabilitated in the redeveloped buildings, while remaining are staying at transit camps for more than 15 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-looks-at-redevelopment-of-slum-clusters-101615315703678.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||Thumbs-up to health infra boost in Maharashtra’s budget||The Maharashtra government’s budget announced on Monday primarily focused on improving the health infrastructure, especially in rural parts, to keep the state prepared to face any possible disease outbreak in the future. The new proposals will add another 3,190 medical seats across colleges. Also, the overall budget allocation for health has been given a boost of 10.25% – ₹19,061 crore, compared to the 2020-21 budget estimates of ₹17,288 crore. As of March 8, over 22lakh people have contracted the Covid-19 infection in the state. As per doctors, the fight against the Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes the novel coronavirus, is not over yet. Taking this into consideration, the state on Tuesday announced plans to build a post-Covid care centre—‘Post Covid Counselling and Treatment Centres’ in every district. “Establishment of the post-Covid care centres across districts is the need-of the hour. Because like other flu and coronavirus, Covid-19 will remain in the air for years to come. So, in the long run, we have to be ready to treat recovered patients with complaints of Pulmonary Fibrosis, long Covid-19 syndrome, among others. Also, there is a need to focus on mental health issues among the recovered patients,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair Hospital. The state officials have decided to set up a ‘modern hospital’ for treatment of infectious diseases like swine flu, Covid-19, among others, on the premises of Aundh district hospital. However, health activists have flagged it stating there is a need to establish such a specialised infectious hospital in all districts, especially in cities like Pune, Mumbai and Nagpur. “When the pandemic started in March last year, Kasturba Hospital, the only hospital to treat infectious patients, had only 150 beds for a population of 2crore. There is a need to strengthen the already existing infrastructure, rather than just adding to the number,” said Dr Abhijit More, attached with NGO— Jan Swasthya Abhiyan. “The infrastructure should also focus on mental health issues, since post COVID patients do grapple with mental health issues. Large parts of rural India and Maharashtra are deprived of these facilities. In addition to this, the current expenditure will be a way ahead,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, Director-Critical Care, Fortis Hospitals, Mumbai and part of the Covid task force. The state announced ₹7,500 crore for construction and upgrade of health infrastructure. “The proposal includes construction of district hospitals, psychiatric hospital, trauma centre, primary health centres and sub-centre, upgrading and construction of taluka level hospitals,” reads the budget speech. Along with that, the government has announced setting up of six new medical colleges in Sindhudurg, Osmanabad, Nashik, Raigad, Satara, Amravati and Parbhani. This will help add 3,190 medical seats across medical colleges. Of these, 1,990 will be undergraduate seats, 1,000 post-graduate seats and 200 for super-specialty. Doctors from the state Covid task force have welcomed the move. Dr Pandit said, “This is a very strong commitment in building infrastructure, providing expertise and necessary facilities in rural areas.” The state is further expanding its program for non-communicable diseases with 150 hospitals across the state to diagnose cancer, and eight CATH labs for emergency angiography procedures for heart patients. Following the fire incident in a hospital in Bhandara in January that killed 10 babies, the state government also announced plans to install fire safety systems in all government hospitals. “It is really encouraging to see the state focus on the overall development of the health infrastructure,” said Dr More.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thumbsup-to-health-infra-boost-in-maha-budget-101615315524276.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ANC arrests Nepalese national with charas worth ₹2.80 crore||Anti-narcotics cell (ANC) of the Mumbai crime branch on Monday arrested a 23-year-old Nepali national, a part of a big drug cartel and allegedly seized charas worth ₹2.80 crore from him at Borivli area.After a preliminary investigation, the ANC officer learnt that the accused, Prabej Mahamjan Ansari, had come to Mumbai two to three times earlier and had delivered charas to drug suppliers in Mumbai and other parts of the country.Deputy commissioner of police Datta Nalawade (ANC) said, “We have identified the drug supplier in Mumbai whom Ansari was supposed to deliver charas and our police team are searching him and will nab him soon”.Ansari is a native of Bara district in Nepal and is a part of a big drug cartel in Nepal and was given the task to deliver drugs in India. He crossed the border around a week ago and came to East Champran district in Bihar. He then boarded the bus for Jaipur in Rajasthan and after reaching there, he boarded another bus for Surat in Gujarat, added Nalawade.After reaching Surat Ansari again took a bus for Mumbai and reached the Borivli area on March 8. He was waiting outside the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) when officials of the Kandivali ANC unit nabbed him on Monday afternoon.“We got a tip-off that a member of the Nepalese gang would be coming to the Borivali area to deliver a huge quantity of drugs to a Mumbai based supplier. As per the information we laid a trap and arrested him on Monday around 1pm. While searching his bag we found 14.56 kilograms of charas worth Rs. 2.80 crore from his possession,” added Nalawade.He was arrested under the charges of the Narcotics Drugs and psychotropic substances (NDPS) Act. He was produced in the court and remanded in police custody till March 14 and further investigation is going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-anc-arrests-nepalese-national-with-charas-worth-2-80-crore-101615315344205.html
10-03-2021||Bangalore||'Shrinking revenues may impact Karnataka’s economy in future as well': Report||A closer look at Karnataka’s financial situation shows that the deepening distress in the state’s economy is likely to continue well into the next fiscal (2022-23), if not more.According to the Medium Term Fiscal Plan 2021-25 (MTFP) the effects of the negative fiscal and revenue deficit will impact the state’s fledgeling finances in the coming year as well.“The Fiscal Management Review Committee (FMRC) states that the current decline in revenue collections has not only weakened the growth prospects of 2020-21 but it will also carry its effects to the next financial year. Hence it will have (a) negative impact on fiscal deficit, revenue deficit and total outstanding liabilities of the state,” according to the MTFP, released along with the state budget.Karnataka is one of India’s most industrious states in the country and is home to its flourishing Information Technology (IT) industry that is estimated to touch $194 billion in the current fiscal, according to Nasscom. Karnataka is also key to Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government's plans to grow into a $5 trillion economy by 2025.Also read: 'Big budget, bigger debts' - Yediyurappa's show of Karnataka's financesThe state is home to some of the world's biggest corporations but a steady decline in share in central taxes, goods and services tax (GST) compensation and meagre allocations for flood and drought relief has exacerbated the problems of the calamity-prone state.Karnataka saw its GSDP shrink 2.6% in 2020-21.With lower revenue inflows from the Centre, floods, droughts and declining revenues from the state’s own taxes, Karnataka is depending on higher borrowings that could further impact developmental activities, creation of assets and higher revenue expenditures.“Higher borrowings are the reason for (the) deficit. We may try to restrict the borrowings this year depending on the revenue collections,” said one senior official of Karnataka’s finance department, requesting not to be named.Karnataka’s revenue expenditure has risen to almost 10 per cent of the GSDP (gross state domestic product) to ₹179,779 crore, according to government data. Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa had budgeted an additional ₹10,000 crore in the 2020-21 budget for the rising revenue expenditure which includes payment of salaries, interest, pensions, subsidies, administrative costs and devolution to urban local bodies among others.Yediyurappa has set aside ₹52,529 crore specifically under a category termed 'stimulating economic growth', which includes infrastructure projects, water connections, ₹3000 crore for development of backward taluks, railway projects and building of new clusters for textile and drugs, among others.Data shows that there is a steady decline in revenue inflows from the centre in devolution and grants. The state received ₹28,591 crore in devolution in 2020-21 as against ₹30,919 crore the previous fiscal. Similarly, the state received ₹15,454 in grants in 2020-21 as against ₹19,983 the previous fiscal.The revenue deficit is estimated to be ₹15,134 crore in the 2021-22 period. The state’ revenues from its own taxes have also seen a marginal decline till 2020-21, data shows.Commercial taxes and excise duty saw an increase of 3.4 per cent at ₹76,837 crore and excise saw an increase of 5.2 per cent at ₹22,700 crore (till the end of March) respectively. But there has been a decline in other taxes like -18.3 per cent in motor vehicle tax, -12.4 per cent in stamps and registration and 14.0 per cent in other taxes.“Non-tax revenues may be reviewed to explore new sources of non-tax revenues as well as increasing the rates. Some fees/user charges, et cetera., were revised last year but collections are yet to pick up. Non-tax revenue hasn’t yet reached optimal levels. A big increase in tax revenues may not happen. So we will have to cut expenditure,” said the official cited above.The reduction in revenue inflows has increased the total liabilities of the state to ₹4,57,899 crore as against ₹3,68,692 crore in the previous budget.Analysts said that there was no visible effort to contain expenditure that would add to Yediyurappa’s problems that include infighting, dissent and lack of performance with just two years left to go for the assembly elections in which the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) aspires to return with a majority on its own.The chief minister has instead set aside hundreds, if not thousands, of crores to set up boards of specific caste-groups with no tax increases and higher borrowings. The state government is expected to borrow an additional ₹71,332 to fund its schemes, programmes and development work this year.“This is a budget that borrows more to please all,” A Narayana, political analyst and faculty at the Azim Premji University said.He added that this was a year that the chief minister could have taken some difficult choices to set the economy back on track but there was no visible attempt to do so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/shrinking-revenues-may-impact-karnataka-s-economy-in-future-as-well-report-101615315018403.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to take up restoration of 15 heritage precincts in Fort||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will now take up annual restoration work on 15 prominent heritage precincts and statues in the Fort area, some of which have recently been restored. These include Flora Fountain, Fitzgerald fountain, Kothari Pyau, Baba Saheb Ambedkar statue on Madam Cama Road, the Firozshah Mehta statue on Mahapalika road, among others. Mini versions of the extensive repairs and restoration done on some of these monuments will be repeated every year. According to a senior civic official from the heritage department, this will help maintain the heritage look of the area, and avoid bigger and recurring restoration work in the long run.The officer said, “We have undertaken a lot of restoration work of heritage precincts in the past few years. However, the BMC administration is not able to keep up with the maintenance of heritage precincts, or statues. It is needed to maintain a pristine look of the area, ensure tourists continue to enjoy the heritage structures, and they do not fall into disrepair over the next few years.”BMC will hand out maintenance contracts of these precincts to contractors, and recently invited bids for this work.Work will involve repeated restoration, maintenance of the premise, cleaning and polishing of grills and protective structures, ensure lighting, or water engineering in case of fountains is in working condition. For example, work in the case of Flora Fountain at Hutatma Chowk at Fort, which underwent extensive restoration work in 2018-19, will include conservation of the fountain with steam cleaning, minor repairs to the structure if required, and algaecide application.Work on the 152-year-old Fitzgerald fountain, which was set up at Metro cinema and inaugurated earlier this year, will include checking nuts and bolts of the monument. This fountain is a 16-tonne monument that was extensively repaired and restored by the civic body in 2019 and 2020. Many of its missing parts were remade and replaced.The official from the heritage department said, “The Kothari Pyau was restored by BMC just a couple of years ago. But due to improper maintenance of its premises, not many people are using the fountain or noticing it even. The structures need constant care and repair.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-take-up-restoration-of-15-heritage-precincts-in-fort-101615315224214.html
10-03-2021||Delhi||To cut auto emissions, govt will focus on electric vehicle infra, says Sisodia in budget speech||To reduce vehicular pollution in the national capital, the Delhi government on Tuesday proposed to focus on electric vehicle infrastructure in the budget for 2021. Finance minister Manish Sisodia said by 2024, the government aims to increase the share of electric vehicles to 25% of the total number of registered vehicles. Sisodia said before the Delhi government’s electric vehicle policy, the share of these environment friendly vehicles in the capital was merely 0.2% of the total registered vehicles. However, after the policy was launched, this share has increased to 2.2% of the total registered vehicles. “The government now aims that by 2024, the share of electric vehicles in Delhi will improve to around 25% and to make that happen, we are working towards installing as many as 500 charging points. At present, there are 72 such points in Delhi. The idea is to have a charging facility every three kilometres,” Sisodia said. He also said the aim of his government through such policies is to get “100% freedom from vehicular pollution”. Presenting data before the house, Sisodia said after the launch of the EV policy, 7,000 buses would be added to Delhi fleet. “I am very happy to say that 6,693 buses are currently in Delhi’s public transport fleet. That’s the largest fleet in the history of Delhi. This year, after adding 1,000 more buses, this number will reach 7,693. The government has put a target of 11,000 bus fleet in Delhi’s public transport,” Sisodia said in his budget speech. “If we compare the figures of the past three months, 2,621 electric vehicles were purchased, of a total of 118,482 newly purchased vehicles,” he said. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said while such focus on EV infrastructure was appreciated, it is doubtful whether the government will be able to achieve the target of having 25% of the total registered vehicles powered by electricity. “The emphasis on electric vehicles is an important move, but the target of 25% is huge and we will have to see if they have planned well enough to achieve this,” Roychowdhury said. She also said the government also needs to come out with a plan on the revenue-raising model to fund the EV programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/to-cut-auto-emissions-govt-will-focus-on-electric-vehicle-infra-says-sisodia-in-budget-speech-101615315043606.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Metro Bhavan on Aarey plot: MMRDA awaits clearances||In addition to seeking environmental clearance (EC) for the Metro Bhavan building inside Aarey Colony, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has also applied for a slew of other clearances that will be needed before construction work on the 32-storey structure can begin. Change of land use clearance for Metro Bhavan, which will involve converting 20,387 square metres of land in Aarey Colony from a no development zone to a residential zone, has been sought from the urban development department (UDD). According to a note on the project, which was shared with HT by an MMRDA official, the change of land use is “under consideration”. HT could not independently verify the status of the clearance. The note also says that work will begin once the multiple approvals and permissions have been granted to the project. “Till operationalization of the Metro Bhavan, the operation, command and control of Metro Line 2A and 7 will be done from Operation Command & Control Centre (OCC) planned at Charkop Depot,” says the note. Also, no objection certificates (NOCs) have been sought from the chief fire officer, tree authority and storm water drains department (SWD). Only the SWD has given the project an NOC so far. The rest are listed are at different stages of being processed. An NOC from UDD’s high rise committee (which will examine the impact of the building on nearby infrastructure and environment) is also pending, as per the MMRDA. HT had reported on March 8 that MMRDA has tabled a proposal before the state environment department to obtain an EC for the Metro Bhavan in Aarey Colony. For the time being, the EC has been deferred by the state environment department over a technicality. The construction of the Metro-3 car shed was stalled after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray assumed office in November 2019. While over 600 acres of Aarey Colony have been declared a reserved forest since then, the government has not publicly cleared its stance on Metro Bhavan, which has been proposed on land in an eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) within Aarey Colony. “The stance seems quite clear now that various administrative nods for the project are being sought. MMRDA should first make public the minutes of the virtual public hearings from last year in which several citizens have voiced their objections to Metro Bhavan in Aarey [Colony]. The objections have to be acknowledged and responded to appropriately,” said D Stalin, director, Vanashakti NGO. Stalin has filed three petitions relating to the Aarey dispute in the Supreme Court. MMRDA has also clarified that Metro Bhavan will require clearance from a monitoring committee overseeing the implementation of the December 2016 ESZ notification by the ministry of environment, forest and climate change pertaining to Sanjay Gandhi National Park. Sources in MMRDA said an application has been submitted to the committee. Dr Sonia Sethi, additional metropolitan commissioner, could not be reached for comment despite multiple attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-metro-bhavan-on-aarey-plot-mmrda-awaits-clearances-101615314985505.html
10-03-2021||Other||Kejriwal calls budget inclusive, says education will be made a mass movement||New Delhi: Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday called the Delhi Budget 2021-22 an “inclusive” document, which covers all aspects of the society from women to the elderly, students, youth, all religions, and all castes.Addressing a press conference after the presentation of the budget in the Delhi assembly, Kejriwal outlined the salient features of the budget as one that endorses patriotism and aims at improving the standard of living, women empowerment and promoting yoga across the city.He emphasised on the fact that Delhi continued to have a surplus budget despite surviving the Covid-19 pandemic, and added that education will be turned into a mass movement in the city.“Every educated person should become such a great patriot that they refuse to take any form of bribe. They should question their own patriotism even when they violate traffic rules or mistreat women,” he said.When asked to explain further, Kejriwal said, “It is about inculcating good behaviour. You must have come across stories of people who go abroad and come back with good experiences especially with the kind of help that they get from people there. We have to inculcate such good behaviour among our children. This is my vision of patriotism.”He said ever since the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government took over, they have only drafted surplus budgets. “Even the CAG says that Delhi does not make loss budgets. Today’s budget is also a surplus budget. We have often noted in budgets of other states and budgets of the previous Delhi governments that establishment costs are often around 70-80%. In our budget, establishment costs are only 45%, this means 55% can be redirected towards our subsidy schemes and programmes such as social security and other pro-people measures. This displays efficient financial management on part of the Delhi government,” he said.Kejriwal said as India celebrates 75 years of independence, Delhi will make education a people’s movement. “While continuous efforts are being made by the government, this is not enough. We need people to get involved. The youth of the city, of the country, will join hands and work towards educating the masses. If students without means, studying in 10th and 12th have queries about future careers and career prospects, they will be connected to those who are already in colleges and working, so guidance can be given over the phone. Through this education will be made people’s movement,” Kejriwal said.He added that yoga will also be a people’s movement.“Wherever people come forward and tell us that they want to do yoga as a community, we will create facilities for them - in their colonies, parks, etc. Yoga won’t be a single event in the day but a part of their daily life,” he said.Talking about the health sector, the chief minister said the Delhi government’s Mohalla Clinic project will be extended and exclusive clinics will be set up for women.“Additionally, in the health sector, every citizen of Delhi will be given a health card. There will remain no need to carry previous X-rays, MRI records — all your health data will be stored on the cloud so that you can go to any hospital and avail facilities. Initially, it will be done through government hospitals, later it will be extended to private hospitals as well. We are creating an elaborate Health Information Management System. Through your health cards, you will be able to take appointments and skip the long queues as well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kejriwal-calls-budget-inclusive-says-education-will-be-made-a-mass-movement-101615314984244.html
10-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi Budget: Exclusive mohalla clinics for women, anganwadi hubs||In order to provide women with a larger role in the economy, and to assure them better health-care facilities, while ensuring their safety and security, the Delhi government proposed several women centric schemes in its budget presented on Tuesday. The government has proposed to launch a new scheme -- Saheli Samanvay Kendra -- under which it will establish 500 anganwadi hubs in various parts of the city. These hubs will be used for imparting training to women to help them open micro-economic units and for holding meetings of self-help groups.The decision to formulate such a scheme was taken on the basis of a survey which was conducted by the government to understand the impact of Covid-19 crisis and the subsequent lockdown on the livelihood of people in Delhi. The survey showed that before the pandemic, unemployment among women was 26% last February and it rose to 40% by February 2021.The government has also proposed to set up 100 mahila (women) mohalla clinics across Delhi from next year where every woman in Delhi will get free gynaecology services and related diagnostic tests. “We all know that our mothers and sisters are not able to talk to us about their health issues openly. It is a fact of our society that women tend to neglect their own illnesses. The result of this is that many women live with ailments, assuming it as destiny. The Delhi government will now undertake the responsibility of having a Mahila Mohalla Clinic around every woman in Delhi,” finance minister Manish Sisodia said. The government has also planned to set up 33 self-help units to make these women aware of government schemes, counsel and help them. The budget also proposed a scheme to make tourist spots safer for women. CCTV cameras will be installed at entry points of all tourist spots and uniformed guards will be deployed there. An amount of ₹5 crore has been proposed in the budget for this purpose.Debolina Kundu, professor at the national institute of urban affairs, said, “Allocating funds for employment generation among the women is a welcome move. The government has proposed schemes that are growth-driven. Also, the proposal of setting up women exclusive mohalla clinics is also a step in the right direction.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-budget-exclusive-mohalla-clinics-for-women-anganwadi-hubs-101615314983633.html
10-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi to bid for hosting Olympics 2048: Manish Sisodia||The Delhi government on Tuesday said that it will bring sports facilities and the city infrastructure to such a level that the national capital can bid to host the 39th Olympics in 2048.Presenting Delhi Budget 2021-22, finance minister Manish Sisodia said, “Starting from Athens in 1896, the torch of the Olympics has never come to Delhi. The next, 32nd Olympics, games are to be held in Tokyo. The next three Olympics host cities have also been decided. Our government aims to bring the sports facilities and the sports atmosphere in the city to such a level through the new Sports University so that we can apply to host the 39th Olympics in 2048,” Sisodia said.Also Read: Big push for health in Delhi's budgetHe explained, “This may seem far away, but we have to bid for it 10 years before 2048. And before that it will take 15 years to build adequate infrastructure, to create an atmosphere where sports flourishes and to bring our players to a level where they bring medals in the sports competitions leading to Olympics 2048,” Sisodia said.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal too said that Delhi will bid for the 2048 Olympics and the Delhi government will take up whatever infrastructure and other necessities that are needed to be created for the same.While welcoming the CM Kejriwal’s remarks over the bid of the 2048 Olympic Games, Indian Olympic Association’s general secretary, Rajeev Mehta said IOA will support this move. “It’s good for sports, and we welcome this announcement made by CM Kejriwal. IOA will support this move,” said Mehta. “If we receive this request from the government, we will put this before the (IOA) executive council and also the general house for approval.”Olympics host cities are chosen well in advance for adequate preparation time. For example, Rio de Janeiro was announced to organise the 2016 Games in 2009, while in 2017 the IOC confirmed Paris and Los Angeles as hosts for the 2024 and 2028 Olympics, respectively.Delhi hosted the Asian Games in 1951 and 1982 and the Commonwealth Games in 2010.Also Read | Delhi Budget 2021: Allocation for urban infra up, govt to work on decongestionThe process to bid to host the Olympics comprises of an invitation phase, where the interested city conveys an informal commitment to bid after which its officials are invited by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) for a discussion and the candidature process, where the city officially submits a bid. The bid is then evaluated on these aspects – vision and strategy for the Games; legal, governance and financial mechanisms of the city; delivery of the Olympics and ensuring it has a sustainable legacy plan in place.The bidding process often includes top government officials, bureaucrats, corporates, et al, join in to lobby for their city. In 2009, US President Barack Obama flew to Copenhagen to go all out for Chicago’s bid to host the 2016 Games before the IOC’s vote. It was eventually unsuccessful. In 2017, French president Emmanuel Macron went a step further, turning up at the final presentation stage by Paris in an IOC meeting in July 2017. That September, Paris edged LA to host the Games in 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-to-bid-for-hosting-olympics-2048-sisodia-101615314924816.html
10-03-2021||Other||Education gets biggest share of Delhi Budget pie once again; allocation bumped up this year||New Delhi: The biggest share of the Delhi budget was allotted to the education sector once again, an area that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in the Capital has made its highest priority since the party presented its first budget in 2015.Presenting an increased budgetary allocation for the Capital in 2021-22 in the Delhi Budget, state finance minister Manish Sisodia said the state government will work on a virtual model school to expand the reach of Delhi’s education model, start a teachers’ training university, and aim for 100 schools of excellence in the national capital.The government earmarked ₹16,377 crore for the education sector, up from ₹15,815 crore last year. Referring to the establishment of a new state education board that chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced last week and a new syllabus for nursery till Class 8, Sisodia said the state will focus on preparing “patriots who take responsibilities for the country”, enabling job creation, and moulding “better human beings”.“During the pandemic, our teachers and students had to switch to online learning. Our educators, who did not know how to use a smartphone, took help from children and younger teachers to teach online without any formal training for nearly a year. Our teachers learned to use technology in imparting education and we plan to adopt it for the future,” Sisodia said in the state assembly on Tuesday.Notably, the AAP government has increased the budget allocation for the education and health sectors in the Capital every year since it presented its first budget for the 2015-16 fiscal. In its second budget, the AAP more than doubled the allocation for education, which leapt from ₹4,570 crore to ₹10,689 crore in 2016-17.The deputy chief minister said the government will start a “virtual model school” to open up the Delhi education model for people across the country. “There will be no walls or building but there will be studies, children, teachers, enrolment, and examinations. This will be a unique effort and this school may be the first of its kind in the world. We have started work on the design and will try to start it by next year. Any child in the country who wants to study under the Delhi model of education can make use of this,” the education minister said.This year, the government proposed doubling seed funding — distributed in Delhi government schools as part of the Entrepreneurship Mindset Curriculum — for students of classes 11 and 12 to ₹2,000.The government has proposed to increase the intake of students by around 8,500 in the higher education sector by expanding the campuses of two state universities — Guru Gobind Singh IP University and Ambedkar University.Sisodia also proposed a university to train teachers in line with the new National Education Policy (NEP), a move experts welcomed.Aejaz Masih, dean of the education faculty at Jamia Millia Islamia, said, “Ideal teacher training is possible only when there is integration between subject knowledge and pedagogical knowledge [for a particular discipline]. This is perhaps not possible if we set up an institute in isolation. So, it is a good initiative if we conceptualise a full-fledged teacher training institute. But NEP calls for the multidisciplinary institution of higher education instead of standalone educational institutes. This contradiction needs to be sorted out before establishing the institute.”The deputy chief minister also called for modification in Delhi School Education Act, 1973 and Delhi University Act, 1922. “These Acts are in contradiction of NEP. To implement the NEP, we need to change these two old Acts. We have started working on a new law and have requested the Centre to revise provisions of DU Act,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/education-gets-biggest-share-of-delhi-budget-pie-once-again-allocation-bumped-up-this-year-101615314923633.html
10-03-2021||Other||‘Deshbhakti’: AAP’s Budget sentiment||Delhi finance minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday called his seventh budget for Delhi “Deshbhakti Budget” to mark India’s 75 years of independence, announcing a range of programmes and measures to evoke patriotism in the citizens including installation of 500 big tricolours across the city and organising several cultural events to commemorate leaders such as Bhagat Singh and BR Ambedkar.“As I present this budget, I feel it would be our great fortune if the schemes and plans mentioned here would make a positive contribution to the dreams of a liberated homeland as envisioned by those selfless patriots. Therefore, with your permission and of this House, today I want to name this budget the ‘Deshbhakti Budget’,” Sisodia said in his speech at Delhi assembly while presenting Budget 2021-22.“As part of the series of patriotic events to be initiated in Delhi from March 12, for the next 75 weeks, programmes will be organised across the city. These programmes will not only showcase Delhi but also highlight its role in the freedom movement, its journey in the last 75 years and the vision of Delhi in 2047,” Sisodia said.The Delhi government has earmarked ₹10 crore for programmes on the life of freedom fighter Bhagat Singh and the contributions made by Dr BR Ambedkar in framing India’s constitution.Sisodia also proposed ₹45 crore for installing the national flag at 500 different locations across Delhi. With these 500 tricolours, on the 75th year of independence, we will decorate our entire city in such a way that you will find a flag every one or two kilometers, he said.While making the announcement Sisodia also quoted Bhagat Singh’s ‘jail diary’ and recited couplets in the memory of Ambedkar. “Rutba mere sar ko tere samvidhan se mila hai, ye samman bhi mujhe tere samvidhan se mila hai; auro ko jo mila hai muqaddar se mila hai, hume to muqaddar bhi tere samvidhan se mila hai. We want every Indian to remember Baba Saheb Ambedkar’s vision and foresight on the occasion of India’s 75th Independence anniversary,” the deputy CM said.The government also proposed to start a Deshbhakti curriculum in its schools this year. “There will be one class for this curriculum every day. Through this curriculum, we want to prepare responsible citizens who will contribute to nation-building,” Sisodia said.The government also proposed a mentorship volunteer programme -- youth for education -- to help students in Delhi government schools.Sisodia also proposed to set up a Sainik school and armed forces preparatory academy in the Capital to prepare students for services in the armed forces. “There are 33 Sainik schools across the nation. We will now have one in Delhi as well. We will also start an armed force preparatory academy where students will be prepared for NDA and armed force services,” he said.At a press conference later in the day, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that through the Deshbhakti curriculum his government will help students understand their civic duties and become good human beings and patriotic citizens. “We will train our children in such a manner that they will think twice before even jumping a red light or thinking about breaking the rules of the system. We will ensure that every child is proud of their country.”The finance minister also allocated ₹26 crore for the families of martyrs and ₹2 crore for organising special programmes for the elderly.Bharat Arora, secretary of Action Committee of Unaided Private Recognised Schools -- an umbrella body of over 400 schools in Delhi ---- welcomed the proposals. “Patriotism should definitely be an important and integral part of any state or country’s curriculum. So this is definitely a positive step. However, the curriculum should include a variety of programmes, camps and activities.”Tanvir Aeijiaz, associate professor at Delhi University’s (DU) Ramjas College, said celebrating 75 years of India’s freedom is a good idea but cautioned that the government should not go overboard. “The government should not fall into the trap of pretentious competitive nationalism. The love for nation remains the same with one flag or 500 flags. At a time when the state GDP has gone down and the country is going through a pandemic, spending so much on such things doesn’t make sense,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/deshbhakti-aap-s-budget-sentiment-101615314924182.html
10-03-2021||Delhi||Infra gets a booster shot: Housing budget ramped up 43%||To ensure better infrastructure in Delhi, especially in slums and unauthorised colonies, the state government has allocated ₹5,328 crore for housing and urban development, an increase of ₹1,605 crore from last year, in its budget proposal for 2021-22.Finance minister Manish Sisodia also reiterated his government’s commitment to decongest the city roads, especially the busy Ashram intersection, and listed out proposals for various road infrastructure projects in the budget presented on Tuesday.Also Read: Big push for health in Delhi's budgetThe government has proposed to allocate over ₹600 crore, including ₹85 crore for decongesting Ashram crossing in South Delhi, for road infrastructure projects.Sisodia said the construction work on the underpass and the extension of the flyover at Ashram crossing will be completed by June and December 2021, respectively.The Ashram intersection is among the busiest stretches in the national capital, with the daily traffic volume during peak hours going up to 3.5 lakh vehicles.For its plan to redesign roads, the government has proposed to allocate ₹500 crore. “In addition to the seven stretches (announced earlier), all preparations have been made for the beautification of roads of length 500km and it shall be carried out from this year onwards. I propose an outlay of ₹ 500 crore in the year 2021-22 for the scheme of streetscaping and beautification of roads,” said Sisodia.The construction of two underpass projects at Wazirabad and Azadpur, one pedestrian subway near Gandhi Vihar on the Outer Ring Road and the construction of a bridge on the Najafgarh drain at Basaidarapur will be completed by May 2021, said Sisodia.Also Read | Delhi Budget 2021: Allocation for urban infra up, govt to work on decongestionThe PWD is working on the construction of five new projects in west and north Delhi to address issues pertaining to growing traffic. The government is still working on three projects -- the East-West Corridor (Tikri and Anand Vihar), the North-South Corridor (from Signature Bridge to airport) and an outer road running parallel to the Yamuna. Sisodia said these projects are awaiting UTTIPEC’s approval.Sarvagya Srivastava, former engineer-in-chief of Delhi PWD, said, “All these projects are critical for decongesting the city. These have been in the pipeline for some time now, it is a good move that the government has getting the work started on these projects.”Urban developmentTo ensure the development of proper infrastructure, including sewer connection, roads, parks, Wi-Fi facility, in all unauthorised colonies, the state has allocated ₹1,550 crore in its budget for 2021-22.While presenting the budget, Sisodia said since 2015, when the AAP came to power for the first time, development work in unauthorised colonies has picked up pace. “Since 2015, the work on providing the above-mentioned facilities in every unauthorised colony and slum has been done rapidly. So far, construction work has been completed or is in progress in 1,345 out of 1797 unauthorised colonies of Delhi,” said Sisodia.He also said the work on ensuring piped water supply in all unauthorised colonies is moving at a fast pace. .The government has set aside ₹3,274 crore for various Delhi Jal Board (DJB) schemes for the financial year 2021-22. Of this, ₹600 crore is for the government’s subsidy scheme to provide 20 kilolitres of free water, which benefits about six lakh people every month. Sisodia said that 1,622 unauthorised colonies have been covered in the network of pipeline water supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/infra-gets-a-booster-shot-5-328-cr-for-housing-and-urban-development-600-cr-for-roads-101615314863649.html
10-03-2021||Delhi||All Delhi courts to resume in-person hearings from March 15||The Delhi high court on Tuesday said from March 15, all courts, including the subordinate judiciary, would resume in-person hearings as the number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital was relatively fewer these days. The current system of hybrid hearings (virtual and in-person) will be allowed only in exceptional cases, the high court said.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said virtual hearings cannot become the norm and that it is only an exception. The judges said the request for hybrid hearings would be entertained only if they clearly set out the exceptional circumstances and also their geographical location.The court also noted that several services, including schools, colleges, gyms and cinema halls, have been open for some time now and it is high time that courts also resume in-person hearings.“A beginning has to be made and the fear that has set in into the minds of people should not be a reason,” the bench said.“While making the requests, parties should clearly set out the exceptional circumstance/case and also indicate their geographic location from where they would be joining (the video conferencing hearing). Mere absence of the counsel or party within the NCT of Delhi may not be a sufficient ground for making a request for VC hearing,” the bench said.The court directions came on a plea seeking to defer commencement of in-person hearings by all judges from March 15, till the time all advocates are vaccinated against Covid-19.“As to what would constitute an exceptional circumstance would have to be left to the discretion of the concerned judge/ judges before whom the request is made. However, to put to rest any uncertainty, it would be appropriate that such a request is made at least one working day in advance and the decision be communicated by the court staff to the parties well in advance so that they are aware whether their request is accepted or not,” the bench said.The bench also directed the administrative authorities of the high court to provide adequate infrastructure and install computer systems to support hybrid proceedings in all its 25 courtrooms where regular in-person hearings would resume from March 15.Anticipating surge in footfall in the court premises, the bench also suggested the high court administration and district courts to see the feasibility of bringing two cause lists -- one for the pre-lunch and another for the post-lunch session to limit the number of people.It asked the Delhi government to file an affidavit on steps takento provide infrastructure to subordinate courts for hybrid hearings and listed the matter for further hearing to March 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/all-delhi-courts-to-resume-in-person-hearings-from-march-15-101615314804772.html
10-03-2021||Delhi||Suspended DU V-C Yogesh Tyagi relinquishes charge, acting V-C to continue till successor is found||Delhi University (DU) vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi, who was under suspension since last October, relinquished charge on Tuesday -- the day his term was scheduled to end. Officials at the university said that the acting V-C will continue in the position till the appointment of Tyagi’s successor. In a letter addressed to the university visitor, the President of India, Tyagi said, “On completion of my tenure as the vice-chancellor of the University of Delhi, I hereby relinquish the charge of the vice-chancellor of the University today, 09.03.2021.” The letter was also marked to the chancellor of the university, the vice-president of India, Union ministry of education, and the DU administration.Tyagi was suspended by the Union ministry of education in October after the Centre pointed out several shortcomings in the functioning of the university during his tenure. The suspension was followed by a high-voltage drama when a faction led by Tyagi — he was on medical leave since July — overrode the recommendations of the executive council to appoint a new registrar and a new pro-vice-chancellor. The President of India nullified all orders and appointments made by Tyagi.After Tyagi’s suspension, PC Joshi, the pro-vice-chancellor, took over as the acting V-C of DU. As per the DU ordinance, Joshi will now continue in the position till a new V-C is appointed. “The process for the appointment of the new V-C has already been initiated. The university’s executive council (EC) has already forwarded two names to constitute the search committee and one name has to come from the ministry. The three-member committee will then choose the next V-C. The application process is already over,” Joshi said.Tyagi did not respond to calls and texts sent by HT seeking his response. University officials said they are now waiting for an update on the appointment of the new V-C. VS Negi, an executive council member of DU, said, “Day-to-day functioning of the university may get affected if there is a delay in appointing a new vice-chancellor. So, we hope that the ministry takes this up at the earliest. We are expecting communication from the ministry on the search committee by Tuesday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/suspended-du-v-c-yogesh-tyagi-relinquishes-charge-acting-v-c-to-continue-till-successor-is-found-101615314804206.html
10-03-2021||Delhi||Teachers’ body calls for ‘DU shutdown’ over pending salaries in govt-funded colleges||The Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) on Tuesday gave a call for a university-wide shutdown beginning Thursday, to protest against the pending salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff of 12 DU colleges that are fully funded by the Delhi government. The salaries have been delayed as the government is yet to disburse grants to these colleges.Along with the shutdown, the teachers’ association has also given a call for a teachers’ rally from the university to the chief minister’s residence on March 15 and another march to the lieutenant-governor’s office on March 18. The decisions were taken by DUTA at an emergent meeting held on Tuesday, after receiving representations from the staff associations of government-funded colleges.Teachers of the 12 colleges had threatened a “complete shutdown of Delhi University” and said they would take to the roads in protest if their salaries, pending for the past three to four months, are not disbursed without further delay. Despite repeated attempts, Delhi government spokespersons did not comment on the matter on Tuesday. Earlier, a spokesperson had said, “All funds have been released by the Delhi government as per the rules.” “In many units, employees have not received salaries for over six months now. Employees have also not received other dues,” DUTA president Rajib Ray said. The association will also hold a meeting with teachers of the College of Arts, which was recently de-affiliated from DU and merged with Ambedkar University.Ray also said that they would also send representations to the chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, L-G Anil baijal, vice-chancellor, principals and chairpersons of the 12 DU colleges on the matter and hold meetings with staff and student associations in the coming days to decide the future course of action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/teachers-body-calls-for-du-shutdown-over-pending-salaries-in-govt-funded-colleges-101615314803643.html
10-03-2021||Other||Lawyer Mehmood Pracha alleges raid at his office||Advocate Mehmood Pracha, who represents many 2020 Delhi riot victims and accused, alleged that the Delhi Police on Tuesday tried to raid his office. Calling the police action “harassment”, Pracha said the raid was timed by the special cell to ensure that he was away from his office but “they did not know that the office was locked”.Though Pracha did not confirm if the police were able to enter his office on Tuesday, he filed a complaint at the Patiala House Court, which has summoned a senior officer of the special cell on Wednesday.No senior officer of the Delhi police offered a response on Pracha’a allegations or the searches at his office despite calls and text messages.After learning that police have reached his office for an alleged raid, Pracha moved a city court seeking modifications of an order of March 2, where the court had given permission to the Delhi police to search his premises at Nizamuddin east for the only purpose to seize a computer that could not be earlier taken due to the alleged obstruction by him and his associates.In his application, Pracha said the demand of the investigating agency for the hard disk of the computer is illegal as all the documents are already in the police’s possession from the earlier raid conducted on his December 25, 2020. Pracha said that the court on Tuesday issued notice on his plea and has asked the DCP concerned to be present on the Wednesday.The police are investigating Pracha’s role in a case of allegedly tutoring a riot victim to give false deposition and submitting forged documents in court. In December, the special cell conducted searches at Pracha’s office in Nizamuddin in connection with a case filed against him. A video of the raid, which showed police and Pracha arguing inside his office, was widely circulated on social media.Citing client-attorney privilege, Pracha refused to show some papers then. Police had accused Pracha of threatening them and misbehaviour. Police had on the other hand accused Pracha of not cooperating and refusing to give them access to one of the computers inside his office..Pracha said, “I had to be in court in a case related to the same agency [special cell] on Tuesday. I had to come to court to cross-examine one of their officers. The senior officer in this case is the same who has ordered the raids. The case is with him. They took a warrant and had two weeks to raid my office, but they chose to do it today [Tuesday]. They were aware that I would be in court. They did not know my office would be locked. Police want to steal importance evidence that I have, which is related to the Delhi riots.”After that raid in December, Pracha filed a police complaint alleging that imposters posing as police personnel visited his office and took crucial information related to the Delhi riots from his computers. Police had then denied this and said they had a court order to conduct searches and seize evidence. Police had also said that they had conduct similar searches at the chamber of another city advocate after getting warrant from the court. Police had said that there was no problem at the second advocate’s office but Pracha had deliberately misbehaved and refused to heed to the court’s order allowing police to conduct searches.On August 22, Delhi police had filed a case against Pracha after a riot victim told a court that Pracha allegedly asked him to depose falsely and frame three persons. Pracha, who denied the allegations and accused police of filing false cases to intimidate him as he is defending some riot accused, was a prominent face of protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act that preceded the riots. Delhi police have said that the the riots in north east Delhi, in which 53 persons died and over 400 persons were injured, were plotted by some prominent faces of the anti-CAA protests at the anti-CAA protest sites. Pracha, who has not been charged or named in any case, was an active voice at the protest sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lawyer-mehmood-pracha-alleges-raid-at-his-office-101615314744925.html
10-03-2021||Delhi||2 men, suspected of stealing, beaten to death in Azadpur Mandi||Two men, suspected of pickpocketing, were lynched to death by a mob at the Azadpur Mandi in north Delhi on Tuesday morning, the police said. Two traders at the mandi were arrested by Tuesday evening in connection with the murders, police sources said.The dead men have been identified as Lokesh and Ved Prakash alias Bhaiya, both 24 years old. Lokesh belonged to Bharola village nearby, while Prakash lived in a slum cluster in Jahangirpuri, not far from the mandi.By the time the police arrived, one of the men, Lokesh, was already dead and his body was being sewed up in a sack, in a bid to dispose of it, while the other man, Ved Prakash, was badly injured. Both were rushed to the hospital, where they were declared dead on arrival.“While suspicion of pickpocketing appears to be the only reason behind the lynching, we are still investigating the case from all angles. So far, we have not found any criminal antecedents of the two dead men,” said Usha Rangnani, deputy commissioner of police (north-west).The DCP said that cases of theft have been registered against the two killed men as well after the alleged killers wanted to file complaints against them. “While no previous criminal involvement against Lokesh has emerged so far, Prakash was found to be earlier involved in four theft cases and one each of robbery and snatching,” said Rangnani.Another investigator, not authorised to speak to the media, said two mandi traders, Rakesh and Sunil Pandey, were arrested by evening. “Rakesh was caught from the spot by the family of one of the victims and handed over to us. Pandey was arrested by us following a probe. We are identifying the other killers by analysing the CCTV footage,” said the investigator.The officer said a case of murder as well as tampering of evidence has been registered against the alleged killers at Mahendra Park police station. “The section on tampering of evidence was added because of their attempt to dispose of Lokesh’s body in a sack,” said the officer.Lokesh’s brother, Anuj, said his brother played the drums at weddings to earn a living. Ved Prakash, on the other hand, worked in the mandi itself.Anuj said an acquaintance called him from the mandi on Tuesday morning to inform that his brother was being thrashed by a mob. “When we reached there, we found some people sewing up a sack in a hurry. When we asked them about what was inside, they replied that it was just “goods”. But we forcibly opened the sack to find my brother’s body inside. He was already dead,” Anuj said.A few metres away was Ved Prakash, lay tied up and bleeding from the head.The investigator, quoted above, said the killers knew that their thrashing was fatal.“They thought that they could dispose of Lokesh’s body in a sack by placing it amid vegetable sacks and moving it away from the spot. They would have done the same with the other victim as well, but Lokesh’s family arrived there before they could go ahead with their plans,” said the investigator.Around the same time, at about 7.30am, the police at the Azadpur Mandi police post were alerted about the mob lynching. “We immediately reached the place to find the two men badly injured,” said the DCP, adding that Lokesh was found in a sack.The police moved both men to the Babu Jagjivan Ram Hospital where they were declared brought dead.Lokesh’s family handed over a couple of men, whom they claimed were the killers, but the police are yet to ascertain their involvement.The DCP said the initial probe has suggested that a few individuals, rather than a mob, was involved in the killings. “A crowd did gather, but they were mostly curious onlookers,” the officer claimed.This is not the first instance of someone being beaten black and blue on suspicion of stealing in Azadpur Mandi. Last August, a labourer was beaten to death by two truck drivers on the suspicion that he had stolen their cash. They tied him up and drove away with him stuffed in their truck until the traffic police stopped them and discovered the man all injured and tied up. He later succumbed to injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-men-suspected-of-stealing-beaten-to-death-in-azadpur-mandi-101615314743640.html
10-03-2021||Delhi||32-year-old man who tried to stop a couple from quarrelling killed in West Delhi||Trying to stop a couple and their family members from creating a ruckus outside his house cost a 32-year-old man his life -- he was fatally attacked by the arguing people with sticks and other blunt objects in west Delhi’s Raghubir Nagar late Monday night, police said. Five of his family members were also injured in the attack, the police said.Five people, including two women, were arrested in the incident, while searches are on to arrest at least three more alleged attackers. They have all been booked for murder, attempt to murder, wrongful restraint, rioting, voluntarily causing hurt and common intention, a case regarding which was registered at the Rajouri Garden police station, the police said.The man who died was identified only by his first name, Rupesh. The injured were his parents, brother Mukesh, sister-in-law and uncle. Rupesh ran a ready-made apparel business with his father.The police said on Monday night, Rupesh had organised a family get-together at his home. Around 11.30pm, Rupesh and his family were having dinner when they heard a commotion outside their home. Mukesh went out and found a woman, identified as Priyanka, allegedly quarrelling with her husband, Tarun, and her in-laws over some issue.“Tarun, Priyanka and their family members were creating a ruckus and using abusive words. Mukesh and their mother objected to the nuisance. At this, the other group started arguing with them and assaulting them. When Rupesh and the other family members came out to pacify them, the other group called their associates and they together assaulted Rupesh and family with sticks,” said additional deputy commissioner of police (west) Prashant Priya Gautam.The Rajouri Garden police station received a call regarding the clash at 11.44pm. The alleged attackers fled by the time the local police reached the scene. The injured persons were rushed to a nearby hospital, from where Rupesh was shifted to Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) hospital.“Rupesh was declared brought dead at DDU hospital. A case was registered and searches were conducted in Vishnu Garden, Khayala and other places in west Delhi. By Tuesday morning, five people, including the couple, were arrested,” said a police officer associated with the case, requesting anonymity.Police said Priyanka works at a call centre and lives at a rented home in Raghubir Nagar, nearly 150 metres away from her in-laws’ home in Vishnu Garden. She had returned from office when the quarrel started between her and her in-laws. Her husband Tarun is a cab driver, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/32yearold-man-who-tried-to-stop-a-couple-from-quarrelling-killed-in-westdelhi-101615314744315.html
10-03-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana law secretary favours tabling of MSP guarantee Bill||Even as the Haryana assembly speaker had last week rejected the private member’s Bill guaranteeing minimum support price (MSP) to farmers, the state government’s law and legislative secretary had advised in favour of tabling the private member’s Bill.The private member’s Bill was submitted by Congress MLAs to amend the Haryana Agricultural Produce Markets Act, thereby ensuring dispensation of MSP to farmers under a legal framework.The grounds taken by the speaker to disallow tabling of the amendment Bill were that the intent of the legislation is to amend the central farm laws and the Supreme Court has stayed implementation of the central laws.However, Haryana’s law and legislative secretary-cum-legal remembrancer (LR), in its advice of February 17, had said that from a legal point of view it will be necessary to embark upon legislation as the purpose in view cannot be achieved otherwise.The advice by the law and legislative secretary was tendered in relation to four points mentioned in Rule 36 of Rules of Business of the state government. The law and legislative secretary said the subject matter of the proposed legislation is relatable to entry 14 of the state list in the seventh schedule to the Constitution and the state legislature is, thus, competent to enact the proposed measure. It is not a money bill, the advice said.Entry 14 of the state list pertained to agriculture, including agricultural education and research, protection against pests and prevention of plant diseases.The advice also said that it will be necessary to reserve the Bill for the consideration of the president after it is passed by the state legislature as required under the Article 254 (2) of the Constitution (inconsistency between laws made by the Parliament and laws made by the state legislatures).The law and legislative secretary also advised that the proposed measure would not be inconsistent with the Constitutional provisions including those relating to fundamental rights.Congress legislature party (CLP) leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Rohtak MLA BB Batra said that the amendment being sought by them was for a state law enacted by the Vidhan Sabha which is the competent forum to amend it.Batra, on Tuesday, again raised the matter in the assembly saying the speaker had used a hyper technical ground for rejecting the amendment Bill.“When the law secretary has favoured the Bill, the government should have tabled it. It could have then sent it for presidential assent. You could have also asked us to amend it further,’’ the Congress MLAs said.Referring to JJP legislator Jogi Ram Sihag’s demand for enactment of a state law to ensure minimum support price for every crop, Batra said even BJP’s ally JJP is supporting this Bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/law-secretary-favours-tabling-of-msp-guarantee-bill-101615312405323.html
10-03-2021||Pune||Pune civic body denies regularising unauthorised properties in biodiversity park||The Maharashtra government has given an extension to regularise the construction in the gunthewari area which raises a possibility of regularising unauthorised construction in the Bio-Diversity Park (BDP), however, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has denied the possibility as the state has already mentioned that regularisation will not happen in the no-development zone. The BDP falls under the no development zone. The PMC reserved 979 hectares of land 19 years ago under the BDP reservation in Pune city development plan (DP) for 23 merged villages. The purpose of reserving the BDP is to save the hill slope and hilltop in order to maintain greenery in the city. The state government merged 23 new villages in 1997 in the old Pune city limit. After that, the civic body made a development plan for 23 merged villages in 2005. After that, the state government gave an approval to the 23 merged villages DP in parts. In 2015, the state government took a decision to give 8 per cent green Transfer Development Rights (TDR) to landowners as compensation and acquire the BDP land. However, owners are not happy with compensation and they want cash compensation instead of TDR as rates are very low. Most BDP land belongs to Private owners In the 23 merged villages development plan, the civic body proposed and reserved a total of 978 hectares spread over seven hills in the 12 villages. It includes 124.45 hectares of government land and 853.09 hectares of privately owned land. At present, due to less amount of compensation, most of the BDP land has encroached. Some landowners are selling land in small pieces in the market. Vandana Chavan, Member of Parliament (MP) of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) said, “I met Kumar on the background of construction activity on various Biodiversity sensitive hills in the city. There has been no action taken by PMC despite the state government appointing a beat officer. The plotting on these sensitive zones is taking place without any obstacle. Various builders in the city are constructing on natural water sources blocking their flow. PMC has done the mapping of all the natural water sources and they should be made open to people.” Rajendra Raut, superintendent engineer of building permission and construction said, “The PMC is taking action on unauthorised construction in the BDP area. On the other hand, there will be no regularisation of constructions on BDP areas. The BDP has been reserved in the development plan. We will also set up a single system to scrutinise the plan, maps attached to the gunthewari proposal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-denies-regularising-unauthroised-properties-in-biodiversity-park-101615311803294.html
10-03-2021||Pune||Gangsters behind bars as Pune police crackdown on organised crime continues||The Pune police seem to be in action mode and the crime branch is going ahead with no tolerance policy towards hardened gangsters operating in the city. After the arrest of Gajanan Marne alias Maharaj, the city police have lodged as many as eight criminal cases against him. Earlier, there were 23 cases lodged against him at different police stations, the crime branch stated. Meanwhile, the Pune rural police have arrested gangster Nilesh Bansilal Ghaywal (44) from Sonegaon in Jamkhed tehsil of Ahmednagar district and lodged him in Yerawada prison for one year under the MPDA Act. The action was taken jointly by the local crime branch and Bhigwan police on March 2. According to the rural police, the action has been taken to prevent the gangster from spreading fear among citizens. Rural SP Abhinav Deshmukh recommended district collector Rajesh Deshmukh to extern the gangster for a period of one year and thereafter the action was taken. The crime branch has also booked gangster Sachin Pote in connection with a firing case in Mundhwa. The Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) had acquitted Marne (54) and his 13 aides in connection with the murder of rival gang member Santosh Hiraman Gawade alias Pappu citing lack of evidence. Earlier, the court had acquitted 21 Marne aides in the murder of another rival gang member identified as Amol Hari Badhe. Both Gawade and Badhe were affiliated to Marne’s rival Nilesh Ghaywal gang. While Gawade was gunned down on November 4, 2014, Badhe was murdered on November 29, 2014. On Feb 16, the supporters of the gangster after being released from Taloja jail took out a huge procession from Taloja to Pune via Mumbai-Pune Expressway where a convoy of 500 cars joined the procession which was shot on a drone and its videos went viral on social media. The convoy proceeded ahead without paying tax and the event was shot live by the supporters who burst crackers enroute to welcome the acquittal by a Pune sessions court. The city police had lodged a case against Marne at Hinjewadi police station for taking out the procession in violation of the law. Meanwhile, a Pune court on March 4 rejected Marne and his aides’ bail application on grounds of disobedience to the law. The police even seized drones from his supporters and inquired whether prior permission was taken for flying the drones. On March 3, the Khadak police arrested local gangster Suraykant alias Bandu Anna Andekar (60) and his aide in connection with an attempt to murder case after a complaint was lodged against them by Omkar Gajanan Kudle (21). According to the police, members of the Andekar gang including Rishabh Devdatta Andekar (21) allegedly attacked Kudle with sharp weapons around 9 pm on February 21. Police stated that Andekar gang believed that their “rivals” Kudle and Suraj Thombre were a threat to their supremacy in the area and they allegedly attacked Kudle after orders from gang leader Bandu Andekar. It may be recalled that former deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar during his address to the city police had reprimanded the department for its inaction against the gangster. He said that the police must have ‘vachak’ (control) over goons and not common citizens. “Commoners must feel confident and secure if they go to the police. We will strengthen the police force by boosting infrastructure and additional recruitment of personnel, but the police must take care that they come up to the expectations of the common citizens. Pawar was addressing a gathering of police personnel during the recovered stolen ornaments return programme for citizens organized by Pune police at Shivajinagar headquarters. Additional commissioner of police (crime ) Ashok Morale said, “We are taking strict action against all gangsters and different gangs in Pune are under our radar. The city police have adopted no tolerance for such types of criminals. The net is being cast wider against criminals and gangsters in the city.” Ghaywal arrested and booked The Pune police arrested gangster Nilesh Ghaywal and eight of his henchmen in connection with forcibly whisking away a four wheeler for a rally. They have been booked under IPC 395,294 (b), 109, 506 (2), 504, Maharashtra Police Act 37(1) in a separate FIR lodged at Kothrud Police Station. In addition, the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) has been invoked against Ghaywal and he was arrested on March 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gangsters-behind-bars-as-police-crackdown-on-organised-crime-continues-101615311743910.html
10-03-2021||Pune||Pune police arrest another major-rank official in army recruitment paper leak case||The city police have arrested another major rank official of the Indian Army in the Army recruitment paper leak case on Tuesday. So far, a total of 10 people have been arrested in cases lodged at Wanowrie and Vishrantwadi police stations. A team of Pune police crime branch arrested the major in Delhi and brought him to Pune. He will be produced before the Pune district court on Wednesday. According to police, about 30,000 candidates were to appear for the common entrance exam at 40 centres across India on February 28. However, the exam was cancelled as the paper leak was detected by Military Intelligence (MI) sleuths and the Pune police arrested four accused a few hours before the exam was scheduled to take place. The accused had received handwritten question paper and answer sheet which matched a 100 per cent with the real paper and were charging ₹4-5 lakh from each candidate for sharing the leaked question paper. On Monday, a special court remanded arrested major Thiru Murugan to police custody until March 15. He was caught in Wellington, Tamil Nadu, and then brought to Pune. The second major rank officer who was arrested in Delhi is also from Murugan’s batch. Meanwhile, the police custody of Bharath and Koli, the defence personnel has been increased by court until March 14 and 15 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-arrest-another-major-rank-official-in-army-recruitment-paper-leak-case-101615311743298.html
10-03-2021||Other||Pune’s Inlaks & Budhrani and Kamala Nehru hospital get it right to ensure vaccine drive a succes||PUNE Two of the city’s major hospitals - Inlaks & Budhrani and Kamala Nehru hospital - have seen a massive response from senior citizens, thanks to their well-managed arrangements and less waiting period. Pune city has 12 lakh beneficiaries due for the Covid vaccine in phase two of the vaccinations drive. These include senior citizens and those with comorbidities aged 45-59. Of these, 40,000 have been given the first dose since March 1. On Tuesday alone, close to 10,000 senior citizens and those suffering from comorbidities were vaccinated. In addition to the centrally located area of the hospitals, open space and hospitality has been the plus-point in attracting beneficiaries. While Inlaks & Budhrani is located at Koregaon park, the PMC-run Kamala Nehru hospital is located in Mangalwar peth. Kamala Nehru was one of the first hospitals to begin vaccination in the city. On Tuesday of the 9,721 senior citizens and comorbids who got the vaccine, 215 got the vaccine at Inlaks & Budhrani, while 222 got it at Kamala Nehru. On the first day of phase two vaccination on March 1, Kamala Nehru was one of only four locations in the city. Following that, the civic body started more centres, however, a huge crowd continued to go to the PMC hospital. Additional commissioner Rubal Aagrwal said, “Due to the huge response we had to begin two shifts for the vaccine starting from 9 am to 9 pm. There has been no major response, post-vaccination, which is further encouraging senior citizens. We even had a women’s special vaccination on March 8 to encourage women senior citizens.” Inlaks & Budhrani hospital director Dr Rhea Punjabi said, “It is difficult to manage senior citizens as they are impatient and most of them come for walk-in registration. They come to the hospital at 8am and then there is a huge crowd. However, we have allocated separate nursing staff, and also staff to attend to basic needs like water and tea. There is a clear demarcated space for waiting and there is shed outside also. We have the security in place to manage the crowd.” Dr Punjabi added: “After the vaccination is done, some are desperate to leave, but we ensure that they wait for at least 30 minutes no matter what. In addition to the medical certificate, we also check for vitals like blood pressure and temperature at the site. This crowd could go on for months and so we are contemplating increasing counters.” On Tuesday, Pune city saw a total of 12,091 beneficiaries get the vaccine, including first and second dose. No adverse effects following immunisation were reported||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/inlaks-budhrani-and-kamala-nehru-hospital-get-it-right-to-ensure-vaccine-drive-a-succes-101615308743033.html
10-03-2021||Other||135 major, and 518 micro, containment zones in PCMC||PUNE The numbers of containment zones in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation, major and micro, is increasing every day, with a rise in Covid-19 cases.On March 2 the twin cities had 34 major, and 180 micro, containment zones, while on March 9 it now has 135 major, and 518 micro, containment zones.If two cases are found in place, then PCMC is only sealing a particular room, instead of the area, and it is termed a micro-containment zone. If in one housing society there are more than 11 cases, then the society is declared a micro-containment zones.Only if there are a large number of cases, then movement of people and vehicles is restricted in the area.“As numbers of Covid patients are increasing we are seeing a number of major and micro-containment zones are changing. However the symptoms in the new cases are not severe like last year,” said Pavan Salve, additional health and medical officer, PCMC.On Tuesday, 635 new cases tested positive for Covid 19 in PCMC, which takes total to 1,10,070.On Sunday, March 8, PCMC saw 629 positive cases which was the highest single-day number in 2021.“Even after imposing restrictions, people are taking things lightly and not restricting their movement, which is major reason for increasing cases,” Salve added.On Tuesday, highest number of cases were from Sangvi - 119.PCMC containment zonesDate; Major; MicroMarch 2; 34; 180March 3; 48; 209March 4; 71; 209March 5; 95; 370March 6; 106; 434March 7; 117; 477March 8; 135; 477March 9; 135; 518||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/135-major-and-518-micro-containment-zones-in-pcmc-101615304782780.html
10-03-2021||Pune||18th-century gold coins worth ₹1.30 crore seized by Pimpri-Chinchwad police||A large trove of 216 gold coins was seized by the crime branch Unit III of Pimpri-Chinchwad police from the residence of a labourer who had found them during digging work in Chikhli, officials confirmed on Tuesday. According to the police, the value of a single gold coin ranges between ₹60,000 and ₹70,000 each. In other words, the worth of these 216 coins is more than ₹1.30 crore, said commissioner of police Krishna Prakash. “The historic gold coins weighing 2,357 grams were found with a broken bronze made of a copper-like metal weighing 525 gram. The seized coins date between 1720 to 1750 AD. According to the archaeological department, the gold coins have the seal of ‘Raja Muhammad Shah’ with the name written in Urdu and Arabic. The coins will be handed over to the archaeological department after informing the court. Further, action will be taken based on the report from the archaeological department,” said Prakash. According to police, during a routine patrolling on March 8, police naik Zameer Babalal Tamboli received a tip-off that Saddam Salar Khan Pathan, a resident of Vithhalnagar slums in Pimpri had illegally kept historical gold coins in his possession. A team led by police sub-inspector (PSI) Sanjay Nilpatrewar raided Pathan’s house along with jewellery experts including historians. After the genuineness of the coins was ascertained, police seized them as per the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) Section 102 and brought them to the notice of the government. According to deputy commissioner of police (crime branch) Sudhir Hiremath, during the investigation it was revealed that three to four months ago, Pathan’s father-in-law Mubarak Shaikh and brother-in-law Irfan Shaikh, both residents of Parbhani district had come to Chikhli to work as casual labourers. “Pathan had brought the relatives to work at a construction site in Chikhli. During digging work for columns, the duo found few coins buried in the ground. They showed the coins to Pathan and went to the same place and dug a mound of earth and searched for gold coins. The diggers had found broken metal bronze and scattered gold coins. Pathan brought home all the valuables and kept them in his illegal possession,” said Hiremath. Later, a dispute between Shaikh and Pathan broke out which led to information leaking out. The police went to his home with a notice after getting detailed information about the gold coins.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/18thcentury-gold-coins-worth-rs-1-30-crore-seized-by-police-101615302862523.html
10-03-2021||Other||Founder of Pune’s “Popular Book House”, Madhav Gadgil, no more||PUNE Madhav Laxman Gadgil, founder of the Popular Book house, what was once a book lovers’ paradise in Pune, passed away on Sunday. He was 92 years old. His son Sunil Gadgil said, “With grief, I wish to inform you that my father, Madhav Laxman Gadgil, aged 92, left for his heavenly abode.” Popular Book House permanently closed down in 2018 as the Gadgils faced business challenges from e-tailers. Madhav Gadgil established Popular Book House in 1954 near Deccan Gymkhana. After graduating from the University of Pune, Madhav Gadgil worked at the university as a librarian. Later, he pursued a diploma in library sciences from England. In the floods of 1961 caused by the breakage of Panshet dam, his small shop was washed away. Madhav Gadgil started the book shop again in the basement of Poonam hotel and in the matter of a few years, the shop became well known. “The Popular Book House had become an institution. Gadgil could find any book. His personal library was also enriched by the collection of several rare books. He was a prominent figure in the city’s book business. He was a very social person and maintained amicable friendships. He was an inspirational figure for all of us,” said Suresh Natu, nephew of the late Madhav Gadgil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/founder-of-popular-book-house-madhav-gadgil-no-more-101615300582494.html
10-03-2021||Mumbai||Ambani bomb scare: Fadnavis demands cop’s arrest, triggers uproar in assembly||Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday demanded a police officer’s arrest for his alleged role in a businessman’s murder in his car days after the vehicle was found abandoned outside Reliance Industries Chairman and Managing Director Mukesh Ambani’s house with explosive gelatine sticks. The demand triggered an uproar in the state assembly as ruling Shiv Sena demanded the arrest of those named by Dadra Nagar Haveli parliament member Mohan Delkar in his suicide note.The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad on Sunday registered a case of murder, criminal conspiracy, and destruction of evidence without naming anyone following the recovery of the businessman Mansukh Hiren’s body. Sachin Vaze was the investigation officer probing the recovery of the explosives from the car.Fadnavis alleged Hiren was murdered in the car and his body war thrown in Thane creek. “In her statement to the police, Mansukh Hirani’s wife has said that the car found outside Antilia, industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s South Mumbai residence, was in possession of Sachin Vaze from November 20 last year. The car was given to him for use as Hiren knew Vaze who was the former’s customer. The vehicle was with Vaze before it was returned to Hiren after four months,” he said.Also Read | ‘Something fishy’: Uddhav after NIA asked to take over Ambani bomb threat probeFadnavis said that Vaze and one Dhananjay Gawade were allegedly named in an extortion case in 2017. “The last location of Hiren before his death was at Gawade’s office in Thane, 40-km away from the creek where the body was found. This establishes Vaze’s involvement in the case. The Anti-Terrorism Squad has been investigating the case of murder, but Vaze should first be arrested under section 201 [for causing disappearance of evidence of an offence or giving false information to screen offender] of the Indian Penal Code,” said Fadnavis.In response to Fadnavis’s demand, minister Anil Parab demanded action Delkar’s case. Parab said that Delkar has named Dadra Nagar Haveli administration in his suicide note and yet there has been no arrest so far. Allegations and counter-allegations led to the uproar in the House, resulting in three adjournments of the assembly proceedings.Vaze and Hiren’s family were immediately unavailable for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ambani-bomb-scare-fadnavis-demands-cop-s-arrest-triggers-uproar-in-assembly-101615281862794.html
