11-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 409 ha of mangroves in Alibag a reserved forest||As part of the forest department’s campaign to bring all mangrove forests in Maharashtra under the purview of section 20 of the Indian Forest Act, 1927 (IFA), 409 hectares (ha) of mangrove forests in Alibag taluka, Raigad district, were declared a ‘reserved forest’ via gazette notification on March 5. The move is in line with the Bombay high court’s directive to the government, which instructs the latter to hand over all mangrove areas on state land to the forest department for better conservation. Declaring areas as reserved forest grants them legal sanctity, and protects biodiversity by outlawing activities such as foraging, hunting and harvesting of natural resources in the earmarked boundaries. As per official estimates, there are 17,090 ha of mangrove forests in the entire state which are on government land. Of these, 10,632 ha have already been brought under the purview of the IFA in 2019, 2020 and 2021. A total of 2,066 ha of mangroves have been excluded from the purview due to community dependence on the land, officials clarified, while 4,392 hectares are “under process for declaration”. “This whole process starts by first declaring the mangrove site as a reserved forest under Section 4 of the Forest Act, which we had done even earlier, starting 2015. What follows, as per Sections 6 to 19 of the Forest Act, is the process of settlement of any rights that other parties may claim over the land. Following this, some portion of the land may be excluded from the final notification under Section 20,” said Virender Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests (mangrove cell). Tiwari added, “In Alibag, we have settled all such claims and now 409 hectares are declared under Section 20, bringing the process to its final conclusion. There can now be no further accrual of rights to the land by any party.” However, a crucial step in this process -- handing over the land to the forest department -- also includes transferring possession of the land to the mangrove cell, which is pending by various government bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra409-ha-of-mangroves-in-alibag-a-reserved-forest-101615487015015.html
11-03-2021||Chandigarh||J&K logs 75 fresh virus cases, 1 death||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 75 fresh Covid infections and a fatality in Kashmir division on Thursday, taking the total cases to 1,27,363 and death toll 1,969.Officials said 10 positive cases were reported from Jammu division and 65 from Kashmir division including 21 travellers. Officials said 1,24,498 people have recovered in the UT so far, taking the recovery rate to 97.75%. There are now 896 active cases while the total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 54.88 lakh.A total of 1,240 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 729 in Jammu. In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 39 more people tested positive including 15 travellers, while eight more cases were reported in Anantnag.In Jammu division, 10 cases were recorded in Jammu district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-logs-75-fresh-virus-cases-1-death-101615486894918.html
11-03-2021||Delhi||Victim’s wife planned South Delhi shooting||The shooting of a BSES contractual driver in his car in south Delhi’s Andrews Ganj on Wednesday was planned by his wife and her lover, who executed the attack, the Delhi Police said on Thursday after scanning footage from scores of CCTV cameras to identify the suspected gunman.The police on Wednesday arrested the suspected shooter, 23-year-old Rohan Kumar and apprehended the victim’s 41-year-old wife, Babita, on Thursday. Bhimraj was shot at outside the Andrews Ganj electricity grid office, under the jurisdiction of Defence Colony police station, around 9am on Wednesday. He remains in a “critical” condition at AIIMS.Also Read: Two firing incidents in south Delhi; BSES contractual driver, policeman injured“Babita had conspired with Kumar to kill her husband after he learnt of her extramarital relationship. She funded nearly half of the ₹65,000 required for carrying out the crime,” said Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south). Raids were also on to arrest a north Delhi resident who allegedly sold the gun to Kumar, the officer added.Thakur said Wednesday’s shooting was the attacker’s second attempt to kill Bhimraj in as many days. “He tried to shoot him in a park in Malviya Nagar, but failed due to the crowd,” the officer said.The police zeroed in on the suspect’s motorcycle registration plate using CCTV footage. This led them to a slum in north Delhi with nearly 10,000 houses, after which they enlisted the help of an insurance firm to track the phone number linked to the owner of the motorcycle.Once the owner was tracked, the police realised the vehicle was sold at least twice, but without legal transfer of ownership.By Wednesday evening, the police were able to nab Kumar, who was the last known owner of the motorcycle.The DCP said when Kumar first admitted to the crime, he came up with a cooked-up story about how he was seeking revenge against Bhimraj over a road rage incident over a month ago. However, Kumar confessed, after the police confronted about his call records, which allegedly showed extensive communication between the two suspects.“Kumar and Babita were in constant touch over the phone. Even after the shooting on Wednesday, he called her to find out if Bhimraj had died or not,” Thakur said.He said Kumar first met Babita at the beauty parlour that she owned in Khirki Extension late last year. “Bhimraj found out about the relationship on January 1. Thereafter, Babita alleged, Bhimraj would get drunk and beat her up,” the DCP said.While Bhimraj was in the intensive care unit (ICU), his brother Shiv Charan denied the allegations. “My brother liked to drink, but he did not hit his wife. When he got to know about her extramarital relationship, there was an argument between them. He wanted her to move her parlour to our neighbourhood in Chirag Delhi,” said Charan.The police said that about a fortnight ago, Kumar met Babita at her home where they planned to have Bhimraj killed.“Babita contributed ₹30,000 for the gun and Kumar borrowed another ₹35,000 from friends,” he said.On Wednesday morning, Kumar allegedly removed stickers from his motorcycle, twisted the number plates and went about conducting a quick reconnaissance of the crime spot before executing the crime. “Later, he dumped his shoes and clothes in a dustbin,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/victims-wife-planned-south-delhi-shooting-101615486287420.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Boxing coach arrested for rape of minor student||Tilak Nagar police on Wednesday arrested a 30-year-old boxing coach who allegedly raped his minor student and threatened to spoil her sports career if she revealed it to anyone. The accused was produced before a magistrate court on Thursday and has been remanded in police custody.According to the police, the accused was working as a boxing coach in an athletic club in Tilak Nagar. He has a good relation with the survivor’s family and often visited her house.The incident took place on March 7 when the accused and the minor went to another branch of the club in Mulund. The accused allegedly raped her in the club at Mulund and threatened her to not tell anyone saying that he would spoil her career in boxing, said senior inspector Sunil Kale, Tilak Nagar police station.The minor narrate the ordeal to her mother after returning home, following which the parents approached the police. A case has been registered under sections 376 (rape), 376 (3) (rape of a girl under 16-years of age), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code along with other relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-boxing-coach-arrested-for-rape-of-minor-student-101615486594860.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||Man tries to set self afire at revenue minister’s bungalow in Mumbai, held||A man tried to allegedly set himself ablaze at the Royal Stone Bungalow, the official residence of Maharashtra revenue minister and senior Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat.Police said the man, identified as Pandurang Wagh, is a resident of Ahmednagar district. He wanted a refund of the license fee, paid to the government for sand extraction. According to the police, Wagh had obtained a license from the government in 2018 for sand mining and transportation. For this, he had paid ₹8.72 lakh. Wagh had started the sand excavation but had to stop it because of opposition by the locals. Due to the frequent protests by the villagers, Wagh suffered huge losses. After losing all hopes, Wagh then followed the matter with revenue authorities to get a refund of the license fee paid by him. But his efforts did not yield any results. Hence, he decided to end his life at the minister’s bungalow.“On Tuesday, he poured petrol on himself and tried to set himself ablaze in the hall of special executive officer of Royal Stone, the official residence of revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat,” said a police officer.However, the policemen present around stopped him.“Wagh was detained and taken to the police station. We arrested him under section 309 (Attempt to commit suicide) of Indian Penal Code and released him on bail with a warning to not to repeat such act in future,” said RG Rajbhar, senior inspector of Gamdevi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-tries-to-set-self-afire-at-revenue-minister-s-bungalow-in-mumbai-held-101615486237345.html
11-03-2021||Chandigarh||J&K, Ladakh receive rain, snow; another spell likely on March 14||The Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh witnessed widespread rainfall in the plains and snowfall in the higher reaches throughout the day on Thursday. While the Srinagar-Jammu national highway was open on Thursday, authorities will close it for maintenance on Friday. “On March 12, no traffic will be allowed from either direction on the highway between Nashri and Jawahar Tunnel in view of the maintenance and repairing on the road,” the traffic department said. The Mughal Road, which connects south Kashmir with Jammu division and Srinagar-Sonmarg-Gumri Road, continues to remain closed due to snow accumulation and adverse road conditions.The precipitation has been attributed to a western disturbance in region. “As expected there was widespread rainfall in Kashmir and snow in the higher reaches and at scattered places in Ladakh, especially Zojila, Minamarg, Drass areas,” said director meteorological department Sonam Lotus.He said mild rainfall also took place in some parts of Jammu.“Light rainfall took place in Udhampur, Batote, Doda and Ramban areas,” he said, adding that the weather office expects precipitation to continue till Friday. “Light to moderate rainfall and thunderstorms are expected at scattered places in the next 36 hours,” Lotus said.The weather office has predicted erratic weather in Jammu and Kashmir for the next five days and urged farmers to avoid spraying during this period.Lotus said the weather on Saturday will be mostly dry.“Another spell is likely on March 14 and 15. There will be an overall improvement in weather conditions from March 16,” he said.The weather office has asked people to contact traffic authorities prior to undertaking journey on Srinagar-Jammu, Srinagar-Ladakh and other landslide and avalanche prone roads.“There are chances of blockage of road due to incessant rains and snow which may lead to landslides and avalanches on vulnerable spots on these routes,” he said.Rain and snow has hit parts of Kashmir valley intermittently since Sunday, bringing down the temperatures. The maximum temperature in Srinagar on Thursday was 6.4°C while it was 6.8°C at night. In Pahalgam and Gulmarg, the minimum night temperatures plunged to 1.6°C and -1.5°C, respectively.The minimum temperature in Leh was -4.7°C while Kargil shivered at -4.0°C. The coldest place in the country, Drass, recorded a temperature of -10.1°C. The maximum temperature in Srinagar was 8.6°C while it was 10.6°C in Qazigund. Srinagar received 16mm rainfall during the day while the northern district of Kupwara recorded 27mm rain. “The ski resort of Gulmarg received 18cm snowfall,” said a MeT official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-ladakh-receive-rain-snow-another-spell-likely-on-march-14-101615486235367.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Vasai Road to get 2 platforms to boost connect to South India||To boost Maharashtra’s railway connectivity with South India, Western Railway (WR) is planning to construct platforms for outstation trains at Vasai Road railway station. WR is contemplating construction of two platforms for outstation trains at the Vasai Road railway yard. The land required for these has been identified and surveyed by senior WR officials. The decision to construct these platforms is in response to demands of passengers residing in Vasai and Palghar district, who have asked for train connectivity with southern India. It will also decongest the presently-saturated outstation terminuses at Bandra and Mumbai Central. The land where these platforms presently deals with transportation of freight materials and will be made available to WR after the construction of the dedicated freight corridor (DFC), scheduled to be completed in 2022. East to west connectivity at the Vasai Road railway station will also be provided by the WR. “We have surveyed the area and identified the construction work that will be required for the operation of outstation trains towards south India. There has been a long demand for operating trains from WR towards Hyderabad and other prominent cities.” said a senior WR official. The platforms will be connected to the suburban railway stations as WR is also looking to operate local trains between Vasai and Panvel from the outstation platforms. However, the project requires approval from the Indian Railways and may be sent to the railway ministry later this year, following approvals from WR. Mumbai Rail Vikas Corporation (MRVC) is also working on a project of operating local trains between Vasai and Panvel railway stations and has proposed the construction of 11 new railway stations between the two stations. Apart from the construction of new railway stations, other proposals include making changes in the present railway stations, increasing the height of AC and changing the present signalling equipment. Railway expert and retired member of the Railway board Subodh Jain said operating outstation trains from Vasai could be a challenge. “Operating outstation trains from Vasai Road could be cumbersome and difficult as the train links would be from Vasai- Diva-Panvel. A full-fledged terminal would be much more helpful.” said Jain, who has previously served as chief administrative officer of WR’s construction department and general manager of CR. Passenger associations have welcomed the proposed platforms. “It is very difficult for people residing in Vasai, Mira Road to travel all the way to Dadar or Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus to board a train to South India. We have been demanding the operation of trains for a long time. This is a welcome move.” said Subash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad. WR had first proposed the construction of a terminus at Vasai Road in 2013, when the plan did not materialise. The project was proposed again in 2017. In 2018, WR announced plans of constructing an outstation terminal at Vasai Road railway station. Construction of the terminal requires private and government land. The proposed new terminus would have four platforms, three stabling lines for outstation trains, and a new terminus building. The project was originally scheduled to be completed by 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-vasai-road-to-get-2-platforms-to-boost-connect-to-south-india-101615485935749.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||Akhtar’s defamation case: Kangana Ranaut moves sessions court||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut has moved the sessions court, challenging, the bailable warrant issued by a metropolitan magistrate against her for failing to personally appear for the hearing of a defamation complaint filed against her by lyricist Javed Akhtar. Confirming the development, Ranaut’s lawyer, advocate Rizwan Siddiquee said, “We have challenged the process issued by the metropolitan magistrate, Andheri court. The matter is now pending for revision before the sessions court.”“It is our claim before the sessions court that mandatory compliance of section 200 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPc) was not followed in the matter, as the four witnesses named by Akhtar, in his complaint, have not been examined on oath. Without the said mandatory compliance process was issued under section 204 CrPC,” Siddiquee said.A metropolitan magistrate court had on March 1, issued a bailable warrant against Ranaut for failing to appear for hearing on the defamation complaint filed Akhtar. The court had on February 1 issued summons to Ranaut to appear before the court on March 1. The actor failed to appear in person but her lawyer, Siddiquee, appeared on her behalf.For the non-appearance of the actress, Akhtar’s legal team sought a bailable warrant against the actress.Akhtar in his complaint has alleged that Ranaut had made several defamatory statements about him in an interview given to a news channel in July 2020, alleging that the 76-year-old writer/lyricist runs a suicide gang in Bollywood and he had threatened her to settle her dispute with actor Hrithik Roshan, failing which she will be compelled to commit suicide.Akhtar has claimed that her claims were entirely false and the statements have harmed his reputation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/akhtars-defamation-case-kangana-ranaut-moves-sessions-court-101615485694874.html
11-03-2021||Lucknow||UP needs to strike balance to meet fiscal challenge||: The Uttar Pradesh government, which presented a large budget of ₹5.50 lakh crore for 2021-2022, faces the challenge of striking a balance between meeting the committed expenditures and funding the budgetary allocations in coming months as the state inches close to the 2022 assembly elections.As a large chunk of revenue receipts are spent on payment of salaries, pension and debt servicing, the state government is left with limited funds for welfare schemes and development projects scheduled to be completed before the 2022 polls.“The state government spends more than 70% of revenue receipts on payment of salaries and pension to employees and debt servicing. It is left with hardly any financial space to fund welfare schemes or development projects,” said Yashvir Tyagi, former professor at department of economics, Lucknow University. The state government’s budget analysis also indicates it is spending 61.3% of revenue receipts on payment of salary, pension and interest. It is spending 17.3% of revenue receipts on debt servicing. The state government’s total receipts are estimated to be ₹5,06,181.84 crore in 2021-2022. Its total expenditure during the same period is estimated to be ₹5,50,270.78 crore. The fiscal deficit in 2021-2022 is estimated to be ₹90,729.80 crore, about 4.17% of the projected GSDP (Gross State Domestic Product).“The state government has presented a high deficit budget for 2021-22. It has, however, not given any indication about measures to meet this deficit. Although no taxes have been proposed in the state budget, the state government may resort to imposing more taxes to meet the budgetary deficit,” said former Rajya Sabha MP and senior Congress leader Pramod Tiwari.The state government’s GSDP projections for 2021-22 have also come into question. The state’s budgetary estimates indicated the GSDP to be about ₹17.91 lakh crore in 2020-2021. The revised estimates indicate an increase in the GSDP to ₹19.40 lakh crore in 2020-21 despite the adverse impact of Covid-19 on the economy. “The projected GSDP of ₹21.73 lakh crore in 2021-22 appears unrealistic. In 2020-21, the budget estimates indicated the GSDP to be ₹17.91 lakh crore. It may have come down to ₹16.50 lakh crore in view of the adverse impact of Covid-19 on the economy. The state may need a much higher growth rate to reach close to the GSDP projections,” said Tyagi.Uttar Pradesh’s indebtedness is also increasing year after year. It is estimated to go up nearly three times from ₹209227.32 crore in 2011-2012 to ₹611161.85 crore on March 31, 2022. The state government claims its total indebtedness will remain at 28.1% of GSDP in 2021-22 against 28.8% of GSDP as per budgetary estimates for 2020-21 and 29.2% as per the revised estimates for 2020-21. It, however, needs to pay attention to the issue. “The state government may not fall into a debt trap under the prevailing situation. It will need to pay attention towards the growing indebtedness as this will add to the burden of debt servicing in the coming years,” said Tyagi.The state government had estimated its total receipts to be about ₹5.0 lakh crore in 2020-21. Its receipts appear to come down to about ₹4.0 lakh crore due to the impact of Covid-19 on the economy. This includes a shortfall of ₹54.24 thousand crore in state’s share in the central taxes during the period. Its expenditure in 2020-21 is estimated to come down by ₹75.15 thousand crore under revenue expenditure head and ₹22.95 thousand crore under capital expenditure head. The state government proposes capital expenditure of ₹1,55,140 crore in 2021-22.“The state government though increased size of annual budget in 2021-2022, it is only 7.3% higher than the previous year. It’s expenditure on revenue account remained nearly the same in 2020-21 and projections for 2021-22. A higher projection in capital expenditure head is certainly good for the state,” said Tyagi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-needs-to-strike-balance-to-meet-fiscal-challenge-101615485514210.html
11-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi high court tells municipal corporations to release all pending wages for current, retired employees||The Delhi high court has directed all three municipal corporation of the city to release the salaries and pensions along with the arrears of all its current and retired employees, saying that the situation has virtually returned to normal and there cannot be any justification for the non-payment of salaries.A bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rekha Palli, while hearing a bunch of pleas seeking directions to the civic bodies to disburse their enumerations, said that salaries and pensions should be cleared on or before April 5. It said that commissioners of each of the civic body would be individually responsible for the compliance of the order.“When the matters were initially taken up, the pandemic was raging and so such a direction was not issued by the court. Since it has been made to note that the situation has virtually returned to normal, there cannot be any justification of non-payment of salaries. “All MCDs to clear arrears of salaries and pensioners of all serving and retired employees of all categories on before April 5. The commissioners of each of MCD will be individually responsible for the compliance of this order,” the bench said.Appearing for North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NrDMC) and South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), its counsel told the court that the Delhi government has admittedly made a deduction in the grants that they have given to the corporation, owing to the low revenue generation in wake of COVID-19. He, along with the counsel for East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), told the court approval has also not been taken from the Lieutenant Governor (L-G) before making these deductions.The court asked the Delhi government to respond to this issue on the next date of hearing and posted the matter for April 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-high-court-tells-municipal-corporations-to-release-all-pending-wages-for-current-retired-employees-101615485334176.html
11-03-2021||Chandigarh||Tax-free import of Iranian apples has Kashmiri growers worried||Tax-free import of Iranian apples through Afghanistan and the Wagah border could adversely affect the Kashmiri apple business in India, say local growers.Growers say the quantum of Iranian apples entering India was increasing by the day, which could eat into the Kashmiri apple’s market share in the coming years unless the imported fruit is taxed. The Union territory’s horticulture department has already flagged the issue with the Centre. Each year, around 1.5 to 2 lakh metric tons of apples are stored in cold stores across Kashmir in an effort to heap rich dividends during the off season, especially March, April and May when their market price soars. Ajaz Ahmad, a grower from Shopian in south Kashmir, said. “Tax-free apples coming via Afghanistan have had a negative impact on the sale of the Kashmiri variety. The government should shut down this free trade as it will ruin the prospects of Kashmiri growers. We had been expecting to sell our apples in cold storages for ₹130 to ₹150 per kilogram but the duty-free apples from Iran have brought down the prices.”Horticulture is the backbone of the J&K economy as it contributes around 8% towards the gross domestic product (GDP) of the Union Territory besides generating employment avenues for the younger generation. As per official data, seven lakh farming families comprising 35 lakh people are directly or indirectly associated with the sector. At present, Kashmir produces around 23 to 24 lakh metric tons of fruit.Cold storages may become defunct: BusinessmenKashmir Cold Store Association president Maajid A Wafai said, “For the last three months, we have been going from pillar to post to get import of apples via Afghanistan stopped, to no avail. On one hand, the Prime Minister is asking people to become self-reliant and on the other hand trade that has been flourishing in the region for decades is being destroyed.” Wafai said growers are not opposed to importing apples from Iran or other countries. “Our only demand is that duty or cess should be imposed on apples coming from Iran via Afghanistan. If growers do not get a good price for fruit outside the state mandis, they will stop using cold stores. A large number of cold storage facilities have cropped up across the Valley in the last few years and hundreds of people will loose their livelihoods should the storages become defunct.”Kashmir Valley Fruit Growers’ Union president Bashir Ahmad Bashir said, “We have also raised the issue with Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. Once tax-free apples from Iran reach here, Kashmiri growers will suffer losses. At present, apples are not in season but we want to level the playing field for the next season.”Nothing to worry about: Horticulture director A senior manager, working at a cold store in north Kashmir’s Baramulla, said, “We still have 5,000 to 8,000 metric tons at the store. Now, growers have starting sending their fruit to different mandis. They did not send the produce earlier as the Iranian apples that had come via Afghanistan had de-stabilised the market.”Recently, Kashmiri fruit growers and owners of cold stores and inter-state fruit and vegetable unions of hilly states (Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand) had met in Pulwama.Horticulture director Ajaz Ahmad Bhat said the Kashmiri apple is being sold in the Kashmiri market for ₹120 per kilogram.“At present, there are no Iranian apples in mandis.A very limited number of trucks had come,” he said. Bhat said apples from Kashmir were fetching a good price in different mandis.There is nothing to worry about this issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/taxfree-import-of-iranian-apples-has-kashmiri-growers-worried-101615485095645.html
11-03-2021||Lucknow||Covid vaccination in full swing, crosses 22-lakh mark in UP||: Covid vaccines have been administered to 22,49,925 beneficiaries in Uttar Pradesh till now at an average of 41,665 per day since the inoculation started on January 16, according to the state health department data.While 17,11,376 beneficiaries have received their first dose, 5,38,549 got their second and final dose too. Among the second dose recipients are 5,12,107 health workers, who account for 68.1% of the 7,45,218 health workers who got the first dose.Initially, Uttar Pradesh was vaccinating beneficiaries two days a week, but since the last week, six-day vaccination is being done.The total beneficiaries include health workers, frontline workers, people above 60 years of age and those between 45 and 60 years with co-morbidity. About 9.5 lakh health workers were listed for the vaccination and officials said the target was almost achieved. In some cases, certain health workers did not fall in the category of those to be vaccinated due to health conditions.“In certain, health conditions vaccination is not recommended. But not many health workers would be left out from vaccination in the state. We have almost achieved our target,” said a senior health official.Efforts are also going on to increase the vaccination percentage among the elderly. In a recent order, the National Health mission has asked all the chief medical officers in the state to engage accredited social health activists (ASHAs) in the districts to motivate the elderly and those between 45 and 60 years of age with co-morbidity to get themselves vaccinated.Experts said the elderly were showing enthusiasm in getting the vaccine jab and they just needed a smooth process and easy access.“The elderly started making queries via phone call even before the vaccination in their category began. They are turning up in good numbers every day. Despite a holiday, 140 of them got the vaccine jab today (at one centre),” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, head of the Aastha Geriatric Centre, one of the private health centres facilitating vaccination in Lucknow.Over 1,000 elderly took the anti-Covid shot on Thursday against a total count of 1378 beneficiaries, who reported to the vaccination centres in Lucknow on the day.“The way the elderly are responding to vaccination, we hope to complete target for March without delay,” said Dr MK Singh, the officer incharge of vaccination in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-vaccination-in-full-swing-crosses-22-lakh-mark-in-up-101615484974139.html
11-03-2021||Delhi||BJP alleges ‘scam’ in DTC bus procurement process, AAP refutes claim||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday in the state assembly alleged irregularities in the Delhi government’s procurement of new buses, a claim that transport minister Kailash Gahlot refuted, saying that the government saved ₹225 crore in the same process. “In March 2020, the government floated a tender for procurement of 1,000 low floor buses at a cost of ₹875 crore, which included a warranty for three years. But, four months later, it floated a separate tender for ₹3,500 crore only for annual maintenance of these buses. The cost of annual maintenance comes out to be more than the actual cost of the buses,” Rohini BJP MLA Vijender Gupta said in the assembly.Gupta’s accusation drew a sharp reaction from minister Gahlot who challenged the BJP to stop the government from procuring more buses if it could. “The decision for two tenders for procurement of buses and comprehensive annual maintenance was taken by the Cabinet in July 2019. In fact, let me tell you that we rather saved ₹225 crore on annual maintenance by bringing down the per kilometre rate from ₹48.50 to ₹45.50 only by negotiating with the manufacturers,” he said. Gahlot explained that warranty and annual maintenance cost are not the same thing and cannot be used interchangeably.“The warranty period of the buses did not include 71 things that were covered in the provision for annual maintenance. So, we saved a lot of money. Gupta has a habit of filing complaints every time the Delhi government tries to procure new buses. But the truth is that this government under chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s leadership will continue to buy buses and I challenge the BJP to come and stop us,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjp-alleges-scam-in-dtc-bus-procurement-process-aap-refutes-claim-101615484914178.html
11-03-2021||Delhi||HC sets aside divorce as woman could not appear in case due to pandemic||The Delhi high court has set aside the divorce granted to a man, on the grounds that his wife was unable to appear before the family court and state her case during the Covid-19 pandemic.The court was hearing a plea by a woman who had challenged a September 24, 2020 judgment of the family court that had granted a divorce in favour of her husband.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said the order granting divorce cannot be sustained as the wife was not given due opportunity to contest the divorce petition. The court also noted that trial courts have been specifically directed not to pass any adverse orders during the pandemic. “On March 16, 2020, when the matter was fixed before the family court, the pandemic has already set in and the functioning of courts was also severely restricted. In fact, the courts subordinate to this court were specifically instructed not to pass any adverse orders against those who could not appear either physically or in proceedings through video conferencing due to the pandemic,” the bench said.Since the woman or her counsel did not appear before the family court on March 16, 2020, she was declared ex parte and the family court fixed the matter for hearing through video conferencing.As the woman did not appear in those proceedings, the court passed an ex parte judgment and granting divorce.The high court, while setting this aside, said though the woman’s counsel did not appear before the family court on March 16, 2020, but “we are of the view that in the light of the then prevailing circumstances, the family court should have waited for the woman to appear and contest the proceedings, rather than hurriedly proceeding ex parte against her”.The bench sent the case back to the family court and asked the court to hear it from the stage when the woman, through her counsel, was declared ex parte.The couple got married in February 2013 and was living separately since March 2013. They have a son and the husband had filed the divorce petition alleging cruelty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hcsets-aside-divorce-as-woman-could-not-appear-in-case-due-to-pandemic-101615484855363.html
11-03-2021||Other||Aishe Ghosh becomes first incumbent JNUSU president to contest Assembly polls||New DelhiJawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union (JNUSU) president Aishe Ghosh is set to become the first sitting chief of the students’ body to contest an Assembly election in the varsity’s history, officials said. Ghosh was nominated as the CPI (M) candidate from the Jamuria constituency in Bardhaman district on Wednesday for the upcoming West Bengal Assembly elections. Jamuria goes to polls on April 26. Elections to 294-member West Bengal assembly will be held in eight phases starting from March 27 with the final round of voting taking place on April 29. The counting of votes will take place on May 2.Ghosh, 26, is pursuing MPhil from the School of International Studies at the university. She was elected as the JNUSU president as the candidate of CPI(M) affiliated Students’ Federation of India (SFI) in September 2019, and her term as the students’ body head was extended last year after the students’ union elections could not be held owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. On Thursday, Ghosh took to Twitter saying, “Will be contesting from Jamuria legislative assembly seat as a candidate of the CPI (M), supported by the Sanyukta Morcha. Requesting all of your support.” Ayesha Kidwai, professor at the Centre for Linguistics, said that no other incumbent JNUSU president has ever contested in an Assembly or Lok Sabha election before. “Aishe Ghosh so far is the first incumbent JNUSU president to contest in an election,” she said.Sachidanand Sinha, a professor at JNU’s Centre for Study of Regional Development, also said. “So many JNUSU members have contested in elections before. But they have all done so only after completing their education from the university. Aishe contesting in an election will create a positive impact on students’ politics in general,” he said.Among others to have contested polls after getting out of JNU are former JNUSU president Kanhaiya Kumar, Sitharam Yechury, and Shakeel Ahmed Khan. Aishe’s colleague and JNUSU vice president Saket Moon said, “The participation of an incumbent student union leader in a mainstream election will make it clear that the struggles we lead in the campus are not just limited to the campus. A student participating in politics will create a larger impact because it will encourage more students to become leaders in the future.”Ghosh was among the 35-odd people, including students and teachers, who were attacked during a spell of violence that took place at the JNU campus in January 2020. She had sustained a severe head injury, and her left arm was fractured in the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aishe-ghosh-becomes-first-incumbent-jnusu-president-to-contest-assembly-polls-101615484854836.html
11-03-2021||Delhi||Man killed in celebratory firing at brother’s birthday party||A 36-year-old man was killed during a celebratory firing at his younger brother’s birthday party in Najafgarh on Wednesday. Police are tracking the man who had fired the shots and fled the party after the incident.Police have identified the man who was shot as Anuj Sharma, who lived with his family in Uttam Nagar and worked at a private firm. The man who allegedly shot him, 32-year-old Naveen, sells vegetables and fruits near a wholesale market in the same neighbourhood, police said.Senior police officers said the information about the murder was received around 1am Thursday from Akash hospital, which reported that Sharma was brought there with a gunshot wound and was pronounced dead at the hospital.Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said during initial inquiry, it was established that Sharma’s younger brother Prateek Rishi had thrown a birthday party at a farmhouse in Najafgarh where 10-12 persons has been invited. “During the celebrations, Naveen was firing from a pistol, and one of the bullets hit Sharma and he collapsed. His friends took him to Akash hospital where he was declared dead,” the DCP said.Meena said Sharma had suffered the gunshot wound to the left side of his chest. “His body was sent for a postmortem examination. Naveen is on the run and teams have been set up to track and arrest him,” he said.The officer said at least nine empty rounds of 7.65mm were recovered from the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-killed-in-celebratory-firing-at-brother-s-birthday-party-101615484854223.html
11-03-2021||Delhi||One worker killed, 8 injured as scaffolding collapses during railway bridge repair work||A 20-year-old daily wage earner was killed and eight others injured after a 20-foot-high scaffolding that they were perched on, to carry out repairs on an elevated railway tracks in east Delhi’s Yamuna Khadar, collapsed late Wednesday. Police said the eight injured workers are currently stable. The construction work was being undertaken by the Northern Railway. Police have booked the contractor for death due to negligence and efforts are on to trace him.Police identified the dead man as Mohammad Shahzad, a 20-year-old from Alwar in Rajasthan. Police said the incident was reported around 10pm when the scaffolding that the labourers had erected to reach the railway bridge collapsed while nine workers were perched on it.“There was some debris lying beneath the scaffolding and the nine men fell on that, injuring themselves. Soon as the police got information, a team reached the spot. Since the spot is 3-5 kilometers inside the wooded area on the banks of the Yamuna, it was tough for the team to take the injured to the hospital. The nine men were rushed to three different hospitals – Jag Pravesh, Guru Teg Bahadur and Lal Bahadur Shastri hospitals. While Shahzad was pronounced dead at the hospital, the others have been admitted and are undergoing treatment,” said a police officer who wished not to be named.Shahzad’s body has been sent for a postmortem examination and his family members have been informed, police said. Shahzad’s family lives in Alwar and he is survived by his father Khurshid, mother Zarina, a brother and two sisters.The eight injured were identified as Sonu Nishad, 20, Raghubir Lal, 22, Sohib, 20, Kali Bhawan, 22, Sudhir, 38, Golu, 20, Anis Khan, 20 and Imran, 21. Most of them are from different areas of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.Police said the initial probe has suggested that one of the pipes supporting the scaffolding had bent, causing the entire structure to collapse.Police have found that the repair work at the railway bridge was going on for the past month. Deputy commissioner of police (east) Deepak Yadav said, “We have booked the contractor Ramzan Khan, who was carrying out the repair work for the Northern Railway. Prima facie, it was found that the labourers did not have protective gears. A case has been registered against Khan under IPC (Indian Penal Code) sections 287 (negligent conduct with respect to machinery), 337 (for causing hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life) and 304A (for causing death due to negligence),” the DCP said.“Khan is currently not in Delhi. Multiple teams have been formed to trace the contractor and arrest him,” Yadav said.Deepak Kumar, chief public relations officer of the Northern Railway, did not respond to calls and text messages seeking his comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/one-worker-killed-8-injured-as-scaffolding-collapses-during-railway-bridge-repair-work-101615484796934.html
11-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi may receive moderate rain, hail in certain parts today||Delhi will most likely receive light to moderate rain, accompanied by thunderstorm and hail in certain parts, from Friday morning under the influence of a western disturbance that is passing over the north-west region, India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said starting early Friday, parts of Delhi and NCR will receive rain and thunderstorm along with strong winds. “The forecast was that Delhi was to get light rain, starting Thursday evening, but the possibility now seems that we are likely to receive rain from Friday morning. The temperature will also fall by at least three-four degrees,” Srivastava said. Parts of the national capital had on Wednesday evening received light showers, accompanied by thunderstorm in certain parts. The last time a western disturbance impacted the city in this manner was on February 5 and Met officials said such a prolonged period without a western disturbance was one of the reasons the higher than normal temperatures in the months of February and March. Further explaining the weather variations, an IMD scientist said that when a western disturbance passes over a region, the cloudy sky keeps the sunlight from directly hitting the ground and thereby increase the daytime temperatures. On Thursday, the maximum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 35.2 degrees Celsius, six degrees above the season’s normal. The minimum temperature was 17.3 degrees Celsius, three degrees above what is considered normal for the season. IMD forecast said as an impact of Friday’s rain, the temperature over the weekend is expected to fall. However, from Monday, the mercury will start climbing again, the IMD said. “Gusty winds are also expected to bring relief from pollution. The wind speeds are likely to touch around 40-50kmph on Friday,” the IMD forecast said. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that on Thursday, the overall air quality index of the city was 242, in the “poor” zone. On Wednesday, the AQI had improved to the “moderate” category, with an AQI of 175.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-may-receive-moderate-rain-hail-in-certain-parts-today-101615484795534.html
11-03-2021||Lucknow||No riots in three years changed UP’s image globally: UP Govt||: Citing National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, the Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday claimed that the state recorded no incident of communal riots in last three years.“This is a change from previous years when communal incidents were common in UP,” said the statement issued by the state government.The change, statement claimed, was a result of ‘zero tolerance’ policy towards crimes and criminals adopted by the state government headed by chief minister Yogi Adityanath.The Yogi-led government has emerged successful in not just curbing crimes but also instilling sense of security among the common man, read the statement.“The Yogi government has also efficiently restored harmony and peace in the state by controlling large-scale communal clashes,” read the statement.Measures taken to implement an effective and strict law and order system across the state has played an important role in changing the image and perception of Uttar Pradesh globally and re-establishing its identity, claimed the statement.To reduce crime against women, the CM has launched initiatives like ‘Mission Shakti’, which ensures the safety, dignity and empowerment of women in the state, the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-riots-in-three-years-changed-up-s-image-globally-up-govt-101615484794936.html
11-03-2021||Other||Nursery admissions: Parents waiting for EWS guidelines||New Delhi: While the registration process for admissions to entry-level classes — nursery, KG, and first — in Delhi’s private schools has ended, parents looking to enrol their children under the reserved economically weaker section (EWS) and Disadvantaged Groups (DG) categories are still waiting for the state government to release the schedule for admissions under these groups, a delay that parents said will cost children time in classes.The online registration process for admission to 75% of general category seats in private unaided and recognised schools in Delhi was complete on March 4. But the government is yet to announce the schedule for a separate admission process it conducts for 25% seats reserved under EWS/DG categories as per the Right to Education (RTE) Act in these classes in private school.Parents expressed their concern at the potential academic losses caused by the delay.Amarjeet Singh, a resident of Tilak Nagar who is looking to enrol his son in nursery class at a private school under the EWS category this year, said, “The new academic session will begin next month. General category students will be able to join immediately since their admission process will complete on March 31 as per the government schedule. But what about EWS students? The admission process is already delayed this year. Who will make up for my son’s academic losses?”The centralised process for admissions to entry-level classes in around 1,700 private schools, which usually commences in November or December, was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Khusboo, a resident of Gonda who is seeking admission of her two sons in nursery and Class 1 under the EWS category said, “My elder son could not get admission last year as his name did not appear in the list. His entire year went to waste. I am really worried about his admission now.”Ekramul Haque of Mission Taleem, an organisation working with EWS children in Delhi, said, “We have received several queries from parents every day. The government should immediately release the notification for EWS/DG admissions and start the registration process. Otherwise, these students will suffer academically. These students have already faced losses since they could not study properly in 2020 due to the closure of schools [due to the pandemic].”A senior government official, who asked not to be named, said, “The schedule for EWS/DG category will begin once the admission process for the general category is complete or at least one list of selected candidates is released. The government will fast-track the process to minimise the students’ academic loss.”The first admission list for students under the general category students is scheduled to be released on March 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nursery-admissions-parents-waiting-for-ews-guidelines-101615484734795.html
11-03-2021||Other||What happened in U’khand will also happen in UP: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav said on Thursday that what happened in Uttarakhand might get replicated in Uttar Pradesh. He was referring to recent developments in Uttarakhand that saw Trivendra Singh Rawat resigning as the chief minister and Tirath Singh Rawat becoming the new CM, barely a year before the state is scheduled for Assembly polls.Akhhilesh yet again attacked chief minister Yogi Adityanath for claiming credit for the “projects of previous SP government” and said: “The chief minister taking selfie on Wednesday has been splashed in newspapers and social media. The project seen in the background is SP government’s project”.Yogi Adityanath took selfie at a dam project that he inaugurated in Chitrakoot on Wednesday.Akhilesh Yadav said this at a press conference in Moradabad ahead of the bicycle rally he is scheduled to flag off on Friday in the neighbouring Rampur. The SP is taking out bicycle rally from Rampur to Lucknow in support of party’s Rampur MP Azam Khan who is currently in jail in connection with the cases filed against him over alleged anomalies in Maulana Jauhar University, Rampur. “Even the jobs that BJP government claimed to have provided were the ones created in previous government’s tenure,” he said. Taking about three new Central farm laws, Akhilesh said, ‘The laws will ruin small, medium farmers and agricultural labourers.”On West Bengal assembly polls, Akhilesh said: “BJP has been conspiring there but Mamata Banerjee will be chief minister again. Samajwadi Party is supporting her party in West Bengal.”ON ALLIANCEYadav indicated that his party would not ally with his uncle Shivpal Yadav’s Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L) for UP Assembly polls 2022.“Samajwadi Party’s experience will big political parties had not been good. We will not ally with any big political parties. We will take smaller parties on board,” he said, but when asked about Shivpal Yadav and his PSP-L, he quipped, “Yes, indeed his party is small. Samajwadi Party will ally with small parties but not with those that have any BJP link”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/what-happened-in-u-khand-will-also-happen-in-up-akhilesh-101615484614748.html
11-03-2021||Other||Driver falls off Mahipalpur flyover after SUV driven by doctor hits his taxi||New Delhi: A 24-year-old taxi driver fell off the Mahipalpur Flyover in south Delhi and died after his car, which had a flat tyre, was rammed by an SUV while he was changing its tyre on Wednesday evening, the police said. The SUV’s driver, Varun Chaudhary, a city-based doctor, did not attempt to escape from the accident scene and was arrested later, said Ingit Pratap Singh, deputy commissioner of police (south-west). The taxi driver, Ikrar, was driving on the flyover in Vasant Kunj on Wednesday evening and ended up with a flat tyre. “He parked his car on the side of the flyover and was replacing the flat tyre,” said the officer. Minutes later, the SUV rammed the taxi from behind. Since Ikrar was standing next to the car, he was hit and ended up getting flung several feet below from the flyover. The doctor behind the wheel of the SUV stopped at the scene to check, but the fall left Ikrar dead, the officer said. Ikrar was rushed to a hospital, but he was declared dead on arrival. The officer said that a case of causing death by negligence and of rash driving was registered against the doctor and he was arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/driver-falls-off-mahipalpur-flyover-after-suv-driven-by-doctor-hits-his-taxi-101615484614172.html
11-03-2021||Bangalore||'City of future!' Infosys' Nandan Nilekani on what makes Bengaluru click||In an interview with Hindustan Times Editor-in-chief Sukumar Ranganathan, Infosys co-founder Nandan Nilekani said on Thursday that an innovative streak has been in Bengaluru's bloodstream for hundreds of years and the start-up boom is the latest manifestation of this streak. Nilekani said that the work from home system is here to stay as the city sees a new phase of change. Here are some excerpts from the interview.Q: Is Bengaluru your most favourite city in the world?A: I’ve lived everywhere in India and aboard but I’m always happy to come back to Bengaluru, which was recently voted the most livable city in the country. Yes, it is my favourite city.Q: So, do you agree with the ranking in the ease of living? Because a lot of people, in Bengaluru, don’t agree with it.A: Every city has its strengths and weaknesses. It is never perfect, but when I look at the totality of what is possible, I still look at it as the best city to live in.Q: One person, who felt very passionately about this, said that it is not because Bengaluru is very good, but all other cities are very bad.A: It could be so because it is relative. When you look at the weather, the people in the city, the facilities and others -- like having one of the best airports in India -- all of it makes Bengaluru very livable. Things can be much better everywhere, but we have to live with what we have.Q: You have watched Bengaluru grow over a period of time and it was a fascinating evolution to watch. So, where do you think Bengaluru is in its evolutionary journey?A: One of the big things in recent years has been the development of the metro. We are seeing the metro network – even though it is not as comprehensive and sophisticated as Delhi – is getting rolled out. For example, Electronic City, where many of the tech companies, including Infosys, is getting connected to the metro network. As the metro spreads out, mass transit becomes easier and it would take some pressure off from the roads. Traffic here has been a matter of concern. So, you can see the upswing and see a lot of road work going on.Also read: Bengaluru has public-spiritedness - Nandan Nilekani on HT DialoguesQ: What makes Bengaluru click? Since it has topped the ease of living index, people insist it is the best city to live in and is the innovation hub. What makes Bengaluru work?A: It always had a history of innovation and contribution by forward-looking visionaries. We have two great parks in Bengaluru – Lal Bagh and Cubbon Park. The Lal Bagh was developed in 1760 by Hyder Ali, who felt the need to create the need Mughal garden in the south. Cubbon Park was set up by the British in 1870. Both went to create green lungs in the middle of the city. It was forwarding looking to think of these things in 1760 and 1870.It has always been the hub of innovation. If you look at the early part of the 20th century, Bengaluru was the first city to get electric light on a street. In 1904, there was an electric pole set up in KR Market because Maharaja (Krishnaraja Wadiyar) had set up a power plant in Shivasamudram to provide electricity to the Kolar Gold Field to mine gold. That line ran through Bengaluru and they decided to take bypass from that to provide electricity to Bengaluru. So, Bengaluru became the first city in India, in 1905, to get electricity.In 1909, Jamsetji Tata and the Maharaja got together to set up the Indian Institute of Science, a forward-looking science university for it and it still the best science university in the country.The Maharaja brought in German botanist Hermann Krumbiegel in 1908, who not only developed Lal Bagh but also came up with the idea of serial blooming, which meant that different trees would bloom in the city at different times.If you look at it, all these people were way ahead of their time, thinking about parks, electricity and universities. So, the innovative streak has been in the city’s bloodstream for hundreds of years and what you are seeing is the latest manifestation of that -- the reinventions in terms of start-ups.Just like Silicon Valley (in the USA), once you have a culture where you attract good talent, people like to live there, there are good schools and college and you create that critical mass of people, then magic happens.Q: In this evolutionary journey, it is important to look at the Texas instrument setting up base in Bengaluru.Bengaluru was the place where Walchand Hirachand set up the first aircraft manufacturing plant in 1940, in the pre-independence era, which became Hindustan Aeronautical Limited (HAL). Post-independence, many top research labs were set up in India. Several public electronic manufacturing companies -- like ITI (Indian Telecom Industries), BEL (Bharat Electronics Limited)-- were set up in Bengaluru. The strong public sector presence led to private sector manufacturing.Remote software development was again invented in Bengaluru which led to the growth of the IT industry, which today is close to 190 billion dollars in size. That again created huge technology, which then attracted more capital units and that in turn brought in the VCs (venture capitalists) who brought young talent from these companies.Q: Following the pandemic, work from home is the new trend and some say it is going to be around indefinitely. Do you think it will lessen the pressure on Bengaluru to some extent?A: Work from home is here to stay. I think it's to the credit of the Indian IT industry that they managed to take millions of people and may get them to work from home in a matter of four to six weeks. For example, at Infosys, 2,40,000 employees across 40 countries move to work from home in three weeks, because they have the technology infrastructure to do so.So, I think work from home has a fundamental impact. Obviously, we do want to go back to work in offices because of the value of meeting people, the serendipity, the ideas, the innovation requires people working together. But one thought is that to have a system of two-thirds going to the office on any given day while the remaining one-third works from home.But fundamentally, this is good news because this will reduce the pressure on the commute and traffic. This ultimate hybrid model of working from home using collaboration tools, where some people are physically together, and some are remote is the way of the future.Q: This will probably make Bengaluru even more livable? Because one thing that everyone in Bengaluru likes to talk about is the traffic.A: Yes, the traffic will get much more evened out because people are at home on a given day. Secondly, as I said, there's pretty fast progress happening on the metro network. When the metro reaches a certain network effect, the usage will take off. I think we will achieve such a network in Bengaluru Metro in a couple of years and then you will see that fewer people will drive to work.Q: Let's come to the negative side, what do you think are the main issues in Bengaluru, what do you think are the real pain points in Bengaluru?A: The infrastructure will always be behind, and roadwork will continue all the time. Also, I think we need to address the inequality issues because, Bengaluru has a large number of migrants, not necessarily IT professionals. So, they still want the quality of life which is not that great, they live in slums, and that should be addressed. So, I think inequality need to be addressed in a big way.Q: Bengaluru has been a place that has attracted people from outside regions. A lot of people move in and then make it their home. How does the culture evolve through all this? What is the culture of Bengaluru?A: If you think of the fact that the first large public garden was set up in 1760, it will be clear that Bengaluru is a city that has been around for a few 100 years. It is also a capital city, so it's firmly ensconced.It's also a very cosmopolitan city. When the British built cantonment, many people came in from the different states. Many more migrated when the public sector boom happened in Bengaluru. During this time, Bengaluru has reinvented itself for the future.Q: If you could change some things about Bengaluru to make it a better city for business or to make it a better city to live in, what are the three or four things that you would change?A: It would be to fix public transportation. The key to Mumbai's greatness has been its fast trains and Delhi has an extraordinary metro system that connects the National Capital Region.That's why I keep harping on this. I think the combination of the metro, the bus system and suburban rail would make a big difference.Q: Let's talk about education. One of the things that I think Delhi has got right is its school system right now. There has been a lot of work that's happened there. And I think the effects are becoming visible. How well do you think the Karnataka school system is run? Do you think that that is one of the probable failings of the city?A: No, I don't think so. I think they are doing a good job. It is just that Delhi experiments have got a lot of visibility, but there's a lot of good work happening in the public schools in Karnataka. But Covid-19 has made a big impact. Because people who can't afford devices can't get online working at home. It has been a big setback. And I have mentioned, when it comes to higher education, may it be the IIMs, IIT or IISc Bengaluru is a big education hub.Q: There has been an increase in the number of institutes of higher learning that have come up in the last few years in Bengaluru. Do you think that at this point, Bengaluru can stake claim to being the intellectual capital of this country?A: In some areas. In technology, Artificial Intelligence, general sciences, urban studies, I think Bengaluru is the leader. But in terms of thinktanks, Delhi has a more developed system, partly because it is the capital city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/city-of-future-infosys-nandan-nilekani-on-what-makes-bengaluru-click-101615483346229.html
11-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi: More than 29,000 people received Covid-19 vaccine doses on Thursday||Over 29,000 beneficiaries received shots of Covid-19 vaccine in the national capital on Thursday, including 14,838 senior citizens, according to official data.In the age bracket, 45-59 years, 2,683 beneficiaries received the jabs, a senior official said.On Wednesday, 30,940 people had received shots, according to official data.On Thursday, the number fell to 29,441, as per data shared by the health department.Two cases of minor AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) were recorded, officials said.Under the nationwide mega vaccination drive launched mid-January, a total of 4,319 (53 per cent) health workers, against a target of 8,117, were administered the shots at 81 centres across the city on day one.In the first phase, starting January 16, over 3.6 lakh beneficiaries comprising healthcare workers and frontline workers, have been vaccinated in Delhi.Over 5,100 senior citizens in Delhi had received their first shots of the vaccine on March 1 when the second phase of the vaccination drive began in the national capital.As per official estimates, there are around 43 lakh people in the specified priority category of 60 years or above and those within 45-59 years with comorbidities in Delhi.People within the age group of 45-59 years with comorbidities are required to produce a comorbidity certificate signed by a registered medical practitioner. A total of 20 comorbidities have been specified for the vaccination, the officials said.People eligible for vaccination also have to carry their photo identity cards, including Aadhaar card, PAN card or voter card.On Thursday, second doses were given to 7,675 people, officials said, adding, 2,641 frontline workers and 1,604 healthcare workers got their first shots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-more-than-29-000-people-received-covid-19-vaccine-doses-on-thursday-101615483099102.html
11-03-2021||Gurugram||Budget for green works likely to be slashed: MCG officials||Funds for environmental works is likely to see a major dip in the upcoming 2021-2020 budget of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), officials familiar with the matter said on Thursday. The MCG is scheduled to draft its 2021-22 budget on March 18.Officials said that around ₹102 crore was reserved for environment works in the 2020-21 fiscal, of which only ₹21 crore was spent. “Even though the MCG set a fund allocation of around ₹102 crore, only around ₹21 crore were spent for environmental works in the 2020-21 fiscal, mostly related to Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) measures. Hence, there is an 85% dip in the allocation of funds for this fiscal,” a senior MCG, requesting anonymity, said.The official explained that the budget serves as a guide around which the MCG initiates its operations for a financial year and added that only 15-20% of funds can be increased from the original allocation.“We can allocate some extra funds for any specific category. However, it should not be in excess of 15-20% as then the MCG has to explain the spending and seek approval from the state government. The biggest drawback of low funding is that it signifies that the MCG does not have any large-scale new projects or environmental restorations in mind,” the official cited above said.Over the last two days, the MCG has also held separate meetings with its officials and councillors over the draft budget. MCG officials said that all suggestions and complaints will also be taken into account when the budget is being finalised.“Only a draft budget has been prepared at the moment. Each category under the revenue collection as well as expenditure will be scrutinised, reviewed, and then finalised in the official budget meeting. We have held two meetings on the matter, with councillors and officials recently. Their inputs and suggestions will also be factored while preparing the MCG’s 2021-22 budget,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.Officials said that the MCG is likely to increase its funds’ allocation by nearly two times for water bodies, while it will reserve funds for rainwater harvesting for the first time.“This fiscal, we are aiming to spend a lot of funds towards the rejuvenation of ponds and local water bodies to both mitigate localised waterlogging and recharging the groundwater table. Further, for the first time in 13 years of existence, MCG is also reserving funds for rainwater harvesting,” the official cited above said.Officials said the increase in allocation of funds for water bodies and rainwater harvesting by the MCG may be due to a recent order by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directing the civic body to highlight the steps it will take to ensure increased groundwater recharge in 2021.Vaishali Rana Chandra, a city-based environmentalist said that Haryana has one of the lowest green covers across the country as consistently highlighted by the annual reports of the Forest Survey of India (FSI) over the past decade.“Increasing green cover is of the highest importance, especially since Gurugram is one of the cities with the highest pollution globally. Delhi has seven biodiversity parks and Gurugram has just a solitary one. MCG needs to take cognisance of this situation and allocate more funds towards increasing the city’s green cover, build more biodiversity parks, plant more saplings, rather than reducing its expenditure,” said Chandra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/budget-for-green-works-likely-to-be-slashed-mcg-officials-101615482157161.html
11-03-2021||Gurugram||Gangster Kaushal files petition demanding protection from fake encounter||Gangster Kaushal on Thursday filed a petition in a local court, seeking protection from his rivals as well as officers of Gurugram Police, alleging the possibility of a fake encounter. In his application to the court, he stated that Gurugram Police should not be allowed to transport him from Hisar Jail — where he has been lodged since December 2019 — to the Gurugram court and back. Further, the court should appoint a police team from another district to accompany him. The special task force of the Haryana Police had arrested Kaushal from the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport on August 26, 2019, when he had allegedly arrived from Dubai. Kaushal has more than 200 cases of murder, attempt to murder, kidnapping, extortion, and life threats registered against him in Haryana. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said criminal activities have been reduced in the city after the arrest of Kaushal. Rao said the police followed the due process of law while arresting him and presented him before the court, rejecting Kaushal’s contention that the Gurugram Police was planning an encounter to kill him. “More than 20 close aides of Kaushal are lodged inside Bhondsi Jail and are in touch with him. He is still running an extortion racket from the jail. We are monitoring their communication and movement of his gang members to ensure they do not target any anyone. Safety of Kaushal is also our concern,” he said. Kaushal also cited that the rivals of gangster Sandeep Gadoli and the Gurugram Police had planned his encounter in Mumbai.In the two-page petition filed in the local court, Kaushal also stated that his associates lodged in Bhondsi Jail has informed his family members that rival gang members are hatching plan to kill him with the help of the police.Rahul Chauhan, Kaushal’s counsel said he has been lodged in jail since August 2019 and has no role to play in any of extortion cases. “Kaushal’s life is under threat. Binder Gujjar, who is his biggest rival, has been lodged in Bhondsi Jail for the fake encounter of Gadoli. We need special security so that he is not killed in police custody,” he said. Kaushal was lodged in Bhondsi Jail after his arrest but was moved to Hisar Jail in November 2019. He had filed a petition in the district and sessions court in December 2019 to transfer him back to Bhondsi Jail but the court had dismissed the jail transfer application, citing that “societal peace” took priority over “individual convenience” in his case. The court had directed jail authorities and superintendent of police in Hisar to make appropriate arrangements for the safe transportation of Kaushal from Hisar Jail to Gurugram courts and way back. Kaushal was lodged in Bhondsi Jail after his arrest but was moved to Hisar Jail in December 2019.The police said he used to run his operations from Dubai and was involved in the murder of Congress leader Vikas Chaudhary, who was shot dead by the gang members of Kaushal on his direction in June 2019, following his refusal to pay protection money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gangster-kaushal-files-petition-demanding-protection-from-fake-encounter-101615482155980.html
11-03-2021||Gurugram||District administration proposes changes to restoration plan of John Hall||The district administration has proposed additional changes to the restoration plan of John Hall — a colonial structure at Civil Lines — that is scheduled to undergo renovation and conservation as part of a three-year-long memorandum of understanding(MoU) with a private company in the city. Deputy commissioner Yash Garg, who visited the site earlier this week, said that various ideas, including setting up a rainwater harvesting system, along with an underground tank and the installation of a vintage jet aircraft, were under consideration. “Our vision is to restore John Hall in such a manner that it reflects the history of the time period when it was established. In recent years, it has been renovated but certain elements do not match the appropriate time period. Right at the entrance, there is a shed whose architecture does not match with the time period of the original structure. With appropriate steps, our goal is to ensure that the structure retains the essence of that time,” said Garg. A proposal to install a dummy aircraft/jet at the premises is among the ideas that are being considered by the administration. “We are exploring the possibility of showcasing an old vintage aircraft on the premises. There are some constraints with space, but I have asked the team of architects to suggest alternative places on the premises where this can be implemented appropriately,” said Garg. Gaurav Singh, additional CEO and regional head of Haryana Corporate Social Responsibility Advisory Board (HCSRAB), Gurugram, said that changes suggested by the deputy commissioner would be taken up for detailed discussion on Friday. “Recently, the deputy commissioner and all stakeholders visited the site for review during which some new changes and suggestions came up. The open-air theatre that we were initially planning to work on has been removed from the plan taking into account parking hassles. We will instead have a recharge pit for water harvesting. We are exploring the possibility of installing a dummy fighter jet at the site since the site also serves as a war memorial,” said Singh. He said that the new changes were expected to get approval by Friday, following which conservation work will start. “Updated designs in line with the proposed changes will be put up before a committee tomorrow for improvement and approvals,” said Singh. John Hall was built in 1925 in the memory of John Goble Brayne, the second son of FL Brayne, who was the deputy commissioner of Gurgaon in 1920. Over the years, it has come to occupy an important place in the administrative functioning of the city. Currently, the place is used by the administration for meetings and is open only for official work. The hall was renamed Swatantra Senani Zila Parishad Hall a few years ago and is presently under the ownership of the Zila Parishad.In November 2019, the district administration had signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with a city-based firm as a funding partner for a three-year-long restoration project of the structure. Work on the site was to start from April 2020 but couldn’t take off due to pandemic-related delays. “We are hoping to start work from April after necessary changes are approved,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/district-administration-proposes-changes-to-restoration-plan-of-john-hall-101615482155339.html
11-03-2021||Gurugram||State gives nod for round-the-clock vaccinations||At least six hospitals in the city will start round-the-clock vaccination service from March 15. The state health department on Thursday gave approval to five private facilities and a government facility, Artemis, Max, Fortis, Medanta, Paras hospitals and Civil Hospital in Sector 10, to run their vaccination camps throughout the day. “From Friday onwards, vaccination will continue till 9 in the night in at least 13 health care facilities. Based on the assessment of the functioning, specific directions will be given to those hospitals, which have been allowed to hold round-the-clock vaccination from March 15,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, confirming that 24-hour vaccination service has been permitted by the state. In a task force meeting held on Wednesday, health department along with private hospitals took the decision to start 12-hour vaccination drives and further extend it to round the clock from next week at select hospitals. “The hospital has enough trained staff to hold vaccination round the clock. From Friday onwards, for the first time, we will be holding vaccination from 9am till 9pm. Also, there will be vaccination sessions on Sunday. Currently, there are seven vaccination counters to administer over 500 doses every day. But for the night hours, there will be at least two vaccination counters,” said Dr Ritu Garg, zonal director, Fortis Memorial Research Institute, adding that the service will facilitate people who want to take vaccination or bring along their parents before or after their office hours. Other hospitals said they will double the staff strength to smoothly run round-the-clock vaccination facilities. Dr Sameer Kulkarni, regional director, Paras Hospital, said, “The eight-hour coverage has now been extended to 12 hours. The experience will help us in running the vaccination service at midnight too from next week onwards. At least 30 people will work in three shifts as the manpower has been doubled to hold vaccination. From inoculation of 200 doses a day, the number will increase to 500.” In case of the government facility, Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, said, “The evening and overnight vaccination service will help people who want to take vaccine shot before or after their office hours. In government hospital too, the staff will work in shifts.” Other facilities where vaccination will continue till 9pm are Kalyani, Narayana, Park, Signature, CK Birla and Medeor hospitals and a polyclinic in Sector 31. At present, only those aged 60 or above and those aged between 45 and 59 years having comorbidities are eligible for the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/state-gives-nod-for-round-the-clock-vaccinations-101615482154704.html
11-03-2021||Gurugram||DLF Phase-3 residents pledge to prevent illegal constructions||Property owners and residents of U Block in DLF Phase 3 on Thursday held a meeting, where it was decided to voluntarily prevent illegal constructions in the area and also curb commercial activities being carried out without any permission. A 10-member committee was formed by residents to interact with property owners and ask them to remove violations from their plots. Additionally, for plots on which construction is currently ongoing, the committee shall ensure that construction is carried out within norms and is restricted to four storeys. This decision was taken during a meeting held between residents and officials of the department of town and country planning(DTCP) at a community centre in DLF Phase 3 on Thursday. DTCP officials said that this was the first meeting held between the two sides in the past several years, The meeting was called in the background of large-scale sealing and demolition drives in this area held over the past months. The U Block in DLF Phase 3 comprises primarily of EWS (economically weaker sections) plots where buildings with multiple storeys have been constructed in complete violation of norms. Last week, the department had sealed 150 establishments in the block, which were being run in violation of rules. RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement) said that the residents and property owners of the area assured them that illegal constructions and violations will be stopped and they have formed a committee to prevent these activities. “The residents want the department to consider the problems being faced by them as their shops have been sealed. However, the violations in the area are quite serious and, unless corrective action is taken, it would be difficult to accord any help,” he said. Bhath, however, said that if residents deliver on the promise of stopping illegal constructions and remove existing illegal constructions, then the department can examine the genuine issues raised by residents, However, a decision in this regard can only be taken by the state government. “The residents have agreed to prepare a database of all EWS plots and list the violations. They must also obtain permission for carrying out non-nuisance activities as per rules of DTCP. We can’t allow violations. Sealing will be carried out in future if the committee is not able to deliver on what it has promised. Only genuine demands would be sent to headquarters for decision at the highest level” he said. The residents, meanwhile, said that they have formed a core committee of 10 members, and it will have 50 additional members comprising local residents and property owners, who shall interact to find a solution to this problem. “We admit that this is a serious problem and have agreed to prepare a list of plots. We also strongly plead with owners to remove violations. We will ensure that structures under construction don’t violate norms,” said Sahab Ram ‘Leelu Sarpanch’ — a prominent resident of the area who will head the committee.Ishwar Yadav, who is also a member of the committee, said that they have asked the department to take a considerate view of the problems being faced by owners as many people have lost their livelihood due to the sealing of shops. “We have promised that violations would be brought to a minimum and no one would be allowed to carry out encroachments in the area,” said Yadav, adding that over 300 residents were present in the meeting. DTCP officials said that they have asked the committee to interact with locals and explain them that violations of any kind will not be condoned. “We will conduct random inspections and wait for a report from the committee after 15 days,” said Bhath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dlf-phase-3-residents-pledge-to-prevent-illegal-constructions-101615482154064.html
11-03-2021||Gurugram||Green court gives last chance for clearing legacy waste at landfill||The principal bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), hearing a petition concerning legacy waste at the Bandhwari landfill site on March 9, has given authorities the last chance for ensuring “meaningful action on the ground level” by April 7 to clear the waste.The principal bench of the NGT, headed by chairperson Justice AK Goel, said, “…only option left to is require the state to pay compensation for continuing damage to the environment till compliance, and direct prosecution of the concerned secretary, but on assurance of the municipal, we give last opportunity for ensuring meaningful action on the ground level by the next date.”The petition was filed by environmentalist Vivek Kamboj, founder of Delhi-based Hariyali Welfare Society NGO. An order copy of the case was released on Thursday and accessed by HT.The court further asked the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) to submit a future action plan that must provide for placing information about day-to-day progress on the website and to ensure processing of current waste at a different site. The court also asked the secretary of urban development/local bodies and the commissioner of MCG to be present in person or through video conference with a report of meaningful action during the next hearing, scheduled for April 7.The green court expressed disappointment over the “inaction of the authorities in scientific management of the waste” that has resulted in leachate being discharged, causing contamination of the groundwater, polluting surface water and also polluting the air.The court said that it has been monitoring the remedial action taken by MGG in the past five years and has repeatedly found failures. The bench said it was disappointed to find that there was “practically no progress, resulting in continuing damage to the environment and public health.”Calling the treatment of legacy waste “insignificant”, the court also said that only 2% of the 3.3 million tonnes of legacy waste has been remediated at the Bandhwari landfill site in over the last year, indicating “that seriousness of the concerned authorities is lacking.”The Bandhwari landfill receives around 2,000 tonnes of waste every day from both Gurugram and Faridabad. Municipal solid waste from both these cities is being dumped at the said site since 2015. Almost eight trommel machines have been deployed by authorities at the site to clear legacy waste, and each machine can process 300 tonnes per day.As per a report by the Central Pollution Control Board submitted to the NGT in September 2020, the height of the dumpsite increased to 36 metres from 27 metres (recorded by CPCB in February 2020) and the total waste dumped stood at 3.1 million tonnes approximately.Sanjeev Sharma, official spokesperson of Ecogreen Energy, MCG’s concessionaire for waste management at the Bandhwari landfill said, “We have learnt about the recent NGT order and are working to increase the speed of treatment of legacy waste. Along with the regular treatment of waste, we are also following zero waste Mondays for the past two months to reduce dumping of fresh solid waste at the landfill site.”Vinay Pratap Singh, the MCG commissioner said, “The MCG has treated 1.8 lakh (0.18 million) metric tonnes of legacy waste so far even with constraints of Covid-19 restrictions and space at the landfill site. We have assured NGT that our waste treatment capacity would increase by 1,200 metric tonnes per day in March taking the full capacity to 4,000 metric tonnes per day. We are conscious of potential environmental concerns and would submit action taken report in NGT on next date of hearing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/green-court-gives-last-chance-for-clearing-legacy-waste-at-landfill-101615482095317.html
11-03-2021||Gurugram||21-year-old mowed down by speeding bus in Manesar||A 21-year-old job aspirant was killed after he was allegedly hit by a speeding private bus while crossing a road in Sector 8, IMT Manesar, on Wednesday night. He had come out of a private company’s office, where he had gone to attend a job interview. The police registered a case against the unidentified driver who allegedly fled the spot after the accident on Wednesday night. The deceased was identified as Atul Kumar, a native of Allahabad in Uttar Pradesh, who lived in Aliyar in Manesar in a rented accommodation, along with his wife and two children. He had been unemployed for the last three months and was looking for a job in an automobile company, said the police, adding that he was returning to his rented accommodation after the interview. Around 8.15pm, he had reached the T-point of Sector 8 in IMT Manesar. He was crossing the road when a speeding bus hit him before crushing him to death. “He fell on the road, some 50 metres ahead. The bus ran over him, leaving him dead on the spot. The driver did not even stop to check if the victim required any medical help. He fled from the spot,” said Hitesh Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (Manesar). The police said that his cousin, who was walking behind him, took him to a private hospital in Manesar, where the doctors declared him dead on arrival. Yadav said that Kumar was depressed regarding his employment situation. He had told his cousin that he might return to his village as he was not getting any jobs and that all of his savings had dried up during the pandemic. “He was planning to return to his parents in Allahabad this week and had requested me to not tell his wife about his financial condition as she was unwell. We were walking slowly and crossing the road when the accident took place. The driver was speeding and lost control over the bus. He may have forgotten to apply the brakes,” said Shravan Kumar, the cousin. A case under sections 279 (rash driving), 304A (death by negligence) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) was registered against the unidentified driver on Wednesday night. The police said they were trying to identify the suspect with the help of CCTV footage installed in the area. Kumar is survived by a wife and two sons, aged five and three, who left the city for Allahabad after the postmortem examination on Thursday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/21yearold-mowed-down-by-speeding-bus-in-manesar-101615482094066.html
11-03-2021||City||Odisha CM plans to counter BJP's Jagannath temple donation drive||In a bid to counter BJP's plan of initiating a fund collection drive for the 12th-century Jagannath temple in Puri on the lines of a similar drive for the proposed Ram temple in Ayodhya, the Naveen Patnaik-led Biju Janata Dal government in Odisha plans to set up donation boxes at major railway stations and airports across the country where devotees can donate money.The temple, currently amid a ₹3,200 crore expansion drive as part Sri Jagannath Heritage Corridor project, has recently become central to the politics of the ruling BJD and opposition BJP. Patnaik has been leading the campaign of beautification drive of several temples across the state including the Shiva temple of Lord Lingaraj in Bhubaneswar and temple of Goddess Samaleswari temple in Sambalpur district.Also read: Smart classes in high school located in Odisha's remote areaThe Patnaik government has so far allocated about ₹1,237 crore for the development of the corridor around Jagannath temple in Puri under which the area within 75 metres around the temple will be transformed into a heritage corridor to attract devotees from across the world. Presenting a resolution in the state assembly last month for completing the corridor work of the temple, Patnaik said Lord Jagannath was the greatest identity of the Odia community."Our history, culture, tradition and belief system are all centred on the Almighty. He is the symbol of Odia esteem and pride. Visiting the Jagannath Temple once in a lifetime and getting a glimpse of the Lord is the only prayer of millions of devotees," Patnaik had said.Sri Jagannath Temple Administrative (SJTA) officials said plans are on to encourage devotees to donate to the temple through donation boxes. "Donation boxes would be installed at airports, railway stations, educational institutions and companies to supplement the ₹12 crore annual income from the temple hundis. We will try to generate more revenue from the stone quarries owned by the temple administration in Tapang area of Khurda district. Besides, commercial stores would be constructed on the lands of the temple at different places. The rents would swell the temple revenue,” said SJTA chief administrator Dr Krishan Kumar.The state government's plans to put up donation boxes at airports and railway stations come a week after Union petroleum minister and senior BJP leader Dharmendra Pradhan wrote to Puri king Gajapati Dibya Singha Deb, urging him to launch and lead a mass fund collection drive for the development of ₹3,200 crore Jagannath temple heritage corridor."The drive should be transformed into a revolution in which all Hindus across the globe would get a chance to serve Lord Jagannath both physically and through donations for the development of the 12th-century shrine," wrote Pradhan, drawing parallels with similar efforts for the proposed Ram temple in Ayodhya, Uttar Pradesh. He also assured of the Centre’s help in waiving off income tax on the funds received from devotees from across the country and world.To give a fillip to their plans, Pradhan and other BJP leaders of Odisha have already donated to the temple in recent weeks.Pradhan's offer came in the wake of falling revenue collection due to the Covid-19 pandemic as well as falling bank interest rates on its fixed deposits. Last year, the temple administration had withdrawn nearly ₹545 crore from crisis-hit YES Bank and deposited it in two nationalized banks amid massive public outrage.Unwilling to be drawn into the political battle, Gajapati Dibyasingh Dev did not commit himself but said the drive needs the support of the state government, the Central as well as devotees around the world.Nervous about BJP's game-plan of hijacking its temple card, political analysts said the Naveen Patnaik government may have planned the donation box formula. "It's now an open secret that the two major political parties are using the temple card to shore up their prospects before next year's panchayat polls. The BJD would not like to share the credits of the development of the corridor around Puri temple with the BJP and thus would try every trick in the game," said former Odisha minister Panchanan Kanungo.For more than two years, the Naveen Patnaik government is cleverly playing the religious card by committing funds for the development of temples including Jagannath, Lingaraj as well as a host of other temples in the state to counter BJP's edge. The state government has taken a special interest in the development of temples such as the Jagannath temple of Puri, Lingaraj temple of Bhubaneswar, Baldevjew temple of Kendrapara and Samaleswari temple of Sambalpur pumping money into their peripheral development.Apart from Puri, the government recently announced a special Act for the Lingaraj temple and unveiled the Ekamra Kshetra project for the development of the area around the Lingaraj temple. Though not known to be a regular visitor to temples, Patnaik, over the last two months, visited Jagannath temple, Lingaraj temple, Manikeswari temple and Samalaeswari temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/odisha-cm-plans-to-counter-bjp-s-jagannath-temple-donation-drive-101615479775950.html
11-03-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Night curfew imposed in Punjab’s Patiala, essential services exempted||Beginning March 12, 2021 (Friday), a night curfew would be imposed in Punjab’s Patiala district between 11pm and 5am, according to the state government. However, essential services and medical emergencies would be exempted from the curfew, the government said.“Taking in view increasing COVID cases, District Magistrate, Kumar Amit has imposed night curfew in Patiala District from tomorrow. Curfew will be effective from the night of March 12, 2021 from 11 pm to 5 am, till further orders. However, police and army personnel on duty, Government Officials/Employees, Essential Services/Medical Emergency and any other Emergency related to the safety of the public/property, would be exempted from the purview of these orders,” a government order said on Thursday.Also read | Maharashtra records 14,317 new Covid-19 infections, highest in 2021Patiala reported 110 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday and is one among the most affected districts in Punjab with 18,087 total cases. The district has 907 active cases currently and has reported 526 deaths so far, according to the state government’s Covid-19 bulletin on Thursday. With 28,323 cases, Ludhiana remains the most affected district in Punjab in terms of total Covid-19 cases and SBS Nagar has the highest active caseload with 1,348 cases, the bulletin showed.Meanwhile, the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday identified Punjab as one among eight states that have reported a surge in the daily new Covid-19 cases. The seven other states are Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana.Watch | Covid: Covaxin regular emergency use; Maharashtra’s ‘worrisome’ situation﻿The ministry also observed that Punjab is one among five states where the active caseload has seen a significant increase in the past month. The state had reported 2,112 active cases on February 11, 2021, which rose to 9,402 cases on Thursday. It is the second-highest growth after Maharashtra, data from the ministry showed.In the last 24 hours, Punjab reported 1,309 new Covid-19 cases and 18 deaths, according to the government’s Covid-19 bulletin. The state currently has 10,069 active cases. Also, 195,948 first doses and 59,797 second doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered to healthcare and frontline workers in the state, according to the latest data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-night-curfew-imposed-in-punjab-s-patiala-essential-services-exempted-101615479291176.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||In CM Uddhav’s address, assurance for MPSC students and lockdown warning||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday addressed the state amid a rise in its daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Thackeray spoke about concerns of the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) examinees and reiterated that he doesn’t want to impose a lockdown in the western state.“MPSC exams will be held within a week, I have directed the chief secretary and MPSC officials to announce a new date by tomorrow,” the chief minister said, adding that the exams were postponed due to the rise in Covid-19 cases.“I have directed that only those officials and employees, who have taken vaccine against coronavirus or tested negative for the disease, be assigned to conduct the exams,” he further said. Thackeray further assured that no student would suffer due to age bar amid delay in conducting the exams.On Thursday evening, thousands of students, who were to appear for the MPSC exams on March 14, took to streets in various parts of the state, including Pune, upon postponement for a fifth time.Also Read | Frequent cancellations of MPSC exams, fear of age disqualifications put angry students on the streetsSpeaking about lockdown, the Shiv Sena supremo, who took his first shot of the Covid-19 vaccine earlier in the day, said, “We don’t want to impose lockdown but for that, you will have to follow some restrictions. Follow all the appropriate Covid-19 behaviour or else we will have to impose a lockdown.”Also Read | Covid cases soar in Maharashtra, CM Uddhav Thackeray mulls lockdown in some placesThe Centre has repeatedly expressed concerns over the surge in cases of the viral disease in Maharashtra, including on Thursday. The state reported 14,317 new infections and 57 deaths on the day, taking its infection tally to 2,266,374 and the related death toll to 57. On Wednesday, there were 13,659 cases and 54 fatalities. Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally is the highest in the country by a distance.Also Read | Pune, Nagpur, Thane, Mumbai: List of districts with highest active Covid casesMumbai, its capital city, saw 1,509 new infections and four deaths, taking the total tally and fatalities here to 338,643 and 11,519 respectively. On Wednesday, 1,539 cases and five deaths were detected in the metropolis.Get our daily newsletter
11-03-2021||Delhi||Women empowerment key focus area of 2021-22 budget: Delhi govt||From establishing special 'mohalla' clinics and dedicated support centres for women to strengthening their role in the economy, women empowerment is a key focus area of Delhi's 2021-22 budget, the AAP government said on Thursday."The role of women is key to the progress of Delhi and hence, providing accessible healthcare, education and social provisions is a priority," the Delhi government said in a statement.Presenting the budget on Tuesday, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the finance portfolio, set aside ₹4,750 crore for the Department of Social Welfare, Women and Child Development and the welfare of SC/ST/OBC.He also announced that the Delhi government will launch a new scheme to empower women and give them a larger role in the economy through the establishment of 500 anganwadi hubs in various parts of the city.The statement said major measures proposed by the government this year include establishing 100 'Mahila Mohalla Clinics', allowing every woman in the city access to "special services of gynaecologists and related diagnostic tests"."Considering women are not able to talk freely about their health issues and healthcare is not easily accessible for those belonging to middle-class and low-income families, the Delhi government plans to undertake the responsibility of having a 'Mahila Mohalla Clinic' around every woman in Delhi," it said.To begin with, 100 such clinics will be opened across the city and the number will be increased to ensure that there is "at least one clinic in each ward".Sisodia, while presenting the budget, had termed the 'Mahila Mohalla Clinic' initiative a "revolutionary step". The government has allocated ₹9,934 crore to the healthcare sector this year.To strengthen the role of women in the economy, the government, under its "Saheli Samanvay Kendra", will set up 500 anganwadi hubs in different parts of Delhi."These hubs can be used for incubating individual start-ups and to promote self-help groups."Special arrangements will be made for women in these hubs and the required training will be imparted to open micro-economic units and for holding meetings of self-help groups," the statement said.Other measures for women empowerment include the continuation of free travel in DTC and cluster buses, and equipping them with CCTV cameras and marshals.Installation of CCTV cameras and street lights at tourist spots and areas that are not well lit is also on the government's to-do list, according to the statement.To ensure that women in Delhi are aware of schemes like the Delhi Pension Scheme for women in distress, maternity schemes, and the 'Ladli Yojana' for school-going girls, the government is planning to establish 33 'mahila' support centres, the statement said."A counsellor will be present in these support centres to help and counsel women regarding issues concerning government initiatives," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/women-empowerment-key-focus-area-of-2021-22-budget-delhi-govt-101615479071142.html
11-03-2021||Other||Two Mohali men, woman arrested for gang rape of 14-year-old girl||Police have arrested three people, including a woman, in connection with the gang rape of a 14-year-old girl. “The minor girl was raped on multiple occasions by three men at the house of her female friend,” said investigating officer Navjeet Kaur, adding that the minor hails from Uttarakhand and lives with her family in Mohali. Two of the men, Vijay, 26, and Shahrukh, 22, residents of Sector 52, besides the female friend, Simran, 19, have been arrested. The third male accused, who hails from Amritsar, is absconding.The arrested trio was produced in a local court and sent to one-day police remand. The male accused have been booked under Sections 376-D ( gang rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, while Simran has been booked under Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-mohali-men-woman-arrested-for-gang-rape-of-14-year-old-girl-101615479034487.html
11-03-2021||Other||Punjabi University syndicate terminates services of ex-registrar’s son as asst prof||Patiala After being given ₹90 crore as a special grant to bail itself out from a financial mess and improve its administration in the state’s budget, Punjabi University is now moving towards better compliance. The varsity syndicate has terminated the services of Dilraj Singh, assistant professor in distance education, on the basis of Supreme Court judgment, which has not granted validity to a MTech degree earned through distance education. Dilraj is son of former registrar of the university and was appointed in 2010. The vice-chancellor has signed the minutes of the syndicate proceedings, which were released on Wednesday. In addition, the university has formed a three-member committee to examine the case of teachers recruited on forged caste certificate. A committee of the university has already recommended action against such teachers by terming them ineligible. Student union leader Harvinder Singh Sandhu had pointed to the issue of Dilraj and other illegally-appointed teachers. “The government has given us enough funds. Now, we are duty-bound to run the university. The guilty will face action and those supporting such elements are working against the university. The message from the government is clear that guilty should be punished,” said a university functionary, on the condition of anonymity. Dilraj had completed his MTech in information technology through distance education from the Institute of Advanced Studies in Education (IASE), Rajasthan, in 2005 with 81%. He was recruited as assistant professor in the university in 2010, while his father was the registrar.In 2017, while deciding a petition on technical degrees awarded through the distance education mode, the Supreme Court had directed that degrees of the students, who had pursued engineering in academic sessions between 2001-2005 from four deemed universities, including the IASE, stood suspended.Dilraj moved the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking the quashing of the public notice issued by All-India Council of Technical Education on December 2, 2017, regarding suspension of degrees on the basis of the SC order. In December 2018, the high court dismissed Dilraj’s petition stating that, “There is no merit in the petition and the issue raised by the petitioner has already been discussed by the SC, which granted no relief in similar petitions.”Student leader Sandhu expressed thanks to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh for acting against the guilty. “The government has given the grant to revive the university, and not to pay salaries to ineligible recruits. I hope honest faculty and non-teaching staff also welcome the decision,” he added. The present registrar of the university, Devinder Singh, could not be contacted for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjabi-university-syndicate-terminates-services-of-ex-registrar-s-son-as-asst-prof-101615478435645.html
11-03-2021||Other||Covishield or Covaxin? Choice is yours... once vaccine becomes available||PUNE Beneficiaries can now choose if they wish to take Covishield or Covaxin, while getting inoculated within the city limits. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials said that the city will now have a specific Covaxin centre as well.Dr Ashish Bharti, chief of the health department at the PMC, said, “As of now we only have Covishield vaccines. Soon we will be introducing two centres where Covaxin will be given.” Till March 8, PMC had received 2,22,000 vaccine doses of Covishield. He added that citizens while registering can choose if they want Covishield or Covaxin.“While registering, beneficiaries will have an option. Right now we have 15,000 vaccine doses of Covishield. And we shall be receiving 90,000 doses from the state by March 12. These will be enough for the next 10 days,” said Dr Bharti.In Pune district, currently, only one centre has Covaxin - Aundh District Hospital, which comes under Pune rural.“I have registered and will be taking the vaccine by the end of this week. I prefer Covishield. My family doctor has also suggested the same to me,” said V Somanath.On Thursday, PMC reported 152 per cent of beneficiaries vaccinated. Vaccination has picked up pace in Pune rural as well. Till Thursday, 255623 beneficiaries were inoculated in Pune district . On Thursday, a total of 27791 were inoculated in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covishield-or-covaxin-choice-is-yours-once-vaccine-becomes-available-101615478133853.html
11-03-2021||Chandigarh||7 Bhiwani men booked for raping girl repeatedly for six months||Seven men, including a father-son duo, have been booked for raping a 16-year-old girl repeatedly in a Bhiwani village for six months, police said. The Class-9 girl has been found to be two-month pregnant.The accused were booked on the complaint of victim’s father. “The accused had threatened to kill my daughter if she shared her ordeal with anyone. They raped her several times and the matter came to fore when she became pregnant,” the complainant said.Bhiwani superintendent of police Ajit Singh Shekhawat said, “We have got the girl medically examined and report is awaited. We have booked the accused under POCSO Act, and various sections of the IPC, including 376 (rape), 34(acts done by several persons in furtherance with common intention), 506(criminal intimidation). We have launched a manhunt to nab the accused,” the SHO added.A police official said the teenager complained of pain in her abdomen , following which she was taken to a hospital by her family members.“The girl was first raped by one of the accused when she used to go to his shop to buy grocery items and later his accomplices sexually assaulted her as well,” the official added.Bhiwani principal medical officer Dr Krishan Kumar said the girl was found to be two-month pregnant. “She told us that the accused were raping her for the last one year. There were no injury marks and she was discharged from the hospital,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/7-bhiwani-men-booked-for-raping-girl-repeatedly-for-six-months-101615477954220.html
11-03-2021||Chandigarh||Violations in property registration in Haryana rampant since 2017||As many as 49,197 sale deeds were registered in Haryana from April 2017 to October 2020 in violation of the norms, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who has been under intense attack from the opposition after irregularities in registration of properties surfaced, has informed the Vidhan Sabha. During the assembly session in November last year, this issue was hotly debated under the calling attention notice of the opposition and the BJP-JJP coalition government was on the defensive. Chautala, who also holds the portfolio of revenue department, had informed the House that a state-wide inquiry was being conducted into the violation of Section 7-A of Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (HDRUA) Act-1975 from April 3, 2017 to December 31, 2019. The opposition had alleged that the irregularities took place after Chautala became revenue minister in October 2019 in the wake of Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) joining the Manohar Lal Khattar-led coalition government. With 40 MLAs, the BJP was unable to cross the half- way mark in the 90-member assembly and formed the government for the second consecutive term with the help of 10 JJP MLAs. “In order to ascertain the real picture and to counter opposition’s narrative, the inquiry was ordered from April 2017,” said a JJP functionary. In a written reply to the question of Congress MLA Bharat Bhushan Batra, deputy CM said: “1,127 FIRs (First Information Reports) were registered in the state in relation to unauthorised colonies/plotting under HDRUA Act, 1975 from 2014 to December 2020.” As per the reply submitted in response to the un-starred question, 49,197 sale deeds were registered in Haryana “in violation of Section-7” of the HDRUA Act from 2017 to October 2020. The Section-7 of HDRUA Act pertains to a no-objection certificate the town and country planning department grants before registration of land in notified urban areas. Gurugram tops the list with 14,228 unauthorised sale deeds, followed by Sonepat (4,954), Palwal (4,040), Mahendergarh (3,950), Rewari (3,118), Jind (2,929) and Rohtak (2,642). Among other districts where this illegality took place are Ambala (1,089), Bhiwani (614), Faridabad (1,480), Fatehabad (520), Hisar (383), Jhajjar (1,708), Kaithal (1,353), Karnal and Kurukshetra (1,325 each), Nuh (1,755), Panchkula (22), Panipat (112), Sirsa (1,603), and Yamunanagar (47). The largest 205 FIRs pertaining to unauthorised colonies/plotting under the Act in question were lodged in Faridabad, followed Rohtak (129), Sonepat (112) and Kurukshetra (106). It may be recalled the deputy CM on Wednesday had also informed the House that 6,223 sale deeds were registered in violation of the rules last year from February 1 to December 31. Chautala had said that the registered sale deeds violating section-7 of the Haryana Urban Development Regulation Act-1975 cannot be cancelled. The state government has chargesheeted eight registrars and sub-registrars in this regard and the case is under police investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/violations-in-property-registration-in-haryana-rampant-since-2017-101615477774592.html
11-03-2021||Other||Students protest cancellation of MPSC prelims; cops resort to mild lathicharge at Navi peth||PUNE The Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC), on Thursday, cancelled its preliminary exam scheduled for March 14, citing the Covid pandemic. The decision irked hundreds of students in the city, who gathered and protested at Navi peth. The Relief and Rehabilitation Department announced the decision in a circular issued on Thursday. Earlier, the examination was to take place in April last year, but was delayed due to the Covid-19 outbreak. A large number of students gathered at Navi peth and shouted slogans against the MPSC and he state government. The police had to resort to a mild lathi charge to disperse the crowd, who were at the spot since 1pm. As student numbers increased by the evening, extra police bandobast was called in from across Pune, to prevent any untoward incident. CM tells MPSC officials to announce new exam date on FridayThe state chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced through FB ‘live’ that he has instructed MPSC officials to announce the new dates of the exams on Friday. “I am aware of the protests happening in the state , but due to the increasing number of Covid positive patients and to make proper arrangements for the examinations, this date has been postponed. The revised dates of the preliminary examinations will be announced by Friday and it will be conducted within a week. Also the age-limit criteria which students are concerned about will also be resolved. I have instructed officials accordingly,” said Thackeray. The cancellation of the exams prompted BJP leaders to target the government, while the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leaders also voiced their dismay at the examinations being cancelled. Leader of the Opposition in the state assembly, Devendra Fadnavis, asked the government to reverse its decision and hold the exams as scheduled. “The exams have been pushed forward already and it would result in a loss of opportunity for many students who invest their best years in preparation,” Fadnavis tweeted. Congress state president Nana Patole said he had already spoken to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and a fresh decision is likely soon. Patole said the CM had assured him that the decision will be positive for the students. Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan questioned the rationale behind the move. “If the government can permit weddings, hold its budget session and conduct exams for the health department, then it is wrong to cancel the MPSC examinations,” said Chavan. In Pune, BJP Member of he Legislative Council, Gopichand Padalkar, along with other leaders, held a rasta roko, resulting in a massive traffic jam, amidst heavy police bandobast. “After the state assembly session ended, suddenly the decision was taken to postpone the MPSC preliminary exams. This is an injustice, with lakhs of students who already suffered due to the Covid-19 pandemic. We have started this protest and till this decision is not taken back, we will not move from here,” Padalkar said. “This is a very unfortunate decision that the government has asked MPSC to take. Hundreds of thousands of students have been preparing for this exam. The government cannot play with the lives of students,” said BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar. This is the fifth time the MPSC has deferred the exam. Earlier, the Uddhav Thackeray government deferred the written examination of two days before it was scheduled, on October 11, under pressure from Maratha outfits, who demanded the exam be cancelled in view of a stay order from the Supreme Court on reservations. Meanwhile, there are two groups of protestor at Navi peth. On one side of the road is the protest being led by BJP leaders, and on the other side of the road, students are protesting. “We don’t want political parties to benefit from this protest. This is our anger and frustration towards the government. We just want exams to happen on the scheduled date and not be postponed anymore,” said Santosh Naik, a protesting student. Pune has one lakh students, from various parts of Maharashtra, preparing for the competitive exams. The frequent deferment of the exam schedule has threatened many, who fear becoming ineligible due to age restrictions. As the exam was scheduled for March 14, students from across the state with Pune as their examination centre, started coming in to the city.Shilpa Kamthe a student from Latur, said, “My parents were not ready to send me to Pune for the exams, but I convinced them. On Monday, I came here and was preparing for the exams and suddenly we got to know that the exams are postponed. This is not right. The state government should understand the issues and difficulties students face, especially from rural areas.” Another student, Rajesh Gondhale from Satara, said, “For the last one year we are waiting to appear for this exam. Initially, due to lockdown and the Covid-19 pandemic it got postponed. I am at the age limit to appear for the exam. If it gets postponed again, I doubt I will be eligible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/students-protest-cancellation-of-mpsc-prelims-cops-resort-to-mild-lathicharge-at-navi-peth-101615477713913.html
11-03-2021||Other||Vimantal police station gets new address||PUNE After almost 13 years, the Vimantal police station, which has its jurisdiction over Viman Nagar and Lohegaon areas has got its own premises at a plot near Khalsa Dairy in Viman Nagar.Earlier the police station was functioning from a rented building situated on the Pune-Ahmednagar highway.Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta inaugurated the new premises of the police station on Thursday.Joint CP (law and order) Dr Ravindra Shisve, additional CP (Crime) Ashok Morale, additional CP (east region) Namdev Chavan, additional CP (west region) Sanjay Shinde, DCP (special branch) Mitesh Ghatte, ACP (Yerawada division) Kishor Jadhav and area residents were present during the inaugural function.Gupta said, “We hope that the area residents will get better services here. The new premises are spacious and will provide the necessary comfort level to the complainants and citizens at large. However, this is not a permanent location for the police station. We will build a state of the art building of the police station.”Vimantal police station was formed in 2008 when the officiating additional CP (admin) Jalindar Supekar was posted as DCP Zone IV.Pankaj Deshmukh, DCP (Zone 4), said “ The incumbent senior police inspector Gajanan Pawar, incharge of Vimantal police station, took painstaking efforts to change the infrastructure and location of the police station in its jurisdiction and has done a commendable job for the citizens and the police force.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vimantal-police-station-gets-new-address-101615477414000.html
11-03-2021||Other||Two wanted gangsters with bounty held||Two gangsters wanted in several cases with bounty of ₹5 lakh and ₹2 lakh were arrested by the Karnal police on Wednesday evening.Karnal superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia identified the accused as Krishan Kumar alias Kala alias Master of Dadupur Roran village of Karnal district with ₹5 lakh bounty and Sunny alias Manish of Ladwa town of Kurukshetra district with ₹2 lakh bounty. Police said the gangsters were associated with Jabra gang and they were wanted in several criminal cases, including murder, attempt to murder, robbery, loot registered in Karnal, Kaithal, Yamunanagar and Kurukshetra districts. Police said the accused had murdered Suresh alias Babli, a former sarpanch of Anjanthali village on July 29, 2018, and his brother-in-law Vikas of Dadupur village January 17, 2019. The police also recovered three pistols, 200 live cartridges, ₹8 lakh cash and a stolen SUV from their possession. Police said during questioning, the accused told them that they were plotting the murder of Babli’s relatives .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-wanted-gangsters-with-bounty-held-101615477294573.html
11-03-2021||Dehradun||Mahakumbh's 1st Shahi Snan witnesses mega rush, over 3 mn pilgrims take holy dip||By Sandeep RawatDespite the condition of a mandatory Covid-19 test for the incoming pilgrims at Mahakumbh mela, over 3 million pilgrims took a dip in Ganga on the first Shahi Snan (royal bath) on the occasion of Mahashivratri in Haridwar on Thursday. However, Covid-19 curbs, like maintaining social distance and wearing masks, were hardly seen in the mega congregation.Since Wednesday night, pilgrims were seen arriving in Haridwar, especially towards the sanctum sanctorum of Brahamkund, Har-Ki-Pauri. As the thirteen Akhadas had the first right to take a holy dip, Har-Ki-Pauri Ganga ghat was prohibited for normal people after 8 am till 7 pm.First Akhada to take the holy dip was Shri Panch Dashnam Juna Akhada whose central attraction was Acharya Mahamandaleshwar Swami Avdeshanand Maharaj's chariot and hundreds of Naga ascetics.Seers and ascetics from Juna, Aahwan, Agni and Kinnar Akhada started from the revered Shrine of Maya Devi temple and reached Brahamkund at 11:30 am. Kinnar Akahada, which is not recognised as a separate entity but part of Juna Akhada, took part in the Shahi Snan at Haridwar for the first time.Also read: On new CM's command, choppers shower flowers on seers in HaridwarThe second lot, comprising Shri Niranjani Akhada and Anand Akhada, started their Shahi Snaan procession from Tulsi square and reached Har-Ki-Pauri at 1:30 pm. By the time these twin Akhadas reached Har-Ki-Pauri, the previous batch of Akhada seers had vacated the Ganga ghats.Shri Maha Nirvani and Shri Atal Akhada seers started their procession from Kankhal-based Kumbh camp at 1:30 pm and reached Har-Ki-Pauri after 4 pm.To welcome the Akhada seers, the newly appointed chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat made a surprise visit to Har-Ki-Pauri and showered flower petals on the seers. CM Rawat met seers of Shri Niranjani Akhada while they were taking sacred Ganga dip and sought blessings for a grand Kumbh. Rawat urged seers and pilgrims to cooperate with the mela administration in ensuring a grand yet safer Mahakumbh. He also met Ganga Sabha office bearers and teerth purohits at the Ganga Sabha office and assured them of another visit to oversee Mahakumbh fair preparations.Acharya Mahamandaleshwar Swami Avdeshanand of Juna Akhada said that with the turnout on the first Shahi Snaan of Mahashivratri, religious faith has again overpowered the fear (of coronavirus).“Mahakumbh is being held in a grand way and with the easing of further restrictions the next month, when notification of Mahakumbh will be issued, Kumbh will be in its full aura,” said Juna Akhada's Acharya Mahamandaleshwar Swami Avdeshanand.“It’s a historic moment. For the first time in Mahakumbh in Haridwar, transgender seers have been allowed to take bath during the most significant Shahi Snaan. Today, on the pious festive of Mahashivratri from the holy banks of Ganga at Har-Ki-Pauri, a message of equality, religious harmony and spirituality has been sent out,” said Kinnar Akhada's Mahamandaleshwar Laxmi Narayan Tripathi.Heavy security set up was put in place for the Shahi Snaan with 29 companies of Central Paramilitary Forces, including Indo Tibetan Border Police, Central Reserve Police Force, Central Industrial Security Force, and one company of National Security Guards deployed.“For the festive bath, we have bifurcated the mela zone into a super zone and a normal zone with a war room set up at the mela control room near Har-Ki-Pauri. Seven teams of bomb disposal squads, nine teams of sniffer dogs, National Disaster Relief Force, two teams of State Disaster Relief Force and two teams of Anti-Terrorist Squad, including an all-women commando unit have been pitched in for the security,” said Kumbh Mela Force Inspector General Sanjay Gunjiyal.At Shyampur, Kalinadi, Mandawar, Narsain and Laksar interstate border pilgrims and tourists who didn't have a negative Covid-19 report were being sent back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/mahakumbhs-1st-shahi-snan-witnesses-mega-rush-over-3-mn-pilgrims-take-holy-dip-101615476361367.html
11-03-2021||Other||Pune district reported 2,811 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday; nine deaths in PMC||PUNE Pune district reported 2,811 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday. Nine deaths were also reported in the district and all were from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits. No deaths were reported in the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and Pune rural on Thursday.As per the state health department, PMC has so far reported 2,19,812 Covid cases and 4,605 deaths, till Thursday. Whereas PCMC has reported 1,07,718 cases so far, and a total of 1,343 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural has reported 1,02,443 total cases so far, and 2,166 deaths due to Covid. In the Pune district, there are a total of 4,29,973 Covid cases. Of this, 4,00,534 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 8,163 deaths in the district. At present, there are 21,276 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 7,193 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra, taking that total to 21,06,400. The recovery rate in the state is 92.94%.Currently, 4,80,083 people are in home quarantine and 4,719 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-reported-2-811-new-covid-19-cases-on-thursday-nine-deaths-in-pmc-101615475913737.html
11-03-2021||Other||30-day training for women drivers of heavy vehicles on the cards at IDTR||PUNE The Institute of Driving Training and Research (IDTR), Pune, along with the Maharashtra state motor driving school association organised a two-day workshop on effective driving skills for 50 women who had come in from across the state. These women are driving instructors who teach driving at their respective driving schools. “On March 8 and 9 this training programme was organised by IDTR, along with the Pune regional transport office and Bridgestone India. It was an overall programme about driving, new technologies and skills, also the newly amended rules in the Motor Vehicle act were taught to participants. We also did a special training of heavy vehicles only for women who had that particular license,” said Rajiv Ghatole, principal of IDTR, Pune.“Very soon as are going to organise a 30-day training only on heavy vehicles, including trucks, containers and buses, for women. As we are getting lot of enquiries from women drivers for this training programme,” he added.The IDTR track which comes under the Central Institute of Road Transport (CIRT) at Bhosari, was started in March 2015. Here applicants from Pune RTO and Pimpri– Chinchwad RTO give their driving tests. The track is fully equipped with modern technology and censors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/30day-training-for-women-drivers-of-heavy-vehicles-on-the-cards-at-idtr-101615475433701.html
11-03-2021||Other||Urban spike in Covid cases due to some herd immunity in slum areas||PUNE Covid-19 cases are seeing a rise in housing societies in urban areas across the city. Officials note that the reason for this increase may be due to the increased testing. Speaking about the rise in cases, Dr Avinash Bhondwe, Maharashtra president, Indian Medical Association (IMA), said that due to exposure to Covid last year, there is partial herd immunity among those living in the slum areas.“Around 60 per cent of the population in slums were found to have antibodies. After the hike in cases, there were more precautions taken by residents there. For housing societies, there has been a complete lockdown last time. After that, many attended public functions like marriages. This is one of the major reasons why there is a rise in cases in these societies,” said Dr Bhondwe.Dr Ashish Bharti, chief at the health department with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), “As of now there is no pattern, but various studies done in the city forecast that there will be an increase in cases. Overall, cases will be less than 50 per cent as compared to last year.” Dr Bhondwe noted that 90 positive patients in Pune city are home quarantined right now.“Most of them are from well to do families. Everyone needs to take full precaution in order to reduce the cases,” Dr Bhondwe added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/urban-spike-in-covid-cases-due-to-some-herd-immunity-in-slum-areas-101615474713694.html
11-03-2021||Other||PMC initiates process to acquire slum land at Kamgar putla||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has initiated the process to acquire the land and rehabilitate people living in the slum area near Kamgar putla (statue) for the Pune metro hub.In the next 15 days, the civic body will clear the slums and rehabilitate the dwellers.The slum land near Kamgar putla is needed by the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation (Maha-Metro), Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) and the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA), mainly to develop the civil court multimodal metro hub.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had also held a meeting with officials to sort out the land acquisition issue.Nitin Udas, deputy municipal commissioner of PMC who is handling the issue, said, “There are a total 1,300 shanties. Out of total 1,264 dwellers, around 600 have given positive response and are ready to move to PMC-allotted homes.”“Last month, PMC issued a final notification regarding the same. At least 100 dwellers have approached us,” he said.PMC has made plans to rehabilitate slum dwellers in Vimannagar and Shinde Wasti at Mundhwa.Out of the total of 1,264 slum dwellers, 923 are eligible as slum dwellers based on their residential proof.Udhas said, “As per our statistics, we will have to forcefully move more than 100 dwellers who are not willing to leave the shanties.”Rajendra Nimbalkar, chief executive officer, SRA, said, “We have given choices to dwellers to shift in SRA projects located in different parts of the city. We are compiling the data for the same.”Hemant Sonawane, general manager, Pune Metro, said, “Metro wants the land to develop a multimodal hub. We have handed over around ₹40 crore to SRA for the rehabilitation of slum dwellers. The work has reached the last stage. As soon as the area is vacated we will start our work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-initiates-process-to-acquire-slum-land-at-kamgar-putla-101615474293686.html
11-03-2021||Other||Half of frontline, healthcare workers without vaccination in Punjab||AMRITSAR Even as Punjab is recording over 1,000 fresh infections a day amid the second wave of the covid-19 pandemic, over half of registered healthcare workers and frontline warriors have not been vaccinated. This leaves them at high risk of being infected.In the first phase of the vaccination drive, just over 1 lakh healthcare staff (48% of registered beneficiaries) and 93,200-odd frontline warriors (46% of total beneficiaries), including police personnel, members of para-military forces and other government employees have been inoculated.With healthcare workers and frontline workers still reluctant to taking the jab, the state health department has directed mandatory weekly covid-19 test of those who have not taken the shots. This is to avoid spread of the disease.“The second wave of covid-19 has started in the state. We expect nearly 3,000 fresh cases a day by March-end. We are equipped to deal with the surge and nearly 8,000 (level 2 and level 3) beds are available at government and private hospitals, with enough ventilators. More than half of frontline warriors have not taken the shot. Such individuals remain at high risk,” said Punjab nodal officer for covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar.He added, “The state health department does not have a figure on how many healthcare and frontline workers, who did not take the vaccine, have been infected with covid-19, after the commencement of vaccination drive. Elderly and people above 45 with co-morbidities are showing good response as 70,644 of them have been vaccinated in Punjab in just a few days.”Patiala civil surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said, “Since unvaccinated healthworkers and frontline warriors are at high risk, we will now conduct their covid test, every Monday, to check infection rate among them in the second wave.”GOVT SCHOOL STUDENTS,TEACHERS BEING INFECTEDState health department says nearly 1,100 students and 700 teachers of government schools across the state have contracted the disease in Punjab over the past two months. “We have increased testing in government schools. In some districts, students and teachers are major contributors to the case load,” said Dr Bhaskar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/half-of-frontline-healthcare-workers-without-vaccination-in-punjab-101615474174245.html
11-03-2021||Other||24x7 vaccine centre not feasible for Pune: PMC health chief||PUNE A 24x7 Covid vaccination centre is not a feasible option for Pune city, officials said on Thursday. Dr Ashish Bharti, chief of the health department at the PMC, said that right now, there are three hospitals being run by the PMC, which have the drive going on till 10 pm.“We do not need a vaccination centre that is active day and night, as most people won’t be coming in at all times,” said Dr Bharti.He added that an early morning session, 6am to 9am, may be considered.“However, there are no such plans as of now. As the beneficiaries increase, there may be private hospitals which may start this,” said Dr Bharti.Dr Bharti said that all PMC-run hospitals are now involved in the vaccination drive.“There will be more centres for vaccination, but not government hospitals. These new centres will involve private hospitals,” said Dr Bharti.Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president, Indian Medical Association (IMA) Maharashtra, said that there are many beneficiaries who cannot go to the centre during the day, due to work.“For them, 24x7 centres will be helpful. Private hospitals are ready to start 24x7 vaccination. This will help us achieve the goal of getting as many people vaccinated as we can. Also, the government should publicise the private centres more, so that everyone is aware,” said Dr Bhondwe.He claimed that at present, private vaccination centres do not show on the CoWin application.“The app is not updated. Beneficiaries are not aware of all the hospitals where the vaccine is available. The government and local bodies should publicise the private centres so that the number of beneficiaries may increase,” said Dr Bhondwe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/24x7-vaccine-centre-not-feasible-for-pune-pmc-health-chief-101615473633719.html
11-03-2021||Other||1000-strong mob of protesting MPSC students give Covid norms the fly-by||As thousands of students came onto the roads in Pune, Navi peth to be precise, to protest the MPSC decision of postponing its preliminary exams, social distancing and Covid norms were severely violated.Despite police bandobast and political leaders being present at the protest, the huge crowd seen was largely mask-less.“To protest is our constitutional right, but at the same time we also need to think about the current Covid conditions. The number of cases is increasing daily, and this crowding is not right. Students must follow the Covid measures for their own safety,” said Kuldeep Ambekar, student leader and president of the Students Helping Hand organisation.The Lal Bahadur Shastri road was jam-packed with students appearing for the MPSC exam, who have Pune as their examination centre. So far, no police complaint, or action, has been taken against violators in the crowd for not following Covid norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1000strong-mob-of-protesting-mpsc-students-give-covid-norms-the-flyby-101615473033603.html
11-03-2021||Other||Frequent cancellations of MPSC exams, fear of age disqualifications put angry students on the streets||PUNE The large protest on Thursday, staged by those aspiring to appear for exams conducted by the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC), was triggered by the cancellation of the exam scheduled for March 14. For five hours, students were on the street blocking traffic and refusing to relent, even after numerous requests from the police. Soon, the protests spread like wildfire across major cities in Maharashtra, including Aurangabad, Nagpur, Amravati and Kolhapur. For students, the cancellation of the exam – this the fifth time – was a spark waiting to ignite. Students fear that another deferment of the exam may disqualify them as they risk crossing the required age limit. These students, most coming from rural and semi-urban parts of Maharashtra, have been preparing for the exam for the last three years.The number of passing seats available at the exam are as few as 250. According to estimates, 0.25 million students were to appear for the exam across state. In Pune, 0.15 million students have been preparing for this competitive exam, conducted by the MPSC. The MPSC, according to sources, acted based on the instructions from the government, though Congress leaders like Nana Patole said the commission is autonomous and free to take a call. Those appearing for exam said if an assembly session can pass-off smoothly gram panchayat polls, along with political rallies, be held, the exam can be held. “We are all responsible adults and can take care of ourselves. Last week, the exam for the health department took place. The Railway examination has been conducted. Then what is the problem in conducting the preliminary exam this Sunday? Candidates have been waiting for this exam and for many, it is the last chance. I am not convinced of the reason of Covid. Last time, in October, MPSC postponed the exam citing Covid, but the real reason was the reservations,” said Mahesh Ghaebude, a civil service aspirant in Pune. “In Pune district, there is an arrangement for 40,000 candidates to give the MPSC prelim exam. Approximately 0.262 million students from all over the state had applied for this exam, which conducted for 200 posts,” said Mahesh Bade, founder of the MPSC Students’ Rights Association Most students, according to Bade, spend a minimum of Rs10,000 per month to live in Pune, knowing well that the future is uncertain. Astik Darade, a Maratha candidate appearing for exam through the open quota, said, “Exams shouldn’t be postponed any further. I am a Maratha student, but I feel that the exam should happen on its scheduled date. The decision on the reservation can be taken before the results, but the exam should be conducted.” Chasing a future in civil serviceNumbers are in approximations to the nearest actual *- Total number of candidates appearing for the state civil service prelim exams: 0.262 million- Number of posts: 200 - Total seating capacity at examination centres in Pune district: 40,000- Number of students in Pune for the exams: 0.1million||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/frequent-cancellations-of-mpsc-exams-fear-of-age-disqualifications-put-angry-students-on-the-streets-101615472613539.html
11-03-2021||Lucknow||UP BJP announces state working committee, lists permanent, special invitees||The Uttar Pradesh BJP on Thursday announced the names of 323 members of its state working committee, and also listed permanent and special invitees to the panel.Twenty-eight senior party leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and several state and central ministers, have been included as permanent invitees, according to a statement.UP BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh has announced the names of members of the state working committee, permanent invitees and special invitees, state unit media co-in-charge Himanshu Dubey said.All the party's district presidents, district in-charges and mayors will be invitee members of the state working committee, he said.A total of 94 leaders, including MPs and cabinet ministers like Suresh Kumar Khanna, Swami Prasad Maurya, Satish Mahana, Ashutosh Tandon and Anil Rajbhar, have been made special invitees, he added.Assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh are going to be held just about a year from now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-bjp-announces-state-working-committee-lists-permanent-special-invitees-101615472163906.html
11-03-2021||Dehradun||On new CM's command, choppers shower flowers on seers in Haridwar||As part of newly-appointed Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat’s first direction after taking over, flowers were showered on the pilgrims and Akhada seers in Haridwar during the first Shahi Snan (ritualistic royal bath) on the occasion of Shivratri on Thursday.Rawat, along with his family members, went to Hardwar, showered flowers on pilgrims and ascetics, met Akhada seers and sought their blessings. The visit to Haridwar is his first after taking over as the CM.After reaching Haridwar, Rawat also directed officials to ensure that there is no “rok tok’ (unnecessary restrictions) on pilgrims and that they should not face any inconvenience. “Today is first Shahi Snan of Mahakumbh and I wanted to welcome saints and seers by showering flowers on them. I also sought blessings of Ma Ganga for welfare and prosperity of people in the state,” he said.Rawat’s first focus on Mahakumbh after taking over as the CM is being seen as his effort to reach out to people who have been unhappy with various issues in the past. Rawat, in his first meeting on Wednesday evening with the senior officers of the state government, had decided to get flowers showered on the pilgrims in Haridwar on Thursday on the occasion of the Shivratri festival.Also read: Muslims in Varanasi shower petals on Shiva devotees, hail Ganga-Jamuni tehzeebThis is one of the first directions issued by Rawat after taking charge, sending a signal that he would be taking care of issues related to the Mahakumbh, especially at a time when many people are not happy with the way the duration of Mahakumbh has been shortened this time and strict restrictions have been put in place. Many people and seers have been opposed to the shortening of the duration of Mahakumbh this time and demanded easing of restrictions to facilitate the mega fair to be held in its full traditional grandeur. The mela will be held only for a month due to the Covid-19 pandemic.In the meeting with the senior officers including the chief secretary, Rawat also directed the officials to take all possible precautions during Mahakumbh and ensure that no pilgrim faces any sort of difficulties or inconvenience.“Respecting seers is most important. And protecting the sacredness and the divine ethos of Mahakumbh has to be ensured,” said Rawat.The chief minister said pilgrims who come for the ritual dip in Ganga should be able to do that without any hassles. He also wished people of the state on the eve of Mahashivratri, stressing that it is a festival that sends the message of love and harmonyRawat said “all of us have to collectively work on the development of the state and public representatives and bureaucrats have an important role to play in this. Officers have to work to their full potential as it is our responsibility to ensure Uttarakhand's development,” he said.After Rawat's oath-taking ceremony, the chief minister also paid tributes at a Dehradun-based memorial of martyrs who had lost their lives in the movement for the statehood of Uttarakhand. He said the state government is determined to work in tune with the sentiments of the martyrs and the cause for which they sacrificed their lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/on-new-cm-s-command-choppers-shower-flowers-on-seers-in-haridwar-101615467693976.html
11-03-2021||Lucknow||Muslims in Varanasi shower petals on Shiva devotees, hail Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb||A group of Muslims in Kashi showered flower petals on devotees of Lord Shiva in Godowlia area of Varanasi on the occasion of Mahashivratri, a Hindu festival on Thursday. They said they wanted to give out the message of brotherhood in line with the Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb (Ganges–Yamuna Culture).The devotees were in a long queue leading to the famous Kashi Vishwanath Temple. “This is Kashi… the abode of Lord Shiva. The ‘Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb’ has been thriving here for ages and we showered petals on the devotees,” said one Mohammad Asif, who was among those who felicitated the devotees.He said, “I want to give a message that there is no casteism and communalism in Kashi. We celebrate Eid, Diwali and Holi together. From Kashi, I want to send the message of brotherhood to the whole world.”The Ganga-Jamni Tehzeeb, refers to the fusion Hindu and Muslim cultures found in the central plains of northern India, especially the region that falls between the banks of Ganges and Yamuna rivers.Also Read: Unperturbed with defections Mayawati holds review meet for UP panchayat pollsMaha Shivratri is considered auspicious for spiritual growth. The festival, also known as 'the great night of Shiva', celebrates the overcoming of darkness and ignorance.It also celebrates the grand marriage of the lord of destruction, Shiva -- with the goddess of fertility, love, and beauty -- Parvati, who is also known as 'Shakti' (power).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/muslims-in-varanasi-shower-petals-on-shiva-devotees-hail-ganga-jamuni-tehzeeb-101615469023659.html
11-03-2021||Other||Six foreign nationals arrested; drugs worth ₹67 lakh seized by Pune police||PUNE The narcotics cell of the Pune police crime branch arrested six nationals of two African countries and recovered cocaine and MD worth ₹67,00,000 in Undri, Kodhwa, on Wednesday.The accused were living in a row house in Atur Hills Society where have legally rented the house, said police.The arrested accused have been identified as Manfred Daud Manda (30), Nyamhanga Anastasia David (26), Hasan Ali Kasid (32), Bekai Hamis (42) all nationals of Tanzania; along with Shamim Nandavula (30) and Percy Naiga (25), both nationals of Uganda, according to the police. Three of the six arrested are women.“Some have been here from the past two or four years. The supply was for the entire city,” said Amitabh Gupta, commissioner of Pune police.Police Naik Manoj Salunkhe of the anti-narcotic cell received information about the presence of drugs in the area and a trap was allegedly set for Wednesday night, according to the police.“They are all denying the ownership of the drugs,” said Shrinivas Ghadage, deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pune.The recovered cocaine weighed 136.8 gram and is estimated to be worth ₹9,57,600, while the recovered MD weighed 1.151kg and was found to be worth ₹57,55,000, according to the police.Along with the drugs, the police also recovered cash worth ₹54,000 and other material like weighing machine worth ₹1,19,500. The total recovery was found to be worth ₹68,86,100, according to the police.“While Manda is pursuing B Pharma from Pune, his wife David is pursuing MBA from a college in Hyderabad, Telangana. Hamis is in India on a medical visa and is undergoing treatment for asthma in Delhi. Nandavula and Naiga are here on a tourist visa,” said police inspector Vinayak Gaikwad of the narcotic cell.A case under Sections 8(c), 21(c), 22(c), and 29 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been registered at the Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/six-foreign-nationals-arrested-drugs-worth-rs-67-lakh-seized-by-pune-police-101615469494168.html
11-03-2021||Other||Three right wing activists held for attempting to offer prayers at Taj||Three activists of a right wing outfit were arrested for trying to offer prayers at Taj Mahal on the occasion of Maha Shivratri on Thursday, police said. Those arrested belonged to Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha and said Taj Mahal was a Shiva temple --Tejo Mahalaya-- and hence prayers can be offered there. The CISF personnel handed over the trio to Tajganj police who booked them under section 153(A) of Indian Penal Code for promoting enmity between groups on ground of religion.Various right wing bodies have been stressing that Taj Mahal was built on a Shiva temple and efforts were made time and again to offer prayers on campus of the historical monument. A civil suit is also pending in Agra courts wherein petitioners have demanded to declare Taj Mahal as Tejo Mahalaya. On occasion of Maha Shivratri on Thursday, the three activists -- Meena Diwakar, provincial president of Akhil Bharat Hindu Mahasabha along with district incharge Jitendra Kushwaha and district vice president Vishal Kumar entered the Taj premises and offered water to Sun god and were going to offer prayers before the main mausoleum when the CISF men nabbed them.While Kushwaha and Kumar were presented before remand magistrate at Civil court in Agra the third activist Meena Diwakar was admitted to Emergency Ward of SN Medical College and Hospital after her health deteriorated. The trio has been sent to 14-day judicial custody after their bail plea was rejected by the court.Diwakar had been in the limelight in the past too for offering prayers on Taj campus and in 2019 took a ‘kanwad’ to be offered at Taj but was stopped. “If there can be permission for celebrating ‘Urs’ of Mughal emperor Shah Jahan than why cannot devotees of Lord Shiva are allowed to offer prayers at Tejo Mahalaya,” questioned Sanjay Jaat, national spokesperson of the organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-right-wing-activists-held-for-attempting-to-offer-prayers-at-taj-101615468053375.html
11-03-2021||Other||Medical store owner booked for alleged sexual harassment of employee||PUNE A medical store owner has been booked for alleged sexual harassment of a female employee in Khed on Wednesday afternoon.The woman alleged that she had come to work around 9:30 am on Wednesday. The shop is divided with the help of a partition to hide storage from display at from the counter. The woman took stock of medicine from the shop and went to the storage area around 12:30pm.The accused entered the storage area and held her against her will and proceeded to touch her inappropriately.The woman approached the police and lodged a complaint after which a case was registered.A case under Section 354(a) (sexual harassment) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Mahalunge outpost in the jurisdiction of Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/medical-store-owner-booked-for-alleged-sexual-harassment-of-employee-101615467393409.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||3 men held for attempt to murder in Mumbai during an incident of road rage||Three men have been arrested for allegedly fatally assaulting two persons during an incident of road rage in suburban Sion here, police said on Thursday.The police apprehended Nikesh Savle (21), Akash Sakhre (19) and Ajit Pillai (31) on Tuesday in connection with the incident that took place on February 20, an official said.According to the police, complainant Nitin Saroj (22) was heading home to Dharavi on his motorcycle with a friend when the accused overtook the vehicle and blocked the way near Sion Circle.When the complainant asked them to drive carefully, one of the accused, who was in an inebriated state, smashed a beer bottle on the former's head, the official said, adding that the trio also stabbed the complainant's friend with broken pieces of the bottle.The victims were rushed to the Sion Hospital and an FIR was registered, he said.The police examined the CCTV footage obtained from different stretches of the road and identified the accused with the help of their vehicle number, the official said.The accused have been booked under section 307 (attempt to murder) and other relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sent to police custody till March 15, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-men-held-for-attempt-to-murder-in-mumbai-during-an-incident-of-road-rage-101615454604719.html
11-03-2021||Lucknow||Coexistence of tigers and humans in UP’s Amariya draws experts’ attention||In 2012, a tigress from the Pilibhit Wildlife Sanctuary, which has since been declared a tiger reserve, strayed out into sugarcane fields nearby. She has not gone back since and made the farm her permanent home. The tigress also gave birth to two cubs there in Amariya. More big cats have since joined them and now at least eight tigers and their nine cubs live in these fields. Forest officials call these big cats farm or Amariya tigers and their coexistence with humans has drawn the attention of experts and wildlife enthusiasts.PK Sharma, Uttar Pradesh’s chief wildlife warden, said barring a few minor incidents, no fatal human-animal conflict had been reported from Amariya. “A special team from the forest department keeps monitoring the situation and sensitises people about how to prevent any possible conflict.”Sharma said he has written to the Wildlife Institute of India seeking its views on the Amariya tigers and a plan for a thorough study of the situation. “Hopefully they will start their study soon.”Also Read | Tiger dies of electrocution in Kheri forest of Uttar PradeshMudit Gupta, World Wildlife Fund India (WWFI)’s senior landscape coordinator, said the farmland with tall sugarcane plantation provides a favourable atmosphere to tigers along with a good prey base of herbivorous animals, water and minimum human movement. “Like humans, tigers too avoid human contact and attack only when they find themselves in danger.” Gupta said the presence of animals did not affect daily human lives.Naresh, the WWFI’s representative in Pilibhit, said the people were scared initially but gradually accepted the tiger presence after initial demands for their relocation. He added the tigers have also helped protect the crops. He added blue bulls, wild boars, deer and other animals would earlier damage the crops. “But the presence of tigers in the farmland has forced these animals to stay away.”Naresh said movements of the Amariya tigers are tracked in an area of 20 to 30sqkm. Naresh said the first tigress, which came out of the reserve, went as far as Kanpur and Unnao, around 300km away.Prashant Shukla, who owns a farm in Amariya, said there is always a danger of human-tiger conflict. He feared ageing could hamper the hunting capacity of tigers and turn them into maneaters. Shukla said experts should take care of this and prevent conflict. He added there have been instances of tigers and farmworkers coming face to face. Shukla said on Friday, a tiger changed his path after seeing a human. He added even children frequently venture into the farms but no untoward incident has ever taken place.Sanjeev Kumar, a forest officer, said they have deputed a team in the area to track the daily movement of the tigers. He added the team trains the people to identify pugmarks and briefs them about dos and don’ts while working in their fields. Kumar said the farm labourers have been asked to move in groups and harvest crops from one side instead of multiple directions and also keep shouting so that tigers move away.Shukla said it is impossible to always move in groups. “How can labourers move in a group for irrigating a field? Also, someone has to deliver food to labourers working in the fields.” He said the danger to humans could not be ruled out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/coexistence-of-tigers-and-humans-in-up-s-amariya-draws-experts-attention-101615466855003.html
11-03-2021||Other||Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb: Muslims shower petals on Shiva devotees in Kashi||VARANASI Giving a message of brotherhood and ‘Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb’, a group of Muslims in Kashi showered flower petals on devotees of Lord Shiva in Godowlia area of Varanasi on the occasion of Mahashivratri on Thursday.The devotees were in a long queue leading to the Kashi Vishwanath Temple.“This is Kashi… the abode of Lord Shiva. The ‘Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb’ has been thriving here for ages and we showered petals on the devotees,” said one Mohammad Asif, who was among those who showered petals on the devotees.He said, “I want to give a message that there is no casteism and communalism in Kashi. We celebrate Eid, Diwali and Holi together. From Kashi, I want to send the message of brotherhood to the whole world.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gangajamuni-tehzeeb-muslims-shower-petals-on-shiva-devotees-in-kashi-101615466673325.html
11-03-2021||Other||Two arrested in attempt to murder case after they assault Pune police constables||PUNE Two men were arrested for the attempted murder of police constables who were trying to stop a fight at Erandwane around midnight on Tuesday.The arrested men have been identified as Mandar Manohar Garud (31), a resident of Bibwewadi and Shivam Prasad Marne (22), a resident of Erandwane.The incident took place on Tuesday at around 11:10pm when the policemen were responding to a call received at Alankar police station about violence in Daha chawl in Ganesh Nagar, Erandwane.A complaint in the matter was lodged by constable Anant Trimbak Dhawale who was responding to the call along with his colleague constable Sutar.“The two (arrested men) were involved in a fight over some personal issue. People around had placed a call and the two constables were responding to those calls. The police were trying to stop their fight when they attacked them,” said police inspector (crime) Sangeeta Patil of Alankar police station who is investigating the case.The complainant has sustained injuries caused by a sharp weapon wielded by both the accused while constable Sutar sustained blunt force injuries.The two have been arrested and will be produced in court on Thursday.A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causes hurt to a public servant while discharging duty), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking a breach of peace), 506(2) (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code and Sections 4(25) of Arms Act along with Section 37(1)with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act has been registered at Alankar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-arrested-in-attempt-to-murder-case-after-they-assault-pune-police-constables-101615466073368.html
11-03-2021||Other||PMC fines contractor Rs1.35 lakh per day for delay in 24X7 water project work||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has imposed a fine of ₹1.35 lakh per day on the contractor for delay in the 24x7 water supply project work.Currently, Larsen & Toubro Limited has undertaken work for the installation of water metres and laying of pipelines in the city. Besides they also have to build 80 overhead water tanks.On March 6, PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar conducted a meeting to check the progress of the project. During the meeting, the civic chief expressed dissatisfaction with the progress report.Kumar instructed the contractor to speed up work while imposing a fine of ₹1 lakh for the delay in pipeline work and ₹35,000 per day for delay in building water tanks.As per the agreement, the contractor should have completed the laying of over 500 kilometres of the pipeline by March this year. However, according to municipal statistics, the contractors have completed around 300 kilometres of work to date.Nandkumar Jagtap superintendent engineer of PMC water supply department who is handling charge of 24x7 water supply project, said, “PMC has allotted work to Larsen & Toubro Limited and Jain Irrigation Systems Ltd. Jain Irrigation has stopped work and has approached the court as PMC took action against them for the delay in work. The contractor was supposed to complete 25 zones. Now, work in these zones has completely stopped.”“At present, Larsen & Toubro Limited is working on the installation of water metres and laying of pipelines and other works. The contractor has completed work in Viman Nagar, Kharadi, Aundh and Baner area. But, the speed is not up to the mark. Out of 141 metering zones, we have set targets to complete 50 zones areas up to December 2021,” said Jagtap.“Work was also hampered due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Corporation has set a deadline to complete the project in February 2023,” he added.Pradeep VG, a senior official of Larsen & Toubro Limited, said, “We faced a shortage of labour, as during the lockdown most of the labourers had returned to their home town, so the work was hampered. Now, as well we have limited manpower.”“Also, at some places due to the hard rock surface, it takes time to complete digging work. Despite all these difficulties, we are trying to complete work as per deadline and other terms and conditions,” he added.About the projectThe project aims to provide a safe and equitable 24X7 water supply to all citizens for the next 30 years. The project was approved in February 2018, but the actual work started in December 2018. The total cost of the project is ₹2,550 crore. Out of that, the corporation raised ₹200 crore through municipal bonds. Under this project, contractors will have to lay down 1,600-metre water pipelines and install 3.50,00 lakh water meters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-fines-contractor-rs1-35-lakh-per-day-for-delay-in-24x7-water-project-work-101615466013281.html
11-03-2021||Pune||Hawker menace pose risk to commuters of Vishrantwadi road used for military tank testing||Pune: Encroachment on “tank road” in Vishrantwadi area by illegal hawkers and handcarts is posing risks to commuters and pedestrians. The 10-km long road starts at Research and Development Establishment (R and DE), Dighi and connects 512 Army Base workshop in Khadki. The stretch has been used for testing military battle tanks for decades as the fighting machines crisscross the area for fitness tests like maintenance, repair and overhaul.The unauthorised hawkers selling their wares on footpath and road causing traffic chaos could cause accidents as tanks regularly ply on the stretch and authorities, including military establishments, should take immediate remedial steps, according to residents.Sanjay Gadve, a resident of Madhuban Housing Society, said, “This road gets its name because it is dedicated for tank testing and hawkers are illegally occupying the road for the past ten years. Action must be taken to evict hawkers and if need be police cases must be lodged as they are interfering with free movement of tanks.” According to Gadve, military tanks used to freely crisscross the road ten years ago but rapid urbanisation and growth of Vishrantwadi, Dighi, Munjoba Vasti and the surrounding areas led to congestion and hawker encroachment has added to the problem. “Tank drivers on their way to R and DE have to halt till hawkers clear off the road and their movement poses risk to pedestrians and commuters,” he said. Anita Pillai of Dighi said, “The tanks have to move carefully on the road as it is occupied by illegal hawkers. The stretch has become mishap-prone. Pune Municipal Corporation, military and elected members of the area must resolve the issue.”PMC anti-encroachment chief Madhav Jagtap could not be reached for comments despite many attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hawker-menace-pose-risk-to-commuters-of-vishrantwadi-road-used-for-military-tank-testing-101615465413534.html
11-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi logs 409 fresh Covid-19 cases, highest in over 2 months; tally at 642,439||Delhi on Thursday added more than 400 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, the highest in more than two months, the health department’s bulletin showed. The last time the national capital registered over 400 cases was on January 3 when there were 424 infections in a single day, according to the health department. The fresh Covid-19 cases in Delhi are also up by 39 from Wednesday when 370 people were detected to be positive—the highest in nearly two months.The 409 fresh Covid-19 cases and three more fatalities have pushed the Capital’s caseload and death toll to 642,439 and 10,934 respectively. The health department’s data also showed as many as 286 people were discharged in the last 24 hours, which took the recoveries in the national capital to 629,485. The number of active cases has now climbed to 2020, the bulletin showed. A total of 69,810 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours which included 42,187 RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests and the remaining 27,623 were rapid antigen tests. More than 1,000 people continue to remain under home isolation while the containment zones are at 592.Delhi reports 409 new #COVID19 cases, 286 recoveries and 3 deaths. Total cases 6,42,439Total recoveries 6,29,485Death toll 10,934Active cases 2020 pic.twitter.com/Xxpt1hDhhuCases have been on the rise in Delhi since the latter part of February—200 fresh Covid-19 cases were recorded on February 24. The initial days of February witnessed a respite as the daily cases of the coronavirus disease went above the 100-mark but stayed below the 200-mark. There were no deaths reported on four days of last month on 9, 13, 17, 25 and just 94 cases were seen on February 16, which had been the lowest in more than nine months.Amid the recent surge in cases in states such as Maharashtra, Punjab, Gujarat etc, Delhi also has seen the overall Covid-19 situation worsening. In March alone, the daily cases have breached the 300-mark thrice—March 9 (320 cases), March 6 (321 cases) and March 5 (312 cases). According to news agency PTI, health experts and doctors have attributed the sudden spike in cases in Delhi to residents not following Covid-appropriate behaviour and assuming that all is well now.The Union ministry of health and family welfare pointed out on Thursday that Delhi is witnessing an upward trend in the number of daily cases. However, health minister Satyendar Jain had said on Monday that the outbreak was in its ‘endemic phase’ in Delhi but added that it would not end completely and people have to learn to live with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-daily-covid-19-count-crosses-400-mark-tally-at-642439-101615462546567.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra allows Covid-19 vaccination centres to run 24x7. But there’s a catch||The Maharashtra government on Thursday allowed coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination centres across the state to operate round the clock with a view to speeding up the inoculation drive, according to news agency PTI. However, this will be applicable to only those centres which have sufficient staff, senior officials said.Maharashtra’s health department secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas told PTI the approval by the state government is an ‘in-principle nod’ for keeping the vaccination centres open throughout. “It is up to the medical facilities, depending upon the availability of staff, to decide on the number of hours to carry out the vaccination,” Vyas added. (Brought this up)Maharashtra started its vaccination drive on January 16 and has administered more than two million vaccine doses till now, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s update. The beneficiaries at present comprise healthcare and frontline workers, people above the age of 60 and those between the ages of 45-59 with specific co-morbidities.Meanwhile, a health official of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) alleged that some people were coming up with fake certificates to show that they were eligible to take the vaccine shot. “We found some people in their late 40s who came up with fake medical certificates of co-morbidities to get the vaccine. When we asked them to describe their illness, we found they were lying. It is unfortunate,” the BMC official told PTI. Maharashtra’s Covid-19 caseload is nearing 2.26 million with 52,610 deaths, 2,099,207 recoveries and 99,008 active infections. The state’s daily cases have been on the rise since the second week of February. On Wednesday, 13,659 fresh Covid-19 cases were registered- which have been the highest in more than five months. The last time these many cases were seen in the state was on October 8, 2020, when there were 13,395 infections.Districts such as Nagpur, Jalgaon, Amravati, Thane, Nashik etc have been placed under lockdown by their respective administrations to curb the recent surge in the cases. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Thursday that strict lockdown measures will be imposed in some areas of the state and the government would hold a special meeting with officials before releasing these measures. Thackeray added that the government had been requesting residents to adhere to all Covid-related norms such as wearing masks, ensuring physical distancing and moving out only when required.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-allows-covid-19-vaccination-centres-to-run-24x7-but-there-s-a-catch-101615461905206.html
11-03-2021||Other||Man beheads brother-in-law in an alleged hate crime in MP’s Jabalpur||A woman apparently died by suicide in Madhya Pradesh’s Jabalpur after her husband was allegedly beheaded by her 22-year-old brother, who opposed their marriage, and walked to a local police station carrying the severed head on Thursday.Jabalpur police superintendent Ravi Chauhan said the accused called his sister home on Monday saying they were ready to accept her husband. He added on Thursday, he beheaded his brother-in-law with an axe.Chauhan said the woman, who was at her parent’s house, allegedly hanged herself from a ceiling fan upon hearing about the murder. He added police were investigating whether she indeed died by suicide or was killed.Chauhan said the accused has been arrested for murder. He added the couple got married two months back after leaving their homes. “The family members [of the woman] lodged a police complaint... On February 26, [the couple]... appeared before the police and said that they had got married. ...[the man]’s family accepted the woman. But the woman’s family was unhappy with their marriage due to an old animosity between the families.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-beheads-brother-in-law-in-an-alleged-hate-crime-in-mp-s-jabalpur-101615460313769.html
11-03-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal bars civilians from driving olive-green vehicles||The Himachal Pradesh government has prohibited civilians from plying olive-green coloured vehicles in the state. The transport department has issued notices to nearly 15,000 such owners, asking them to change the colour of their vehicles as soon as possible. The use of olive-green paint on civilian vehicles is prohibited under the Motor Vehicles Act as it is meant to identify vehicles of the armed forces. “We have found olive green vehicles on roads when this colour is prohibited for civilians,” transport director Anupam Kashyap said. “It has come to our notice that owners get their vehicles repainted after purchase as there is no entry related to this colour at the time of the vehicle’s registration. Moreover, there are cases when the paint of vehicles bought from the defence forces is not changed” said Kashyap. The department says no vehicles, including tractors or those engaged in the construction sector, shall be painted olive green. The transport department, which has directed the regional transport officer to compile data of vehicles with olive-green colour, has sought help from the police to trace olive-green colour vehicles. Sub divisional magistrates have been directed to ensure that the owners of such vehicles inform the registration authorities. “They will have to inform the registration authority of the transport department and get this colour removed and another painted. The department has directed the RTO to persuade vehicle owners to change the olive-green paint else the department will cancel the vehicle’s registration. The department has given owners three months to change the colour. So far, it has traced nearly 15,000 such vehicles in its records of which 2,100 vehicles ply in Shimla town. There is growing fad among youngsters to paint their vehicles, particularly sports utility vehicles, olive green.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-bars-civilians-from-driving-olive-green-vehicles-101615458873797.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||Man tries to immolate self outside Maharashtra minister’s residence||A man allegedly tried to set himself ablaze outside Maharashtra minister and Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat’s residence in Mumbai on Wednesday, the police said. They added the man is a resident of the Ahmednagar district, who upset over the pending refund of the license fee paid for stalled sand extraction.Police said the man obtained the licence in 2018 for sand mining and transportation after paying an ₹8.72 lakh fee. He started the excavation before it was stopped because of opposition by the locals. Due to the frequent protests of the villagers, the man suffered losses. He tried to convince the villagers but in vain.Also Read | SpiceHealth starts RT-PCR test for ₹500 in Mumbai, DelhiThe man took up the matter with authorities and sought a refund. “On Wednesday, he poured petrol on himself and tried to set himself on fire...,” said a police officer. The policemen deployed at the minister’s residence stopped him.“[He] was taken to a police station and released with a warning to not to repeat such act in future,” a second official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-tries-to-immolate-self-outside-maharashtra-minister-s-residence-101615458334262.html
11-03-2021||Other||Taste of life: Chivda, chakali, farsan... Moving snack shelf from kitchen to shop window... and, empowering women||In June 1889, Gopal Ganesh Agarkar, social reformer and educationist, wrote a letter to his uncle, Sadashivrao Bhagwat. Bhagwat’s daughter Venu was 12 and recently widowed. Agarkar urged his uncle to let Venu come to Pune and start attending a school. “If she does not study, she will have to spend the rest of her life roaming from door to door, with a rolling pin in her hand”, he wrote. Venu Namjoshi did come to Pune, completed her education and created a name for herself as a brilliant educationist. Countless other women were not as fortunate. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, many widows and single mothers had no option, but to cook in other women’s kitchens to survive. They had no education and there were no other jobs. Cooking, and other household jobs that accompanied it, became the main source of income for many women.After the First World War ended, women started entering professions like nursing and teaching. And the organisation that was instrumental in imparting training for these vocations to needy and willing women in Pune was The Poona Seva Sadan Samiti, started by Ramabai Ranade.Initially meant only for widows and divorcees, Sevasadan soon opened its doors to all women who were willing to get educated. Even though the focus of the society was to train them to be nurses and teachers, Sevasadan, after 1915, started a small unit to train women to make pickles, papads and other savoury snacks, on a large scale. The aim was to make them self-sufficient. It was expected that they would earn their livelihood by selling the products. This rarely happened, though. To be employed as a cook was somewhat acceptable, but, an upper class woman selling pickles and papads in the market was stigmatised. When Sevasadan was established, a few widows were in the business of making and supplying chivada and sev to a couple of restaurants in Pune, known for their spicy misal. These women were almost ostracised for their venture. Sevasadan played an important role in slaying these orthodox notions of purity and sanctity of food and women. It began by sending gift hampers containing snacks, lamps and fragrant oils during Diwali to the who’s-who of Pune. Ads were placed in prominent newspapers urging people to buy the food products. Slowly and steadily sales picked up.A small note published in “Kesari” on the occasion of the 20th Foundation Day of the Sevasadan Society mentions one Godavaribai Hinge, who started with selling chivada and shankarpale, and soon graduated to selling sweets. Although the products were stocked only at Sevasadan, she was able to educate her children, - three boys and a girl. Shantabai Nashikkar and Sundarabai Bhopatkar, in March 1940, started a cooperative of women called the Mahila Udyogmandir. Its aim was to train women to cook food products and sell them in the markets of Pune. Pickles, spices and spice mixes, and papads, were the products the women manufactured and were available all year round. Chivada, chakali, karanji and shankarpale were sold during Diwali.These were available at Dattatray Narayan Hejib’s store, Godbole, Joshi & Co, Nutan Badshahi Boarding House, Jogalekar Brothers and KV Limaye Mandavwale.In 1941, Mahila Udyogmandir had 80 members and made a profit of Rs620, of which Rs400 was put back to expand the business. A small unit to make jams and jellies was established in Sadashiv peth and donations were sought to start a canning unit. Mahila Udyogmandir provided bread and butter to at least 300 women within a span of six years. In March 1948, Shakuntala Bapat from Jalgaon wrote an article in “Aahar”, asking why was it not possible to sell banana flour made in Jalgaon in the markets of Pune. “There are several needy women in the town and they can manufacture banana flour locally, and send it to Pune. They can shoulder the entire responsibility of the business, without any help from the men. I am sure there is some demand for regional specialities like banana and ragi flour, pickles and sandage in big cities like Mumbai and Pune”, she wrote. A small report in “Sakal” in September 1950 tells us that a small cooperative from Jalgaon was selling banana flour in Pune. Whether Shakuntala Bapat had any role to play in this, I don’t know. It is heartening to know that the models established by Sevasadan and the Mahila Udyogmandir were replicated all over Maharashtra.More importantly, they taught people to buy chivada and chakali from shops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/taste-of-life-chivda-chakali-farsan-moving-snack-shelf-from-kitchen-to-shop-window-and-empowering-women-101615458333011.html
11-03-2021||Delhi||This book haven by Delhi Police has a smart classroom too!||This police station in Delhi’s RK Puram has officials in khaki and some are armed with books! Stocked with thousands of books, magazines and newspapers, the Delhi Police Public Library is a haven for students from the economically weaker sections, who come here to study. And the credit to conceive a space, which keeps the children off the streets, goes to station house officer (SHO) Rajesh Sharma.“In the absence of education and a safe space, kids get involved in crimes and drugs. As police, it is our primary job to ensure that youngsters don’t go down the wrong path. Hence this library has been set up so that parents who couldn’t afford to send their kids to school, or students who were excluded from the service sector due to lack of help in exam preparation, could receive the assistance they need,” says Sharma, adding that within a month of starting the place, they have 70 children come in, to study, every day at the station. The library is not only equipped with a smart classroom and internet connectivity, but also provides free coaching for competitive exams. The initiative has received accolades within the police force as well as on social media when some pictures of its interiors recently went viral. Anil Balin, a resident of RK Puram who saw the pictures, excitedly says, “I will ensure my kids visit the station, and also donate books for this initiative. The library is spacious, full to the brim with books of all genres, and is a great effort by the law enforcement agency. Padhega India tabhi badhega na India!”Reiterating the need to develop such initiatives for the youth, Ingit Pratap Singh, DCP South West, says, “Libraries allow for social development of the kids who come here, and education allows them to join the workforce. Isse inka future bhi banega aur crimes bhi kam honge.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/this-book-haven-by-delhi-police-has-a-smart-classroom-too-101615457317988.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||Working to bring down Remdesivir injection rate, says Maharashtra FDA||The Maharashtra Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) on Thursday said it is working to bring down the cost of the Remdesivir 100 mg injection, used for treating critical Covid-19 patients."The Maharashtra FDA has found that manufacturers are supplying this injection at a cheaper cost of ₹800- ₹1300 due to comparatively lesser demands than the initial days. But patients are not getting the benefit of the same cheaper prices. They are forced to purchase the injection at higher costs which are printed as MRP," the FDA said in the statement."So, Maharashtra FDA has instructed all producers of the injection that they must not print MRP more than 30 per cent margin after production and their rates of supply per injection," it said.The FDA has already sent a proposal to the Central government to fix the maximum retail price of 100 mg of the injection under the drug's price control, 2013.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/working-to-bring-down-remdesivir-injection-rate-says-maharashtra-fda-101615454312883.html
11-03-2021||Lucknow||Unperturbed with defections Mayawati holds review meet for UP panchayat polls||Nearly two months after scotching rumours of a tie-up with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) by announcing decision to contest 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls alone, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief, Mayawati has now tasked party cadres to ‘expose’ the ruling BJP governments in UP and Centre by holding small public meetings across the state.Mayawati made the announcement while winding up the first of the district level review meetings convened by her at the BSP office in Lucknow on Wednesday.Mayawati made it clear that the review meetings will continue even as she counselled the cadre on the line the party is to take during the panchayat poll campaign, party leaders said after the meeting.She also asked the cadres to roll out a membership campaign ahead of the panchayat polls, likely to be held in April-May. The BSP will be contesting these rural polls, to be followed soon by the 2022 UP polls.The review meetings and the decision to hold membership drive assumes significance as it has come amid a series of defections of important party leaders to the Samajwadi Party.Mayawati reportedly collected details of the party's organisational preparedness from across all the 75 districts, though a communiqué issued by the BSP office after the meeting had no mention of the SP even though she targeted both the Congress and the BJP, describing them as two sides of the same coin.Those who have quit the BSP and joined the SP included former BSP state president Dayaram Pal and ex-Ballia district chief Mithailal Bharati, former minister Kamlakant Gautam, who quit the BSP after its poor show in the 2017 assembly polls and merged his Rashtriya Bahujan Utthan Party with the SP, BSP's Meerut Mayor Sunita Verma, her husband and former BSP MLA from Hastinapur and former BSP minister Yogesh Verma.However, party leaders said Mayawati didn’t appear too perturbed with the defections. “She knows that most defectors have realised that outside BSP they don’t have the same appeal. There could be some exceptions but usually, the BSP's committed vote bank and their belief in behenji is solid,” a party leader said.Also Read: Akhilesh Yadav targets UP CM, says due not given to SP regime for worksIn 2014 Lok Sabha polls, the BSP had failed to open its account and for 2019 LS polls she had stitched an alliance with the Samajwadi Party, winning 10 seats. However, she later called off the alliance, leading to resumption of bitterness in SP-BSP ties.Before the 2007 BSP win, Mayawati had been UP chief minister thrice, twice with BJP support and once with SP support.On the occasion, she also tasked cadres with celebrating the birth anniversary of her mentor and party founder Kanshiram on March 15. A communiqué issued from the BSP office later said that Kanshiram’s anniversary will be celebrated while following covid protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/unperturbed-with-defections-mayawati-holds-review-meet-for-up-panchayat-polls-101615452234395.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Versova-Virar sea-link pegged at ₹32,875 crore, MSRDC calls for DPR||The Maharashtra government has taken another step towards implementing the ambitious Versova-Virar sea-link as an extension to the under-construction Bandra-Versova sea link project. The Maharashtra road development corporation (MSRDC), on Thursday, invited consultancy services to prepare the detailed project report (DPR) for the sea-link, estimated to cost ₹32,875 crore.MSRDC has stated that it is looking for international consultancy services to prepare the DPR and also undertake pre-tender activities. The cabinet committee on infrastructure of the Maharashtra government gave a go-ahead for the 43km project on January 14.MSRDC also submitted a pre-feasibility report to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.According to the pre-feasibility report, which HT highlighted earlier, the sea-link will be built with connectors at Charkop, Uttan, Vasai and Virar. The 4+4 lane main bridge will connect Versova to Virar with 3+3 lane connectors at these four locations. With the coastal road, the Bandra-Worli sea link, Bandra-Versova sea link and the Virar extension, the state is looking at reducing the travel distance from Nariman Point in south Mumbai to Virar (almost 30 kms from Borivali) from the current three hours to one hour by car.Also Read: Is Vaze being targeted as he is probing cases against Arnab: Sena to OppositionThe state has already undertaken construction of many sea-link projects, which includes the 22km Mumbai Trans Harbour Link, the Versova-Bandra sea-link and the coastal road. It is looking at another sea-link between Nariman Point and Colaba.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-versova-virar-sea-link-pegged-at-rs-32-875-crore-msrdc-calls-for-dpr-101615450993798.html
11-03-2021||Patna||Bihar gets 3 more RAF companies, new headquarters to come up in Vaishali||After years of wait, Bihar has been allotted three more companies of Rapid Action Force (RAF) as advance parties for permanent deployment to handle any communal violence and law and order situation across the state, said officials.The Bihar government has given 50 acres of land to the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in Talgarha village under the Rajapakar police station area in Vaishali district, 35km from Patna, for RAF's permanent deployment. The ownership of 29 acres was earlier transferred to the CRPF for establishing the permanent headquarters of RAF in Bihar.1992 batch IPS officer of Rajasthan cadre, Hemant Priyadarshi, inspector general (IG) CRPF, Bihar sector told reporters on Wednesday that the state has been allotted three more RAF companies by the centre. The state had only one company of RAF, currently stationed at Muzaffarpur. One battalion comprises around 1,600 personnel.“The RAF’s 114 Battalion, earlier stationed at Jalandhar in Punjab, moved and arrived shortly in Bihar. The companies will be accommodated at Mokama and Muzaffarpur,” he added.According to Priyadarshi, the nearest points from where the RAF personnel were drawn to the state were Allahabad and Jamshedpur, where the RAF’s 101 and 106 battalions are deployed respectively.The IG said, it will take at least three years to develop the required infrastructure on the land. The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) will develop the infrastructure. The IG further added that the land acquisition department was in the process of acquiring additional 21-acres of land for the purpose, which will also be handed over to the CRPF in the next three months.Also Read: Bihar: Beur and Nawada jail superintendents among 6 officers to be suspendedThe CRPF regularly launches joint operations against Left wing extremism with the help of the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and the state police. The CRPF was celebrating its 82nd raising day and will organize functions in Patna, Gaya, Muzaffarpur, Aurangabad and Jamui from March 11 to March 20.The CRPF has 15 RAF battalions, which are pressed into action mainly during communal riots in any part of the country. Officials at state police headquarters admitted that at least ten districts, including Patna, Nalanda, Gopalganj, Sitamarhi and Katihar, fall in the ‘hypersensitive’ category in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-gets-3-more-raf-companies-new-headquarters-to-come-up-in-vaishali-101615448556170.html
11-03-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav targets UP CM, says due not given to SP regime for works||Samajwadi Party President Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday accused Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath of taking credit for works done in the SP regime.A day after Adityanath visited Bundelkhand region and took a selfie at the Lahchura dam, Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi, "Thankfully the picture is his own, though the work is of someone else!".Yadav also tagged a photograph of the CM on which it was written, "Taking a selfie in front of the Lahchura dam built in the SP regime...thank you for shining light on the work done during our time".Adityanath had on Wednesday accused previous state governments of looting the wealth of the Bundelkhand region, and said it will become a paradise under the BJP dispensation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-yadav-targets-up-cm-says-due-not-given-to-sp-regime-for-works-101615447636674.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||Is Vaze being targeted as he is probing cases against Arnab: Sena to Opposition||Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena on Thursday questioned whether Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was targeting police officer Sachin Vaze for reopening an abetment to suicide case against Arnab Goswami and probing the Republic TV editor-in-chief’s alleged role in a Television Rating Point (TRP) scam.In an editorial in its mouthpiece Saamana, the Sena said Vaze “opened the file” of the suicide case after it was “suppressed” under the previous chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s rule.The editorial slammed the BJP over the ruckus it created in the state legislature demanding Vaze’s arrested for his alleged role in the death of businessman Mansukh Hiran, who was linked to the car found parked outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence with explosive gelatin sticks and a threatening letter.“Arnab Goswami duped everybody in the TRP scam, which was being investigated by Vaze. Did the opposition create hue and cry because Arnab will have to answer questions related to the suicide and TRP scam? It is wrong to create ruckus on Mansukh Hiran case because Vaze shut BJP’s beloved Arnab’s mouth,” it added.Also Read | Vaze under scanner in Mansukh Hiran death case: What led to the moveGoswami was last year arrested and later released on bail over the alleged abetment to an interior designer and his mother’s death by suicide.Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Wednesday announced Vaze’s transfer while rejecting the BJP demand for his suspension.The editorial said the government has transferred Vaze, but the decision should not be viewed as the BJP’s victory. It added instead of taking up people’s issues, the opposition raised a hue and cry over Hiran’s death and Vaze. “There are several issues related to people... It would have been good had the opposition taken up such issues in the assembly to corner the government. Instead, they created the ruckus over a suspicious death without allowing a proper investigation to be carried out. This is a perverse version of democracy.”Fadnavis responded to the editorial saying they have taken up issues related to inflated electricity bills, farmers, and Covid-19 response but the government does not see these as issues. “They only saw issues that pricked them.”Vaze, who met police commissioner Parambir Singh and other top police officers on Wednesday, said he will clarify his side of the story and release a statement on Thursday. He added he has also met the team investigating Hiran’s death.Fadnavis has led the attack on the government over Hiran, who was found dead in a creek in Thane on March 5 with handkerchiefs stuffed in his mouth. Hiran’s widow, Vimla, has blamed Vaze.Fadnavis on Tuesday cited Vimla’s statements to target Vaze. Fadnavis said the car found outside Ambani’s residence was in Vaze’s possession from November 20, 2020. “The car was given to him for use as Hiran knew Vaze, who was the former’s customer. The vehicle was with Vaze before it was returned to Hiran after four months,” Fadnavis said on Tuesday. Fadnavis had accused the government of shielding Vaze.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/is-vaze-being-targeted-as-he-is-probing-cases-against-arnab-sena-to-opposition-101615447413318.html
11-03-2021||Delhi||Ruckus erupts in Delhi Assembly over riots; BJP MLA marshalled out||The Delhi assembly witnessed heated exchanges between Aam Aadmi Party and opposition BJP members on Thursday, after the ruling party's MLA Amantullah Khan accused a political party of playing a role in the last year northeast Delhi riots.Speaker Ram Niwas Goel directed that BJP MLA Anil Bajpayi be marshalled out of the House after he entered the Well to lodge his protest.The BJP member was also directed by Goel to remain absent from the House for the remaining part of the day.Goel adjourned the House amid the commotion.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) member Khan, who is the chairman of the Minority Welfare Committee of the Assembly, made the allegation while presenting its report on the communal riots in February last year.Goel got the political party's name expunged from the records as he intervened to restore order in the House.He also discontinued Khan from speaking on the committee's report amid vociferous protests by BJP members.The riots had erupted in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled, leaving at least 53 people dead and also led to extensive destruction of property, including schools as well as religious places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ruckus-erupts-in-delhi-assembly-over-riots-bjp-mla-marshalled-out-101615446889128.html
11-03-2021||Bhopal||Gandhi statue damaged by monkeys in MP's Mandsaur, say Police||Police said that it is likely that monkeys damaged a statue of Mahatma Gandhi in the premises of a school in Gurjarbardiya village in the Mandsaur district of Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday."No one was seen crossing the school boundary and a watchman was on duty till 8 pm. Earlier, an incident was reported where monkeys broke the arm of the idol and it was repaired," said Siddharth Chaudhary, Mandsaur SP."There is a possibility that it was done by monkeys. A case has been registered," he further said and added that other angles are also being investigated.Congress leader Deepak Singh Chauhan said that damaging the statue of the Father of the Nation is a big crime."The Mandsaur SP is saying that the monkeys have vandalised the statue, is he referring to the monkeys of the BJP?" asked Chauhan.Afzalpur Police Station has registered a case and a probe is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/gandhi-statue-damaged-by-monkeys-in-mp-s-mandsaur-say-police-101615445473599.html
11-03-2021||Patna||Bihar: Beur and Nawada jail superintendents among 6 officers to be suspended||At least six officials of Bihar’s prison department including superintendents of Beur central jail and Nawada divisional jail were suspended after surprise raids by respective district administrations on March 3, leading to recovery of mobile phones, accessories and contraband from prisoners.The home department issued show cause notice against the suspended superintendent of Beur central Jail. The suspension orders of the officers cited “gross negligence” as the reason for action. The administration found that within five days, five cell phones, SIM cards, charger and pen-drive were recovered from Beur jail during separate raids conducted by Patna DM Chandrasekhar Singh and IG (Prison) Mithilesh Mishra. Later a probe was ordered into the matter.The prison department found that when Patna DM along with city SP (West) Ashok Mishra, reached the Beur jail, the deputy jail superintendent, Sanjay Kumar, reached 30 minutes late, delaying the search by an hour and alerting the inmates.Then jail superintendent, Satyendra Kumar, was accused of waylaying the team by showing them only one special cell. The senior officials were also misguided when they wanted to visit the Division Ward but were taken to the Vigilance Ward instead by Satyendra Kumar, officials said on condition of anonymity.Similarly, in Nawada divisional jail, district administration carried out more than seven raids since August 11, 2018 and recovered unauthorised equipment. On March 3, the district administration led by superintendent of police (SP) Dhurat Sayli Savlaram recovered nine cell phones, four chargers, three batteries, headphones and play cards.According to the officials of the home department, Beur jail superintendent Satyendra Kumar, deputy jail superintendent Sanjay Kumar, Nawada jail superintendent Mahesh Rajak, deputy jail superintendent Ramvilas Das, Warden Ajay Kumar Singh and Abhinav Kumar—were suspended with immediate effect.Also Read: Bodh Gaya Tourism institute to get its own building at cost of ₹50 croresTalking to HT, Mishra said investigations were still going on and action could be taken against more jail personnel. He said on March 3, a massive search operation was launched by the state police in collaboration with the district magistrates, following reports of gangsters using social media sites from inside jails. 36 cell phones, 17 chargers, seven SIM cards and contrabands were recovered in the search operations.The department also transferred 18 jail superintendents including SPs of Beur and Purnia central jails besides divisional jails of Aurangabad, Supaul, Sheohar, Banka, Madhepura, Buxar, Nawada, Benippati etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-beur-and-nawada-jail-superintendents-among-6-officers-to-be-suspended-101615443795970.html
11-03-2021||Bangalore||'Work from home here to stay', says Nandan Nilekani on HT Dialogues||Infosys co-founder Nandan Nilekani said on Thursday that the work from home (WFH) system, which was implemented by various countries in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, is here to stay in India. Speaking to Hindustan Times Editor-in-chief Sukumar Ranganathan, Nilekani said that people do want to come to office, but a clear picture is yet to emerge.Also Read: 'Bengaluru is my favourite city', says Nilekani"It is to the credit of the Indian IT industry that they managed to get millions of people work from home in three to four weeks. For example, at Infosys, 2,40,000 employees in 40 countries moved to WFH in three weeks because they had the technology infrastructure to do so," said Nilekani."WFH has a fundamental impact, but we don't now what steady state we will reach. Obviously we do want to go back to work in offices - the value of meeting people, the serendipity, the ideas and innovation require people to come together. There's no clear idea but one thought is that it settle at two-thirds in the office on any given day and one-third from home," he added.Calling it a good news, the entrepreneur further said that WFH will reduce pressure on the commuters and traffic, and people will still be able to work.Soon after lockdowns were announced around the world - in India, a 68-day lockdown began on March 25, 2020 - employees moved to a WFH routine that caused ripples across industries.As 2020 progressed, several companies adopted a hybrid plan: a fraction of employees came to office while the rest worked from home. An alternative model saw employees working out of the office for at least a few days a week.In United States of America, the system saw more participation from the older people - those above the age of 65 - to the labour force. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics report in January, roughly 1 in 5 adults aged 65 and older remain on the job. In the mid 1980s, the ratio was closer to 1 in 10.A survey conducted last year by the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (Assocham) and consulting firm Primus Partners revealed that 74% workers are inclined to work from home or want their companies to adopt other policy measures such as flexible working hours and staggered office schedule.The survey was conducted in eight cities: Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Ahmedabad and Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/work-from-home-here-to-stay-says-nandan-nilekani-on-ht-dialogues-101615443882158.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||Fire in a biscuit factory at Ambernath in Maharashtra’s Thane||A fire broke out in a biscuit making company at Ambernath’s Anand Nagar Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) area on Thursday around 6 am. However, no one was injured in the fire, said fire department officials.The fire broke out in RK biscuit company and eight fire tenders from Ambernath and Badlapur were rushed to the spot."The fire fighting operation is still on as the blaze has spread across the unit. The cause of fire is not known as of now," said a fire officer from Ambernath fire station, who did not wish to be named.Also Read: Janta curfew begins in Jalgaon from today, emergency services exemptedOn Tuesday, a major fire had broken out in a plastic company located at Asangaon, Shahapur, located on Mumbai – Nashik highway around 7.40 am. As per the Thane regional disaster management cell (RDMC), the fire started in Krishna Promotion, a plastic company and the blaze soon destroyed the entire company premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fire-in-a-biscuit-factory-at-ambernath-in-maharashtra-s-thane-101615442222935.html
11-03-2021||Bangalore||Watch live: Infosys co-founder Nandan Nilekani on HT Dialogues||Infosys co-founder Nandan Nilekani is in conversation with Hindustan Times editor-in-chief Sukumar Ranganathan to mark the launch of HT’s Bengaluru edition. Watch live here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/watch-live-infosys-co-founder-nandan-nilekani-on-ht-dialogues-101615441351558.html
11-03-2021||Lucknow||9 killed in Agra as container trailer rams into four-wheeler on national highway||Nine persons were killed in a road accident in Agra, when a four wheeler collided with a container-trailer truck coming from the opposite direction on Thursday morning. Three others, who were seriously injured, were admitted to a city hospital. Those travelling in the four-wheeler were from Gaya in Bihar and Chatra in Jharkhand.‘The accident took place at about 5.15 am on National Highway 19 on Thursday morning. The four-wheeler coming from Etmadpur lost its balance and crossed the divider to end up on the wrong side. It collided with a container-trailer coming from Mathura side and was badly hit,” said SSP Agra Babloo Kumar.“The driver and the cleaner of the container ran away from the accident site. Eight persons were badly trapped in the damaged four-wheeler and died on the spot. Four others were shifted to a hospital for treatment but one of them died, taking the death toll to nine,” said SSP Agra.Also Read: Jobs are coming, no need to migrate, Yogi tells Bundelkhand youths"Those killed are from Gaya in Bihar and Chatra in Jharkhand and are yet to be identified," said SSP Agra.Three injured were being treated at the emergency ward of SN Medical College and Hospital in the city.The traffic was disrupted on the National Highway following the collision, but it was cleared by police after it reached the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/9-killed-in-agra-as-container-trailer-rams-into-four-wheeler-on-national-highway-101615441189986.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||Vaze under scanner in Mansukh Hiran death case: What led to the move||Sachin Vaze, the police officer under the scanner over the death of Mansukh Hiran, an auto parts dealer linked to the car found parked outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, with 20 sticks of gelatin and a threatening letter, was on Wednesday transferred out of the Mumbai crime branch. Here is all you need to know about the move:• Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh announced the transfer while rejecting the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) demand for his suspension.• Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar is believed to have intervened as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was unwilling to take action against the 49-year-old officer who had once quit the service and joined the Shiv Sena. • Pawar had a telephone conversation with Thackeray on Wednesday morning.Also Read | Know Sachin Vaze, the police officer who was transferred• Later, Deshmukh announced the transfer in the state legislative council. • He promised an impartial inquiry and said whoever is guilty will face action.• Vaze headed the crime intelligence unit of the crime branch of the Mumbai Police. • Thackeray on Wednesday said the guilty will be punished but added that Vaze should not be targeted until his alleged involvement is established. v Vaze had a two-hour meeting with commissioner Parambir Singh. Throughout the day, he also met other senior officers of the crime branch. Later in the evening, Vaze told the media that he spoke to senior officers about the allegations against him. “I will clarify my side of the story and release a statement on Thursday,” he said. • Vaze also said he met the team investigating the murder of Hiran, who recorded his statement over eight hours on Monday.• On Wednesday, the BJP created a ruckus in both houses of the state legislature, seeking the suspension of Vaze.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaze-under-scanner-in-mansukh-hiran-death-case-what-led-to-the-move-101615437512682.html
11-03-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: UP Gate remains closed, disruptions in Delhi-Ghaziabad traffic||Motorists travelling between Delhi and Ghaziabad continue to face traffic disruption and jam because of the closure of the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border due to the farmers’ protest against the three farm laws that entered 106th day on Thursday. Similarly, traffic is also affected in areas around outer Delhi’s Singhu and Tikri borders that are also closed as thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana have been agitating there.All the six carriageways of Delhi-Meerut expressway, NH-9 and NH-24 are closed at the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad border since January 26, when violence broke out in some parts of Delhi during the farmers’ tractor rally. Traffic between Delhi and Ghaziabad has been diverted to alternate border points, causing increased volume of traffic and jams on these routes, especially during the morning and evening peak hours.Delhi Traffic Police officers say that updates regarding closure of the borders and alternate routes are posted on social media. Traffic police have advised motorists travelling between Delhi and Ghaziabad to use EDM Mall Kaushambi, Anand Vihar, Kondli, Surya Nagar, Apsara, Bhopra and Loni borders as the alternate routes for their travel and avoid the closure of the Ghazipur border route. They can also enter Delhi through Noida. Also Read | Farmer unions call for Bharat Bandh on March 26 on completion of 4 months of protestThose coming to Delhi from Ghaziabad, Vasundhara and Vaishali are advised to take the Anand Vihar (Maharajpur) border and take a left on the road towards Ghazipur roundabout from where they can use the NH-9 and NH-24 as well. The other route they can take is the EDM Mall border from where the motorists can either use the Ghazipur Mandi roundabout and can have access to the Delhi-Meerut expressway, NH-24 and NH-9 towards Delhi, or they can move towards the road leading to the Ghazipur roundabout and further on. According to the traffic police, Singhu, Dhansa, Jharoda and Tikri borders are completely closed for traffic between Delhi and Haryana. They have advised motorists to follow alternate routes and avoid Outer Ring Road, GT Karnal Road and NH-44 to avoid traffic congestion. Farmers have been protesting at different borders of the national Capital since November last year, against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-up-gate-remains-closed-disruptions-in-delhi-ghaziabad-traffic-101615435713191.html
11-03-2021||Patna||Bodh Gaya Tourism institute to get its own building at cost of ₹50 crores||Bodh Gaya based Indian Institute of Tourism and Travel Management (IITTM), run by the ministry of tourism, will now have its own building, developed over five- acre land with an estimated budget of ₹50 crores, said the government.The Union ministry of tourism, which was looking for a suitable piece of land for the Institute since 2018, was allocated five acre of land in Bodh Gaya in February by the state government and construction work for the building will start soon. At present, the institute is running from the premises of Bihar State Institute of Hotel Management (SIHM) at Bodh Gaya.Union minister of state for tourism, Prahlad Singh Patel made the announcement in Parliament on Tuesday in response to a related question by Rajya Sabha member and former deputy chief minister of Bihar, Sushil Kumar Modi.IITTM, Bodh Gaya is the seventh such institute in the country and it has been offering skill development training programmes in six foreign languages including Korean, Thai, Chinese, Japanese Burmese and Sri Lankan to cater to the requirements of inbound foreign tourists in Bodh Gaya.IITTM was planned as an autonomous organisation under the ministry of tourism to offer education, training, research and consultancy in this sector. The first such Institute was set up in Delhi in 1983. The other six are in Bhubaneshwar, Gwalior, Noida, Goa, Nellore and Shillong.“While all other IITTMs had their own buildings, the one at Bodh Gaya has been operating as a part of the IITTM, Bhubaneshwar from the SIHM building located at Bodh Gaya. The Union tourism minister, Prahlad Singh Patel has informed that as the state government has made the land available, now this Institute will also have its own building,” Sushil Kumar Modi, said.Bodh Gaya was selected as the site for IITTM in the state, considering the need of trained tourism professionals there. The city has Mahabodhi temple, a Unesco World Heritage Site, which attracts tourists from many Buddhist and even non – Buddhist countries. Guides trained in different foreign languages are also needed there in maximum numbers, he added.Also Read: Bihar school teacher jailed till death for raping a minor studentAccording to the Union tourism minister’s reply, IITTM Bodh Gaya has been offering the short term training programme in six foreign languages and 525 tourism professionals were trained during the two academic sessions in 2018-19 and 2019-2020, Modi said.Abhay Pratap Singh from IITTM, Bhubaneswar, said Bodh Gaya based IITTM was set up as an extension of the Bhuvaneshwar centre of the IITTM. “It was launched in 2018 to cater to the demands for skilled and trained language interpreters and guides at Bodh Gaya. “At present, it’s been offering training in only six foreign languages. Later training for more foreign languages will also be planned there,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bodh-gaya-tourism-institute-to-get-its-own-building-at-cost-of-rs-50-crores-101615435216077.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC pulls up judge for using words disrespectful to women in rape case||The Bombay high court’s Aurangabad bench has pulled up an additional sessions judge for using slang and foul words disrespectful to women while recording a rape survivor’s evidence and later in the judgment of the case.“The trial court has used the words F***** and F******,” said a division bench of justices Ravindra Ghuge and BU Debadwar. “...we need to record our strong displeasure about the choice of a particular word, which has been repeatedly used by the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Kopargaon (Coram: Shri. S. V. Ranpise) while recording [the] testimony of the prosecutrix [rape survivor], the PW1 and testimony of the investigating officer, P.W.9 and also in the body of the judgment.”The bench noted the survivor used decent Marathi words while testifying, but the trial court repeatedly used the objectionable words while recording the English version of her testimony and in the judgment.Also Read | Bombay HC warns commissioners of being called to court for not complying with ordersThe matter came to light as the bench was hearing an appeal against the acquittal of a 52-year-old accused of raping his brother’s daughter-in-law in March 2010. The lower court acquitted him in August 2012.“It is important to record that if the prosecutrix has opposed a sexual intercourse by any person, her disinclination or her refusal will tantamount to the male counterpart offending her physically, and such intercourse committed against the will and the desire of the prosecutrix, would constitute an offence punishable under Section 376 [rape] of the IPC [Indian Penal Code],” the bench said on March 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-pulls-up-judge-for-using-words-disrespectful-to-women-in-rape-case-101615435292574.html
11-03-2021||Patna||Patna has a hot day at 34.4°C, relief and light rains likely on Thursday||Patna recorded the hottest day on Wednesday with the mercury crossing 34°C-mark, giving the residents a taste of summer temperatures. As per Patna meteorological centre, most of the places in the state recorded a maximum and minimum temperature between 34°C to 18 °C respectively, an average rise by 2°C to 6°C.Patna airport observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, recorded a maximum temperature of 34.4°C and minimum temperature of 18.8°C, both three notches above the season’s normal. Officials said this was Patna’s highest maximum temperature so far after the passing of winter. Prior to this, Patna had recorded a temperature of 33.2°C on March 5.As per the daily weather bulletin, Gaya recorded a maximum of 33.8°C, Bhagalpur 32.2°C, Purnea 30.5°C and Valmikinagar 33°C. Meteorologists said that no city in the state recorded maximum temperature less than 30°C.“Humidity has increased in the state as winds carrying moisture entered Bihar 72 hours ago. Today, relative humidity was recorded 80 to 90% in morning hours which resulted in temperatures above the season’s normal. No drastic change in temperature is likely in the coming 48 hours,” said SK Mandal, a weather official.Also Read: Bihar school teacher jailed till death for raping a minor studentHe added that some respite is likely after Thursday. “Residents are likely to get some respite from scorching heat after Thursday. Two fresh western disturbances are very likely to affect the Western Himalayan region on March 12 and 13. Besides, an anticyclonic circulation is lying over northwest Bay of Bengal which is likely to favour rain activities. Under the influence of both mechanisms, the northeast and south regions of the state are likely to receive rain and thunderstorm,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-has-a-hot-day-at-34-4-c-relief-and-light-rains-likely-on-thursday-101615433556591.html
11-03-2021||Patna||Bihar school teacher jailed till death for raping a minor student||A court in Bihar’s Vaishali district on Wednesday sentenced two persons including a government middle school teacher to life imprisonment till death for raping a class 8 student. The teacher and his friend were convicted for raping the minor girl, who studied at a tuition institute run by the prime accused in Vaishali district’s Mahnar block .The victim’s mother filed a complaint against the 38-year-old teacher in March 2019, alleging he raped her multiple times and used to blackmail her with video clips, he had filmed, of the crime. She also said that his friend was also involved in the crime.Special public prosecutor Manoj Kumar Sharma said the accused were charged under Indian Penal Code sections for rape, illegal confinement, criminal intimidation, obscenity, outraging the modesty of women and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. During the trial, prosecution produced eight witnesses.The special Pocso court of ADJ-6 Ashutosh Kumar Jha observed, “The accused, who represents the noble profession of a teacher, and being a married man, did not think of the future of his wife and children while blindly committing the crime to satisfy his lust and immoral wants. Instead of teaching the victim as a teacher, the accused misused his position and exploited the student for a long duration to derive sexual pleasure. This is an inhuman act and considering the gravity of the crime, the court deems it fit to award a sentence of imprisonment for life to the accused.”Also Read: Student alleges ragging in women’s hostel; Bihar college denies chargeThe court also imposed a fine of ₹1 lakh each on the accused and ordered the government to provide an ex-gratia of ₹10 lakh to the victim."The accused has been sentenced to life imprisonment till death under Section 376 AB of the Indian Penal Code (IPC)," said the special public prosecutor, adding that Section 376 AB of the IPC deals with the punishment for raping a woman under 12 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-school-teacher-jailed-till-death-for-raping-a-minor-student-101615432354754.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||Covid 19: Baba Amte's Anandwan ashram declared containment zone||The Chandrapur administration in Maharashtra has declared Anandwan ashram – a special facility for leprosy patients set up by Baba Amte in district’s Warora tehsil – a containment zone, following a sudden spike in Coronavirus cases.With a majority of Anandwan inmates being senior citizens with comorbidities, the administration has established a special Covid care centre on the ashram premises. There are presently about 1,500 inmates at the ashram.251 ashram inmates, among the 1,317 tested, were found Covid-positive over the last one week. “We had set up a special auxiliary RT-PCR testing centre in Anandwan earlier this month given the presence of a highly vulnerable population there. Soon, it turned out that a good number of people among the inmates were positive and the entire Anandwan was sealed and declared a containment zone,” said Warora tehsildar Prashant Bedse. He said that a total of 251 positive cases were detected in Anandwan and all are undergoing treatment.Tahsildar Bedse claimed around 100 to 150 people in Anandwan were being tested every day since March first week. Living a community life, eating, working and dwelling together, makes the ashram inmates highly vulnerable to infection.Bedse claimed that those found negative are being taken in special buses to Warora sub-district hospital for vaccination and 130 inmates have been given the first dose of vaccine.Also Read: Maharashtra govt wants petrol, diesel be brought under GSTIn 1949, Baba Amte founded Anandwan in Chandrapur district, some 125 kms from Nagpur. The ashram is dedicated to treatment, rehabilitation, and empowerment of leprosy patients. The centre runs programs in health care, agriculture, small-scale industry, and conservation to serve people with disabilities.Meanwhile, Covid-19 cases are also increasing sharply in Nagpur. As many as 1,710 new cases were detected on Wednesday, while eight people died of the deadly virus in the last 24 hours in the district, said Ravindra Thakre, the district collector of Nagpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-19-baba-amte-s-anandwan-ashram-declared-containment-zone-101615430231418.html
11-03-2021||Delhi||Light to moderate rain expected in Delhi today: IMD||After parts of the Capital received light showers on Wednesday night, the city is expected to receive light to moderate rain and thundershowers on Thursday, an India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast said.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that as a result of an active western disturbance passing over Delhi, there is a possibility of light to moderate rain in parts of the city and in the NCR on Thursday. He said that this possibility would continue till Saturday. Also Read | Met office predicts erratic weather in Jammu and Kashmir for next weekThe last time the city received rain was on February 5. IMD scientists said temperatures in Delhi soared because of a prolonged period without an active western disturbance. Meanwhile, as an impact of the western disturbance, the city’s air quality also improved on Wednesday.Delhi’s air quality on Thursday morning deteriorated marginally and reached the “poor” category, with the hourly average air quality index (AQI) at 7am recording 218.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows that the overall AQI of Delhi on Wednesday was 175.The maximum temperature in the national capital on Wednesday settled at 33 degrees Celsius, four notches above the season’s normal, the meteorological office said.The minimum temperature was recorded at 18.2 degrees Celsius, four notches above the normal, and humidity levels oscillated between 46% and 87%, it said.The weatherman said a partly cloudy sky was expected on Thursday. There is a possibility of very light rain or thundershowers accompanied with gusty winds with a speed of 30-40kmph towards the evening, he added.The maximum temperature is likely to settle around 34 degrees Celsius, and the minimum is likely to be 17 degrees Celsius, the official said. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/light-to-moderate-rain-expected-in-delhi-today-imd-101615430972787.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||Bomb threat to death: Decoding the case||Maharashtra leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis claimed in the assembly on Tuesday that Mansukh Hiran, a 48-year-old businessman, was likely murdered and demanded the arrest of a police officer.Fadnavis based his claims on the statement that Hiran’s wife, 43-year-old Vimla, gave to the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) two days after her husband’s body washed up on the Reti Bunder creek in Thane district. Vimla told investigators that she was certain her husband had been murdered, and that she suspected Vaze had a hand in it.Till he went missing on March 4, Hiran was questioned repeatedly after an SUV that he had reported stolen on February 18, was found parked outside Antilla, the house of billionaire Mukesh Ambani. The car had 20 sticks of gelatin and a threatening letter addressed to Ambani.Who owned the SUV parked outside Ambani’s house? Who is Vaze? Why does Vimla think that her husband was murdered and did not drown?A Scorpio outside AntiliaOn February 25, Gamdevi police sub-inspector Amit Kadam received a call around 3 pm. Bharat Patil, a security officer at Antilla informed Kadam of a Mahindra Scorpio SUV parked on Carmichael Road. Kadam called the Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad (BDDS) team, which found a blue sack with a Mumbai Indians logo, which contained 20 loose gelatin sticks along with the threatening letter.The real SUV ownerShortly after Hiran’s body washed up in a creek in Thane on March 5, his family stopped talking to the media. Till then, Hiran, Vimla; brother, Vinod (50), and older son, Meet (21), had addressed the scrutiny that accompanied the discovery that the Scorpio had been traced to them.On March 7, Vimla gave a statement to the ATS, saying that she was certain her husband was murdered. Based on her statement, the ATS filed a case of murder against unknown persons. Vimla told the investigators that the vehicle belonged to a certain Dr Peter Newton. It was, however, in possession of the Hirans for the past three years. Hiran, who knew Vaze well, lent him the Scorpio in November 2020. Vaze’s driver dropped off the car at Hiran’s shop in Thane, on February 5, 2021. On February 17, Hiran was driving in the vehicle but left it on the side of the road as its steering was not smooth, and continued his journey in a taxi. The following day, he took a mechanic to bring the vehicle to his shop. However, he found the car was stolen and lodged a complaint with Vikhroli police.What initial probe saidOn February 26, Vaze took the lead in the investigation. The police checked the footage of CCTV cameras installed outside a departmental store, just across the road from where the Scorpio was parked. They found that the Scorpio and an Innova reached Carmichael Road on the intervening night of February 24 and 25. During investigations, the police came across a report about a missing Scorpio. The police asked Hiran to visit the CIU office. “On February 25, an ATS official named Salvi called my husband and asked him to meet him. My husband and son met Salvi, who showed them a picture of an SUV found near Ambani’s house. My husband identified the vehicle. He also showed the FIR copy to him,” Vimla’s statement to the ATS, read. The same night, ATS officer Shivaji Chavan visited their residence and took Hiran to the Vikroli ATS unit. There, he was shown some CCTV footage. He was brought back to his house at 6.30 am on February 26, the statement added.What Vimla told ATSOn March 2, Hiran wrote a letter to authorities complaining that he was being harassed by police and a particular media person.The following day, Hiran told her that Vaze had advised him to get arrested and he would be granted bail in a few days, the statement read. On March 4, Hiran returned from his shop at 8.30 pm and told her that he was going to meet a police officer named Tawade. Vimla said that when she tried calling her husband at 11 pm, his mobile phone was switched off. The following morning, Meet and Vinod lodged a missing person’s report. Hiran’s body was found by fishermen on March 5 around 10.30 am. Prima facie, the police said, it seemed that Hiran had died by suicide. But Vimla said that Hiran was too good a swimmer to have drowned. “Our doctors said his lungs were not filled with water and were soft…,” Vinod said. “I suspect Sachin Vaze could have committed the said murder,” the last few lines of Vimla’s statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bomb-threat-to-death-decoding-the-case-101615413263326.html
11-03-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Portrait of a geography graduate||Muhammed Nasir is a graduate. “I did my BA in geography,” he says.In his late 20s, the gentleman is a security guard. Stationed at a south Delhi monument, he is this afternoon strolling about the old stone walls. The monument is empty. Talking in Hindi, he regrets: “if I knew English, I might be working in an office with my own desk.”That’s how he had imagined the setting of his working life, while pursuing graduation in his home state of Jharkhand. “But it’s not easy for a Hindi-speaking graduate to get a job,” he remarks. Another option would have been to stay in the village and look after the little family-run agricultural land. Can it be that his status as the family’s first graduate made him reluctant to soil his hands as a farmer? Mr Nasir shakes his head, insisting he wouldn’t have minded tilling the land. “But there are things beyond our control.”He means the climate crisis, he explains. “There is almost no water left in our village.” The village talaab (pond) dried out some years ago, he says. “Farmers then dug borewells to draw water from deep under the ground... but that water is mostly over too.”Now it is almost impossible to pursue farming throughout the year. In any case, Mr Nasir’s village, he says, is in a hilly area in Jharkhand’s Palamau district, with a rocky landscape, making it difficult for extensive agriculture in the first place.“I had to leave the home.” He arrived in the Capital in 2011.To this day he feels the after-effects of his achievement as a graduate. “My high education helps me understand the world and to face challenges.” He hopes his two kids, Majme Ara and Roshan Ara, who live with wife, Shaheena Begum, in the village, will end up being highly educated and also well-versed in English.Now, after checking out the hour of the day, Mr Nasir remarks that his father, Islamuddin, must be working in the village fields at this moment. “He is busy with the wheat crop.”Mr Nasir’s shift will end by 6, when he will cycle back to his room near Kailash Colony Metro station. He will return at 10am tomorrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-portrait-of-a-geography-graduate-101615410380385.html
11-03-2021||Delhi||Bus driver, cop hurt after two shootings near Andrews Ganj||Gunshots rang out in south Delhi on Wednesday morning as a 45-year-old contractual BSES driver and a policeman were injured in two incidents of firing within an hour in Andrews Ganj and Sadiq Nagar – both under the jurisdiction of the Defence Colony police station – triggering gun violence fears in the national capital.Even as the Delhi Police maintain that the use of firearms by criminals reduced in 2020 as compared to 2019 – there were 672 cases in which firearms were used last year in comparison to 736 cases in 2019 – experts said the two incidents of firing in south Delhi show how Delhi’s criminals have easy access to illegal weapons.The injured BSES driver was battling for his life at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). The police constable, injured in the second incident, was shot in his left thigh. The Delhi Police said the constable was shot at by two bikers who were out to commit a snatching but bumped into two policemen and fired a bullet in their attempt to flee. The two were later caught by the police.In the first incident, around 9am, contractual BSES driver Bhimraj (identified by his first name in police records) was waiting for some officials of the power distribution company in his car outside the gate of the Andrews Ganj electricity grid office. An unidentified man approached him on a bike and fired a bullet from a distance of about 10 feet, according to investigations. The bullet hit Bhimraj’s neck and was lodged inside. By the time security guards and other BSES employees rushed outside after hearing the gunshot, the biker fled, police said.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said the police control room was informed about the firing incident at 9.11am and the injured man was shifted to AIIMS, where his condition was serious. The police have registered a case and the suspect was arrested on Wednesday evening.“Prime facie, enmity appeared to be the motive behind the crime. We examined the footage of CCTVs installed on the route and it confirmed that before executing the crime, the suspect had conducted a reconnaissance of the area where the crime took place,” said DCP Thakur.Bhimraj’s brother Shiv Charan said the attack on his brother could be connected to an incident that happened outside their house in Chirag Dilli 10 days ago. “Two-three young men from our neighbourhood were assaulting a scooter rider over some issue. My brother was returning home in his car when the scooter rider, who was trying to flee from those men, hit and damaged my brother’s car. My brother in response pushed his scooter and threw the rider’s helmet on the ground. I will not be surprised if my brother was attacked to take revenge of that small issue,” said Charan, adding that his brother’s condition was critical.The police said that video footage showed the suspect had been following Bhimraj from outside his home.“In a shocking incident, a driver was shot by unknown assailant near Andrews Ganj in South Delhi. He was taken to AIIMS, where his condition is reported to be critical. We are praying for his speedy recovery and are in touch with his family and the contractor to ensure the best possible medical treatment. We are also co-operating with the police in the investigation,” a BSES spokesperson said.About an hour before Bhimraj was shot at, another firing took place on a service lane of the now-scrapped BRT Corridor. A constable was shot in his left thigh as he tried to nab two bike-borne assailants, the police said.The police said at around 8am, constable Naveen of the Defence Colony station, was riding his private motorcycle when in the Sadiq Nagar neighbourhood he spotted two men riding a bike that did not have its front registration number plate, while the rear plate was also bent. Naveen started chasing the bike and also telephonically informed his colleague, constable Manish, to join him.“As Naveen tried to nab the pillion rider, the suspect took out a countrymade firearm and shot him in his left thigh. When the duo tried to escape, constable Manish entered the service road, hit their motorcycle with his police bike. The two fell off their bike. Despite being hit in his thigh, Naveen rushed and overpowered the suspects along with Manish,” said DCP Thakur, adding the injured constable was shifted to AIIMS Trauma Centre, where his condition was stable.DCP Thakur said that the suspects, later identified as Dharmender, 29, and Navdeep, 20, from Badarpur, were arrested for attempt to murder and obstructing public servants from performing their duties. Dharmender was previously involved in two cases of theft and Arms Act, while Navdeep has one police case against him.During their annual press conference last month, Delhi Police said that crime in the city reduced last year. The police also cited data of the number of distress calls made to the police control room, which showed a reduction in calls related to snatching, robbery and other heinous crimes, compared to 2019. In terms of crimes registered, snatching cases rose from 6,266 in 2019 to 7,965 in 2020.Experts said that incidents such as the two firings on Wednesday show how criminals have easy access to illegal arms. In 2020, police recovered 2,735 illegal firearms and at least 5,138 bullets. The police said the illegal guns were manufactured in parts of western Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar.Vikram Singh, former chief of the Uttar Pradesh police, said: “The two firing incidents are indicative of how people can move with impunity and that too with illegitimate firearms. Firing at will is also indicative of a horrible surveillance system and a check that is most necessary in respect of bad characters, illegal firearms and also the nakabandi that should be in progress.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bus-driver-cop-hurt-after-two-shootings-near-andrews-ganj-101615409128478.html
11-03-2021||Delhi||‘Earn goodwill within’: Delhi HC slams jab exports||The Delhi high court on Wednesday questioned the Centre’s move of exporting vaccines to “not-so-friendly countries” and said goodwill has to be earned “within” rather than from “outside”.The court was hearing a plea initiated by itself to examine the issue of vaccinating judges, court staff and lawyers. On the last date, the court had sought to know the rationale behind the classification of citizens for the vaccination drive.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageDefending its decision to export vaccines to foreign countries, the Centre on Tuesday had told the high court that it has allowed only limited export of Covid-19 vaccines while giving the highest priority to domestic needs.“Today’s newspapers show you’re also exporting to not-so-friendly countries. You have to earn goodwill within then earn it outside,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rekha Palli said.On Wednesday, the high court said the Centre was wrong to compare the courts with other crowded places like bus stops, railway stations and markets as the judiciary is one of the three major wings in the constitutional scheme.The government had earlier said it might not be desirable to create a separate class consisting of lawyers and others below 45 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/earn-goodwill-within-hc-slams-jab-exports-101615408781884.html
11-03-2021||Delhi||‘Our vision of deshbhakti is driven by providing excellent education’: Sisodia||A day after he presented his seventh state budget, Delhi’s deputy CM and finance minister Manish Sisodia spoke about the challenges to the city-state’s economy and the AAP government’s vision for Delhi’s growth in an e-mail interview. Edited excerpts:Delhi’s economy is still recovering after the Covid-19 pandemic led to loss of livelihood, contraction of GSDP, and the decline of per capita income, then why was the budget’s theme patriotism?This budget has been presented under unprecedented circumstances. It comes at a time when the nation is going to celebrate the 75th anniversary of Independence. It covers and focusses on the development of all aspects of our society, from women to the elderly, students, youth -- all religions, and all castes.Despite the tough circumstances over the past one year due to Covid-19, all our government subsidies have continued, be it free electricity and water, free education, free medicines and health care, and free travel for women in buses. The trend of dedicating one-fourth of our budget to education and 14% to health care from the last six years has continued this year as well. For us, the vision of Deshbahakti is driven with the objective that excellent education is provided to all students and all citizens have access to high-quality health care. The goal is to ensure that all citizens nurture love, honour and affection for the country, for the people of the country and for the unity of the country.The BJP and the Congress have said the Delhi budget dreams of what could happen in the Capital 25 years from now — and not what will be done by the Delhi government in the coming one year. Should the budget have had more on issues such as pollution, infrastructure, social welfare, and so on?Every year, the Delhi government carefully curates the budget, keeping in mind the plans it has for the subsequent year with strict timelines, as well as its vision for the city and the country in the longer term. This year as well, the budget has been designed to address issues, provide resources, and invest in the development of Delhi and the whole country.As we are approaching a century of our country’s Independence, we would all like to put an end to environmental pollution. Work is being done with a 360-degree approach in this direction under the leadership of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. Similarly, I have proposed separate allocations for installation of CCTV cameras, free Wi-Fi through hot spots, and the development of roads and bridges as well.So, in this budget, the focus has also been on pollution, infrastructure and social welfare along with aspirations and dreams that we see for our country.Three years ago, you tabled a Green Budget. However, air pollution still remains a major problem in Delhi.Combating air pollution has been one of the major priorities of this government since the beginning, and we have introduced many initiatives over the past six years. These include extending Delhi’s green cover to the extent possible, using anti-smog guns at construction sites, encouraging the use of bio decomposers made by agricultural scientists of Pusa to prevent pollutants, banning single-use plastic, prohibiting the practice of burning garbage and leaves in the open, and shutting of thermal power plants.Along with this, an electric vehicle policy is being implemented with the utmost care and seriousness because we have to stop fuel burning to curb pollution. This is why we are giving it intense attention.How exactly does Delhi plan to increase its per capita income to bring it at par with Singapore by 2047?The goal of reaching the per capita level of Singapore implies that we have to increase the income of our citizens by about 16 times, which is a difficult target, but not impossible. Education, health care, and social security are our topmost priorities, and we have introduced several initiatives in these sectors.The per capita income (at constant prices) of Delhi in 1993-94 was ₹ 18,166, which increased to ₹2.54 lakh in 2020-21. Our goal is to create an educated population which we have seen from global examples leads to significantly increased productivity and economic growth. We are confident that these measures will lead us to our per-capita income targets.You have allocated ₹45 crores for installing 500 Indian flags across the city. Almost a similar amount ( ₹50 crores) has been given for free Covid-19 vaccination which has taken at least 10,900 lives in Delhi so far. There is an argument that the money allocated for flags and patriotism could be better used to make Covid vaccination free in private hospitals as well.Health is still our major focus, and it has always been. We have allocated 14% of our budget to the health sector which totals to about ₹9,394 crores. Free Covid vaccination is available to every one at all government hospitals across the city, in addition to this, the government has capped the price of vaccine at ₹250 for those who are able to afford it.What steps have you planned for boosting Delhi’s tax revenues.In the past year, sources of income for the government diminished while the expenditure incurred increased manifold. To recover from such a decline, we are aiming to use data analytics and business intelligence to prevent any possible leakages in taxes. We have commissioned a study on improved GST implementation for this purpose. We have also started keeping an eye on the commercial vehicles going in and out of Delhi through RFID (radio frequency identification), and have initiated a dialogue through SMS with businesspersons over tax issues. Comprehensive changes are being made to the excise policy of Delhi to improve the collection of taxes. This will include preventing the sale of non duty-paid liquor (smuggled from other states) and various new changes to bring liquor shopping in Delhi up to international standards. Further, to deal with the economic slowdown due to the lockdown and facilitate the real estate market, the government has also decreased circle rates by 20% for six months. We believe these factors will help us increase our tax collection.You said you plan to host the Olympics in 2048. Where exactly do you see Delhi now in terms of infrastructure needed for that?We have laid down a vision for hosting the Olympics in Delhi and have initiated the steps to achieve it. As a first step, the Delhi government has decided to establish a sports university to train athletes and create a pool of talented and competent sports professionals who can represent the country and win medals at the international level. We aim to spend the next 15 years to build adequate infrastructure and create an atmosphere where sports flourishes.The Delhi government has proposed a virtual Delhi model of schools in its budget. Please elaborate on the project.The design for the virtual Delhi model school is still underway. The specifics are being deliberated on. It will have students enrolled and will conduct examinations, but it won’t have a physical existence. The virtual model will benefit students in Delhi as well as all those children who live in any part of the country but want to benefit from the Delhi education model. We want to provide learning opportunities to all those students under the principle of “anywhere living, anytime learning, anytime testing”.The government is going to launch its own education board this year starting with 20-25 schools. How different it will be from the CBSE board in terms of curriculum and teaching-learning process?The Delhi Board of School Education will conduct assessments throughout the year to develop holistic learning outcomes, instead of an annual assessment that focuses on rote learning. Around 20-25 schools will become a part of the Delhi Education Board in the 2021-22 academic session, after which the other schools will be looped in eventually in 4-5 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/our-vision-of-deshbhakti-is-driven-by-providing-excellent-education-sisodia-101615407878120.html
11-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Kejriwal thanks PM Modi, Shah, Opposition MLAs||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday appreciated the role of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, the Central government and MLAs in the opposition, along with health workers and frontline workers, in helping the state control the Covid-19 crisis when cases in the Capital peaked.Kejriwal on Wednesday said in the Delhi Assembly: “The pandemic was truly a difficult time for all. For managing the crisis in Delhi, residents of the city, various organisations, Prime Minister, Home Minister, and Union government collaborated on a high scale. All our BJP MLAs too proved to be extremely helpful. The epidemic could not have been controlled by a government or individual.”He further said, “However, the most important work was done by the doctors, health workers and other frontline workers..”Kejriwal’s comments in the Assembly – a day after the Delhi government tabled the 2021-22 budget – put an end to a debate among Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators in the House over Covid-19 management.Starting the discussion on the motion of thanks, government minister Gopal Rai said Covid-19 arrived in the country through passengers from abroad and appreciated the chief minister and health minister for making efforts to control the virus.But, the Leader of the Opposition in the House Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said, “At a time when Covid-19 cases in Delhi were rising, the Central government stepped in and under the leadership of Prime Minister, Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah provided relief to the people of Delhi by setting up thousands of beds for patients, airlifting doctors and paramedics… The condition of Delhi government hospitals was such that deputy CM and health minister had to go to private hospital for Covid treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-thanks-pm-modi-shah-opposition-mlas-101615407491467.html
11-03-2021||Delhi||BJP leader wrote to CM on graft in MCD, claims AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj on Wednesday said a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillor with the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (North MCD) has written to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and the National Commission for Scheduled Castes, alleging corruption in the civic body and accusing it of stopping funds for development work in certain wards that are inhabited in large numbers by Dalits.Bhardwaj said the Bharatiya Janata Party councillor’s letter was received by the chief minister on March 8 and, in the letter, the councillor has also accused the Bharatiya Janata Party leaders who are in charge of north municipal corporation of financial irregularities and conniving with local land sharks.Delhi BJP spokespersons refused comment on the matter despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjp-leader-wrote-to-cm-on-graft-in-mcd-claims-aap-101615406950857.html
11-03-2021||Delhi||1,353 get flats after draw of lots for DDA housing scheme||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Wednesday held a virtual draw of lots to allot 1,353 flats that had been put up for sale in the housing scheme for 2021.The land-owning agency had received more than 22,000 applications for the housing scheme announced in January this year.Senior DDA officials said that another housing scheme might be announced by the end of this year, as several flats in Narela, and other parts of the city, are in the final stages of construction.DDA vice-chairman Anurag Jain said that all housing schemes in the future will be completely online. “This year, entire scheme, including draw of lots, was conducted online. The idea is to ensure that people don’t have to visit DDA offices to get work done,” said Jain.There are close to 30,000 houses in various stages of construction in Narela, Dwarka, Rohini and other parts of Delhi. Jain said efforts are being made to improve connectivity between Narela and rest of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/1353-get-flats-after-draw-of-lots-for-dda-housing-scheme-101615406732574.html
11-03-2021||Delhi||In assembly, Satyendar Jain ‘dares’ Centre to bring fuel prices under GST ambit||Delhi minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday challenged the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government to bring petrol and diesel under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime, in light of the hike in fuel prices across India.Speaking on the third day of the ongoing budget session in the Delhi assembly, Jain said the BJP government should act “sensitively” on farmers’ issue and roll back the three contentious farm laws, protesting against which a large number of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and other states have gathered at Delhi’s borders.Also Read: Case to get petrol, diesel under the ambit of GST“Petrol and diesel prices in Delhi are still much lower than several other cities today. Currently, in Delhi, petrol is priced at ₹91.17 and diesel at ₹81.47. Let’s take the example of a city like Bhopal. Petrol there is priced at ₹99 and diesel at ₹89. Bhopal is in a BJP-ruled state… Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has publicly said petrol and diesel should be brought under GST. But it is the BJP, which does not want to do so because then they will not get to overcharge for fuel in the states they rule. Today, I challenge the BJP government (in Centre) to bring petrol and diesel under GST,” said Jain, who holds health, home and industries portfolios.Jain’s comments came during a discussion on the spike in auto fuel prices, kitchen staples, edible oil and other essential commodities in the capital in the past few weeks.Currently, in Delhi, consumers pay VAT at the rate of 30% on petrol and 16.75% on diesel.BJP MLA and leader of the opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said, “The Delhi government opened liquor shops during the lockdown and imposed an additional 70% cess but they spent the additional revenue on publicity. So, they had to increase VAT on petrol and diesel. They have reduced VAT from 30% to 17% on diesel but not on petrol. Why? States such as UP and Haryana have reduced VAT by 5%.”Bidhuri said, “Amid such difficulties because of hike in fuel price, the AAP government has yet not implemented several central government schemes such as Ayushman Bharat, Pradhan Mitra Awaas Yojana, etc, which could have acted as a safety net for people.”Responding to this, AAP MLA from Kalkaji Atishi said it was because of the safety nets created by the AAP government, in the form of subsidised water bills, power bills, quality health care, quality education and free bus rides for women, that the Residents have been able to manage despite the price rise.The discussion witnessed high drama with Speaker Ram Niwas Goel ordering marshals to evict BJP MLAs Vijender Gupta, OP Sharma, Mohan Singh Bisht and Jitender Mahajan for insisting on a discussion on alleged irregularities in buses recently inducted into the fleet of the DTC – which, Goel said, was unrelated to the list of business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-assembly-satyendar-jain-dares-centre-to-bring-fuel-prices-under-gst-ambit-101615406434278.html
11-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi witnesses highest single-day Covid-19 spike since Jan 12||The national capital on Wednesday recorded its highest single-day Covid-19 spike since the third week of January, as the number of new infections and active cases in Delhi continued to inch up.Delhi added 370 new cases of the disease on Wednesday, on the back of 71,153 new tests. The highest one-day spike in Delhi before this was on January 12, when the city added 386 infections. While the test positivity rate stayed below 1% for the 73rd day, it crept to 0.52%, marginally higher than 0.48% recorded the previous day.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThere were 1,900 active cases in the city as on Wednesday morning, a number that has inched up every day, with exceptions, since the third week of February.The Capital’s Covid-19 graph has crawled upwards marginally, but steadily, since it recorded a then 292-day low of 94 new cases on February 16. Health experts have called for caution amid new waves of the pandemic in several states, including Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh.For instance, the test positivity rate — which experts consider a crucial metric to assess the spread of a contagion in area — in Delhi has also hovered upwards since an all-time low of 0.17% on February 16.To be sure, the Capital has also increased the number of tests conducted on a daily basis over the past week to ensure infections are tracked and the chances of spread minimised.Over the past seven days, an average of 65,116 tests were conducted a day, up from 61,030 in the week before that, and 57,698 in the seven days ending on February 24.Experts say regions showing a surge should expand vaccination coverage as fast as possible.“...not just those at risk but everyone living in regions seeing a surge in cases should be immunised on a priority basis,” said Dr SK Sarin, director of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) who headed the Delhi government’s first committee on controlling and managing Covid-19 infections.The city also added three more deaths of the infection on Wednesday, taking the total toll in the state to 10,931.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-witnesses-highest-single-day-covid-19-spike-since-jan-12-101615405865886.html
11-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly passes Bill to levy infrastructure development cess on petrol, diesel||The Punjab Vidhan Sabha on Wednesday passed a Bill for enabling the government to levy special infrastructure development fee on petrol, diesel and purchase of immovable property to generate additional revenue of ₹216.16 crore. Finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal presented the bill that got approval of the House amid a pandemonium created by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) members. The infrastructure development fee would be imposed at the rate of ₹0.25 per litre each on the sale of petrol and diesel in the state. Likewise, special fee at the rate of ₹0.25 would also be levied for every 100 rupees of the value of purchase of immovable property. “The bill proposes to impose fee to accelerate the pace of infrastructure development in the state and creating additional revenue streams for the purpose,” Manpreet said. The provisions of the bill, after getting the governor’s nod, would be applicable from April 1. The collected revenue will be deposited in the development fund of the Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB). Bill for dismissing govt employee for red tape The House also passed the Punjab Anti-Red Tape Bill-2021 with the voice vote that gives the power to the government to dismiss a government official or other employees for unnecessary delay in providing services to the citizens and businessmen. The provisions of the bill make it mandatory for the departments to overhaul their process to reduce the burden of compliances by at least 50%, within six months from the commencement of the act. All offices will also make these services available online within maximum one year of implementation of the Act and shall define their service processes to be known as ‘promise to serve’ in the form of information boards to be installed at the main entrance of the offices, giving details of the officials responsible for each step, the maximum time to complete the process, and fee and procedure for a particular services. All these services have to be provided without any middlemen and in case of delay the employee or officials will be liable for disciplinary action, including dismissal from services, and a fine not exceeding ₹50,000 in each case of violation. “There will be no suit, prosecution or legal proceedings against the government, or its authorities,” reads the act. A total of 12 bills were passed on Wednesday within half an hour without inviting questions from the ruling or opposition members. Other bills passed were the Punjab Village Common Lands (Regulation) Amendment Bill; Punjab School Education Board (Amendment) Bill; Punjab Apartment Ownership (Amendment) Bill; Punjab Regional and Town Planning and Development Bill; Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation (Amendment) Bill; Sardar Beant Singh State University Bill; Shaheed Bhagat Singh State University Bill and the Punjab Abadi Deh (Record of Rights) Bill.MLAs raise demand for flags on official cars When the session was about to end, the ruling Congress MLAs raised demand for installing flags on their official cars. Congress MLA (Khanna) Gurkirat Singh Kotli claimed that it was a collective demand of the legislators. On this, the speaker said he had raised the issue with the Punjab advocate general who denied installing flags on official cars of MLAs. “But you can take up the issue o your own level with the government,” said the speaker. Cong legislators condemn opposition’s behaviour The ruling Congress MLAs condemned the behaviour of the opposition MLAs during their protest to oppose a reply by finance minister Manpreet Badal on the budget discussions. Earlier, the SAD MLAs led by Bikram Majithia stormed the well of the House to oppose Manpreet’s reply. The AAP members, led by leader of opposition Harpal Cheema also stormed the well to oppose the budget speech and later stood on their seats to oppose passing of some bills. Navjot Singh Sidhu demanded that proceedings should be telecast live so that people of the state get to know about the unruly behaviour of their MLAs. State aarliamentary affairs minister Brahm Mohindra said the standard of the opposition to raise their protest has been lowering and it was a cause of concern. The speaker also condemned the opposition MLAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-assembly-passes-bill-to-levy-infrastructure-development-cess-on-petrol-diesel-101615406013198.html
11-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt made provision of ₹14,000 crore capital investment to push development works: Manpreet Badal||Concluding the debate on the 2021-22 budget, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Wednesday said the state government has made a provision of a whopping ₹14,000 crore for capital investment against ₹10,280 crore in the current financial year to push development works in the state. He delivered his speech amid protests by Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLAs who were on the well of the House raising slogans against the government. Despite appeals by speaker Rana KP Singh, the opposition MLAs continued to raise slogans questioning the government over its performance in the last four year. SAD’s Bikram Singh Majithia alleged that the budget has fudged figures. To this, the finance minister said, “The proposed committed liabilities of the state government came down to 68% in the current year from 91% in 2017 when the Capt Amarinder Singh took over as chief minister. The budget can’t be surplus as it doesn’t make sense for a growing economy.”It is the success of the budget that the state government will raise ₹37,000 crore against a borrowing limit of ₹42,000 crore, he claimed.Referring to the objections from the leaders of opposition, Manpreet said their real issue was not that there were shortcomings in the budget but the fact that the government has given its best and has reached out to all section of society. “The criticism of the budget is welcome in the spirit of democracy,” he said when starting his speech. AAP’s Sarvjit Kaur Manuke said free travel for women was started so as to invite people to travel in government-run buses as no one travels in them. “In the coming years, women recruited in government jobs will be empowered so much so that they will have the freedom to raise their families as they like. By the end of the year, 33,000 young women are expected to get jobs in government sector as per the reservation policy,” said the minister.The success of the government’s move to increase monthly old age pension to ₹2,500 and shagun scheme to ₹51,000 can be judged from the happiness of the beneficiaries. AAP legislator Kultar Singh Sandhwan said the government was unable to feel the pain of the beneficiaries of these schemes as it delayed their implementation by four years even as they were announced by the Congress in its 2017 poll manifesto. Earlier, leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said against the Congress’ promise to waive the entire ₹90,000 crore debt of farmers in its manifesto the beneficiaries got only ₹4,624 crore and a promise of ₹1,712 crore in the budgetary provisions for the upcoming year. “Sixteen lakh jobs announced by the state government under the ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar Yojana’ was a farce. Where is the white paper on the power purchase agreements? What about the CM’s promise to end all transport, sand, liquor mafias that continue to operate with impunity?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-made-provision-of-14-000-crore-capital-investment-to-push-development-works-manpreet-badal-101615405950358.html
11-03-2021||Chandigarh||BJP-JJP govt defeats Cong’s no-confidence motion in Haryana assembly||The ruling Bharaitya Janata Party (BJP)- Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) combine in Haryana on Wednesday won the trust vote in the state assembly with 55 out of 87 MLAs present in the House voting against the no-confidence motion moved against the Manohar Lal Khattar government. The Congress had brought the no-confidence motion. The BJP with 40 MLAs (including Speaker who didn’t vote) in the assembly got the backing of 10 JJP MLAs, five Independents and lone Haryana Lokhit Party (HLP) MLA, Gopal Kanda. The present strength of the House is 88 with two seats, Ellenabad and Kalka, having fallen vacant recently. Barring two Independent MLAs – Sombir Sangwan (Dadri) and Balraj Kundu (Meham), who had earlier withdrawn their support to the government, none of the MLAs who professed support to farmer’s cause and publicly voiced opposition to the three central farm laws, supported the motion. JJP MLAs --- Jogi Ram Sihag, Devendra Babli and Ram Kumar Gautam --- who are known for being outspoken on the farmers issue also stomached the party whip to vote against the motion. Babli though wanted to speak during the discussion on the motion but could not as JJP legislature group leader Dushyant Chautala excluded him from the list of speakers. Kundu while speaking for the motion said that he was not with the no confidence motion of the Congress but standing in support of farmers. Slamming the government Sombir Sangwan said that assembly should pass a resolution asking the Centre to repeal the three farm laws and bring a fourth law to ameliorate the sufferings of the peasants Lone HLP MLA who was absent for the last three sittings of this session was also present to lend his support to the government. Soon after chief minister, ML Khattar finished his address on the motion, assembly speaker, Gian Chand Gupta put the motion to vote, and a division of votes took place. The Speaker ruled that 32 votes were in favour of the motion while 55 were against it. Earlier, leader of opposition, Bhupinder Singh Hooda who opened the discussion on the motion said that the ruling alliance have the numbers to prove majority. “However, the real test is whether the BJP and JJP leaders can visit their constituencies. They have lost the people’s confidence,” the Congress leader said. After the trust vote, Hooda said though the government has survived the floor test, it has fallen in the eyes of the people. “The JJP MLAs and Independents, who are allies of the BJP-led government, had a great chance to vote for the farmers and prove their commitment to the masses. But they squandered it. But we voted against this anti-farmer government which lathi-charged, fired tear gas shells and used water cannons in peak winter and implicated them in false cases,” Hooda said. Speaking against the motion, Khattar said the three farm laws enacted by the Parliament will not be repealed. “There can be amendments in these laws but repealing them is out of question,’’ Khattar said. Farmers have been protesting at the Delhi border since November 26 last year against the newly enacted central farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjpjjp-govt-defeats-cong-s-no-confidence-motion-in-haryana-assembly-101615405770482.html
11-03-2021||Chandigarh||Defamation case: HC seeks Majithia’s response on plea from AAP leader Sanjay Singh||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday put SAD leader and former Punjab minister Bikram Singh Majithia on notice on a plea from AAP leader Sanjay Singh in 2016 defamation case.The high court bench of justice GS Sandhawalia has sought a response from the SAD leader by March 24, said Sanjay Singh’s lawyer Ferry Sofat. The complaint was filed in January 2016 and subsequently he was summoned by a Ludhiana court. The alleged defamatory statements on linking Majithia with those accused in drugs seizure cases were made on September 5, 2015, at a Moga rally.It was in 2017 that a trial court in Ludhiana had dismissed application from Sanjay Singh in which he had demanded that record keeper and witness concerned of the Enforcement Directorate, Jalandhar, along with record of statements of drugs racket alleged kingpin, Jagdish Bhola, industrialist, Jagjit Chahal and SAD leader, Maninder Aualakh, all accused in the case who had got recorded their statements before ED in the infamous Bhola drugs racket case, be summoned. He had argued that said record is relevant for the purpose of cross examination of witnesses.However, the court dismissed the plea observing that Singh failed to establish how the record of statements would render any assistance for proper adjudication of the matter, says his plea in the HC.It further adds that on February 25, when his counsel tried to question witnesses of Majithia on statements made by these accused before ED in the defamation case proceedings, it was not allowed since the statements were not on record of the trial court. The petitioner requested court to summon the record again, but it was not allowed, the plea says demanding that February 25 order of Ludhiana court be quashed and Singh be allowed to summon record of statements made by these accused persons before the ED.Singh had further stated that pending this plea, the proceedings before the trial court be stayed and direction be issued to Ludhiana court to summon the judicial file of Bhola drugs racket case as the same is necessary for further cross examination of witnesses . Majithia himself has admitted that he was summoned by ED in that case only. Hence, the statements are very much necessary for the adjudication of the defamation case, the court was told.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/defamation-case-hc-seeks-majithia-s-response-on-plea-from-aap-leader-sanjay-singh-101615405112534.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 effect: Health issues became tough to manage||Sars-CoV-2 affected people in more ways than one. A Covid-19 positive result wasn’t the only thing that upturned lives in 2020. Meet four Mumbai residents who struggled to cope with their health conditions during the pandemic.‘Lockdown hit dialysis visits’The news of the nationwide lockdown bringing local transport to a halt hit the Mailare family in a different manner.Two days after the lockdown was announced on March 24, 2020, 39-year-old Neena Mailare was scheduled for a dialysis session. However, the lockdown meant that no local transport was plying. For Mailare, the short distance from her residence in Trombay to the dialysis centre in Sindhi Camp, Chembur, suddenly seemed too far.“The distance is less than 5 kilometres but with no local bus or autorickshaw in place, I was worried about reaching the dialysis centre in time for my session,” said Mailare, who has been on dialysis for six years and requires two sessions a week. While a handful of buses were plying in Mumbai in the first few weeks of lockdown, Mailare could not find the bus that would take her directly to the centre.When she borrowed her sister’s car to drive to the centre, she was often stopped by the police. “Twice, our car was stopped and towed to a nearby police station,” she said.It took a few months for buses to start plying normally but the next problem was the increasing crowd in buses. “Our immunity is very low and traveling in crowded buses can turn fatal for dialysis patients, but I had no other option,” she added.‘Challenge for special needs kids’When schools moved online due to the nationwide lockdown in March, 17-year-old Yana Dube was not comfortable with the offline to online transition. Yana, who is on the mild autism spectrum found it difficult to adapt to a life without social interactions.Her mother Anuradha said that the initial month since the lockdown was full of anxieties and disappointments for her daughter. “She was used to going out, meeting her peers, swimming, playing a sport. But with Covid-19 and the resultant lockdown, we were all cooped inside our homes and she found it difficult,” Anuradha said.Yana would often get disturbed if someone entered the room while her online class was on. To add to her stress, she had her Class 10 board exams scheduled in October 2020 from the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS). The exam was later postponed to January.“After the initial few days of the lockdown, she became very restless and I decided to take her for a walk with all the safety precautions. For her, going out was the most important thing,” said Anuradha.Yana wrote her NIOS final exam at a centre in Colaba, far from her house in Andheri as the board had not given her any other option. She studied before the exams and wrote her papers well. “For children with special needs, the pandemic was already a tough period and the poor planning on part of the board made matters worse. A few days before her exams were stressful. I had to help her with her studies and also my son who is in Class 4 and is a regular student. It was a herculean task.”A year after the lockdown, challenges are still aplenty. For instance, Yana is still not able to swim as the pools in her locality are yet to reopen. Her mother Anuradha has run out of tasks for her to do. “She helps me a bit with household chores and does some indoor activities but that is not enough. Earlier, she would be in school from 9 am to 3pm and now just a few hours of online learning don’t help. It is a challenge to make sense of what is taught online,” she added.‘I felt guilty that I was too poor’Around the time when the national lockdown was declared in March 2020, an 11-year-old Palghar-resident Tejaswini More was undergoing chemotherapy at Tata Memorial Hospital, Parel for Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia, a type of blood cancer. Her mother Saraswati More, 35, wondered how they would continue the treatment at the hospital 120 km away with no public transportation.Tejaswini started showing symptoms of blood cancer in October 2019. She lost over 6kg in a month. One day, when she fainted in her school, her father, who worked as a daily wage earner, immediately rushed her to the Palghar district hospital. She was referred to Tata Memorial, where she began to undergo chemotherapy.But before she could complete the course in April 2020, the lockdown was declared.“As the trains were shut down, we were clueless about how to travel to Mumbai. Doctors told us that we couldn’t stop the chemotherapy. We didn’t have money to afford an ambulance. I felt so helpless and guilty for being poor,” said Saraswati.Eventually, a politician in their village in Wada arranged for a bus that would ferry all the cancer patients from the taluka along with their family members to the hospital daily, free of cost.Then came the second shock. The doctors informed Saraswati that her daughter needed a bone marrow transplant.On learning that they could not afford the surgery which cost an estimated ₹21 lakh, the family started an online campaign on the crowdsourcing website Ketto to raise the money.“Due to the lockdown, my husband who works at a construction site lost his job. At that time, all the roadside eateries [outside the hospital] were also closed. Only a few expensive hotels were open which we couldn’t afford. So, we would spend days eating only biscuits and water,” she said.In November, Sion Hospital referred Tejaswini to the Thalassemia Centre in Borivali where she underwent the surgery.Tejaswini and her 18-year-old brother, Vishanu have been staying with Saraswati in a rented room in a chawl in Borivali East for the past three months. Her father and 14-year-old brother are in Palghar. They have taken up farming to earn money during the pandemic.‘I was gripped with anxiety’Fear—of losing a loved one to Covid-19, of losing work, of not being careful enough, of not being able to keep up with expenses, and more importantly of a depressive episode around the corner—has been the highlight of the past year for 32-year-old Shayonee Dasgupta. Living with clinical depression and obsessive compulsive personality disorder for the past three years, the freelance writer based in Bandra said that the pandemic was a minefield of triggers.As the number of cases rose and buildings were sealed, Dasgupta was gripped by anxiety that she and her family were unsafe. “I was very anxious during this time and would compulsively read about cases. As the cases rose, I started slipping into depression,” said Dasgupta. Immediately after the lockdown was imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease, Dasgupta lost some of her high-paying projects and had a tough time paying for her psychotherapy sessions.Dasgupta said that she found the “pandemic aesthetic” overwhelming. “Everybody was taking up new hobbies. People were baking, cooking, painting, and doing all sorts of things and here I was struggling to get out of bed.”Psychiatrists in the city said they saw a rise in number of persons living with mental illnesses seeking help during the pandemic. “One trend we saw was people with psychiatric health concerns, who had been stable before the pandemic, started showing symptoms again. We also saw a lot of people, who did not necessarily have previous psychiatric illnesses, show symptoms of anxiety and depression,” said Kersi Chavda, a city-based psychiatrist and a former president of the Bombay Psychiatric Society.“We, unfortunately, also saw a rise in cases of spousal, elder and child abuse during the pandemic,” Chavda added.On bad mental health days, Dasgupta said she felt “completely paralysed”. “I lived in constant fear that I wasn’t good enough, especially after I started losing work. Every time I opened a work email, I was worried that they were ending it with me,” she said.Virtual consultations by psychiatrists and psychologists helped many people living with mental health concerns, including Dasgupta. “One thing that helped was there was a lot of conversation around mental health during the pandemic. The government also helped by allowing tele and virtual consultations and prescriptions. Many state and city-level psychiatric societies also started helpline services that counselled people and, in some cases, also provided consultation,” Chavda added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-effect-health-issues-became-tough-to-manage-101615404932558.html
11-03-2021||Chandigarh||House passes resolution to condemn ED raid on Khaira||The Punjab Assembly on Wednesday passed a resolution condemning the Enforcement Directorate (ED) raid on rebel AAP member Sukhpal Singh Khaira during its ongoing budget session. The resolution was moved by parliamentary affairs minister Brahm Mohindra and was unanimously passed. The resolution says, “the House expresses its concern on the current role of the central agencies such as CBI, ED, NIA etc, which have been set up to ensure transparency in public life but unfortunately, there have been apparent instances whereas these agencies have been used to harass innocent people including the farmers, politically elected representatives and even some government offices”. It further said that ‘during the ongoing session of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha, a member of this House, (Khaira), has been compelled to remain absent from participating in the proceedings of the House and disabled him from discharging his constitutional obligations as an elected representative of his constituency due to the unwarranted and unconstitutional interference by the ED, which has been noticed and condemned by the august House, unanimously”. “Therefore, the house strongly condemned such unwarranted and unconstitutional use of the central agencies and urges the Government of India to refrain from infringing upon the rights of the elected representatives of the people by subverting the due process of law and uphold the tenets of the democratic set up in the country,” the resolution read. The resolution was supported by cabinet ministers Charanjit Singh Channi and former minister Navjot Sidhu. Earlier, the issue was raised by rebel AAP MLA Kanwar Sandhu during zero hour. He suggested that the state assembly should pass a resolution to condemn the ED action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/house-passes-resolution-to-condemn-ed-raid-on-khaira-101615404870227.html
11-03-2021||Chandigarh||Question hour: ₹71,551 crore investment received in four years: Arora||The Punjab government has received 1,779 investment proposals worth ₹71,551 crore in the last four years, said industries and commerce minister Sunder Sham Arora during question hour on Wednesday. Replying to a question, the minister said the proposals envisaged employment of 2.8 lakh. Akali MLA NK Sharma had asked the minister about MoUs signed by the state government, investment proposed and employment generated. “After March 2017, state has signed about 300 MoUs worth ₹52,289 crore approximately. Out of this, projects wroth around ₹25,000 crore are under production or construction. The state stopped entering into MoUs since around last two years,” the minister said in his written reply. Dept to send team to check sewerage system Local government minister Brahm Mohindra said he will send an independent team to Begowal to check the state of the sewarage system in the nagar panchayat. The minister gave the assurance in response to Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira’s question regarding repair of non-functional sewage system in the area. Mohindra informed the House that 100% work of sewerage system was completed in Begowal town in 2017. “It is being operated and maintained properly. As of now, there is no requirement or proposal to repair it,” he said. However, Khaira told the minister that the sewerage system was in a terrible condition and private contractors had sublet the work. “The situation was very different from the report given by officials to the minister and the available infrastructure is inadequate,” the MLA said, requesting him to get it verified independently. The minister responded by stating he will send a team to get the facts checked. ‘Varsity stone to be laid soon’ Higher education and languages minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa said the foundation stone of Guru Tegh Bahadur State University of Law at Kairon village of Tarn Taran will be laid soon. Responding to Congress MLA Harminder Singh Gill’s question, the minister said that classes would commence from academic session 2021-22. Gill said the foundation stone should be laid before the 400th birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Tegh Bahadur. Majithia also asked the minister to specify the date on which the foundation stone would be laid, terming the funds allocated for the project as inadequate. The minister said the government would allocate the required funds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/question-hour-rs-71-551-crore-investment-received-in-four-years-arora-101615404630177.html
11-03-2021||Chandigarh||Zero hour: SAD, AAP members stage walkouts from Punjab assembly||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLAs on Wednesday staged a walkout from the Punjab Vidhan Sabha over the alleged misbehaviour of the Congress workers with anganwadi workers protesting in Bathinda against the budget presented by finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal. The Akali MLAs led by Bikram Singh Majithia walked out of the state assembly during the ‘zero hour’ demanding the withdrawal of cases registered against the protesting anganwadi workers. Majithia raised the issue, accusing Congress workers of vulgar behaviour with the women workers protesting outside the finance minister’s office, and then led the party legislators into the well of the House. Speaker Rana KP Singh told the Akali members to go back to their seats. “You have raised the issue. The government is not required to give a reply during the zero hour,” he said. The SAD MLAs kept raising slogans against the government. As they were leaving, Manpreet entered the House and offered to give his reply, but the Akali members did not stop. The finance minister denied the allegations, stating that no Congress workers had misbehaved. The speaker told him that there was no needed to clarify. AAP protest against new tax A few minutes later, legislators of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) also walked out of the House to protest against the Punjab Infrastructure Development and Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2021, being brought by the Congress government to impose a new tax on people of the state. AAP MLA Aman Kumar Arora accused the state government of cheating the people by burdening them with a new tax on petrol, diesel and immovable property. “The state government, in its budget, stated that no new tax is being imposed but is quietly bringing the bill to put an additional burden of at least ₹216 crore. Is this a joke?” he said, accusing it of looting people to fill its coffers. The speaker told the member to take it up when the bill is brought for discussion. Arora and other AAP members went into the well of the House before staging the walkout, raising slogans against the state government and its proposed tax. “We will continue our protest until the Congress government withdraws this black bill,” Arora later told reporters. Earlier, leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema also raised the issue of the power department’s instructions to its staff to switch to a private mobile service provider against whom the farmers of the state have been holding protests for the past several months. “The chief minister is the minister for this department and these instructions amount to betrayal with farmers,” he said, demanding a probe into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zero-hour-sad-aap-members-stage-walkouts-from-punjab-assembly-101615404392709.html
11-03-2021||Chandigarh||Illicit liquor unit busted in Ambala, three held||The police along with the excise department on Wednesday claimed to have busted an illicit liquor facility at a remote location in Durana village of Ambala-1 block.Country-made liquor that was allegedly being made for supply in Uttar Pradesh (UP) has been seized, the officials said.The police officials, who raided the newly-constructed building in coordination with the excise department early morning, managed to recover containers with liquor, raw materials, caps, labels and empty containers. However, no empty bottles were found from the building.It has been learnt that illegal activity was going on in two-three rooms on the first floor and cattle were tied on the ground floor to keep the whole activity a secret.In-charge of the anti-vehicle theft cell, sub-inspector Gurdarshan Singh, who was leading the raiding party, said that the three accused were arrested and the probe is on.“Rakesh Kumar, a local, Prahlad Singh of Ambedkar Nagar in UP, and Kuldeep Singh of Kurukshetra were held from the spot. An FIR was lodged and 520 litre country-made liquor, six drums containing 1,350 litre spirit chemicals, bottle caps of different companies, four types of labelled and empty stickers and other raw material were recovered,” Singh said.Deputy excise and taxation commissioner (DETC) Alok Pasi said that the labels that were recovered were all related to brands of UP. “Liquor was being prepared here for supply in UP. Rakesh, the prime accused, has been a history-sheeter in many cases in UP,” Pasi added.SSP Hamid Akhtar, in a statement, said that an SIT under the leadership of DSP (HQ) Sultan Singh has been constituted to investigate the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illicit-liquor-unit-busted-in-ambala-three-held-101615404271021.html
11-03-2021||Chandigarh||Rawat meets Sidhu, hopeful of his early rehabilitation||All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat met Congress MLA and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday morning over his rehabilitation in the state. The 30-minute meeting between the two at Punjab Bhawan here came a day after the central leader, who has been batting for an important position for the cricketer-turned-politician, met chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. “Was summoned by Harish Rawat ji at Punjab Bhawan. Had a cordial meeting!” Sidhu posted on social media with a photo after meeting the state affairs in-charge. When contacted, Rawat said he was hopeful of an early decision on the former minister’s rehabilitation with their (Capt’s and Sidhu’s) mutual consent. “I have told them to work things out quickly because there is not much time left for the elections now. Both are willing to work together but a decision is to be taken in what capacity. You will see positive developments in next few days,” said the Punjab in-charge who had to cut short his visit to Chandigarh due to an important political development in his home state, Uttarakhand, where the ruling BJP replaced the chief minister. The Congress central leadership has been trying to rehabilitate former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu who quit the state cabinet in July 2019 following differences with Amarinder. The party circles have been abuzz for the past several weeks with talk of attempts to appoint the estranged leader as the state unit president or re-induct him into the cabinet as the deputy chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rawat-meets-sidhu-hopeful-of-his-early-rehabilitation-101615404090421.html
11-03-2021||Other||Cousins arrested for killing 14-year-old Patiala boy||Patiala A week after a 14-year-old, Anuj, was found dead on the roadside on March 2, two of his cousins, both brothers, have been arrested for his murder, and for dumping his body. Shami Sharma, 20, and Bablu Sharma, alias Vijay, 19, planned the cold-blooded murder. SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said during interrogation, accused Shami confessed that he had an affair with Anuj’s sister, that ultimately led to the murder. “Anuj had discovered his sister and Shami in a compromising position a year ago, and informed his parents about it. An FIR was filed against Shami, but ultimately the families did come back together,” the SSP added.DSP Jaswinder Singh Tiwana said Shami has said that since the incident, Anuj used to tease him in front of relatives and family. “He murdered Anuj to avenge this humiliation. He planned to kill and involved his brother Bablu, who went to the victim’s house and asked him to accompany him to have some drinks. Shami was present at spot, where the trio consumed alcohol. Later, Shami held Anuj and Bablu stabbed Anuj to death. After the murder, the two dragged his body to the roadside,” he said. A case has been registered under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cousins-arrested-for-killing-14-year-old-patiala-boy-101615403970220.html
11-03-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC’s first banquet hall to come up in Industrial Area||The municipal corporation (MC) will finally construct its first banquet hall at Industrial Area in Phase 1 here.After the in-principle approval from the MC General House in its Tuesday meeting, the MC officials will now send a proposal for it to the UT urban planning department for the formulation of the designs of the banquet hall.MC chief engineer Shailender Singh said, “The project planning is in initial stages. After the planning department finalises the drawings of the project, we will estimate the cost for the project, and again seek the approval of the MC House on it.”Earlier, the MC’s plan to construct a banquet hall had come a cropper because of financial and land issues. There were proposals to construct banquet halls in Manimajra and near the Hallomajra roundabout, which couldn’t take off either despite approval.On the need for a banquet hall, an MC official said, “The city doesn’t have a proper banquet hall for residents to hold functions, particularly marriage ceremonies. People have to go outside the city to areas like Zirakpur to hold such functions. The banquet hall will also help the MC generate additional revenue.”In addition to approving the construction of the banquet hall, the MC House in its meeting held on Tuesday also gave the go ahead to the reconstruction of three community centres at sectors 16, 22, 29 and Thakur Dwara, Manimajra. A new community centre will come up at Sector 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-s-first-banquet-hall-to-come-up-in-industrial-area-101615403850493.html
11-03-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University again slips in Times Higher Education rankings||Panjab University (PU) has yet again slipped in The Times Higher Education (THE) Emerging Economies University rankings declared on Tuesday.From 166 in 2020, the varsity has slipped to 201-250 in 2021. PU ranked 150 in 2019 and this is the fourth year in a row that it has slipped.According to the rankings, apart from Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) and Indian Institute of Sciences (IISc), the varsity is behind Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham University (134), Jawaharlal Nehru University (161), Savitribai Phule Pune University (169), Thapar University (179), University of Delhi (182), Banaras Hindu University (190) and Jamia Millia Islamia (195).PU’s overall score is 27.0-29.1, which was 28.9 points in 2020. The varsity has increased its score in a few parameters. In research, PU has shown a little increase from 14.4 points in 2020 to 15.2 points this year. PU had scored only 11 in 2019 and 8.6 in 2018 in research.In teaching, the varsity has scored 29.1 points which is slightly higher than 27 points scored in 2020.Scored low on citations, international outlookIn citations, PU has scored 52.9 points, which is lower than 56.6 scored last year and in international outlook the varsity’s score has plunged to 15.9 points this year as compared to 16.4 points last year.PU’s score in the industry income has also shown a slight dip to 34.7 points this year which was 34.9 points in 2020.Director of PU’s Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) Ashish Jain said, “The university has improved on research and teaching. In terms of international outlook we need to increase the visibility on international platforms for which proactive steps are being taken by the university.”According to the rankings, the varsity’s overall score was 40.2 points in 2014 and it went down to 23.9 points in 2017. In citations, PU had scored 84.7 points and in international outlook its score was 29.3 points in 2014 which is higher than its score now.Former PU vice-chancellor Arun Kumar Grover said, “Other institutions are continuously improving while PU remains stagnant. The university is not trying to overcome its weaknesses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-again-slips-in-times-higher-education-rankings-101615403790927.html
11-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s Mohali sees surge with 149 cases, steepest in 3 months||With 149 fresh cases on Wednesday, Mohali district surpassed the number of cases reported in February just 10 days into March. It was also the highest daily count in the past three months.Amid the surge, the district administration is planning to impose restrictions on social gatherings. While there were 840 cases in February, the number has reached 873 this month, already a spike of 4%. In January, 1,291 cases had surfaced. Meanwhile, the number of active cases has shot up from 636 on March 1 to 1,012 on March 10 and recovery rate has dropped from 95% to 93.4% in the same period. Mohali city continues to report bulk of the cases, with 574 (65%) reported this month so far.“We are keeping an eye on the rising number of cases and will soon hold a meeting to decide action needed for strict implementation of Covid-19 norms. It has been seen that many people are not taking precautions and not maintaining social distancing,” said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan.16% cases in Feb from schools, collegesDayalan said the administration has analysed 840 cases reported in February and found 135 were from schools and colleges, 90 from social gatherings, 77 from industries and 145 from unconfirmed sources. “We have increased sampling in the district and the civil surgeon has been asked to ensure round-the-clock availability of sampling teams at the government hospitals. Also, vaccination has been increased,” he added. Dr Adarshpal Kaur, civil surgeon, said: “We are urging people to come forward for vaccination, as now it is available at 29 private hospitals and nine government hospitals in the district.”On Wednesday, the district also reported a death due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 392. As many as seven fatalities have been reported so far this month, as compared to 20 in February. Of 21,188 people tested positive so far, 19,784 have been cured, including 60 discharged on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-mohali-sees-surge-with-149-cases-steepest-in-3-months-101615403610967.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||Covid: Mumbai’s Dharavi fights a virus||“Video calling really saved me. There were times when I felt that I would never see my children again,” said Prabhavati Jaiswar, 53, as she busies herself at the stove making coffee in her 10 x 10 ft home in Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, one of localities in densely-populated Dharavi. Her youngest, nine-year-old Ganesh sits on the doorstep with his friends, their legs dangling close to the narrow open drain outside.There are six people in that room, some on chairs, others crouched on the floor, and everyone is talking about the third phase of the vaccination drive that will begin in a few days. No one has a mask on. Jaiswar hands over a cup of too-sweet coffee to each, including her school-going daughter, Shilpa (16). Jaiswar’s older daughter, 18-year-old Sheetal is on a mezzanine floor above us. She surfaces after Jaiswar calls out – earphones plugged in, eyes planted on the phone screen – to receive her cup. Her college class is going on, but no one below is bothering to lower their volume. Jaiswar’s oldest, 22-year-old Durgesh, is out at work.On March 25, 2020, Jaiswar was visiting her husband’s family in Uttar Pradesh as her mother-in-law had recently died. Her husband could not attend his mother’s cremation as he lives and works in Kuwait. Prabhavati was stuck in the village as all transport was stopped during the lockdown, enforced to curb the spread of the virus. She spent the next three months away from her children. “The whole chawl was amazed at how my youngest was brave enough to stay without his mother for such a long time,” Jaiswar said.In mid May, the lane outside the Jaiswars’ house was sealed after a person was found to be Covid positive. This meant that even stepping out to use the community toilet complex – located on the main road, close to the Rajiv Gandhi Sports Complex -- was disallowed during the day. Volunteers who came to deliver packets of food – organized by the Brihamumbai Municipal Corporation, the area’s legislator Varsha Gaikwad, the local corporators like Vasant Nakashe and Harshala More, and citizen groups like Dharavi Boys made up of Durgesh and his friends who pooled their earnings to help neighbours – couldn’t enter the lane either.“I was so afraid – we all were so fearful in the initial days. I thought, any of us could die at any point and we wouldn’t even be together,” Jaiswar said. “The real virus of the pandemic was fear.”A year after Mumbai recorded its first Covid-19 patient, Dharavi -- a slum spread over 2.4 sq km in the heart of Mumbai with at least 850,000 residents and a population density of 354,167 people per sq km, or 17 times that of Mumbai -- has seen a spike in daily cases reported in the past month.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the G/North ward with jurisdiction over Dharavi, recently announced that the BMC was going to resume screening people for symptoms as Dharavi recorded 12 cases on March 10. So far, Dharavi has recorded 5195 cases and 316 deaths. There are 99 active covid-19 cases in Dharavi as of March 10.Experts, government officials and residents agree on one thing: while the pandemic tore through Mumbai, which was one of the worst-hit cities in the country, in Dharavi, a looming health crisis was largely averted.Dharavi is home to migrants, who work in the construction industry, or as domestic helps in neighbouring tony localities, as well as different communities practicing trades like pottery or leather manufacturing. Nearly 283,000 people use the 450 community toilets in the slum and each hutment, the same size as Jaiswar’s home, houses on an average 8-10 people. Most localities have narrow lanes with two or three-storied houses where often, top floors double as factories for the several cottage industries that Dharavi is known for, such as plastic recycling and garment manufacturing. Where then was the space to quarantine at home, or practice social distancing? After the first case was detected on April 1, 2020, it took 17 days to record the first 100 cases, six days to record the next 100, and only five days to record another 100.Yet, on July 11, World Health Organization director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus praised Dharavi as an example of an intense Covid-19 outbreak that was brought under control. A sero-surveillance survey released that month revealed that 57% of slum-dwellers, taken from a random sample of 7000 residents, had antibodies for the coronavirus; compared to that, only 16% of the population that did not live in slums, had antibodies. On April 1, Dharavi’s first case was detected, posthumously. The 56-year-old man was a resident of Dr Baliga Nagar, a set of nine multi-storied buildings. His family refused to speak: “It has been traumatic for us. We are trying to move on and don’t want to relive what happened,” one of his daughters who refused to give her name, said.The man had no travel history, but he developed symptoms on March 23 following which he visited his local doctor who gave cough medication. Six days later, the man began to face difficulty breathing and he was admitted to Sion hospital, where he was tested for Covid. His positive result came on April 1 shortly after he passed away.The gated colony where he lived was sealed by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on April 1. Within a week, four other hotspots were sealed in Dharavi; Baliga Nagar remained a containment zone till April 21. For the first two weeks, cases were concentrated in five areas: Kalyanwadi, Mukund Nagar, Social Nagar, Muslim Nagar, and Madina Nagar. Within a month the number of hotspots increased to 10. By the end of April, Dharavi had over 180 containment zones.“We lived through so many misconceptions about the infection, and rumors. Everyone believed life was over now that they have contracted the virus. We did not step out of our homes even after April 21, because we didn’t want to be a containment zone again,” said Saida Khan, a 48, a resident of Dr Baliga Nagar, who tuition classes came to stop due to the pandemic. Her husband, who runs a contract business in the construction industry, also lost business and the family had to dip into their savings of ₹23,000 to sustain through the lockdown.Though the lockdown is long over, Khan is not keen to resume tuitions despite requests from parents. “I am afraid to allow so many people into my home, or take on responsibility of so many children during a pandemic,” she said.“We had a three-pronged strategy to stop virus transmission in the community: High number of tests, contact tracing, and shifting as many people as possible to institutional quarantine facilities. Without this in place, the situation would have become difficult to manage,” said Dighavkar.Dharavi traced up to 24 contacts for every Covid-positive person, in contrast with the city’s average of 10 to 15 contacts. The BMC acquired three private hospitals in Dharavi, and set up 22 Covid Care Centres with 4,447 beds in April and May.Four large quarantine centres for high risk contacts were set up, the first came up at the Rajiv Gandhi Sports complex with 300 beds. Others came up in the Mahim Nature Park (1200 beds), Dharavi municipal school (700 beds) and Manohar Joshi Vidyalaya (also 700 beds). High risk contacts were also moved to the quarantine centres in Dadar and Mahim. After initially starting a door-to-door screening system, the BMC set up fever camps and roped in private doctors. Fever camps were temporarily set up at various locations across Dharavi. Residents living nearby would walk-in to get a Covid-19 test done, or get checked by a doctor.On June 23, Dharavi recorded only five cases, the lowest since April 5. BMC data from that month shows that by then, 548,270 people had been screened. “Dharavi is a success story. It managed to minimise the infection rate and outbreak very effectively and very quickly. What changed is not just in terms of transmissibility of the virus. Genetic factors, actual genotype of the virus, socio-economic factors could have contributed to high case fatality rate (CFR), though it is difficult to say for sure. Uncontrolled co-mordidity contributes to high CFR, but how much uncontrolled co-morbidity is or was there in Dharavi’s population is difficult to derive without data. Having hypertension in itself is not a problem, it is a problem only if your metabolism is in a state of inflammation, in which case co-morbidity can cause a problem in recovery,” Dr Om Shrivastav, a consultant for infectious diseases, said.According to Dighavkar, strict measures put in place by the municipal body helped curb the spread of the disease.Within the first fortnight of the lockdown, the BMC stopped sale of fruits and vegetables in Dharavi. BMC staff and volunteers helped deliver groceries door-to-door, and community volunteers stepped in to ensure that no household lacked essential goods.The BMC sealed the borders of slum and set up 24 check-posts at all entry/exit points to monitor movement control. Strict containment measures were deployed in virus hotspots. All forms of transportation services and movement of vehicles were stopped; all small industries, shops, and markets across the slum area were shut down. Within weeks, the bustling locality had turned into a ghost town.“We did a drone survey of Dharavi in the middle of the lockdown in May and saw that not a single person was out on the street. Citizens cooperated with the authorities very well,” Dighavkar said.But that’s not how some residents remember it. Satish Dubey, a resident of Rajiv Gandhi nagar and one of the people sitting in Jaiswar’s one-room home volunteered with the BMC to distribute food and ration kits to residents of his locality.“The police would hit people with their lathis if they found anyone on the street, even if the person had to go out to buy some medicine or use the community toilet. We even complained to the police station to get the local cops to stop their high handedness,” Dubey, 22, said. “All that did was add to our fear.”At least 100,000 migrants living in Dharavi left for their hometowns on foot in April before the Centre started special trains for them.“We were already out of jobs and out of money. In the initial months, we thought that if we get the virus, we would die,” Dubey said.In a recent Ease of Living Survey released by the Centre, Greater Mumbai ranked high on resilience, or the ability to deal with natural disasters. This was in full display in Dharavi, as volunteer groups kicked into action.Labour contractor Avirath Shinde, 36, recalls how he and the labourers who remained in Dharavi after the lockdown went door to door distributing essential food items, hand sanitizers, or helping the sick and elderly commute to the nearest fever camp. Avirath tested positive for Covid on May 8, along with three other members of his family.“When I was discharged from the hospital, all my neighbours helped with sanitizing my house, providing my family and children with cooked food, and doing grocery runs for us. Dharavi also managed to deal with the pandemic largely because of its community spirit,” Shinde said.In another part of Dharavi, Nawneet Ranjan who runs Dharavi Diary, an innovation project run with company’s CSR funds to train the area’s school-going students in technology and digital tools, began to work on a database. With the help of motley band of students, he began to record the needs of the residents in that area. Then, he began to raise funds over social media platforms and also helped distribute food and ration kits. “Between July and September, we raised around ₹25 lakh, and supplied ration kits to over 10,000 families,” Ranjan said.By July, Dharavi’s small and medium scale businesses were permitted to resume operations. Dharavi has 5000 GST registered businesses, and over 15,000 single room factories, with a turnover of one billion US dollars annually, according to BMC data. But recovery has been slow.Mohammad Shamshad Sher, 41, who owns an embroidery business in Dharavi and operates from a small 20X20 ft room on the second floor of a tin-roofed hutment, used to own three shops and employed over 60 people. Now, however, he can only operate one of them.Mohammad pays ₹15,000 rent for his workshop, and though the landlord had waived off the rent for the lockdown months, that is not the case any longer.“I have employed only 10 labourers right now, because there is no work. If we do not get orders, then I cannot pay everyone. Most of the labourers I work with went home after the lockdown. Not everyone has returned. Even if they return, where is the work?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/a-slum-fights-a-virus-101615403372778.html
11-03-2021||Other||A year of Covid: How Lucknow dealt with the challenge||There are 19 patients currently admitted to the Covid ICU at King George’s Medical University (KGMU) against a capacity of 251 beds, a sharp contrast to the times when occupancy was 100% for several months at a stretch and getting admission was a herculean task.KGMU was the first health facility in the state to admit Covid patients on March 11 last year. Since then, the journey from a “no beds” scenario to a “few cases” hasn’t been easy and doctors say they don’t want to remember some aspects of it.Lucknow has reported 82,042 cases till now and Uttar Pradesh has logged 6,04,648 cases. (The first case in UP was reported from Agra on March 2 last year.)“It was perhaps the toughest phase in the medical field that I would not like to remember though Covid management taught us a lot and many things were added to the healthcare system,” said Dr D Himanshu, medical superintendent at KGMU, who managed the treatment of Covid patients since the beginning of the pandemic in the state.Of the four ICU wards, only two of them have patients while the other two are reserved for Covid patients, but no patients are currently admitted there.“There was a time when beds were full despite the rising number of serious patients. But the rush has gone down. Now, with vaccination going on, the confidence level is high,” said Dr PK Gupta, former president of Indian Medical Association (IMA)-Lucknow.The state capital has done over 19 lakh Covid tests in one year including about 8.75 lakh RT-PCR tests, the data from the health department says.The Covid tests began in March 2020 soon after the first case was reported on March 11. Along with RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction), rapid antigen, TrueNat and CBNAT tests were introduced in the labs to confirm Covid infection among suspected patients. The total count of these tests in Lucknow reached 1,907,312 on Wednesday. In the state, 32,375,774 tests have been done.“This is the last phase, which can lead us to victory against Covid infection but we need to maintain utmost precaution,” said Dr Ved Prakash, head of the department of pulmonary critical care medicine at KGMU.Tough for the first few patientsThe Lucknow’s first case was that of a woman doctor, who had come from Canada to meet the family. She was admitted to KGMU. “It took her 20 days to recover but being the first patient, it was a difficult case,” said Dr Virendra Atam, head of the department of medicine at KGMU.Dr Tauseef Khan, the first KGMU doctor to test positive, said there was initial apprehension after he was found infected with Covid, but he gradually recovered.“I tested positive while performing my duty in the ward. Hence, I had no grudges. I was confident I would win and I donated plasma after recovery,” said Dr Tauseef Khan, who got married recently.Celebrity singer Kanika Kapoor also tested positive for the Covid infection in Lucknow and was admitted to SGPGI in March last year.“It was a bad phase for us. Those were the initial days of the spread of the coronavirus. Since my daughter (Kanika) is a celebrity, it attracted huge attention. Thankfully, things are now back on track and she is doing her work as usual,” said Rakesh Kapoor, father of ‘Baby Doll’ singer Kanika Kapoor, who tested positive for Covid-19 soon after returning from overseas on March 9, 2020.Umashankar of Lakhimpur Kheri district, who tested positive and got admitted to KGMU last year, said his life has changed now.“I had returned from a trip to Turkey on March 8, and I felt sick. On March 18, I tested positive for the coronavirus and my neighbours started avoiding me and my family in the village in which I live,” said Umashankar.But his life changed, the day he donated plasma to save the lives of other Covid patients.“When I donated plasma and people read about it in the newspapers, their attitude changed drastically. They started respecting me,” said Umashankar.Telemedicine a key toolSmartphone became a major tool for Dr Kauser Usman, head of the department of geriatric medicine at KGMU who attended over 500 covid patients, prescribed them medication and saved them from panic.“During the months of July, August, September and October, when maximum cases were reported, I got at least 15 calls from patients every day, discussing the symptoms, advising medication and tests, reading their reports and telling them the warning (signs) and non-serious symptoms,” said Dr Usman.“I knew our resources at hospitals may fall short anytime as the cases multiplied geometrically. Hence, attending to patients at the very beginning could help reduce the burden on hospitals and I am satisfied we could do it,” said Dr Usman.“Plasma therapy, too, was among the new things. We started it first in the state in April and gradually came up with a plasma bank by August 15, 2020. Till today, we have received 450 units of plasma donated for Covid patients and issued some 600 units,” said Dr Tulika Chandra, head of the department of transfusion medicine at KGMU.“Our first plasma donor was Dr Nazia, the first Covid patient in Lucknow and the second donor was Dr Tauseef, the first KGMU staffer to test positive,” said Dr Tulika.COVID TESTS IN LUCKNOW19,07,312 Total Covid samples tested in Lucknow till March 10, 2021:Over 8,75,876 RT-PCR tests (maximum of 1,37,846 in September 2020)Over 7,85,206 Antigen testsOver 63,371 TrueNat testsPositive cases in Lucknow (month-wise)March 2020: 9April 2020: 197May 2020: 166June 2020: 734July 2020: 6,928August 2020: 19,319September 2020: 25,577October 2020: 10,364November 2020: 8,142December 2020: 6,996January 2021: 2,941February 2021: 513March 2021: 78UP’S GRIM COVID MILESTONESOne lakh: August 4, 2020 (1,00,310 cases)Two lakh: August 26, 2020 (2,03,028 cases)Three lakh: September 12, 2020 (3,05,831 cases)Four lakh: October 1, 2020 (4,03,101 cases)Five lakh: November 10, 2020 (5,01,311 cases)Six lakh: January 30, 2021 (6,00,079 cases)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/a-year-of-covid-how-lucknow-dealt-with-the-challenge-101615403309659.html
11-03-2021||Chandigarh||55 test Covid +ve in Haryana’s Panchkula, highest in 2 months||Panchkula district reported 55 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, the highest in the past two months. The numbers have been on the rise since the beginning of this month, with 319 cases reported in the first 10 days, which is more than the cases that surfaced throughout February (313). Meanwhile, the number of active cases has jumped from 124 at the beginning of the month to 310, and recovery rate has dropped from 97.4% to 95.8%. The total number of cases has reached 11,155. While 10,696 people have been cured, 149 have succumbed to the virus.“We are fully prepared to deal with the situation. We have again increased testing and reassessed our preparations in terms of bed availability,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula.Dr Kaur said both Ayush and ESI departments have been asked to provide additional staff for Covid-19 duty, and a Covid-care centre has been made functional at BRS Medical college again. It was discontinued last month.“We are trying to vaccinate a large number of people, and would try to reduce mortality as much as possible,” she said.Follow Covid appropriate behaviour: DCOn Wednesday, deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja chaired a meeting, where it was decided that police should intensify the drive to challan people found without masks in public places. Apart from this, there will be restrictions on gathering of people in public places and increased sampling in hot spots.Ahuja has also directed that in view of the pandemic, Mahashivratri festival on Thursday will be celebrated with due diligence at all religious places, especially at Saketri where the congregation is in large numbers.“It is necessary and expedient to ensure strict compliance of the guidelines/standard operation procedures issued by the government with regard to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” he said.The civic body was directed to sanitise the temple premises at regular intervals. Incident commanders assisted by police personnel have been tasked with keeping vigil in their respective jurisdictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/55-test-covid-ve-in-haryana-s-panchkula-highest-in-2-months-101615403250285.html
11-03-2021||Chandigarh||Restrictions on gatherings are back in Chandigarh||Imposing fresh restrictions in the wake of the rising Covid-19 cases, the Chandigarh administration on Wednesday decided to keep primary schools in the city closed. A cap was also imposed on the number of attendees at social, cultural, religious and family gatherings.In a review meeting with senior officials, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore directed the school authorities to talk to parents so that their children take proper precautions against Covid-19, both inside and outside schools. The health and education department will also finalise modalities to conduct sampling in schools, it was decided.For indoor gatherings, a maximum number of 100 people or 50% of the capacity of the venue, whichever is lower, will be allowed. For outdoor gatherings, the cap has been kept at 200 people, which is the same as that imposed by the Punjab government.At 819, the number of Covid-19 cases reported in the first 10 days of March has already surpassed the total reported in February (813). With 87 fresh cases on Wednesday, the number of active cases shot up from 430 in the beginning of the month to 816. The recovery rate dropped from 96.4% to 94.8% in the same period.Meanwhile, the death of a 55-year-old man from Sector 48 took the toll to 357. The total number of cases has climbed to 22,589, with 21,416 patients cured so far.‘Increase testing, checking for violations’Expressing deep concern over the rising number of cases, Badnore asked the officials to ensure strict implementation of Covid appropriate behaviour. He directed the deputy commissioner and police to intensify checking and impose fine on people violating the guidelines.A special drive will be started by police to ensure that social distancing is properly maintained at restaurants and inside shops at various markets and also at crowded places.The administrator also said there should be an increase in testing and contact tracing all over the city. He said crowded places, such as bus stands, railway station, apni mandis, markets and Sukhna Lake, should be focused. He also called for special arrangements to screen and test residents of various welfare homes and hostels.Badnore asked the health department to again use the hospital in Sector 48 for Covid-19 patients and to keep Covid care centres earlier opened at Dhanwantry Hospital, Sector 46, and Sood Dharamshala, Sector 22, ready for any exigencies.More vaccination sites made operationalThe officials concerned were also directed to provide proper facilities at vaccination centres, so that senior citizens do not have to wait for their turn for a long time. They should not be asked to stand in queues and instead should be provided with proper seating arrangement before and after vaccination, it was decided.Meanwhile, more vaccination centres have been operationalised in the city, with the total number of sites reaching 40. The new sites have been opened at health centres in Sectors 26, 35, 38, Panjab University and Palsora. On Wednesday, 2,867 people were inoculated, including 1,930 senior citizens and comorbid group.Parida blames Mohali for infection surgeUT adviser Manoj Parida has attributed the rise in cases to the spike seen in the neighbouring Mohali district.“Besides social gatherings, there were municipal elections in Mohali last month, leading to a huge mobility in the area. The maximum increase is being witnessed in Mohali, and we see it as a major cause for the spike in Chandigarh as well,” he said.Sharing details about testing to be carried out across 144 government schools in the city, Parida said mobile testing teams will be deputed for the purpose.“The process will be voluntary for teachers as well as children who are visiting the schools. The education and health departments will fix the modalities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/restrictions-on-gatherings-are-back-in-chandigarh-101615403071749.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||Mansukh Hiran death: Know Sachin Vaze, the police officer who was transferred||A day after leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis sought the arrest of Mumbai crime branch officer Sachin Vaze, home minister Anil Deshmukh announced his transfer in the legislative council on Wednesday. “We have decided to move Sachin Vaze. He will be moved from Crime Branch. An impartial inquiry will be done and whoever is guilty will face action,” Deshmukh told the House on the last day of the Assembly session, as Bharatiya Janata Party demanded his suspension. The 49-year-old cop finds himself at the centre of political battle between the Bharatiya Janata Party, which is in opposition in the state, and the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition, with both sides trading barbs. On Wednesday, Vaze reached the Mumbai police headquarters in Crawford Market around noon and had a two-hour long meeting with Mumbai police commissioner Parambir Singh. Through the course of the day, he also met other senior officers in the crime branch.Later in the evening, Vaze told media persons gathered at the headquarters that he had had conversations with senior police officials about the allegations made against him . “I will clarify my side of the story and release a statement on Thursday,” he said. Vaze met the ATS team investigating the murder of Mansukh Hiran, who recorded his statement over the span of eight hours on Monday.Fadnavis told reporters outside the Assembly that the MVA government was worried that Vaze might disclose links to some people in the government in the Hiran death case. “After we raised the issue in the lower house, state home minister admitted during our meeting in the presence of deputy speaker Narhari Zirwal to suspend Vaze. However, later, the chief minister intervened and the decision was changed,” Fadnavis said. In turn, Sena legislator Bhaskar Jadhav said that Vaze was being targeted because he was involved in the arrest of Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, who is implicated in the 2018 suicide of a designer, and alleged that Fadnavis had protected the journalist, as he was chief minister at the time. “Vaze is being targeted because he was in the team which arrested Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami [in November 2020] for his alleged involvement in the Naik case,” Jadhav said. Who is Sachin Vaze, and why has his name come up in connection with the death of Mansukh Hiran, an auto parts dealer linked to the SUV found parked outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence on February 25 with 20 sticks of gelatin and a threatening letter? A day after a Scorpio was found parked on Carmichael Road, Deshmukh released a video statement stating that the Mumbai crime branch would investigate the case. Assistant police inspector Sachin Hindurao Vaze (49), who headed the crime intelligence unit (CIU) of the Mumbai police crime branch, took the lead in the investigation. The Scorpio was traced to 48-year-old Hiran, a Thane resident, who had reported the car stolen on February 18. Hiran was called in for questioning after the link was discovered, thanks to the stolen vehicle complaint filed by him at Vikhroli police station. On March 4, Hiran died under mysterious circumstances: his body washed up on a creek in Thane district, his mouth stuffed with handkerchiefs and covered with a scarf, and all his personal belongings, including his ring, chain and wrist watch, missing from the body. Three days later, Hiran’s wife, Vimla (43), gave a statement to the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad investigating team that she was certain Hiran had been murdered, and she suspected Vaze had a hand in it. “Taking into consideration all the above circumstances, I am sure that my husband was murdered,” the last few lines of the statement read. “I suspect Sachin Vaze could have committed the said murder.”Her statement revealed that Hiran knew Vaze well, and that he had lent him the Scorpio in question in November. Vaze returned the car on February 5. Vaze did not respond to repeated calls and messages. The story will be updated when and if he responds. From police to politics Vaze joined the Maharashtra police force in 1990 as a sub inspector. His first posting was in Gadchiroli, a Naxal affected area and he was moved to Thane city police in 1992. It was here that he gained a reputation of being a good criminal investigator. He was later inducted in the Special Squad of Thane crime branch, where he gained a reputation as an encounter specialist. In 2000, Vaze was transferred to the Powai unit of the Mumbai crime branch. It was during his stint here when, together with three other policemen, he faced a charge of murdering Khawaja Yunus, an accused in the December 2, 2002, Ghatkopar blast case when a bomb placed under the seat of a BEST bus parked outside Ghatkopar railway station went off, killing two persons and injuring several others. Yunus, a 27-year-old software engineer, was arrested by the Mumbai crime branch, and later reportedly died in police custody. The state Crime Investigation Department (CID) charged Vaze and three other police personnel -- Rajendra Tiwari, Rajaram Nikam and Sunil Desai -- with murder and destruction of evidence on March 3, 2004. Following this, Vaze was placed under suspension. Vaze eventually resigned from service on November 30, 2007. The following year, he joined the Shiv Sena. The assistant police inspector was eventually reinstated in the police force on June 6, 2020. So were the three other policemen who were booked for their alleged involvement in Yunus’s custodial death. A dispute over the framing of charges in this case is pending before the Bombay high court. High-profile arrests At his current position in the CIU, Vaze handled a few high-profile cases, including the television rating point (TRP) manipulation case in which 15 persons including Partho Dasgupta, former chief executive officer of the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) were arrested. The case pertained to Republic TV, owned by ARG Outlier Media, which had allegedly benefited from purported manipulations of TRPs. The CIU filed a voluminous charge-sheet against Vikas Khanchandani, CEO of Republic TV, Dasgupta and Romil Ramgarhia, former CCO of BARC, earlier this year in January. Vaze was also part of the police team that arrested news anchor Arnab Goswami in November 2020, in connection with designer Anvay Naik’s suicide. The police said that Naik and his mother Kumud Naik were found dead in May 2018. According to a suicide note, Naik alleged that he and his mother were forced to end their lives because he was not paid his dues amounting to ₹5.40 crore by Goswami and two others identified as Feroz Shaikh and Nitesh Sarda -- owners of two different firms, they added. On December 28, 2020, Vaze arrested famous sports car designer Dilip Chhabria after police found that he and his firm, Dilip Chhabria (DC) Designs Pvt Ltd, in connection with allegations of cheating and forgery to avail loans on sports cars made by his firm. Vaze was also handling the case registered on the basis of a complaint lodged by Bollywood actor Hrithik Roshan after his exchange of legal notices with actor Kangna Ranaut in 2016. The case was originally registered with the Cyber police station at Bandra Kurla Complex and was recently transferred to the CIU for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mansukh-hiran-death-know-sachin-vaze-the-police-officer-who-was-transferred-101615402710458.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt wants petrol, diesel be brought under GST||In his reply to the debate on budget in state Assembly, deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar said on Wednesday the state wants petrol and diesel to be brought under the Goods and Services Taxes regime, so that the prices are reduced. Pawar said that until the decision is taken, the Centre should take steps to reduce its own taxes on fuel to give respite to citizens. Pawar said the state government would, like a few other states, support the move, if the Centre brings petrol and diesel under GST. Under current financial conditions, the Maharashtra government is not in a position to reduce the VAT levied on fuel, he said. At the same time, Pawar announced an increase in the area development fund used by the legislators in their constituencies. It has now been increased to ₹4 crore from the existing ₹3 crore a year. He also announced restoration of the 30% cut initiated on the salary of the legislators from April 2020 in the wake of outbreak of Covid-19. The restoration will come into effect from March 2021. Legislators (288 in Assembly and 78 in council) draw a salary of about ₹2 lakh a month, including allowances. Pawar also assured the legislators to take a decision about the salary of the drivers of the legislators soon. Tweaking his decision announced in the state budget, Pawar announced on Wednesday to increase the excise duty on branded and non-branded country liquor to 220% from 213%. In budget, it was increased only on branded country liquor. The finance minister also announced Marathi Bhasha Bhavan on a vacant plot at Jawahar Bal Bhavan at Chowpatty. He also announced to build a Maharashtra Bhavan in Navi Mumbai on a plot earmarked by CIDCO. “The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi will ensure the allocation made for infrastructure projects including rail, road, metro transport will be released fully,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-wants-petrol-diesel-be-brought-under-gst-101615402530935.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||13,659 cases in Maharashtra, CM Thackeray says decision on lockdown soon||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday said the state government will have to take a call on a lockdown in the next few days if people continue to ignore precautions needed to prevent the spread of Covid-19, The state on Wednesday reported 13,659 Covid-19 cases, its first one-day spike in excess of 13,000 in 2021 and highest in 154 days (on October 7, 2020, the state saw 14,578 cases).The state has till date recorded 2,252,057 infections. The state also recorded 54 deaths on Wednesday, taking the toll to 52,619. Mumbai, which has been recording over 1,000 cases for a week now, also recorded 1,539 cases and five deaths, taking the tally to 337,124 and toll to 11,515 deaths.Speaking to mediapersons, Thackeray said the lockdown can still be avoided if people adopted Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and followed protocol. “Nobody likes a lockdown, even we do not like it. We do not want to impose restrictions on people. But people will have to follow the norms required to avoid it. We still can avoid a second lockdown. We will have to take some specific decision in the next few days. Covid-19 cases are on the rise. I still appeal to people to follow the protocol and guidelines laid down by the government. The vaccination drive is being implemented and will be ramped up in the coming days,” he said. On Wednesday, the Mumbai circle reported the highest number of cases (2,933), followed by Pune circle, which reported 2882 cases. Pune city itself recorded 1,384 cases in a day. The state has asked districts to tighten the grip by imposing limited lockdown, night curfews and increased contact tracing. A senior official from the public health department said, “The district administration is in favour of limited lockdown by imposing curbs on areas with a high positivity rate instead of a total lockdown in the state.” Jitendra Papalkar, Akola district collector said, “We have also been asked to push for institutional quarantine in cases where home isolation would not prove to be effective.”There are 99,008 active cases in the state, according to a statement released by the public health department. The highest number of active cases in Maharashtra was 301,752 on September 17, 2020, after which the tally went down to around 50,000 in December 2020. On Wednesday, 9,913 people also recovered from the infection, taking the total to 2,099,207 till date. However, the state’s case fatality rate (CFR) continues to hover around 2.34%.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor to the state on Covid control, said the Central government must initiate vaccination for those in the age bracket of 24-40 too. “This is the age bracket involved in active life and most cases are also reported in this age group. Vaccination has to increase multi-fold in the state now.” On Tuesday, 148,777 citizens were vaccinated in the state, of which 94, 984 were senior citizens above the age of 60 and 15,819 were above the age of 45 with comorbidities. (With inputs from Surendra P Gangan)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/13659-cases-in-maharashtra-cm-thackeray-says-decision-on-lockdown-soon-101615402349564.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||Fadnavis moves breach of privilege motion against Maharashtra home minister||A day after state home minister Anil Deshmukh made serious allegations in the Anvay Naik suicide case, leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis moved a breach of privilege notice against him, accusing Deshmukh of making a false allegation. He also said the allegations were made to mount pressure on him from performing his duties as the leader of opposition. Deputy speaker Narhari Zirwal said he would examine the notice and take appropriate decision. Naik was an interior designer based in Alibag in Raigad. He allegedly killed himself in 2018. Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami was arrested in alleged connection with the case. When opposition legislators created a din over a demand to arrest a police officer Sachin Vaze, who is under scanner in the death of Mansukh Hiran, an auto parts dealer linked to the car found parked outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence on February 25 with 20 sticks of gelatin and a threatening letter, Deshmukh on Tuesday said Fadnavis as then chief minister had “covered up” Naik suicide case. “He made the statement despite a decision by the Supreme Court which said that prima facie evaluation of the FIR did not establish the ingredients of the offence of abetment to suicide,” Fadnavis said in the lower House. “The allegations against me are misleading.” Fadnavis announced moving another breach of privilege motion against PWD minister Ashok Chavan in Maratha reservation case. On Wednesday, Chavan made a statement in the lower House over Maratha reservation. He said that the Attorney General KK Venugopal during a hearing before the Supreme Court said that post 102nd Constitutional amendment in 2018 only the President or the central government can provide reservation to the backward classes and not states. By taking such a stand, the Centre has created doubt over validity of the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act unanimously passed by this House to provide reservation benefits to the Maratha community. “However, the apex court accepted the state government’s request for seeking opinion of all the states whether the 50% ceiling limit on reservation needs to be reconsidered,” Chavan said. Fadnavis said that Chavan made a false statement in the House. “He (Ashok Chavan) tried to quote the Attorney General out of context,” he told reporters s. “I have mentioned what the Attorney General has said before the Supreme Court. We were expecting a clear stand of the (BJP led) central government over Maratha reservation but they (BJP) are taking different stands at different places. They (BJP) are taking a stand here in Maharashtra and another in Delhi,” Chavan told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fadnavis-moves-breach-of-privilege-motion-against-maharashtra-home-minister-101615402290810.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reserves Kanjurmarg land for Metro car depot in DP 2034||Even as the Bombay High Court (HC) is yet to decide whether the saltpan land in Kanjurmarg, where the Metro depot has been proposed, belongs to the Centre or state, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday issued a notification to modify the reservation of the 43.76-hectare plot in the Development Plan (DP) 2034. According to the notification, the use of the land parcel, which was reserved for public purposes such as affordable housing, garden, and municipal school, has now been modified to ‘Metro car depot, casting yard and other metro uses’ with certain conditions. While chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in October 2020 had announced that the depot for Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz) will be shifted from the controversial Aarey plot to Kanjurmarg, the Central government claimed ownership of the plot. In December 2020, the Bombay high court stayed the transfer of the land parcel to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA). Recently, the MMRDA also moved the court seeking to vacate or modify the stay, stating it is a “public project of urgency”. In a text reply to HT, Bhushan Gagrani, principal secretary, urban development department, said the notification is not in contradiction to the on-going case as the “title is separate from reservation.” He also said the state had conducted a hearing for the change in reservation, post which the final notification was issued on Wednesday. The notification read: “...the Govt. is satisfied that in the public interest it is expedient to change reservations, land use in respect of the portion of the said land and Development Plan road pattern for proper connectivity in the nearby vicinity.” The notification also states the change in reservation is subject to certain conditions which are obtaining permissions for the land that falls under coastal regulatory zone (CRZ) and undertaking mitigation measures during the construction and operations stage. It further states that it will be binding on the authority to comply with the orders of the HC and the apex court in respect of the land. The state government is looking at building an integrated car depot at Kanjurmarg for line 3, 4 (Wadala-Thane-Kasarwadavali) and line 6 (Swami Samarth Nagar-Vikhroli). It has earlier stated that building an integrated depot will help save cost as well as land. Thackeray had also said that the land in Aarey would prove to be insufficient for Metro-3 in the coming years, making Kajurmarg the only viable option.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reserves-kanjurmarg-land-for-metro-car-depot-in-dp-2034-101615402289619.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||IIT-B receives record USD 3.6 million in donations from US alumni body||The Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) has received a record donation of USD 3.6 million in 2020-21 from its alumni network in the United States of America (USA). The IIT-Bombay Heritage Foundation, a non-profit organisation in the US, which annually raises funds through the Go IIT-B initiative, raised the funds between March 1, 2020 and February 28, 2021, almost 73% higher than its contribution last year (USD 2.08 million). At the existing conversion rate of ₹72.76 a dollar, this translates to around ₹26.19 crore. Last year, at an average conversion rate of ₹74.13 a dollar, the donation could be roughly translated to ₹15.42 crore. The announcement was made during the 62nd Foundation Day Ceremony of the institute. The donations come as a relief to the institute that has been recording a deficit of around ₹100 crore annually for the past four years. Faced with a severe cash crunch, the institute this year launched a new fund-raising initiative called the ‘Cherish IIT-Bombay’ for donors all over India and the world. As an ‘Institute of Eminence’, IIT-Bombay is set to receive ₹1,000 crore from the central government, but only a small part of it (around ₹43 crore) has been released so far. Following the tradition of the Foundation Day, the institute thanked all its donors for pitching in for the welfare of the institute. Among other donors were alumni of Hostel 5, who made a donation of ₹5 crore for the renovation of the hostel, said Suhas Joshi, dean, alumni and corporate relations, IIT-Bombay. Subhashis Chaudhuri, director, IIT-B, said a research park was in the offing that will foster industry-academia collaborations. “The senate of IIT-Bombay has recently passed the proposal for an inter-departmental dual degree programme where engineering students can complete five years of training and be awarded an MBA degree,” he said, adding that a translational research academy that will help students realise their potential business ideas into an actual business model, was also in the pipeline. Rajesh Gopinathan, chief executive officer and managing director of TCS, who was the chief guest, said, “Our company and IIT-B has been connected for a few decades through its alumni network. I hope that we will hold on to the partnership and look into the future, where the alumni will form the touch point of our relationship. At the institute level, we are aligned for research and development, academic purposes. We look forward to working together in a larger technological ecosystem.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitb-receives-record-usd-3-6-million-in-donations-from-us-alumni-body-101615402230159.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC warns commissioners of being called to court for not complying with orders||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday pulled up the state and the eight municipal corporations that have failed to comply with the directions of the court to file affidavits regarding the illegal constructions in their jurisdiction and the action taken against them since the suo moto public interest litigation (PIL) was initiated by the HC last year. The court warned that it would be constrained to call all the municipal commissioners to court if their officials failed to comply with the HC directions and also chided the state for not setting up a special cell as per court directions, to oversee the issue of illegal constructions. Only two corporations have filed affidavits till now despite the court asking them to do so in October last year and January this year. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the suo-moto PIL was initiated after a dilapidated building collapsed in Bhiwandi on September 23, 2020, was informed by senior counsel Sharan Jagtiani, amicus curiae that only the state government and the BMC and Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation had complied with its January 13 order. The court had directed the eight corporations which included BMC and municipal corporations for Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli, Vasai-Virar, Mira-Bhayander, Ulhasnagar and Bhiwandi-Nizampur, to furnish details of compliance of section 152A of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, 1888, and section 267A of the Maharashtra Municipal Corporations Act, 1949 which pertained to of providing ward wise data of notices issued against unauthorised structures, steps taken against them, cases in which penalties were recovered and cases related to illegal structures under litigation.After hearing this an exasperated bench said, “Are you not able to gather data? What does this infer? Municipal commissioners from all corporations need to be made accountable if they are not following provisions of law and asking their officers to take action. Why this lawlessness?” The court then directed the advocates for the respective corporations to assist the commissioners and warned, “If you do not, we will call the commissioners next to court and make them answer. We do not want lip service. In January, we had passed an order and there was no compliance. It shows commissioners have not followed it.” The bench noted that during the lockdown period large scale illegal constructions had taken place and the state had failed to keep a check on it as it did not constitute a supervisory cell as directed by the court earlier. Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni for the state however submitted that the state was taking the help of geo-mapping experts to identify illegal and unauthorized constructions as well as curb them. The bench then chided the authorities for allowing illegal constructions to come up and then regularizing them without having scant regard for the process of law and said, “Violation is so rampant that even within two months, you (civic bodies) could not collect data.” The court then directed the government and civic bodies to file detailed affidavits by March 31 and posted a hearing of the PIL on April 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-warns-commissioners-of-being-called-to-court-for-not-complying-with-orders-101615402110280.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai to get three new air quality monitors, first one to come up in Kalamboli||The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has received a no objection certificate (NOC) from the Panvel Municipal Corporation (PMC) to set up a continuous ambient air quality monitoring station (CAAQMS) in Kalamboli, Navi Mumbai. MPCB has also proposed to install two more CAAQMS in Kharghar and MIDC Taloja, for which clearances are in the process.MPCB revealed the details in response to a Right to Information (RTI) query by environment group Waatavaran Foundation on March 8, a copy of which was accessed by HT. This development comes on the heels of several complaints from residents and interest groups in Khargar-Panvel who have been demanding a clean air action plan specifically to deal with air pollution in the region.Bhagwan Keshbat, founder of Waatavaran Foundation, said, “Air pollution in Kharghar-Panvel-Taloja belt is significantly higher than in neighbouring Mumbai because of nearby industrial activity, especially the movement of heavy vehicles and burning of coal in factories. Residents can taste and smell the pollution in the air. It is difficult to keep your windows open in evenings.”Since there were no official air quality monitors in the area to check these allegations, Waatavaran in December last year released findings from a month-long, independently conducted observational study. Residents living at the edges of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), the results suggested, were exposed to an air quality index (AQI) above safe limits for nearly two-thirds of the day, with peak pollution during early morning hours.The study, which used low-cost particulate matter sensors to obtain data, found high levels of atmospheric PM2.5, especially between 6am and 8am, and average air quality above safe standards for 17 hours every day. Air quality only improved during afternoon hours.Data from five locations — Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), Taloja; Sector 13, Panvel; Navade, Taloja; Sector 7 and 36, Kharghar — showed average PM2.5 levels over 31 days to be 101.12 microgramme per cubic metre (μg/m3), which is almost twice the national safe standard of 60μg/m3, and four times the World Health Organization (WHO) standard (25μg/m3).The installation of three new CAAQMS will strengthen Navi Mumbai’s official air quality monitor networking, taking the total count to seven monitors. At present, MPCB’s has installed such devices at Mahake Naka, Airoli (near Sahakar Bazar), and one each in Nerul Sectors 46 and 19A. The new monitors will also expand the network’s geographical reach eastward across Panvel creek where state-monitoring infrastructure has been lacking so far. “This is an important move and we welcome this as Waatavaran strongly believes that monitoring of air quality in different parts of this belt including Kalamboli, Kharghar, Taloja MIDC and others is the very first step towards mitigating measures for air pollution,” the environment group said in a statement on Wednesday.It is unclear, however, when these monitors will be launched. HT reached out to the MPCB’s regional officer in Kharghar, Sachin Adkar, for a comment but did not receive a response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-to-get-three-new-air-quality-monitors-first-one-to-come-up-in-kalamboli-101615401930694.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai university earned ₹20 lakh in photocopy, ₹6.55 crore in re-evaluation in 2 years: RTI||A response to a Right to Information (RTI) query has revealed the University of Mumbai (MU) earned ₹20.09 lakh in fees for photocopying answer booklets and ₹6.55 crore in re-evaluation fees between the 2018-19 academic year until the first half of 2020. As per the year-wise data shared by the university, a large chunk of this money was collected in the 2018-19 and 2019-20 academic years.“Applications for re-evaluation keep increasing at the university and the problem lies in the manner in which assessment of papers are conducted. MU needs to work on its assessment process to control re-evaluation requests,” said Vihar Durve, a city-based RTI activist. As per information shared by the university, it received ₹10.02 lakh, ₹9.92 lakh and ₹13,960 in 2018-19, 2019-20 and the first half of 2020 respectively for photocopy applications. Similarly, it received ₹3.73 crore, ₹2.74 crore and ₹7.76 lakh in re-evaluation fees in the three academic years. “At the time of receiving the RTI query, examinations at the university were still underway so we cannot share details about the current semester,” stated the response from MU.Officials from the university’s examination department said the high number of re-evaluation applications are not related to assessment errors. “Students often try their luck with re-evaluation just to find out if they can get one or two additional marks, so in many cases, students don’t apply for re-evaluation due to errors,” said an official on condition of anonymity.With the winter 2020 examinations having been conducted online, varsity officials clarified that students will not get the option of re-evaluation in the examination session because papers were conducted in multiple-choice questions (MCQs) format. “Also the first half of 2020 saw very few re-evaluation applications mainly because lockdown was implemented in March 2020 and then students’ applications were rejected once the university reopened in early June,” said a student.Last month, another RTI data from the board of examinations and evaluation shows that 87,567 students applied for re-evaluation in the first and second half of 2018. Of these, 39,652 students passed the exams after re-evaluation. This means that almost three in five students passed the exams after re-evaluation. “University’s claim that students apply for luck is wrong because many students end up passing exams after re-evaluation,” added Durve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-university-earned-20-lakh-in-photocopy-6-55-crore-in-re-evaluation-in-2-years-rti-101615401750556.html
11-03-2021||Other||Ludhiana man booked for defending murder accused in court without law licence||Police have booked a man for representing a murder accused in court as his defence counsel without being enrolled with the Bar Council of India.The accused, Amitjit Singh Sidhu, was booked on the complaint of Abhinandan Verma of Amritsar.Abhinandan said his mother had approached advocate SS Sidhu to defend his brother, Abhishek Bindra, in a murder case registered against him at Dakha police station on May 20, 2015. Later, they realised that Sidhu’s son Amitjit, who had no licence to take up cases, had signed the court documents. “The family had filed a complaint on July 8, 2020. We have booked the accused under Sections 419 (cheating by personation) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 45 of the Advocates Act following investigation,” said ASI Sukhpal Singh, who is investigating the case at the Division Number 5 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-man-booked-for-defending-murder-accused-in-court-without-law-licence-101615401690062.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||PIL seeks Bombay HC intervention for manufacturing MDR TB drugs||The Bombay high court on Wednesday asked the Centre to decide on the representations made by two multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) survivors who have filed public interest litigation (PIL) seeking directions to the government to allow non-commercial production of two drugs Bedaquiline and Delamanid which are essential for the treatment of MDR-TB. The PIL was filed as the drugs, patents of which are solely with the government, are not available regularly resulting in a break in the treatment regime for the near-fatal ailment. The petitioners have said that if the Centre authorises other manufacturers by giving them the patents, the shortage problem would be resolved. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the PIL filed by Meera Yadav, an MDR and extensively drug-resistant TB (XDR TB) survivor and Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, an NGO run by another survivor was informed by senior advocate Anand Grover that after the World Health Organisation (WHO) had approved Bedaquiline and Delamanid as essential drugs for treating MDR and XDR TB, the patent for the medicines had been given to individual nations. After India got the patent, the same was given to two different pharmaceutical companies to undertake the manufacturing of the drugs. As the cost of the drugs was high and generic drugs were not allowed to be imported, the companies were asked to give the drugs as donations to the government which in turn would be used to treat patients. However, due to the high number of patients in India which has forced India to declare an emergency the government has to procure the medicines at a high price as well. According to the petition, a six-month course of Bedaquiline costs around ₹26,600 and Delamanid costs up to ₹91,414 per course implying that the government would have to shell out huge amounts for the treatment of a single patient being treated under the Revised National Tuberculosis Control Programme (RNTCP) now known as the National Tuberculosis Elimination Program (NTEP). The petition states that as generic drugs are available for as cheap as ₹600-1,275 per month for both the Bedaquiline and Delamanid drugs, the Centre should be directed to issue compulsory licenses to other manufacturers by giving them the patents as it would reduce the burden of the cost of treatment per patient on the government. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh for the central government informed the bench that the petitioners had already made representations to the concerned authorities and the same would be taken up expeditiously hence the PIL should be disposed of. The court, however, observed that as the issue was of utmost importance as made out by the petitioners, it would keep the PIL pending and allow the Centre to decide on the representations which could then be placed before the bench for further consideration. Thus saying the court allowed the centre to respond after seven weeks and posted the hearing to April 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pil-seeks-bombay-hc-intervention-for-manufacturing-mdr-tb-drugs-101615401510156.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||Man stabs wife to death, jumps in front of train near Mumbai||A 48-year-old killed his wife and then died by suicide by jumping in front of a train on Wednesday. Mahendra Yadav, a technician with a reputed linen fabric unit in Tarapur, allegedly killed his wife Madhuri, 45, in their Saravili flat during a fight. According to the couple’s 11-year-old daughter, Yadav had returned from work around 9pm, following which they were having dinner when the fight started, said senior inspector Pradip Kasbe of Boisar MIDC police station. As the fight escalated, the daughter and his 9-year-old brother went to neighbour, who came and pacified the couple. Around 2.30am, the couple again started fighting, following which their son went to get their neighbour. When Yadav opened the door to their neighbour after repeated knocks, the neighbour found Madhuri in a pool of blood. Yadav had slit her throat using a knife, which the police has seized, said Kasbe.Yadav then fled from the spot and went to the railway tracks near their building and jumped in front of a Mumbai-bound express train. The loco pilot informed the Boisar traffic control, who informed Palghar GRP. Palghar GRP has handed over the body to their relatives. “We have registered case of murder against the deceased. The two children are with the victim’s brother,” said a police officer. The police are probing further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-stabs-wife-to-death-jumps-in-front-of-train-near-mumbai-101615401450500.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||Need clarity on summer exams: Student groups to state, Mumbai university||The Maharashtra Students Welfare Association (MSWA) has approached the state education department and state universities including the University of Mumbai (MU) seeking clarity on the mode of examinations for the summer 2021 session. “No one has shared any information regarding summer 2021 examination, whether the same will be held in the online or offline mode. Students need to prepare accordingly, therefore we request the varsity to release a clear statement,” said a spokesperson for MSWA. Many students have taken to various social media platforms to share their concern.In the first week of February, state education minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant announced that colleges can reopen with not more than 50% attendance on campus at any given point of time. MU affirmed this move with circular asking colleges to approach local civic authority or the collector’s office before restarting physical classes in a phased manner. The circular also shared Covid-19 safety guidelines prescribed by the University Grants Commission (UGC) to ensure the safety of staff and students.On February 12, however, after a meeting between officials from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and MU, civic officials said the reopening of colleges be postponed by a week until February 22. The idea was to examine if restarting local trains for the general public would have any effect on total Covid-19 cases in the city. At present, with Covid-19 cases on a rise, the decision to reopen colleges has been put off until further notice.“Since there has also been discussion on reopening of colleges, there’s confusion whether exams, if held in May this year, could be conducted offline as well. Whatever the scenario, there needs to be some clarification,” said another student.While a formal decision on the mode of examination for the summer 2021 session is still pending, an official from MU’s examination department said as of now, examinations will be held in the online mode only. “Unless we hear from the government on whether exams can be held in offline mode, we cannot make any announcement on the same,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/need-clarity-on-summer-exams-student-groups-to-state-mumbai-university-101615401391092.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||INS Karanj commissioned in Indian Navy||The third Scorpene-class submarine INS Karanj of Project-75 was commissioned into the Indian Navy on Wednesday, after two years of rigorous sea trials. The submarine was launched in January 2018 for sea trials and it will increase the strength and capability of the Indian Navy, said chief of naval staff (CNS) admiral Karambir Singh.Singh and retired admiral VS Shekhawat were present at the event. Shekhawat, who was part of the commissioning crew of the old Karanj and also its commanding officer during the 1971 India-Pakistan war, was the chief guest.Shekhawat, the 14th CNS who served as navy chief from September 30, 1993 to September 30, 1996, said, “We live in India and launch numerous satellites, build nuclear submarines, manufacture vaccines for the world. The new Karanj is another example of Make In India”. He said that between the first and second world wars submarines were hardly evolved. However, after the second world war, when electronic revolution started off, development and engineering began to take place and the nature of the submarine substantially changed. “There is a huge difference between the old Karanj and the new one. But one thing will never change, that is the sea and the dangers of the sea,” he added.Shekhawat quoted a British navy officer who insisted that “the hazard of the sea must always be given priority over the violence of the enemy, the enemy you might have to get away from, but from sea you can never escape if there is a danger situation.”“This Project-75 submarine is motivation to indigenisation, and Aatmanirbhar Bharat is a fundamental tenet of Indian Navy’s growth story and future operational capabilities,” Singh said.He added, “The Air Independent Propulsion (AIP) system, which was recently developed by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the trials have just been completed, will be ready in 2023. After that, when the first submarine will go for refit, AIP will be installed in her. AIP plug will increase the capability of submarines to spend more time underwater.” INS Karanj is India’s third of the six Scorpene-class submarines which have superior stealth and several major combat capabilities to defeat an enemy. INS Karanj, a diesel-electric attack submarine and built under Project-75 at Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Limited in Mumbai. The first submarine, INS Kalvari was launched in October 2015 and was commissioned in December 2017, five years behind the schedule. The second one, INS Khanderi, was launched in January 2017 for sea trials and commissioned in September 2019 and INS Karanj will be commissioned soon. After the tree submarines were handed over to the Indian navy, and multiple torpedoes and missile firing were undertaken during trials to confirm the fighting capability, said a Navy officer. The fourth submarine INS Vela was launched in May 2019 and is undergoing sea trials while the fifth one, INS Vagir, was launched in November 2020 and is also undergoing trials. The sixth submarine, INS Vagsheer, is in various stages of outfitting.Scorpene-class submarines can undertake multifarious types of missions such as anti-surface warfare, anti-submarine warfare, intelligence gathering, mine laying, area surveillance etc. The submarine is designed to operate in all theatres with means provided to ensure interoperability with other components of a Naval Task Force. It is a strong platform, marking a generational shift in submarine operations.The state-of- the-art technology utilised for construction of Scorpene-class submarines has ensured superior stealth features such as advanced acoustic silencing techniques, low radiated noise levels, hydro-dynamically optimised shape and the ability to launch a crippling attack on the enemy using precision guided weapons. The attack can be launched with both torpedoes and tube launched anti-ship missiles at the same time, underwater or on surface. The stealth of this strong platform is enhanced by the special attention given to various signatures. These stealth features give it invulnerability, unmatched by most submarines. Box:The Old INS Karanj was commissioned on September 4, 1969 at Riga in the erstwhile USSR (United States of Soviet Russian) and took active part in the conflict under the Command of then commander VS Shekhawat and was decommissioned in 2003.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ins-karanj-commissioned-in-indian-navy-101615401333143.html
11-03-2021||Other||State govt forms SIT for probe into Jarkiholi harassment case||Bengaluru: Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday announced the formation of a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to investigate into the case pertaining to the alleged sex tape of former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi.BJP MLA Jarkiholi had stepped down as Karnataka’s water resources minister on March 3 amid allegations of sexual harassment against him. The formation of the SIT comes a day after Jarkiholi claimed that he was aware of the political conspiracy being hatched against him for around four months.“In a letter, Ramesh Jarkiholi has said that there was a politically motivated attempt to defame him. He has requested to conduct a thorough investigation into the case. Based on this, after having discussions with the chief minister and senior police officers, we have decided to form an SIT (Special Investigation Team) to probe who conspired in this case and where the CD was prepared,” home minister Bommai said.He added that Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant has been asked to appoint Additional Commissioner of Police (West) Soumendu Mukherjee to head the SIT.Social activist Dinesh Kalahalli had alleged that Jarkiholi had sexually exploited an unnamed woman on the false promise of getting her a job in the Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Limited (KPTCL). Kalahalli, however, on last Sunday withdrew his complaint. Following this, on Tuesday, Jarkiholi had called the video “fake”. “I knew about this conspiracy four months ago (and) was warned about it. I got a call 26 hours in advance from the high command, from my well-wishers that your CD will be released by 5-6 pm the next day. They asked me to take precautionary legal action, but I still did not do it. This is a major political conspiracy,” Jarkiholi had said on Tuesday.He further claimed that the entire conspiracy was hatched in two apartments around Yeshwantpur area of Bengaluru. He said there were two main conspirators and at least seven more behind them who hatched the plan. He refused to divulge any more details.His brother and Bharatiya Janata Party legislator Balachandra Jarkiholi on Sunday had alleged that conspirators spent over ₹15 crore to upload the video in Russia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-govt-forms-sit-for-probe-into-jarkiholi-harassment-case-101615401331755.html
11-03-2021||Other||Infighting in BJP intensifies amid row over Panchamasali reservation||Bengaluru The problems for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Karnataka government continued to pile up as legislators of the ruling party took on each other over the issue of changing the reservation category for the Panchamasali, one of the biggest subsects of the dominant and politically influential Lingayat community.Basanagouda Ramangouda Patil (Yatnal) triggered the heated exchanges on Wednesday after he remarked that chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who had promised to give his response on the topic, had gone absconding.“Yesterday the CM told us outside that I (CM) will give us an answer today. Today the CM has absconded,” Yatnal, a staunch critic of Yediyurappa, said in the Karnataka legislative assembly during the ongoing budget session.“Let the CM tell us what he feels about our community,” he said.Yatnal added that even the Congress’s leader of the opposition, Siddaramaiah, wanted to talk on the issue since he admired the community. “What about our CM’s love (for the community). He used the name of our community (Lingayats) and came to the chair (chief minister),” he said.His statements triggered a sharp reaction from M.P. Renukacharya, the chief minister’s political secretary and BJP legislator from Honnali in Davangere district.“The chief minister has not gone absconding. Whether it is Panchamasali, Veerashaiva, any of the subcastes or other scheduled castes or tribes… The CM has great respect for all of them. You shouldn’t talk like this,” he told Yatnal.The infighting between the BJP gave the Congress a chance to sit and watch the bickering within the ruling party from the comfort of the opposition benches.Basavaraj Bommai, Karnataka’s home, law and parliamentary affairs minister on Wednesday said the Supreme Court’s decision to examine if the 50% reservation cap should be reviewed was a “beacon”.He said that after due consultations, Karnataka would also present its views before the apex court.“In the case relating to reservation for the Maratha community, the Supreme Court’s constitution bench has sought views from all the states, it is kind of a beacon for us in resolving these issues,” Bommai said.The statements come at a time when at least four dominant and politically influential communities have sought higher allocations of reservation and change of category among other requests.The Panchamasalis, Vokkaligas, Valmikis and Kurubas have intensified their reservation-related demands, further adding to Yediyurappa’s troubles.“To give them justice, everything has to be done under the provisions of the constitution and legal framework. As demands by various communities have come together, resolving it will lead to exceeding 50 per cent,” Bommai said.Yediyurappa has formed a three-member committee to look into the reservation-related demands of various communities.Unconvinced by Bommai’s response, Yatnal threatened to stage a protest inside the assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/infighting-in-bjp-intensifies-amid-row-over-panchamasali-reservation-101615401331153.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||Like captain of Titanic, judiciary should be last to get Covid-19 vaccine: Bombay HC chief justice||While chiding petitioning lawyers for being selfish and seeking Covid-19 vaccination for the judiciary on priority, ahead of others, through public interest litigation (PIL), the chief justice (CJ) of Bombay high court (HC) Dipankar Datta observed that as the number of vaccines available per day was limited, municipal employees who go from door to door providing essential services every day were more deserving of getting vaccinated on a priority. The CJ further held that just like the captain of the sinking ship Titanic who did not leave till all passengers were evacuated, the judiciary should be the last to get vaccinated. When informed that the Supreme Court (SC) was seized of a petition filed by the vaccine manufacturer seeking transfer of all such PILs filed in various high courts across the country to the SC, the CJ said the hearing would continue in the PIL on March 17 if there was anything amiss in the policy. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the PIL filed by advocate Vaishnavi Gholave and another through advocates Vinod Sangvikar and Yashodeep Deshmukh, was informed that it sought to declare members of the legal fraternity as frontline workers and get them the Covid-19 vaccination on a priority basis. The petition further stated that after lawyers were added to the list of essential service providers in October and were allowed to travel on local trains vaccinating members of the legal fraternity would avoid the risk of Covid-19 in courts where a large number of people assemble. After hearing the submissions in the PIL the CJ observed, “You are asking judges to be vaccinated first because they are Covid-19 warriors? Why not the municipal employees who come every day to your house to pick up garbage. There are people providing food during the lockdown. Aren’t they frontline workers?” The bench further said, “Why should we think of the lawyers, judges only? Why not the staff of private organisations? What happens when someone does not survive. Survival is more important. This is very selfish of you.” Advocate Deshmukh responded saying that lawyers providing legal aid to needy litigants had worked throughout the lockdown and represented them as well as per state duty, hence they should get vaccinated to which the bench replied, “No doubt there is a risk but we have to exercise caution and take precautions by following Covid protocols. Have faith in the executive as they have done such a wonderful job in containing and combatting the infection.” While comparing the judiciary and the captain of the Titanic ship CJ said, “Have you seen Titanic? Do you recollect the captain of the ship? Do you remember what he did? He has to wait till others are evacuated. He was the last one. First, everyone gets it and the judiciary gets it last. I am the captain here.” Additional solicitor general (ASG) Anil Singh for the Union of India then informed the bench that similar pleas were before several high courts and Delhi High Court had also initiated a suo motu petition with regards to the vaccination drive. Singh also added that Bharat Biotech, the vaccine manufacturer had filed an application before the SC for transferring all pleas there. The CJ then asked the centre that whenever it decided to vaccinate the legal fraternity it should consider lawyers working with the legal services authority on priority. “Since you have told us that there is an application for transfer pending, we won’t give our opinion at this stage. We will give our opinion only if there is something amiss in the policy,” said the CJ and posted the hearing of the PIL to Wednesday, March 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/like-captain-of-titanic-judiciary-should-be-last-to-get-covid-19-vaccine-bombay-hc-chief-justice-101615401330071.html
11-03-2021||Other||K’taka sees lowest per capita income growth in over 10 yrs||Bengaluru For the first time in over a decade, Karnataka has seen its lowest growth in the per capita income at 1.6% in 2020-21. The per capita income for the state for 2020-21 was estimated at ₹226,796 as against ₹223,175 a year ago, when the state had registered a growth of 8.49%, data shows. Officials at the finance and other government departments in Karnataka attribute the contraction to the Covid-19 pandemic impact and de-growth in key sectors like industry and services, which recorded a negative growth of -5.1% and -3.1%, respectively, even though agriculture recorded an increase of 6.4%. “All industries and sectors were hit due to the lockdown for at least two months in 2020. Though the IT industry is likely to have done well, it comes under the broader category of services like transport, trade and other businesses,” said a senior government official, who did not wish to be named. The per capita drop is linked to the shrinking of the GSDP (gross state domestic product) by as much as 2.6% — the first decline in over a decade in the state, which is considered one of the most industrious in the country with thriving IT, startup, aerospace and defence, biotechnology and various other sectors. But Bengaluru’s growth in these sectors has seen the divide between the capital city and the remaining districts of the calamity-prone state widen, data shows. According to the 2020-21 economic survey, which shares the latest district-wise data on per capita income, Bengaluru has seen a jump of over 10% from ₹448,485 in 2017-18 to ₹496,208 in 2018-19. Bengaluru’s per capita income was five times more than Yadgiri, ranked the lowest in the state, with just ₹97,353. More striking is the regional imbalance in Karnataka where the ‘prosperous southern’ districts continue to grow at higher rates than their more backward northern regions. According to division-wise per capita income, Bengaluru stands at ₹301,748 as against Kalaburagi division, which is home to six of the most backward districts in the country, at ₹114,133. The per capita income of Mysuru division stands at ₹205,829, Belagavi at ₹128,761 and ₹156,729 in Bengaluru rural (not including Bengaluru city), according to data provided in the economic survey released along with the state budget. Successive governments have done little to rectify the regional imbalances, which only seems to be growing with time as the technology and industrial ecosystem in Bengaluru attracts all the investments and jobs while the government continues to feed this by building better infrastructure, leaving little else for the rest of the state. Karnataka chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa has set aside ₹3,000 crore for the development of backward talukas and ₹1,500 crore for Kalayana Karnataka (formerly known as Hyderabad Karnataka). The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in the state said they have made enough allocations to help accelerate development in the region. “It is not enough but we have taken a step in the right direction. There are projects like ₹5,600-crore irrigation works, railways, roads and others,” Umesh Katti, Karnataka’s food and civil supplies minister, said. Katti is also a legislator from Hukkeri in Belagavi district. However, analysts do not buy into this theory, stating that most governments, irrespective of party, have continued to ignore the northern parts. “The budget remains centered around Bengaluru, Mysuru and other southern districts. The leadership in North Karnataka is weak and society is also docile,” said one political analyst, requesting not to be named. He added that most of the politicians in the north either own sugar mills or run educational institutions and hospitals, making them think of their own interests before that of the people in the region, which is home to the second most arid parts in the country after Rajashtan. Priyank Kharge, the Congress legislator from Chittapur in Kalaburagi district and former minister for social welfare, said the trend in the last three years has been that the government gives funds for Kalyana Karnataka Regional Development Board (KKRDB) but rarely make other provisions to bridge the growing regional imbalance. By amendment to the Constitution, Article 371(j) was created in 2013 and the KKRDB was set up on 6 November, the same year, which provides reservation for the people of the region in education, employment and other areas. Kharge said the KKRDB should supplement the state government’s efforts to invest and develop the region, adding that the situation was working the other way around. “If this is the attitude, then we cannot bridge the gap,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ktaka-sees-lowest-per-capita-income-growth-in-over-10-yrs-101615401269516.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Are private hospitals in Mumbai ready to give shots 24x7?||Following a meeting between officials from the Central government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday, private vaccination centres have been authorised to carry out immunisation round the clock. At present, vaccinations are administered till 5pm. Representatives of private hospitals said that 24x7 centres are not mandatory and the decision to offer inoculation after 5pm will be based on public response. Last week, the state’s Covid-19 task force along with the Association of Hospitals (AOH), a trust of private hospitals, had submitted a proposal to BMC to start 24x7 vaccination centres. It will take two to three days for all private hospitals to decide on extending their existing timings, as they study the public response. Dr V Ravishankar, chief operating officer (COO) of Lilavati Hospital in Bandra, welcomed the decision and said the hospital would extend the time for vaccination till 8pm. “We have seven vaccination units ready for the mass immunisation process. Four units are already running. If needed, we can open up the remaining three units. But it depends on public response. We do not want to waste our resources and manpower by keeping it open 24x7,” said Dr Ravishankar. Hiranandani Hospital also plans to carry out vaccination for 12 hours from today onwards. The hospital has also sought assistance from Rotary Club in Powai. “Our hospital, being a mid-size hospital, is exploring how to conduct this exercise at night. We are going to divide the hospital task force into two batches, comprising a mix of doctors, nurses, front office staff, technicians, IT staff and security — one for the morning shift and the other for the afternoon. Management staff will do crowd management and hospitality,” said Dr Sujit Chatterjee, chief executive officer (CEO) of the hospital. While some have pointed out that the number of probable beneficiaries is likely to fall after 8pm, Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician at Bombay Hospital in Marine Lines, said most major private hospitals have over 2,000 healthcare workers who work in three shifts, including at night. “All hospitals have nurses on night duty who are qualified to vaccinate the public. So there won’t be much problem in arranging vaccinators. We can easily station two to three nurses at vaccination units,” he said. However, some medical practitioners questioned whether running vaccination programmes for all 24 hours in a day would be feasible. “In comparison to January 16 [the first day of the nationwide mass vaccination programme], the turnout has increased by over 100%. So there is a need to extend the timing of inoculation. This will be beneficial for working professionals who are struggling to get their parents to vaccination centres. But making it 24x7 won’t be helpful,” said an officer from a private hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-are-private-hospitals-in-mumbai-ready-to-give-shots-24x7-101615401210468.html
11-03-2021||Other||Surge in Covid cases: Open to reinforcing night curfew, says Ludhiana DC||The administration will not shy away from enforcing night curfew again if the current resurge in Covid-19 cases continues over the next few days.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma shared this during his Facebook Live session on Wednesday evening. Urging residents to strictly follow all Covid-19 related guidelines, he said the district administration was keeping a close eye on the situation simmering due to the second wave of Covid-19 in Ludhiana, and will impose night curfew if the present situation persists during the next few days. “Organisers and invitees of public events must think twice, as large gatherings can take a heavy toll on all of us, especially when 10 Covid-19 patients are on ventilator support and 166 more are hospitalised. The necessity of an event can be pondered upon before it is organised and invitees should also step out of their homes wisely to keep the virus under check,” he said, while sharing that the daily Covid-19 cases had swollen from 35 a week ago to 125 now, which was quite worrisome. “We should not nurse this misconception that the second wave has arrived or not. I am telling you that the second wave has arrived and we have to take adequate measures and precautions to prevent the spread of coronavirus,” Sharma said. He reiterated the need to wear mask in public, frequently wash/sanitise hands and maintain social distance.‘We’re lucky to have the vaccine’The deputy commissioner called upon senior citizens and people aged between 45 and 59 and having comorbidities to get vaccinated at their nearest healthcare institution, as it was the only key to keeping the virus at bay. “There are many countries in the world that are longing for the vaccine, but we are lucky that our scientists have developed it well in time and it is our duty to come forward for vaccination,” he said, while urging people to visit any healthcare centre with their Aadhaar card to get the jab after on-the-spot registration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/surge-in-covid-cases-open-to-reinforcing-night-curfew-says-ludhiana-dc-101615401090075.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records 1,539 fresh Covid-19 cases highest since October 21||On Wednesday, there were 1,539 new cases of Covid-19, the highest daily tally for the city since October 21, 2020, when 1,609 Covid-positive cases were reported in Mumbai. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the city has gone up to 3,37,124. Mumbai also reported five deaths on Wednesday, taking the Covid death toll to 11,515, with a case fatality rate (CFR) of 3.4%. Mumbai presently has 9,973 active cases and a recovery rate of 93%. In the past two weeks, the number of active cases in Mumbai has increased by over 50%. On February 23, Mumbai had 6,119 active cases. The overall growth rate for Covid-19 in the city is 0.32% and the doubling rate is 215 days. In light of the growing number of Covid-19 cases in the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to allow private vaccination centres to operate round the clock. With this move, BMC hopes to achieve its target of vaccinating 100,000 people daily. In a statement issued on Wednesday, BMC said, “When we can achieve the target of vaccinating 100,000 people daily, the 3,000,000 senior citizens who qualify as beneficiaries in this phase of the vaccination drive can be vaccinated within one month.” As part of the third phase of the nationwide immunisation programme, vaccines are being administered to senior citizens and citizens above the age of 45 years who have comorbidities. The third phase started on March 1. So far, 1,65,034 senior citizens and 19,040 citizens above the age of 45 years have been vaccinated. At present, there are 71 vaccination centres in Mumbai, which operate between eight hours and 12 hours daily, except on Sundays. BMC has also sent a proposal to the government to approve 29 more hospitals to become vaccination centres. Those who are eligible for vaccines can register on the Centrally managed Co-WIN app, which is monitoring the vaccination drive, or directly visit their nearest hospital to register for inoculation. The Co-WIN app has repeatedly suffered from technical issues. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Wednesday instructed the administration to form a team from the public health department to take calls on BMC’s helpline number (1916) and help those who may be facing technical difficulties while registering for vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-1-539-fresh-covid-19-cases-highest-since-october-21-101615401031337.html
11-03-2021||Mumbai||18 Mumbai suburban railway stations get digital maps||In a bid to improve accessibility of passengers travelling by local trains on the suburban railway network, Central Railway (CR) has equipped 18 railway stations with digital maps. The maps are placed near the entrance of the stations and have details of passenger amenities including foot overbridges, washroom, platforms, water vending machines, food stalls, booking offices, ATM machine placements, railway offices, lifts and escalators at the station.The maps are placed at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), Dadar, Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT), Kurla, Ghatkopar, Thane, Kalyan, Masjid Bunder, Panvel, Byculla, Matunga, Sandhurst Road, Sion, Vikhroli, Bhandup, Mulund, Dombivli and Mankhurd railway stations. “Digital display map has the potential to revolutionise the way Indian Railways is perceived, by facilitating travel by providing each passenger with timely information which is relevant, visible, language neutral and dynamically changeable,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central Railway.The maps will also help the zonal railway to increase their non-fare revenue. Earlier, the zonal railway had placed large signboards at CSMT station displaying platforms of suburban and mainline passenger amenities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/18-mumbai-suburban-railway-stations-get-digital-maps-101615401030137.html
11-03-2021||Noida||Rain likely in next two days in Noida, air quality to improve||Noida: A brief respite from the rising mercury is on the cards this week as Noida and its adjoining areas may see rains with hail over two days, including in parts of western Uttar Pradesh, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its forecast on Wednesday.Besides, according to weather analysts, the effect of a western disturbance and an induced cyclonic circulation over Rajasthan and Haryana will help reduce maximum temperatures till March 12.“On Thursday, the region, including Noida, may see light rain showers along with thunderous activities and gusty winds ranging between 30 and 40 kmph towards evening or night. On Friday, the region may see thunderstorms accompanied with hail in parts of NCR, western Uttar Pradesh including Noida,” said an official at the IMD.“Hail and thunderstorms are likely towards Thursday evening and Friday due to a western disturbance and cyclonic circulation over Rajasthan. The region will also see strong winds which may bring down pollution levels as well. The temperature may marginally drop but this will be only for a few days as the rainfall is not expected to be continuous,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet.A western disturbance is moisture-laden wind that originates from the Mediterranean which is responsible for snowing in the northern states.Meanwhile, the air quality of the city improved to ‘moderate’ in Noida. Wednesday saw the cleanest air quality of this month so far due to thunderous activities a day earlier, which improved ventilation. The air quality of Greater Noida and Ghaziabad also improved from ‘very poor’ to ‘poor’ category.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Wednesday, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 152 against 293 a day earlier.The AQI of Greater Noida was 239 against 339 a day earlier. Ghaziabad recorded an AQI of 221 against 334 on Tuesday.An AQI level up to 100 is considered ‘good’, between 101 and 200 is ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’.“Wind speed on Wednesday improved to around 15 kmph on Wednesday,” said Palawat.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the air quality may deteriorate slightly for one day but due to better wind speed later, pollution levels will come down soon.“Rain/thundershowers observed in and around Delhi have washed out suspended particular matter and led to improved air quality. Surface winds are calm. AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate to the ‘moderate’ to ‘poor’ category for Thursday. An increase in wind speed and ventilation is expected on Friday and AQI is likely to improve to the ‘moderate’ category. Isolated thunderstorms and local dust lifting are likely at isolated places on Thursday and Friday,” said a SAFAR statement on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/rain-likely-in-next-two-days-in-noida-air-quality-to-improve-101615400372429.html
11-03-2021||Noida||Wastage of Covaxin doses at 21% in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: An estimated 1,593 doses of Covaxin have gone waste in Ghaziabad since the launch of the vaccination drive against Covid-19 on January 16, as per the state health department figures. The wastage rate for Covaxin till March 8 is over 21%, which is well above the 10% limit allowed by the Union ministry of health. However, the district has fared better in terms of wastage of Covishield doses at about 4.54%, the data shows.Officials of the Ghaziabad health department attributed the wastage primarily to fewer people coming up to get the jab.According to the state figures, Ghaziabad till March 8 had a consumption of 7,580 Covaxin doses with wastage of 21.02%, while 2,179 doses of Covishield, out of 47,950 doses, got wasted in the district.“Covaxin was used primarily during the vaccination of front-line workers where we assumed that they would turn out in large numbers. However, when we sent the vials of Covaxin at the centres, many reported that only few of front-line workers arrived to take up jabs. Since a vial of Covaxin contains 20 doses, the rest turned waste. So, it was due to lower turnout of front-line workers that our wastage of Covaxin was on higher side,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad.The overall wastage in the state for Covishield is about 9.35% (of 2215680 doses used) while that for Covaxin it is about 12.53% (of 257000 doses used), as per the official figures.“The vaccination with Covishield is much better in terms of wastage as it has 10 doses in a vail. We have more stock of Covishield with us. So, majority of government as well as private hospitals were given Covishield vaccine,” Gupta added.According to Ghaziabad’s stock figures for both the vaccines, the district vaccine store till April 9 despatched 108910 doses, including 20000 doses for the private sector, of Covishield to 29 vaccine storage points, while 16560 doses of Covaxin were despatched. From the vaccine storage points, the vials are further despatched to vaccination centres as per requirements, the officials said.“Our wastage for the two vaccines is about 4-5%. On days when we have stock of Covaxin, we open a vial once we have 17-18 beneficiaries at our centre. So, this way, wastage is reduced considerably. We are vaccinating an average of 300-350 beneficiaries per day,” said Dr Sanjay Teotia, chief medical superintendent of Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital which operates six days a week.The private hospitals are taking up paid vaccination to beneficiaries. “We are ensuring proper handling of vaccine doses and also ensuring that we open up a vial once we have presence of at least 10 beneficiaries. As a result, we have almost 0% wastage so far and we are administering vaccine to an average of about 200 beneficiaries per day,” said a spokesperson of Yashoda Hospital at Kaushambi.According to the records of the district health department till March 9, 19,356 health-care workers (out of 25,003 identified beneficiaries under the category) have taken their first dose while 14,903 have got second dose as well.Likewise, 10,676 of identified 18,897 front-line workers have taken up their first dose and 749 of these took their second dose till March 9.Under the third category of senior citizens and those having co-morbid conditions, 15,968 senior citizens have taken first dose while another 1,373 beneficiaries having co-morbid conditions have also taken their first dose till March 9. The vaccination coverage for the senior citizens as well as those having co-morbid conditions is about 18.55% with a target of 93,480 to be achieved in March.“To increase vaccination coverage, we are trying to allow the district women hospital to open up for vaccination for six days in a week,” Gupta added.Overall, 25 government health-care centres and 33 private hospitals are engaged in the vaccination drive in Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/wastage-of-covaxin-doses-at-21-in-ghaziabad-101615400249370.html
11-03-2021||Gurugram||MCG seeks to increase revenue from water bills||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Wednesday identified water bills as a major source of revenue and decided to emphasise bill generation and collection for higher revenue in 2021-22 financial year in its pre-budget meeting held on Wednesday, officials familiar with the matter said.The meeting was held at the Haryana Institute of Public Administration (HIPA) office in Sector 18 and attended by all councillors and senior officials of the MCG.“In a short duration, the MCG has generated around ₹23 crore through issuance of water bills in the 2020-21 financial year. By surveying the entire city and generating bills for the entire Gurugram, the MCG can generate a minimum of ₹100 crore through water meter bills. Hence, we have decided to give special emphasis to this,” said Madhu Azad, mayor, MCG who chaired the meeting.Although the MCG’s revenue records list 297,000 registered properties, only 88,000 water meters are registered on the records. Officials said that the MCG will be issuing water bills for all authorised and unauthorised colonies, private builder areas and sectors falling within its limits, starting this year.The MCG sanctioned 33,000 water bills to residents last August for the first time and last month, hired a private contractor till 2024 to issue on-the-spot bills to residents based on the readings.In Wednesday’s meeting, councillors and officials also decided to increase the civic body’s income through advertisements, trade licences, meat licences, street vending, mobile towers and land leases. Officials said that the specific ways to generate revenue through these modes would be chalked out in next week’s meeting.The MCG is scheduled to table its 2021-22 budget on March 18.With regard to advertising, MCG officials apprised the councillors of a special campaign launched recently to take action against unauthorised advertisers. In a two-month drive, 800 FIRs were registered by the police and 1,200 challans issued, said officials.Officials said they are optimistic of significant revenue generation through property taxes, with around 500,000 units figuring on the MCG’s records.In the meeting, Vijay Singla, chief account officer, MCG, presented a draft of the proposed budget for the 2021-22 financial year and sought suggestions. He said as per the draft, around ₹4,700 crore of income and expenditure of around ₹2,200 crore has been estimated.Officials and councillors also decided that issues such as municipal bonds and road cut charges will be discussed in the upcoming House meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-seeks-to-increase-revenue-from-water-bills-101615398692673.html
11-03-2021||Gurugram||12-hr Covid vaccination drive at select hospitals from March 12||Following directives from the central government to increase Covid-19 vaccination coverage, hospitals in Gurugram will extend their vaccination timings from March 12.At least 11 private hospitals and two public health facilities will extend their services till 9pm from the existing slot of 9am till 5pm. Among them, Artemis, Fortis, Max and Medanta hospitals, are also likely to have a 24/7 vaccination facility from March 15, according to a senior district health department official.“We have received the recommendation from the health department on these four hospitals for the round-the-clock vaccination drive. We are reviewing it and will give approval if they meet the criteria,” said Yash Garg, deputy commissioner on Wednesday.The other private hospitals that will extend their services are Kalyani, Narayana, Park, Paras, Signature, CK Birla and Medeor. The district level task force that met at the mini secretariat on Wednesday extended the services at the two government facilities, Civil Hospital in sector 10 and polyclinic in sector 31, till 9pm too.“At least 13 vaccination centres will now run for 12 hours to inoculate people above the age of 60 years and those aged 45 to 59 with existing co-morbidities. The decision has been taken in the wake of high turnout of prioritised population group for the jab,” said Dr Virender Yadav, Gurugram chief medical officer.The district currently has vaccination centres at 45 private hospitals and 22 public health facilities, including urban primary health centres in different localities. Seven additional private hospitals will also be added as vaccination centres by March 13.Vaccination in private hospitals has been taking place from Monday to Saturday, while in government facilities it is being held on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday.On Wednesday, at least 3226 people above the age of 60 and 454 between 45 to 59 years took the jab at 45 centres, taking total vaccination count to over 86,360 in the district.Covid-19 cases rise furtherAs the district recorded at least 80 new Covid-19 infections on Wednesday taking the active case count to 471, the health department told private hospitals to increase testing during the task force meeting.In a statement issued by the district administration, hospitals have been told to test close contacts of the confirmed positive cases to prevent transmission of infection. “Considering the spike in cases, containment zones in the city will be increased. There will be barricading in containment zone and unnecessary movement will also be prohibited,” said Yadav.Arpita Mukherjee, vice president, operations, Max Super Specialty Hospital, Gurgram, said, “We are planning to start the 24X7 covid vaccination from Monday (March 15). At present, we have five dedicated stations for vaccination, and we are vaccinating 300- 500 people daily. As we are not expecting huge crowd during the night hours, we will keep two to three stations active for vaccination at night.”12-hour vaccination drivePrivate hospitalsArtemis, Max, Fortis, Medanta, Kalyani, Narayana, Park, Para, Singature, CK Birla and MedeorGovernment centresCivil Hospital at sector 10, polyclinic at sector 31Note: Timings: 9am to 9pm from March 12||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/12hr-covid-vaccination-drive-at-select-hospitals-from-march-12-101615398691900.html
11-03-2021||Pune||Pune’s blind-deaf judokas dream of international glory||Pune: Why do you practice judo? To win a medal in Paralympics is the sole answer from all the nine blind and deaf judokas who are training in Pune. For the local judokas, winning medals at the upcoming 9th National Blind Judo Championship to be held at Lucknow from March 19-20 is a step towards getting selected for the international tournaments. Since 1988, Paralympic judo has been a part of summer Paralympic games, but Indians are yet to make a mark at the international stage. “Learning new techniques and focus on game can win us medals at the international stage,” said Renuka Salve, who had won bronze at the Commonwealth Judo Championship at Walsall, Birmingham in 2019. “The national contest is also a selection tournament for three upcoming international tournaments to be conducted by the International Blind Sports Federation (IBSA). A medal in these tournaments will give them a chance to qualify,” said coach Rachana Dopeshwar, who trains the players at Sahyadri National School, Warje. International Para Judo Antalya Cup, Turkey (April 5-10); IBSA Junior Grand Prix, Baku, Azerbaijan; and Judo Grand Prix, Walsall, England (June 16-19) are the three tournaments of which events at Baku and Walsall are paralympic qualifying events. All the players taking part in the nationals don’t have a strong financial background. “Being partially deaf makes things hard, but support of the sports provides us a job opportunity. Though I took the sport for financial security, but winning gold is now my top priority,” said Ashutosh Korde. “I started learning judo for self-defence. With the support of Rachana madam, we came to know that the game has a bright future also,” said Pallavi Kamble, who also loves to do anchoring. Kamble, who missed a medal during the last nationals, aims to bite the metal this time. Tanshika Maske, who is completely blind, also participates in national blind chess tournaments. “I love both the sports as the two needs a lot of patience. I aim for international success in both the sports,” said Maske. It’s all about sign Omkar Mokashi, who is also a wrestler, started practicing judo since the last two years. “We focus on sign language. Once we learn what move we need to play, then competing becomes easy. We can focus more as we hear less so it is also one big advantage to us,” said Mokashi. Dopeshwar, who coaches them for free, said, “Winning medal is top priority and becoming a good judo player can also give them a chance to earn a job in sports quota which is also important for their career.” Selected players Akshita Dalavi (40kg) Tanshika Maske (48kg) Sonali Wajge (48kg) Pallavi Kamble (52kg) Renuka Salve (70kg) Laxmi Jadhav (78kg) Omkar Mokashi (63kg) Shubham Nimbalkar (73kg) Ashutosh Korde (81kg)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-blind-deaf-judokas-dream-of-international-glory-101615389148700.html
