14-03-2021||Mumbai||IITs set up schools, centres to foster research in AI||Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) across the country are now setting up new schools and research centres in applied artificial intelligence (AI) and data sciences (DS) to cater to the rising demand for qualified manpower in the area.Last week, IIT-Bombay announced that it will set up a ‘Technocraft Centre for Applied Artificial Intelligence’ (TCA2I), a research centre to foster collaboration between industry and academia in applied AI. This comes merely a year after the institute set up a new Centre for Machine Intelligence and Data Science (C-MInDS) to build a future talent pool in AI and DS through research, teaching, and collaboration with industry/government. While AI, Machine Learning (ML) and DS are widely taught to computer science students, institutes are realising the need to train students from all streams of engineering in these courses, given an increase in demand for qualified manpower in AI. C-MInDS at IIT-Bombay is now offering a BTech minor in subjects in the field of AI and dual degree MTech programme. “BTech students from any stream can complete five additional courses in AI and ML-related subjects and they will be awarded with a minor degree in machine intelligence and data sciences. The courses cut across all streams. The goal is to develop manpower, who are experts in their own domains, but also have expertise in AI and ML,” said Manjesh Hanawal, assistant professor, Industrial Engineering and Operations Research, IIT-Bombay, who is an associated faculty at both CMInDs and TCA2I. So far, around 100 students have registered for the BTech Minor course.In 2019, ed-tech company Great Learning estimated that around 97,000 jobs related to AI, analytics and DS were lying vacant in India. However, India ranked 40th among 172 countries in 2020 in AI-readiness, according to Oxford Insights and the International Research Development Centre. The study measured the country’s preparedness to adapt to AI technologies across 33 indicators.Demand for talent in AI and ML is 30% higher than the supply, said Sangeeta Gupta, senior vice-president and chief strategy officer, NASSCOMM, a not-for-profit association of the IT industry.Research output in AI, too, is poor as less than 2% of all PhDs are in the field of AI, ML and DS, according to a Niti Aayog report. Centres such as those set up at IITs will help improve the country’s research output, said Gupta. At Madras, the Robert Bosch Centre for Data Science and AI (RBCDSAI) was kicked off in 2017 and has since then published over 93 research papers.In September 2020, IIT-Delhi set up a School of Artificial Intelligence (ScAI) which began PhD programmes in AI from January this year. It has received around 160 applications in its first term. “From the next semester, we plan to start an MTech programme with an intake of 40. We have identified five core areas where we have our strength in AI applications — healthcare, material sciences, industry 4.0, robotics and multilingual natural language processing. ScAI aims to bring AI researchers across all departments together. It will facilitate collaborations to foster research in AI,” said Mausam, professor and founding head of ScAI. CMInDS, too, is likely to start regular MTech and PhD programmes in AI from the next semester.“There is an urgent need to improve the quality and quantity of research in AI as well as create highly trained professionals,” said Mausam. Inter-disciplinary research involving AI is key, said faculty members. “TCA2I focuses on research across domains. We are looking at interdisciplinary research in the application of AI in supply chain, logistics, transportation, cyber security, among others,” said Hanawal.“Today, many donors are also realising that there is a huge thrust on making our workforce ready to adapt to AI as well as bring out high-quality research work in AI,” said Hanawal. TCA2I at IIT-Bombay has been set up with donations to the tune of ₹15 crore spread over three years from alumni members.Many of the centres at IITs, such as Madras and Kharagpur, are set up in partnership with major IT organisations. “We are seeing many of our member companies partnering with these institutes for research centres. One of the reasons is they all have cases where they want to work on solutions in partnership with the academia. Through these centres, we have scope to build out new use cases where both the academia and the organisations can get an edge in these areas. For the institutions, these centres offer an opportunity to focus more on research,” said Gupta, adding that NASSCOM was also developing and curating courses in emerging technologies in partnership with various institutions and making the courses accessible.Madras was the first IIT in the country to offer an interdisciplinary five-year dual degree programme in data science — the students earn a bachelors degree in any branch of engineering and a masters degree in data science.B Ravindran, professor of Computer Science and Engineering and head of the RBCDSAI at IIT-Madras, said, “The goals of the centre were three-fold — to encourage fundamental research, to enable adoption of cutting edge AI in multiple verticals, and to impart high-quality AI education. We are one of the most productive AI labs in the country now, as measured by publications in top AI conferences. We also have significantly improved our footprint in interdisciplinary applications of AI across transportation, biology, manufacturing and finance.”The centre is now planning a part-time MTech in Industrial AI and an advanced programme for working professionals in applied machine intelligence.“AI, being a transformative technology, is a necessary skill for everyone and such centres play an important role in bringing about awareness and necessary appreciation. Our centre has projects that span various engineering departments, management studies, biotechnology, and social sciences,” said Ravindran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iits-set-up-schools-centres-to-foster-research-in-ai-101615746588661.html
14-03-2021||Noida||Noida: Gang robbing passengers on pretext of lift nabbed||Noida: Five members of a gang, allegedly robbing passengers at gunpoint in Delhi and Noida, were nabbed by the Expressway police on Sunday from Sector 128. According to officers, the gang was nabbed following a chase in Sector 128.“They had been active for the past six months. They mostly operated in Delhi’s Sarai Kale Khan, Anand Vihar, Mayur Vihar, etc., from where they picked up passengers to Noida and used the Delhi-Noida-Direct (DND) Flyway or the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway to bring them here. They also worked around Mahamaya Flyover, Pari Chowk etc,” said Yatendra Kumar, station house officer, Expressway police station.He said that members of the gang allegedly already present in a vehicle would offer lift to passengers and once they reached desolate spots, they would rob the passengers at gunpoint.“The gang often resorted to violence to rough up their victims and take valuables like jewellery, cash, etc. In case the people were low on cash, the gang would have them withdraw money from secluded ATM kiosks before letting them go,” said the SHO.Police said the vehicles allegedly used by the suspects were registered in their names to avoid suspicion during checking. Two sedans, several weapons and ₹25,000 were recovered. Police recovered over five kilogram narcotics from one of the vehicles as well, officers said.So far over a dozen cases have been identified in which the suspects were allegedly involved, in Delhi and Noida. Police are on the lookout for other members of the gang, while their criminal history, if any, is being looked at. They were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.This is the second such gang to be busted by the Expressway police in less than ten days, said officers. On March 5, three members of another gang were nabbed for similar offences from near Sector 168.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-gang-robbing-passengers-on-pretext-of-lift-nabbed-101615746587542.html
14-03-2021||Pune||MSRTC pulls out of Shivajinagar multi-model hub project||The Maharashtra State Regional Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has taken a decision to withdraw its stake from the multi-model hub project and refused to sign a contract agreement with MahaMetro due to the lack of viability gap funding. The MahaMetro has taken a decision to pay MSRTC for the piece of land which it acquired to construct the underground station. MahaMetro has proposed the construction of a multi-storied building with a bus depot and terminus at ground level where the MSRTC Shivajinagar bus terminus is located. It was decided that MahaMetro will develop the MSRTC bus terminus and hand it over to them. Accordingly, the Shivajinagar depot was shifted to Wakdewadi which is 1.5 kilometres away from the original depot in December 2019. The total land of the depot is more than 10,000 square metres. According to officials, the Shivajinagar terminus will remain closed for the next three years as metro rail terminus is being constructed under the state transport depot, crucial for buses going towards Aurangabad and Ahmednagar. Approximately 1,400 buses ply every day from the earlier Shivajinagar, now Wakdewadi bus terminus. Once the metro station is ready, the MSRTC will shift back to its terminus to Shivajinagar. After shifting the depot, MahaMetro wanted to sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with MSRTC. However, the MSRTC has now taken a decision to not be a part of the multi-model project. Metro will pay MSRTC for 4,000 square metres land Atul Gadgil, director Maha-Metro said, “The MSRTC doesn’t want to be a part of the multi-model hub of Pune Metro. They have written to us about that. Now, we will take 4,000 square metres of land from the depot for our station and the remaining will be handed over to them. We have also sent letters to them that we are ready to pay an amount for the piece of land which we want to use for our station.” He further said, “MSRTC did not mention a clear reason about withdrawing from the project but a lack of viability gap funding may be one of the reasons.” “It will not affect the Pune Metro footfall. The MSRTC will keep a pickup point there which will connect to the existing ST depot shifted at the Wakdewadi area,” he clarified. Commercial exploitation of prime land According to metro officials, as per the agreement, the MSRTC was going to give some amount to Metro as well as developers. At present, the MSRTC doesn’t have the money to give an amount to both agencies. Therefore, they postponed the decision to develop the depot with the help of the Metro. On the other hand, the MSRTC wants to shift their entire depot from the main city areas to the outskirts of the city and use the prime land for commercial exploitation. Abhijeet Bhosale, MSRTC chief public relations officer said, “At present, I don’t have any information regarding Shivajinagar depot.” Ramakant Gaikwad, MSRTC divisional controller, Pune division said, “It is a policy decision. I cannot comment on that.” However, it has been cleared that the MSRTC wants to put to use the prime land of Shivajinagar commercially. Last year in the month of February, Maharashtra transport minister Anil Parab had announced that MSRTC is facing financial problems. The department will look at financial models such as utilization of land banks, commercial exploitation of depots as well as public-private partnership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msrtc-pulls-out-of-shivajinagar-multi-model-hub-project-101615746528732.html
14-03-2021||Pune||Police on the lookout for five for attempted murder of 36-year old||The Pune police are on the lookout for five people for the attempted murder of a 36-year-old man. The accused were allegedly trying to usurp property from in Ambegaon, Pune. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Pradeep Patil (36) a resident of Prarambh Niwas, Jambhulwadi road, Ambegaon. The incident happened on March 1, but a complaint in the matter was lodged on Saturday ,and a case was registered on Sunday. According to the complainant, five men arrived in a JCB on the property where he lives and claimed to be the rightful owners. The men felled the compound wall of the property and started verbally abusing and threatening Patil. The intention of the men was to allegedly take forceful ownership of the property, as per the complaint The driver of the JCB hit Patil with the bucket of the JCB and pushed him in the path of the machine’s hefty tyres, according to the complainant. The complainant sustained grievous injuries and underwent treatment for them, he told the police. A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder), 447, 504, 506, 350, 427, and rioting of Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Bharati Vidyapeeth police station against the five.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/police-on-the-lookout-for-five-for-attempted-murder-of-36-year-old-101615746528140.html
14-03-2021||Pune||Two sent to police custody for murdering mobile thief||Two men were remanded to Pune police’s custody by a local court on Sunday for the murder of a man who was caught after stealing a mobile phone from one of the two arrested men in Manjri area on March 11. The two arrested men were identified as Anil Ankush More (35) and Baburao Raghunath Jadhav (29), according to the police. The two were remanded to two days in police custody by a local court on Sunday. The deceased was identified as Ravi Rathod (33), a resident of Manjri, Pune and the murder happened at a restaurant called Shivshahi hotel at around 8:30pm on Thursday. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Suresh Rathod (28), a resident of Godbole Vasti area of Manjri, Hadapsar and a friend of the deceased. The 33-year-old was habitual of drinking, according to the police. “He had gone there around 8:30pm to pack idli-sambar along with the complainant. The chutney that is served with idli was not ready, so the owner asked them to wait. While the complainant sat down, the deceased started roaming around in the restaurant. He saw the mobile phone on one counter and took it before slipping out of the restaurant while the complainant kept waiting. Within 15-20 minutes the owner realised what had happened,” said police inspector (crime) Digambar Shinde of Hadapsar police station who is investigating the case. The area of the deceased man’s house and the area where the restaurant is located is divided only by a few hundred metres and a railway track, according to the police. “The two arrested men asked the complainant to lead them to where the deceased man lived. They found him near the railway track, and he started running away. They caught him and started hitting him. One of them kicked him in the stomach,” said PI Shinde. The man was rushed to a nearby hospital and died while under treatment on March 12. Internal injury was deduced as the cause of death after post-mortem of the man’s body at Sassoon general hospital. A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Hadapsar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-sent-to-police-custody-for-murdering-mobile-thief-101615746527608.html
14-03-2021||Pune||City temperature to rise to 37 degrees Celsius this week: IMD forecast||The temperature in Pune and surrounding areas is expected to rise as high as 37 degree Celsius, according to IMD forecast. However, there is no forecast of a heat wave this week. The weather across Maharashtra may continue to remain warm with maximum temperature floating around 40 degrees Celsius this week. Pune city on Sunday reported a day temperature at 36.4 degrees Celsius which was 1.2 degrees warmer than normal. The minimum temperature in the city was 16.9 degrees Celsius which was also 1.2 warmer than normal. “The day temperature in the city will be around 37 degrees Celsius until March 16 and the minimum temperature will be 17 degrees Celsius. After March 16, the day and night temperature may witness a rise. There will be partial cloudy skies after March 16 due to which the day and night temperature may rise,” said IMD officials. As per IMD officials, there is no heat wave like situation in Pune City and Maharashtra state this week. “There is a gradual rise in day and night temperature but that is a normal phenomenon during summer. The weather across Maharashtra will remain dry until March 18. On March 18, there is a possibility of light rainfall with thunderstorms in Vidarbha,” said IMD officials. The highest maximum temperature reported in Maharashtra on Sunday was at Nanded at 39 degrees Celsius and the lowest minimum temperature in Maharashtra was in Pune at 16.9 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/city-temperature-to-rise-to-37-degrees-celsius-this-week-imd-forecast-101615746470342.html
14-03-2021||Pune||Cricket competition to help needy in Pune||In a bid to encourage youth and help the needy in the tough Covid-19 times, a cricket competition was organised by the Madat Pratishthan last week in Pune. Sachin Mujumle, president of the organization on behalf of his birthday distributed cash prizes and ration kits to below poverty line people. “Every year we used to celebrate my birthday in grand style and financially helped an orphanage or some NGOs who are doing good work for the society. This year, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, I wanted to do something different and encourage our youth to take the responsibility. So, we decided to hold a cricket competition on a local level and the funds which I was going to use to celebrate my birthday was used for this competition. We gave cash prizes to the winning teams and players, who also come from various areas and backgrounds in Pune. Also, ration kits were distributed by our organisation,” said Mujumle. Atul Namekar one of the residents of Shukrwar peth who participated in the cricket competition said, “It is a good decision to cancel the birthday celebrations and instead use the funds for some social cause. It was the only event which had sports activity and a noble cause to help the needy ones.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cricket-competition-to-help-needy-in-pune-101615746469728.html
14-03-2021||Pune||Residents booked for abusing MSEDCL employee||Multiple residents of a colony in Hadapsar have been booked for verbally abusing an MSEDCL employee on Saturday morning. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Avinash Bhosale (42), a resident of Kalepadal, Hadapsar. Around 10am on Saturday, Bhosale went to Anand nagar, Tarvade vasti, Hadapsar, to to cut the power connection of people who had failed to pay their bills after the stipulated due date, according to his complaint. Residents allegedly hurled abuses at him in order to scare him away from the place. Bhosale lodged a complaint, and a case under Sections 353, 504, 506 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Wanowrie police station. Assistant police inspector S Jadhav of Wanworie police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/residents-booked-for-abusing-msedcl-employee-101615746467453.html
14-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt devolves powers for road upgradation in forest areas to field officers||Divisional officers in the forest department can now sanction repair and maintenance works of roads constructed in forest lands, prior to the commencement of the Forest Conservation Act, 1980, instead of the state government. Officials said this move, which was formalised via a forest department circular dated March 9, will allow such projects to be cleared and implemented at a faster pace than before; thus preventing inconveniences to motorists as well as department staffers executing their duties in the field.This development, as per the forest department circular (a copy of which is with Hindustan Times), applies to only those roads “constructed in forest areas prior to October 25, 1980,” and to roads “which have been brought under Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sadak Yojna (PMGSY)”. A key outcome of this decision is that such roads in forest areas can be converted from ‘kacha’ to ‘pakka’ roads without the sanction of the state government, as was the case earlier.Sanjay Gaur, additional principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) (protection), said, “A lot of roads in forest areas were constructed prior to 1980, and these require regular upkeep and maintenance. Sanctioning these projects until now was the responsibility of the state forest department, but we have clarified the matter with the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) and the devolution of powers to divisional officers is permissible. This will save senior officials time from presiding over routine matters. Moreover, a lot of the roads passing through forest areas need urgent upkeep, and we can process it faster now at a decentralised level.”As such, the power to sanction upgradation and maintenance of road projects in forest areas has been devolved to the additional principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) (wildlife-East), additional PCCF (wildlife-West), additional PCCF and chief conservator of forests (CCF) (mangrove cell), CCF, CCFs (Territorial), and field directors of tiger reserves in Maharashtra.The move, however, does not allow for project proponents — such as public works departments and the National Highways Authority of India — to increase the width of these roads or fell any trees as part of the upgradation work. “If that is the case, then state approval will still be required. The purpose of this notification is merely to save time of senior officials, who are supposed to deal with larger policy issues. Such routine clearances can be done at the district or divisional level at the discretion of appropriate field officers,” said Gaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-devolves-powers-for-road-upgradation-in-forest-areas-to-field-officers-101615746291830.html
14-03-2021||Noida||GB Nagar is likely to revise circle rates||NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar administration has decided to revise the circle rates in the district. Officials of the stamp and registration department in GB Nagar said that the revised rates will be applicable from April 1, 2021. The stamp and registration department is likely to have a meeting at the district collectorate at Surajpur on March 16 to discuss the circle rate revision issue. Besides the district administration officials, top officials from the Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway authorities will also be present at the meeting, said the officials.“The revision of circle rates will be discussed in a meeting on March 16. We cannot talk more on this issue now,” said SK Tripathi, assistant inspector general of stamp and registration department, GB Nagar.Circle rates revision is an annual exercise done after inviting objections and suggestions from the general public. The circle rate is the rate at which a property is sold or bought. It is the circle rate at which the government charges stamp duty for the registration process, which is required to transfer the property from one person to another. In GB Nagar, the government at present charges 5% of the total property cost as the stamp duty.Meanwhile, realtors have advised not to go with the hike now when the real estate is witnessing a low sentiment.“In view of the impact of Covid-19 pandemic on the real estate sector, there is a need to reduce the circle rates. It is time the government should also reduce the stamp fee from 5% to 2% and we have already requested for it to benefit homebuyers. Increase in circle rates will affect the interest of buyers,” said Subodh Kumar, secretary of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai), a builders’ group.Homebuyers also said that any increase in circle rates is not a good idea. “Instead, the government should reduce the circle rate as well as the stamp fee. With reduction in stamp fee and circle rate, more registries will happen that will help the government earn more revenues,” said SK Nagrath, president of Jaypee Aman flat buyers’ association.In Noida’s ‘A’ category areas, the prevailing circle rate is of ₹1.3 lakh per square metres, which is the highest in the city. These areas include sectors 14, 14A, 15A, 17, 30, 35, 36, 39, 44, 50, 51 and 52. In Noida’s five ‘E’ category sectors, the circle rate is ₹40,000 per square metres. These sectors are 66, 102, 141, 158 and 162. The registry officials said that in some sectors the circle rate is low as compared to the facilities such as road, connectivity, greenery and others are provided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-is-likely-to-revise-circle-rates-101615746287470.html
14-03-2021||Noida||Surajpur wetland suffers from industrial pollution as foam seen over stream that feeds lake||Domestic and industrial pollution seemed to be taking a toll on the Surajpur wetland as a stream that recharged the lake was covered with an unusual white foam on Saturday. While the forest department and pollution board was yet to establish toxicity, experts opined that the foam, also seen on the Yamuna when it is grossly polluted, suggested so. Spread over 308 hectares, of which 60 hectares is a lake, the wetland is city’s largest reserve forest and one of three major birding hot spots, the others being Okhla Bird Sanctuary and Dhanauri wetland.“It was not a stream, rather a toxic fuming drain that should not be let into the lake. Forest department should take a note and do something to stop it,” said Pranav Awalkar, a Noida based birder.“It’s killing the serenity and tranquility of the lake. The stinking drains that is going into the Surajpur wetland lake can be noticed by anyone and it’s obviously hampering the wetland’s health,” said Sumedh Nagrare, a Delhi-based birder.According to water expert Rashmi Verma, the froth indicated the presence of high levels of sulphates and nitrates likely from industrial or domestic sources.“It is not a good sign. Such water bodies are considered dead and unsupportive of biotic life,” said Verma who is also a senior fellow at union ministry’s department of science and technology (DST). Environmentalist Vikrant Tongad said the stream is actually a drain.“It called Havelia and is a storm water drain that originates in Hapur. On its way, it passes through several industrial areas and is polluted with untreated discharge. The drain then splits with one discharging into Surajpur and the other into Hindon river near Kasna area. It had been polluted for years and getting worse with time,” said Vikrant Tongad, city based environmentalist.Government officials said that they will test the water and also write to the concerned department.“Yes, the inlet stream that comes from Havelia drain has seen a spike in pollution levels and the major reason is apart from industrial waste being discharged, a large agricultural patch around Surajpur wetland has been converted into residential area and they too are releasing effluents into the drain. We are in process of getting the water samples tested and we will write to the Greater Noida Development Authority to check the industrial pollution,” said Pramod Kumar Srivastava, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.Greater Noida Authority did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/surajpur-wetland-suffers-from-industrial-pollution-as-foam-seen-over-stream-that-feeds-lake-101615746228681.html
14-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: MNS kicks off membership drive||The Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) started the membership enrolment drive on Sunday where the citizens are given an option to do the process even online. This process has been initiated in view of the 2022 Mumbai civic polls.On Sunday, MNS chief Raj Thackeray and his wife Sharmila arrived at Shivaji Park and enrolled themselves. Due to problems in the server, both enrolled offline.“In the first two hours, more than 300,000 citizens joined the MNS and the response was fabulous,” said Thackeray. He appealed to the citizens to join the drive which is expected to be held till March 24.The MNS, which is currently in low phase, has turned towards Hindutva and is trying to fill the vacuum left by its bête-noire Shiv Sena. Thackeray has been holding meetings with his party leaders and workers in view of the local civic elections to be held across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mns-kicks-off-membership-drive-101615746108021.html
14-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body cracks down on property tax defaulters||In order to meet its property tax collection target for the year, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday said it has started cracking down on property tax defaulters wherein either their movable assets have been confiscated or water supply and sewers have been disconnected.The BMC had set up a collection target of ₹5,200 crore. However, it has collected only 70% of the total target of ₹3,650 crore. Due to this, with a few days left for the financial year to end on March 31, BMC has accelerated its action against defaulters.The BMC, in a statement on Sunday, said that water connections of Solitaire Corporate Park and Vertex Building were disconnected, and sewers were blocked in the Andheri area. However, after this action, the property holders paid 50% of the outstanding amount of ₹9.91 crore cumulatively. Further, water supply connection of a theatre was disconnected in Chembur area owing to property tax outstanding of ₹75 lakh. The BMC on Sunday also sealed office and confiscated a vehicle of a property consultant in Chembur areas as ₹1.10 crore property tax is due and the luxury car of a real estate developer was confiscated for property tax due to ₹38 lakh.Meanwhile, the BMC statement added that ₹25.86 crore was collected from Bharat Diamond Bourse as settlement arrears of property tax. This was followed by recovery of ₹39 crore from Reliance Industries Limited as property tax.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-cracks-down-on-property-tax-defaulters-101615745988052.html
14-03-2021||Other||35 seized vehicles destroyed in fire in Vasai near Mumbai||As many as 35 seized vehicles, including 32 two-wheelers and three four wheelers, were destroyed in a fire that broke out opposite Waliv police station on Sunday afternoon. It took more than two hours for the Vasai civic fire tenders to control the flames, which were reported around 1pm.The damaged vehicles had been seized by Waliv police in various criminal cases. No human casualty was reported said a fireman. Sources said dry grass grown in the vicinity may have caught fire due to the summer heat leading to its spread and gutting of vehicles.A Waliv police officer said the damaged vehicles were seized in different cases as evidence and the police may not face any legal hurdles as the property is already recorded in the Vasai court. “We are probing the reason behind the fire,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/35-seized-vehicles-destroyed-in-fire-in-vasai-near-mumbai-101615745508656.html
14-03-2021||Gurugram||Farmers to protest fuel price rise||Farmers protesting at Shahjahanpur-Jaisinghpur Khera at the Haryana-Rajasthan border said that they’d protest the rise in fuel prices on Monday. They said that they’d be submitting memorandums to district administration officials in Haryana and Rajasthan besides other states to highlight the spike in prices of diesel, petrol, LPG and other essential commodities. They will also be protesting against privatization and extending support to trade unions that plan to protest at railway stations across the country on Monday.Farmers have been protesting against the three new farm laws, which were passed by the Centre in September last year. They fear that the new laws will leave them at the mercy of big corporations and end the minimum support price (MSP) for important crops. The protest at Shahjahanpur-Jaisinghpur Khera has completed 92 days. Sanjay Madhav, member of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha—the umbrella body of farmers unions protesting at Delhi’s borders— and the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan, said that farmers had received support from trade unions in their agitation and would be extending support to workers in their fight against privatization and the policies of the government. “Since the beginning, farmers and workers are united in their struggle and have given the message of mazdoor-kisan ekta (farmer-worker) unity. Even workers are suffering due to privatization similar to the manner in which the government is implementing policies against farmers. We will be opposing the policies of the government in a united manner since it has capitulated before big industrialists,” said Madhav. He said that the current movement had transformed into a mass movement that had received from different communities. Madhav added that farmers at the protest site were gearing up for the proposed Bharat Bandh, scheduled for March 26. “We are soon going to complete 100 days of our blockade. Since December, we have continued a peaceful and disciplined agitation to raise our voice against the three farm laws. Our is a non-political movement and we only end with the rollback of the three laws,” said Madhav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/farmers-to-protest-fuel-price-rise-101615744847423.html
14-03-2021||Gurugram||Ahata manager, owner attacked by group of five men in Sector 74||A 33-year-old manager of an ahata — an authorised open space for liquor consumption — in Sector 74 on Delhi-Jaipur Expressway was severely injured while its owner sustained minor injuries, after a group of five men assaulted and robbed them of ₹1.60 lakh cash, said the police.The police said the suspects, who also ran a roadside eatery shop nearby and served alcohol illegally, often misbehaved with the victims. They often came to the ahata and abused guests, said the police, adding that professional rivalry between them seems to be the main reason behind the attack. Ranjeet Singh, manager of the ahata, said that he was closing his shop at around 2.30am on Saturday when two men, identified as Sonu and Titu, came up to him and started threatening him. They told him to run their operations according to the terms dictated by them. “I was about to leave along with two of my staff members, when these two men came up to me and started abusing and pushing me,” he said.Singh said he rushed inside the ahata but the suspects called their friends and together they assaulted him again. One of them hit his head with a stick, following which he fell on the ground. They snatched ₹1.60 lakh from him.When Singh’s employer came to the spot, the suspects thrashed him as well. The staff informed the police control room and took Singh to a private hospital where he underwent treatment. Both Singh and his employer recorded their statements to the police on Saturday evening, following which a case was registered at the Badshahpur police station under sections 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (assault),427 (mischief causing damage),452 (House trespass), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. The victims told police that the CCTV cameras and digital video recorders installed at the ahata were damaged by the suspects. However, there were two more eyewitnesses, who are willing to record their statements.This is the fourth such incident in the last four months in the same place. Professional rivalry between ahata owners is the main reason between such frequent clashes, said the police.Naveen Kumar, station house officer(SHO), Badshahpur police station, said that a team from the police station was sent to the spot but the suspects had fled by then. “We have registered the case against five men, two of whom have been identified, while the rest are yet to be identified and arrested,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ahata-manager-owner-attacked-by-group-of-five-men-in-sector-74-101615744848059.html
14-03-2021||Gurugram||Video of Dwarka Expressway mishap resurfaces on Twitter, causes panic||A video of an incident that shows four workers having a narrow escape at the Dwarka Expressway worksite, when a girder they were installing fell as the cable from the launcher snapped, went viral on Twitter on Sunday, raising safety concerns among residents. Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said that the video pertained to an incident that took place about a month ago and they sought a report from the contractor.In the video, workers can be seen suspended in the air and swinging, while a steel staircase fell from the top, narrowly missing a worker standing below. Vehicles on the road can be seen moving along the crash site and no safety barricading is visible on the spot.HT could not verify the authenticity of the video.Yashesh Yadav, president of Dwarka Expressway homebuyers’ association and a resident of the area, who shared the video on social media, raised concerns over danger to commuters’ lives. “The incident is a recent one and happened near Sector 84. The video clearly shows that there is no safety barricading and the life of workers also hung in the balance. It was only due to luck that nobody was injured or killed. We are writing a letter to the NHAI and PMO, seeking more safety measures and a probe into the incident,” said Yadav. Nirman Jambulkar, project director, Dwarka Expressway, said, “We follow strict safety practices and corrective steps have been taken to prevent such incidents in the future.”A few residents alleged that such incidents took place several times but were not captured on camera.On August 22, 2020, a large portion of concrete had fallen between pillars 10 and 11 of the Sohna Road elevated project, following which the NHAI mandated safety measures, including barricading of the site with grills, before allowing resumption of work. A senior official of the NHAI, requesting anonymity, said, “We have sought a report from the contractor and asked him to take suitable measures to ensure that such incidents are not repeated. However, this is a large engineering work and things like snapping of a cable or failure of machinery can still happen.”The official said that the launcher for installing girders for this project has been designed in such a way to ensure minimal damages in case of an accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/video-of-dwarka-expressway-mishap-resurfaces-on-twitter-causes-panic-101615744789697.html
14-03-2021||Gurugram||Residential apartment catches fire in Pataudi; four rescued||A fire broke out in the basement of a two-storey residential apartment in Shakti Nagar near Pataudi Chowk on early Sunday morning. Three women and a child were rescued by fire department officials. However, no injuries were reported from the site, said officials of the fire department.As per the officials, the fire broke out around 2am in the basement, where a local shopkeeper used to store bundles of incense sticks.A short circuit is suspected to be the cause of the fire.Nobody was present inside the basement when the fire broke out.“One of the neighbours informed the fire department that he could see smoke coming out of the basement of a nearby building. Upon reaching, we found the entire basement to be engulfed in fire,” said IS Kashyap, assistant divisional fire safety officer (ADFSO).Kashyap added that fire tenders from Sector 37 fire station, located less than three kilometres away from the site of the fire, were the first to arrive at the site. A total of eight fire tenders were used in the dousing operations which took almost two hours.“As part of the mandatory mode of operation, we checked the two residential floors above the basement for inhabitant who might be stuck . On the top-most floor, three women and a child were found sleeping. They were completely unaware of the fire. We used the staircase of the building to escort them to a safer place as a precautionary measure,” said Kashyap.Kashyap said that the fire department officials ensured the fire was limited to the basement of the building and did not approach upwards.Furniture and electrical equipment were gutted in the fire apart from the stocks of incense sticks.Kashyap said that since storage of any commercial goods in a residential area is illegal, they are investigating the matter and are likely to take legal action against the shopkeeper for violation of norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/residential-apartment-catches-fire-in-pataudi-four-rescued-101615744788545.html
14-03-2021||Gurugram||Speeding dumper mows down 40-year-old driver near Rajiv Chowk||A 40-year-old man was killed and his nephew injured when a speeding dumper hit the motorbike they were riding near Rajiv Chowk on Saturday, the police said. They were travelling to Rajasthan, to meet their family members and attend a wedding. The police registered a case against the dumper driver, who fled the spot leaving his vehicle behind. The injured man was identified as Sohan Singh, a resident of Dausa in Rajasthan. He decided to accompany his uncle, who worked as an executive with an RO water purifier firm in the city, to his village in Rajasthan’s Bandikui, for the wedding. Around 4pm, when they reached near the Naharpur Rupa underpass, a speeding dumper rammed them. “Both of them fell on the road and the dumper ran over the rider, killing him on the spot. The driver stopped the dumper a few metres ahead and ran from the spot,” said Aman Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (Sadar). The police said that passersby took both of them to Civil Hospital in Sector 10A, where doctors declared the 40-year-old, identified as Bijender Singh, brought dead and admitted Singh. “He was planning to gift his wife a gold chain and had promised her to take her along for shopping. We were driving slow, but the dumper driver was speeding and lost control over the wheels. It seems he forgot to apply brakes and rammed us,” Singh said from the hospital, adding that his uncle is survived by his wife and three sons. A case under sections 279 (rash driving), 304A (death by negligence) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the unidentified driver on Saturday night at Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/speeding-dumper-mows-down-40-year-old-driver-near-rajiv-chowk-101615744789114.html
14-03-2021||Gurugram||GMDA starts pilot project to ensure equal distribution of water||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority(GMDA) has initiated a pilot project to ensure equal distribution of water to all houses along a stretch between Basai and Dwarka Expressway. According to GMDA officials, areas such as Sirhaul, Gandhi Nagar, parts of Iffco and Huda colonies, Civil Lines, Shivaji Nagar, among others would be covered under this project.Officials said that this measure will not only conserve water but will also ensure that the authority gets the amount due for the water being supplied to residents. “There are several underground water tanks between Basai and Dwarka Expressway. Presently, while some tanks get more water, residents towards the end of the blocks get less water. As such, we are developing a system in which there will be flow control walls, which are electronically controlled and programmed. This would ensure equal quantity of water to all residents,” said a senior GMDA official privy to the matter, who did not wish to be named. As work for the pilot project continues, the official could not give an estimated timeline as to when the system would become fully operational. The project is a part of a centralised integrated water management system, which is being developed by the Smart City division of GMDA and will cover around 40 underground tanks, which provide water to all residential housing societies, individual houses and hotels.With the centralised system, the GMDA will have a larger degree of control over the entire distribution and supply chain from a single location through the Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC).At present, Gurugram’s water comes from the water channels in NCR and the Yamuna channel. This raw water is carried to the water treatment plants (WTPs) at Basai and Chandu Budhera, which have a daily operational capacity of 270MLD (million litres per day) and 300MLD respectively. There are also two boosting stations in sectors 16 and 51 to help overcome the difficulty of transporting water to the eastern parts of the city, which is on a higher ground than the two WTPs.The official further said electrical sensors have been placed on the water pipelines, which will help in ensuring equal distribution of water. The project will also focus on plugging the leakages in the pipelines to arrest wastage of water due to overflow and unauthorised water connections.As per official records, flow meters, level sensors, flow control devices and other field equipment will be tentatively installed at over 300 locations for the centralised water management system.Earlier in 2019, the GMDA also developed a network of CCTV cameras and sensors for transmitting real-time visual feeds and data to a dashboard dedicated to water supply at the command centre in order to check on possible water theft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gmda-starts-pilot-project-to-ensure-equal-distribution-of-water-101615744787997.html
14-03-2021||Gurugram||Large-scale awareness drive for increased vaccination||Haryana health department will hold a large-scale awareness drive on Monday to ensure increased reach of the Covid-19 vaccine, said senior state officials. The health department has assigned one ASHA worker and anganwadi worker for every 200 households and they will be moving from door-to-door to motivate the beneficiaries to get the doses of the vaccine administered, said additional chief secretary (ACS-health) Rajeev Arora. The health department has also coordinated with officers of the department of social justice and empowerment, urban local bodies (ULB) and panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) to motivate the beneficiaries above 60 years and those with co-morbidities falling within the age group of 45 years to 60 years. “The objective is to ensure maximum reach of the Covid-19 vaccine as it will contain the further spread of the highly contagious virus,” Arora said. In Gurugram, health department officials said that to expand the vaccination exercise, they have decided to increase the session sites from around 60 to 100. “The target would be to vaccinate around 10,000 beneficiaries,” a senior health official said. Arora said that the officers of other government departments have also been asked to mobilise the beneficiaries and they have taken extensive steps to ensure that the Covid-19 vaccine reaches all residents, including urban pockets as well as rural areas. The vaccination is being administered at health subcentres that are located in the villages, so that the vaccine can be administered to every eligible beneficiary, he said.Prabhjot Singh, mission director, National Health Mission, Haryana, said that till March 13, 2021, the health department has administered the first dose of the vaccines to 168,000 healthcare workers (HCWs) and the second dose to 97,410 HCWs. Besides, 83,338 front-line workers received the first dose of the vaccine. As per the details shared by the health department, 65 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 59,835. The number of active cases in the city was 571, of which 520 patients are in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/largescale-awareness-drive-for-increased-vaccination-101615744787469.html
14-03-2021||Other||Pune district reports 3,259 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday||PUNE According to the state health department, Pune district reported 3,259 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, which takes the progressive count of the district to 4.39 lakh, of which 4.05 lakh have recovered. The death toll stands at 8,193. Currently, 25,673 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation. Pune continues to report the highest number of active cases in the state.Pune city reported 1,780 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 2,25,104. Four deaths reported on Sunday took the death toll in the city to 4,626. Pune rural reported 673 new cases which takes its progressive count to 1,04,320 and with five more deaths, the death toll went up to 2,173. PCMC reported 806 new cases, which takes the progressive count to 1,10,138. With two more deaths on Sunday the death toll stood at 1,345.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-reports-3-259-new-covid-19-cases-on-sunday-101615743287310.html
14-03-2021||Other||Shortage of Covishield doses: PMC tells centres to only vaccinate with Covaxin||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has found itself in a confusing scenario, as it has 50,000 doses of Covaxin, instead of the one lakh doses of Covishield, it was expecting delivery of. At least 1.70 lakh beneficiaries have already received Covishield in Pune city, including frontline and health care workers, who have to now, mandatorily take Covishield as their second dose. The administration does not have enough doses of Covishield to ensure those who got their first dose get their second dose of the same vaccine. A message sent by the the PMC health office to hospitals reads: “Henceforth we will be able to get only Covaxin and not Covishield. Covishield will be supplied by the government of India for the 2nd dose in the next few days. We request everyone to pay the GOI fees and take Covaxin, and start vaccination of new beneficiaries. Caution needs to be exercised as those who have balance Covishield stock should use it only for the second dose. Give Covaxin for the first dose. A site registered on the software previously for Covishield, will print certificates only for Covishield. So you have to first exhaust the Covishield stock, then cancel the Covishield site, register a new site for Covaxin, and only then start giving Covaxin. Only one site can be created either for Covaxin or Covishield. Beneficiaries coming for the second dose will be directed to select centres giving Covishield, which will be preferably government centres to avoid confusion.” It is highly recommended by the ministry of health that under no circumstances should any individual get two different doses of two different vaccines. Dr Ashish Bharati, PMC health chief said, “It is true that we have got only 50,000 Covaxin doses as opposed to the one lakh Covishield doses, which we were expecting. We do not have any Covishield stock as of now and so we have requested hospitals to keep all pending doses with to be used only for the second dose. We were completely unaware of the situation and as of now, we know that we have only Covaxin doses.” “For Monday, we have asked hospitals to use the Covishield for a second dose and they have to freshly register for Covaxin now. The hospitals will have to create a second site for Covaxin and then restart the process. As of Sunday evening, seven private hospitals have taken the Covaxin doses from us. We have vaccinated about 1.50 lakh beneficiaries who have to be given Covishield. We do not have any Covishield stock with us right now and this may lead to some confusion,” Dr Bharati added. As of now only Aundh district hospital has been administering Covaxin. Covaxin is an indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine in collaboration with NIV and Bharat Biotech, while Covishield has been developed by Oxford university and is being mass produced by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII). Dr H K Sale, executive director of Noble hospital, a Covid-19 vaccination centre, said, “This will definitely lead to confusion and chaos at vaccination centres. As of now we do not have any Covaxin doses with us. We need to re-apply for Covaxin even though we are yet to get 700 doses of Covisheild from the government for which we have already made the payment. However, we have to now create a new site for Covaxin and from Monday we would be able to vaccinate only a few healthcare workers. We will not be able to give Covishield as we have to keep it reserved for those who have already got the first dose of the vaccine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shortage-of-covishield-doses-pmc-tells-centres-to-only-vaccinate-with-covaxin-101615742687323.html
14-03-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh govt releases fresh guidelines to contain Covid 19 spread||Only 200 people will be allowed to attend any social, religious gathering and wedding functions in Covid-19-hit ten districts of Madhya Pradesh, said an officer of the state home department.After the virus positivity rate in the state increased to 4.2 per cent with 743 positive cases recorded on Saturday, MP home department released fresh guidelines on Sunday to contain the spread, said Rajesh Rajoura, additional chief secretary, home department, Madhya Pradesh.According to the order, visitors from Maharashtra will have to undergo seven days of home quarantine. Meanwhile, goods trucks from Maharashtra will be allowed after the thermal screening of drivers and others.The shopkeepers have been asked to maintain social distancing and ensure the use of masks at their shops to avoid facing strict action. The district administration and police have been asked to ensure the protocols and hold a strict mask checking campaign in the districts, the order read.Also read: Punjab, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh see spike in fresh Covid-19 cases | 10 pointsThe worst affected districts are Indore and Bhopal, where 263 and 139 positive cases have been reported in the past 24 hours respectively. Eight other worst-hit districts include Balaghat, Seoni, Betul, Chhindwara, Khandwa, Khargone, Barwani and Burhanpur, all neighbouring districts of Maharashtra.The state government has not imposed any night curfew as of now.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, “Mask is the most effective way to contain the infection. We are reviewing the condition daily. We are trying to contain it by following Covid-19 protocols but if the condition doesn’t improve, we have to impose a night curfew in Bhopal and Indore.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-govt-releases-fresh-guidelines-to-contain-covid-19-spread-101615742249341.html
14-03-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab chief secretary meets with deputy commissioners, police officials as Covid-19 cases surge||Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan on Sunday held a meeting with deputy commissioners, senior police officials, municipal commissioners, civil surgeons and other officials to review the measures to tackle the current surge in Covid-19 cases in the state.Expressing concern over the rise in Covid-19 cases in recent weeks, she exhorted the officials to spruce up the necessary arrangements and remain in top gear to effectively combat the up-swing in infections.She also directed the district administrations to step up the testing of the contacts of coronavirus infected persons to break the chain of transmission.Mahajan also held detailed discussions in the meeting with medical experts and sought their opinion regarding measures required to contain the spread of Covid-19.Twenty more people died of Covid-19 in Punjab, pushing the death toll to 6,072, while 1,501 fresh coronavirus cases took the infection count to 1,97,755 on Sunday.According to an official statement here, Mahajan, in the meeting, said the state had also witnessed a surge in cases in September and November last year.She gave directions to the Department of Health to carry out Covid-19 vaccination at all designated hospitals on all seven days of the week and incorporate more public and private healthcare facilities, including all government primary health centres as vaccination centres.Mahajan asked the deputy commissioners and the civil surgeons to advise private hospitals falling under their jurisdictions to increase their Covid bed capacity.She said the laboratories in the state must maintain the testing of around 28,000 to 30,000 Covid samples per day, the statement said.She directed that three Government Medical Colleges must ensure the availability of sufficient beds.Mahajan further said, “As suggested by medical experts, the districts have been told to ask the private hospitals treating the level 2 and level 3 patients, to postpone routine elective surgeries for at least two weeks, to make way for additional requirements of Covid beds.”The chief secretary informed that a night curfew has already been imposed in eight districts of the state and other districts were also advised to review the situation and take appropriate decisions accordingly.She appealed to people of the state to shun complacency and adopt Covid appropriate behaviour and help the government in tackling the pandemic.She said the state has already closed the schools and the anganwadi centres, imposed restrictions on indoor and outdoor social gatherings to 100 and 200 people respectively.While apprising the chief secretary regarding the status of COVID-19 vaccination, Principal Secretary, Health, Hussan Lal said nearly 50 percent healthcare and frontline workers have been inoculated with the first dose, while second dose is also being given to beneficiaries upon the completion of the stipulated period, respectively, the statement said.He said that the state has received 19.15 lakh doses of Covishield and 1.37 lakh doses of Covaxin so far.Lal said the field officials have been maintaining the contact tracing to around 20 persons per positive case, adding the Covid testing of all the contacts need to be ensured.Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said the police force is working hard to ensure compliance of Covid protocols.He apprised that police are challaning persons violating Covid protocols, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-chief-secretary-meets-with-deputy-commissioners-police-officials-as-covid-19-cases-surge-101615740898398.html
14-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body sends 50 samples for genome sequencing daily to NIV||As the positivity rate in Mumbai has increased to 11% from 4% in January, health officials are speculating that the city may be facing a virus mutation. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), since last week, has been sending 50 samples to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune for genome sequencing, to know about the possibility of mutation of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. However, they haven’t found any mutation similar to the ones, found in Amravati.Genome sequencing is a technique that involves analysing the genetic code of an organism.Last month, the positivity rate in Amravati shot up to 50%, which raised concerns among the state health officials.The results for genome sequencing of four samples showed a mutation (E484Q), while another four from Yavatmal showed a second mutation (N440K) of Sars-CoV-2.“As seen in Amravati and Yavatmal, the infection rate of the mutated virus is high. However, the mortality rate is low due to its less severity. A similar trend is also visible in Mumbai. So, there is quite a possibility of the mutation of the virus in the city,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.In January, the city recorded 500 new cases, while in March, the cases increased to an average of 1,200 cases.According to BMC data, the infection is spreading faster in places like Andheri, Mulund, Malad, Kandivali, Bhandup, Chembur among others.As the procedure of genome sequencing is expensive, the central government has issued guidelines for selecting samples for the process.“We are selecting samples as per the parameters. We are sending samples of patients with a long history of hospitalisation, sudden death after hospitalisation, UK returnees. Also, we are selecting random samples from hot spots,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC.In recent times, BMC is observing a high infection rate among people from the same families. “So, we are also sending samples to NIV from families where the infection rate is high,” she added.Last month, BMC had sent 90 samples to NIV for genome sequencing, but no similar mutations like E484Q and N440K were found. “We had found one UK variant from a traveller, but he has successfully recovered and sent home,” said Kakani.Dr Subhash Salunke, technical adviser to the Maharashtra government on the Covid-19 outbreak also said the rise in Covid-19 is possibly linked to mutation. “Though the government has overruled the claim of mutation, I believe that the virus strain has changed,” he said.Active Covid-19 patients who are currently on treatment have increased by 36% this month. On March 1, Mumbai had 9,690 active cases which surged to 13,247 on March 13. Almost 80% of the newly infected people are mildly symptomatic or asymptomatic, with a majority choosing home quarantine.Dr Salunke said infected patients are violating isolation safety rules which are further contributing to increasing cases in the city.“The government needs to impose stringent rules and heavy fines for such violators,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-ends-50-samples-for-genome-sequencing-daily-to-niv-101615741248090.html
14-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai reports close to 2,000 cases, bed occupancy rises||Mumbai reported close to 2,000 cases with 1,963 cases of Covid-19 being reported on Sunday. This was the highest number of cases reported in nearly five months after 1,823 cases were reported on October 16, 2020. As the city is reporting record-high new Covid-19 cases daily, the bed occupancy rate has also increased. This has also resulted in the vacancy of beds going down to 59%, as of March 13, from 70%, as of February 22.According to BMC data, the bed occupancy ratio in dedicated Covid-19 centres and dedicated hospitals has increased to 40% now, from 29% on February 22. The data reveals that there has been a substantial surge in the occupancy ratio of the intensive care unit (ICU) beds followed by oxygen beds and ventilators. With this, the number of beds in the Covid centres and dedicated Covid hospitals has increased from 11,205 beds on February 22 to 12,998 beds, as of March 13. This increase has been significant in terms of oxygen beds that have increased from 6,174 last month on February 22 to 8,022, as of March 13.On Sunday, the city reported 1,963 fresh Covid-19 cases followed by seven deaths taking the case tally to 343,962 and death toll to 11,535. The city’s recovery rate stood to be 92.74% with 318,995 recoveries in Mumbai. There are 12,535 active cases in the city.In terms of the vacancy rate going down, the vacancy rate in ICU beds was 63% on February 22 to 44% on March 13. There are 1,536 ICU beds in the city of which 961 are vacant. In terms of oxygen beds, the vacancy rate has gone down to 66% from 76% on February 22. There are 8,022 oxygen beds in the city of which 5,354 beds are vacant. The vacancy rate of ventilators has gone down to 42% from 62%. There are 944 ventilators beds in the city of which 405 are vacant.Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a city-based physician said, “The bed vacancy is not worrying yet considering the maximum or say over 75% cases are asymptomatic cases where home quarantining will also work considering 90% cases are from high-rises. However, any drastic increase in cases, which is happening currently is worrying, considering this could worsen the scenario. For this, speeding up the vaccination process is the only solution.”Further, in the last one month, the number of cases also in the city has gone up with the city reporting over 1,000 cases since the past one week. The daily positivity rate has gone up from 3-4% in February to around 9%, as of Sunday. However, despite this, the silver lining remains that the mortality rate has remained stagnant at around 3.35%.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal last week had said, “We are ensuring strict compliance of existing restrictions and there are no plans for lockdown further. The positivity rate is around 7-8% right now, and the situation will become alarming, requiring a review of restrictions if the growth rate goes to around 15%.” Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had undertaken a meeting with the malls and hotels association requesting them to take all Covid-19 precautions to ensure the spread remains in check. However, there are chances of the state government announcing fresh restrictions in the city this week, if cases continue toMeanwhile, Aslam Shaikh, guardian minister of Mumbai city said on Saturday, “The task force and the government is working on what all restrictions may be needed for the city. Within a week, we may make an announcement, which will pertain to restrictions on hotels, malls, gymnasiums, crowds at railway stations, taxis, and all public places.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-close-to-2-000-cases-bed-occupancy-rises-101615740827905.html
14-03-2021||Other||Panchkula councillor injured in knife attack at office, two held||A local municipal councillor suffered injuries after he was attacked with a knife by a man at his office in Rajeev Colony, Sector 17, on Sunday.The accused, Mona, 25, of Rajeev Colony, Sector 17, Panchkula, and his accomplice, Ajay, have been arrested.Investigators said Mona, a gambler, was miffed with Pankaj Valmiki, Congress councillor from ward number 6, over his involvement in a police drive against gambling and drugs in the city. Valmiki told the police that he was sitting in his office when Mona attacked him with a knife around 4.30pm, causing injuries on the head and a hand. As Mona tried to flee the spot, he was chased and nabbed by passers-by, who beat him up before handing him over to the police.Valmiki was taken to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6, where he received first-aid. Mona, who suffered injuries in the beating, was also treated.He has been booked under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and will be presented before a court on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panchkula-councillor-injured-in-knife-attack-at-office-two-held-101615740047781.html
14-03-2021||Patna||RLSP merges with JD (U): 8 years on, Kushwaha returns to party fold||After months of speculation, Upendra Kushwaha-led RLSP on Sunday merged with the JD(U) in the presence of chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar here. Kushwaha had left JD (U) in 2013 and formed RLSP, the same year. A formal announcement about merger was made by Kushwaha himself after RLSP’s national council meeting Sunday morning. Kushwaha, later drove down to JD(U) office where he was welcomed by the CM. Soon after joining, Kumar announced appointment of Kushwaha as chairman of National Parliamentary Board of JD(U), with immediate effect. “I am personally very happy with the development. It is a historical decision. We were together earlier and again we are back. He is a big leader and will work together for state’s development,” said Kumar. “We were in talks with the RLSP chief Upendra Kushwaha for quite some time. When I discussed it with my party members, they were happy with the merging of the two parties,” said Kumar. Earlier in the day, Kushwaha, after the meeting of the RLSP national council announced the decision of the party to merge with the JD(U). “The entire RLSP will merge with the JD(U) from today. The decision has been taken in the interest of the state and country. Seeing the people’s mandate and the prevailing political scenario, it was decided that leaders with similar political ideology should come on one platform. This is the demand of the current political situation,” said Kushwaha. “People’s mandate was a clear message that we should go together. This is neither going to benefit me nor Nitish Kumar. It will benefit the state and strengthen Bihar,” said Kushwaha and ruled out that any political bargaining was done for the merger. The former union minister made it clear that his role in the party would be decided by Nitish Kumar. Heaping praise on Kumar, Kushwaha said, “He is my bada bhai (elder brother). I have always respected him. I will continue to serve people and party irrespective of the role assigned to me.” “JD (U) is the only party which is committed to state’s development whereas some other parties are more interested in their own development. I will do service under Nitish Kumar and strengthen the party,” said Kushwaha. JD (U) alliance partners, the BJP and the HAM-S also welcomed Kushwaha’s home coming. Former chief minister and HAM-S leader Jitan Ram Manjhi said that Kushwaha’s return to JD(U) is in the interest of the state and country. “He was a union minister in the NDA government. He went to Grand Alliance where he felt insulted,” said BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand. Meanwhile, the RJD took a dig at the merger. RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari said Nitish Kumar should handover the chief minister’s position to Kushwaha. “The way BJP insulted Nitish Kumar in Bihar Assembly elections using Chirag Paswan it was obvious that it somewhere niggled Nitish Kumar as well as Upendra Kushwaha. However, it is time that ‘Luv’ should handover the CM position to his brother ‘Kush’ as ‘Luv-Kush’ was the base of the JD(U)’s formation, said Tiwari. JD(U) leaders feel that the Luv-Kush unity in Bihar (a term used in reference to Kurmi and Koeri caste) can become a potent factor in revival of the JD(U). The Kushwahas and Kurmis together form nearly 12% of Bihar’s population and had been a major vote bank of Nitish Kumar. Political experts, however, feel that it would hardly help JD(U)’s cause, which is trying to consolidate itself. “The reason is simple. Kushwaha has lost clout. All his community grassroot leaders have joined the RJD. The Kush (Koeri community to which Kushwaha belong) is a divided house. The message is loud and clear that Kushwaha is fighting for his survival,” said D M Diwakar, political analyst associated with A N Sinha Institute for Social Studies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rlsp-merges-with-jd-u-8-years-on-kushwaha-returns-to-party-fold-101615739567243.html
14-03-2021||City||Assam district gets into record books for longest street rangoli in country||By Biswa Kalyan PurkayasthaAssam's Cachar district has secured a place in the 2022 edition of the India Book of Records for the longest Rangoli on voter awareness. The process to make the 8 kilometre-long rangoli on the street started at 5 pm on Saturday and was completed within 24 hours.The official observer from India Book of Records, Jitendra Kumar Jain, along with his team, watched the entire process and they declared it the longest street Rangoli in the country.Jain said that as per their records, this was a first of its kind initiative taken in the country. "We have never seen such an initiative taken to sensitise the voters in any part of the country. There is a possibility that this eight kilometres long street rangoli may have created a world record in the street art category but we are yet to examine this. If we see that there is a world record, we will surely announce it soon," he said.Also read: 'Illegal infiltration will be thing of past if BJP is re-elected in Assam' - ShahUnder Systematic Voters Education and Electronics Participation (SVEEP), the district administration is taking several initiatives to spread awareness among the voters to exercise their constitutional right in the upcoming assembly election.People from several sections of society, including college and university students, tea garden workers, police officers, CRPF, police and army personnel, along with deputy commissioner Keerthi Jalli, were seen taking part in the rangoli-making exercise.It also created a buzz on social media as thousands of people took pictures and uploaded them online. With the help of this social media traction, people started gathering and took part in the rangoli-making process. It became a day-long festival at East-West Corridor Mahasadak.Keerthi Jalli said, "As far we know, the record for drawing the longest rangoli in India is four kilometres. But we were not running after any record. If it was only to break the record, a four-and-a-half kilometre-long rangoli was enough. Our main objective was to make people aware and we wanted to involve them in the process."She said this year, the focus was on making women voters more aware of their rights. "I am a woman deputy commissioner and about half of my officials are women. Half of our voters are also women. We are focusing on women from tea gardens to college and university students. People from different sections of society spontaneously joined our initiative. Some of them even donated colours and brush. We are glad to have completed such a dream project and our awareness drives will continue till the day of the election," she added.General Observer IAS Amlan Aditya Biswas also took part in the initiative. He said, "Apart from conducting the elections smoothly, our responsibility is to attract voters to cast their votes. I appreciate the local administration for this innovative approach. I am sure that this will attract not only locals but people from outside as well. Such a big task has been done in a well-planned manner. I believe the assembly election will be similarly disciplined."Assam goes to polls in three phases on March 27, April 1 and April 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/assam-district-gets-into-record-books-for-longest-street-rangoli-in-country-101615737927482.html
14-03-2021||Pune||Pune railway division using German technology to boost train speed||In a bid to increase the speed of trains, the Pune railway division is installing German technology ‘R 260’ railway track system in the ongoing track doubling work in the division. The new technology will be used on the Pune-Satara route where the doubling work is underway. This new technology tracks are being made at the Bhilai steel plant of the Steel Authority of India (SAI). The tracks are stronger and quality wise better than the earlier tracks which were used by railways. So, it would be beneficial in the future to run the double decker goods transport trains on these tracks. The Indian Railways receive the supply of railway tracks from the SAI regularly. For a faster speed, the quality of tracks is also equally important. Currently in India, UTS 90 and 80 qualities are used on which the trains are running. The new R 260 quality tracks are made of alloy. “In the ongoing railway track doubling work in Pune railway division new German technology of R 260 tracks are going to be used. These tracks are 260 metres long and are of better quality than the earlier tracks,” said S Patil, deputy chief engineer in Pune railway division. Once the speed of the trains is increased, it will certainly reduce the travel time of passengers. “It is good to hear that railways are moving towards new and upgraded technology for the safety and benefit of passengers. At the same time, they should look after expenses and should not inflate the passenger’s travel ticket,” said Kalapana Jambhale, a regular passenger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-railway-division-using-german-technology-to-boost-train-speed-101615738127175.html
14-03-2021||Bangalore||People are coming back to swim regularly: Arjuna Awardee Nisha Millet||Butterfly, backstroke, or simply getting over your fear of water, Nisha Millet can make a swimmer out of anyone! Not convinced? Ask any of the 1,200 students currently under her tutelage. The 2000 Sydney Olympic Games swimmer’s academy in Bengaluru, which had been closed since 25 March 2020, is back and she’s in the pool with Bengalureans lining up for classes. “After an entire year of staying indoors, people are now venturing out. They have realised that swimming is an effective way to counter a sedentary lifestyle while avoiding crowded spaces. Chlorinated water is known to kill more viruses, and this isn’t a contact sport, so safety is maintained as well,” says Millet, adding, “I have been inundated with calls from people, since summer is upon us. We have increased the number of batches; currently we have eight people in one batch with the coach, so social distancing is also adhered to. I’m yet to start the toddler classes, but parents of kids as young as one are waiting for that to happen (laughs).” The Olympic swimmer, in her career spanning over 15 years and more than 600 gold medals, has won many accolades and achievements, including being the only Indian athlete to ever win 14 gold medals at the National Games in 1999. Her commitment to the sport is palpable as she describes her foray into the sport . “I had a near drowning experience in a pond when I was 5. At 9, my father put me in a swimming class to help me overcome my fear. But I came back having learnt little. So, my father taught me! I credit all my success to my parents.” But in 2002, a benign tumour threw her training for a toss, and after missing out on the 2004 Olympic qualification by a whisker, Millet decided to retire from competitive swimming. “I was young, my parents had sold their house to afford my training. There was no financial help from authorities and I realised that I needed to start earning to support myself and reduce the financial burden on my parents,” she recalls. In 2004, she founded Nisha Millets Swimming Academy, and then there was no stopping her. “I understood the importance of good training, which is the only way through which Indians will be able to compete (in sports) internationally. I started with one centre in 2004, and now we will soon be operating out of 11 different places in Bengaluru itself” she adds. Millet says she tries to bring the fun back to swimming. “We have swimmers as young as six months old and as old as 84; age is just a number here. We conduct classes for beginners, and also train competitive swimmers and adults who are prepping for triathlons, and Ironmans. Five of the triathletes are headed for the World Half Ironman Championship,” she informs, adding, “Swimming was always perceived as a summer camp obsession, but that is changing. We now have heated pools so that people can train all year.” 2020 was a difficult year for Millet who lost most of her savings since the academy was closed during the peak months. “We had to make some tough choices. I kept paying all the coaches while incurring expenses for upkeep of the pools. But I’m glad that that time is behind us now,” she says. When not in the pool training students, Millet is often busy working out, losing the weight she says she has put on when she had her twin daughters. “I do crossfit and am also an avid runner. And my twins keep me on my feet. We like to travel together as a family. In Bengaluru, there is so much to do in the city, including going to parks like Cubbon, or a new place to eat. And there are so many beautiful places in the vicinity of the city as well; where one can go out for a drive too,” she says. Talk about India’s prospects in the international swimming arena, and Millet, who was decorated with the Arjuna Award in 2000, opines, “We need more financial support for athletes, pools that can be used the entire year, and more importantly, a free mind. In many foreign countries athletes can drop a year or two in school to pursue their sports but here, we put too much emphasis on schooling. Kids should be allowed to excel at sports without the burden of academics, which can be picked up later or even done simultaneously. We should allow our kids to pursue their dreams, that is what will give us great athletes!” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/people-are-coming-back-to-swim-regularly-arjuna-awardee-nisha-millet-101615735969280.html
14-03-2021||Chandigarh||Mason arrested for murdering 45-year-old baker in Chandigarh’s Sector 53||The 45-year-old baker, found dead in Sector 53 on March 8, was murdered by a mason over a woman they both had extra-marital relations with, police said on Sunday.The accused, Kamal, alias Komal, 52, was arrested from Agra in Uttar Pradesh (UP) on Saturday. He hails from Azamgarh district in UP and currently lives in Chandigarh’s Kajheri village.Police said after the victim, Kedar, who lived on rent in Sector 52 and was a native of Maharaj Ganj, UP, was found dead, his mobile phone records were checked. Further probe revealed that he was having extra-marital relations with a woman, who lived in Adarsh Colony, Sector 54. When police questioned her, she told them about Kamal and that he had an argument with Kedar on March 7. Police raided Kamal’s house, but couldn’t find him there and his mobile phone was also switched off. Thereon, a police team went to Uttar Pradesh to trace him and arrested him in Agra on Saturday. During questioning, he disclosed that he and Kedar were seeing the same woman for which he had confronted him near Bassi Cinema, Phase 2, Mohali, on March 7. Furious with Kedar, he conspired to kill him and attacked him near a park in Sector 53 with a stick on March 8. After beating Kedar to death, he fled from the city.The accused was presented in a court on Sunday and sent to one-day police remand. According to police, he doesn’t have any previous criminal record.He is now facing a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The victim is survived by his wife and four children, who stay in UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mason-arrested-for-murdering-45-year-old-baker-in-chandigarh-s-sector-53-101615734887752.html
14-03-2021||Delhi||DU diaries: Students relax, chill, bond with parents to de-stress during OBE||Never heard of DU freshers having semester end exams in March? Credit that to another batch of Covid-19 problems! With the stress of attempting Open Book Examinations (OBE) students have fused their time table with breaks to de-stress and relax! “After all, being wholesome is as lit as acing your stat exam is,” quips Sarthak Mishra, a student of Ramjas College. If you’re wondering what a Gen Z’s off time looks like, during the #OBEseason, here’s a low down on the ways that are being adopted to chill and unwind! Motivational song wali play list “There hasn’t been a single success story that I’ve heard where a student hasn’t used motivational songs as a propeller to finally grab his notes and start studying for the exams. Whether it’s Divine ke raps, or the song Aashayien (Iqbaal, 2005), motivational music is really what all students relax to, between study breaks! We share our exam playlists with each other, too. Another thing that all students do to unwind is watch cringe reels and tiktoks. We just like to zone out and keep scrolling our social media feed until the next alarm for sitting and studying goes off,” says Mishra. Quick gossip sessions with mom“What’s the new gup on campus? Ask my mom!” says Yukti Aggarwal, a student of Shaheed Bhagat Singh College. “I love to spend time with my mom during breaks from studying for my exams. From a time when we used to hide secrets from our parents to a time where we share each and everything with them, I feel that youngsters have come a full circle. Just chit chatting with mom in between study session makes me feel energised and happy. Mom makes sure that I’m well fed during exams because only then will I be quicker to learn my syllabus – chalk that one up to #momlogic! Power naps FTW (For The Win)“Sona kitna sona hai is the principle that governs my student life. I think there is no better way to de-stress than taking a power nap. Exams ke stress se pareshan? So jaao. Syllabus ka pahad? Better sleep. Break up problems? Doze off. OBE ki tension? So jaao. Wifi stopped working? Sleep! Sleeping to regain your MoJo seems to be the most popular way to deal with online campus problems, and is also the greatest de-stressor during exam times,” says Tejas Malhotra, a student of Sri Aurobindo College. Meditate and Nama-slay the day! “I have been trying to meditate and focus on my breath whenever I get time to take a break,” says Mansha Khanna, a student of Hansraj College, adding, “I love the guided meditation video sessions that are available on YouTube. I’m a new bee at meditation, and I think while I might not have the time to go on a full on search for the monks in the Himalayas to learn from them — like the guy in monk who sold his Ferrari — YouTube is guru enough to teach me how to nama-slay my day and hopefully, my exams too!” Bhai, farre wala group ready hai? “De-stress matlab? Sab chill hai yaar! Humara group taiyyar hai. We’ve formed groups for different subjects that have students from different colleges taki answers same na lage; when a bro helps out another bro while sharing the answers. Aur baki toh gediya lagayi ja rahi hai to chill. The only hope is kahin offline exams na ho jaye because then fail hone ka darr thoda real ho jayega,” says a student on condition of anonymity; for all legit reasons. Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-diaries-students-relax-chill-bond-with-parents-to-de-stress-during-obe-101615734596552.html
14-03-2021||Other||Wheat needs irrigation, give farmers 8-hour supply: Agri dept to PSPCL||Chandigarh In the wake of rising temperature, which is not conducive for wheat crop, which is at a maturing stage, the state agriculture department has asked the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to give eight-hour mandatory power supply to agriculture tubewells till March 31. This will ensure that additional irrigation can be given to the crop. There are 14 lakh agriculture tubewells in state and eight-hour power supply is given by rotation to one-third of the total tubewells.State’s agriculture director Sukhdev Singh Sidhu told HT that the sudden rise in day temperatures over the past 10 days – 3-4°C more than what is conducive for the crop is a cause of worry. “This would lead to early maturing and fall in yield by at least 3 to 5%,” he said, adding, “A maximum day temperature of 26°C is acceptable. Any further increase will damage the crop. We are having day temperatures touching 28-30°C. Last week, the temperature touched 33°C. Sidhu added that night temperature should ideally be 16°C and was still within permissible limits. “Last few days have been cloudy, which was a respite,” he added. This rabi season, wheat was sown over 35.1 lakh hectare and the state food and civil supplies department is making arrangement for procurement of 135 lakh tonne from April 1, when mandis and procurement centres will start accepting the crop for purchase.Sidhu said December-sown wheat (particularly after cotton crop in the districts of Malwa belt) is under risk because it is at a maturing stage. “We have advised farmers to give timely irrigation, so that the crop doesn’t dry up early,” he said, apprehending that incase the temperature continues to rise and farmers are unable to give irrigation, the crop will mature early and arrivals will be preponed.Sidhu claimed that the state government is organising village level camps to spread awareness among farmers on the need for timely irrigation to protect their yield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wheat-needs-irrigation-give-farmers-8-hour-supply-agri-dept-to-pspcl-101615734527726.html
14-03-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 16,062 Covid-19 cases; Mumbai reports close to 2k infections||Maharashtra recorded 16,062 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 2,314,413. The death toll reached 52,861, with 50 deaths reported in the last 24 hours. Financial hub Mumbai recorded a spike of more than 200 cases as 1,963 cases took the city's Covid-19 tally to 343,962. Mumbai had recorded 1,709 cases on Saturday and the city has been recording more than 1,000 cases for more than ten days in a row, according to the Covid-19 bulletin released by the state health ministry. Mumbai also reported seven deaths taking the Covid-19 toll in the city to 11,535.Maharashtra active cases tally is 126,231 with the bulk of the active cases being reported from Pune and Nagpur districts which currently have 25,673 and 16,964 active cases respectively. The number of active cases also rose for Mumbai and Thane as both cities now have more than 12,000 active cases.The rise in the number of cases comes in the backdrop of an increase in the number of tests. Maharashtra conducted 108,381 tests in the last 24 hours. On Saturday, the Covid-19 dashboard showed that the state had conducted 97,918 tests. The state has tested 17,516,885 people until Sunday. The state recorded a case fatality ratio of 2.28%. Maharashtra reported 8,861 recoveries taking the number of 2,134,072.Among other districts, Aurangabad and Nashik reported more than 7,000 active cases. Amravati and Akola districts saw a dip in the number of cases. Buldhana, Latur, Wardha and Nanded also recorded more than 150 cases to its tally of active cases over the past 24 hours.The Maharashtra government warned citizens against complacency and said that if people continue to flout Covid-19 preventative measures the state government will be forced to take a decision on implementing a strict lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-16-062-covid-19-cases-mumbai-reports-close-to-2k-infections-lockdown-latest-corona-pune-nagpur-curfew-101615733847780.html
14-03-2021||Lucknow||Moradabad police begin probe into case accusing Akhilesh of violence, rioting||Moradabad Police on Sunday began a probe into the case of rioting in connection with an incident of alleged violence against journalists in which Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav is an accused. A police team went to the hotel where the incident occurred and recorded statement of the staff there.Superintendent of police (city) of Moradabad Amit Kumar Anand said, “The case is being investigated by a team of local police headed by station house officer (SHO). The team has also collected CCTV footage of the place. Statements of concerned parties are being recorded.”The said FIR was lodged on Saturday on the complaint of journalists who were allegedly injured in the incident on March 10. Based on the complaint, the police booked Akhilesh Yadav and 20 unidentified SP workers under Sections 147 (rioting), 342(wrongful confinement) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code.The second FIR was lodged against one Ubaid-ur-Rehman and Fareed Samsi, who are reportedly journalists. The duo has been booked under sections 160 (committing affray) 341(wrongful restraint), 332(causing hurt to person being a public servant), 353(deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC on the complaint of the SP’s Moradabad district president Jaibir Singh Yadav.Samajwadi Party leader Shafiqur Rahman Barq on Sunday condemned the FIR lodged against his party chief Akhilesh Yadav and said: “This FIR is equivalent to a fake FIR. (Akhilesh) Yadav ji our president. This move by the complainants is not acceptable. Instead of covering what Yadav ji spoke in the press conference, the media is busy covering his FIR-related stories. Yadav ji too has lodged an FIR against the complainants in response.” The senior leader added that party member will protest against the FIR in the coming days. In a tweet in Hindi, Yadav said, “Today, the way in which the Constitution is attacked, false cases are registered against leaders and physical assaults taking place after raids by probe agencies, are all an adverse result of BJP’s violent political thought.” “Those who level allegations on others of running a syndicate, are in fact themselves running a ‘sanghicate’,” he said.On other hand, BJP leaders attacked Akhilesh Yadav for the alleged violence against journalist. Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya in a tweet said, “SP has crossed all limits by attacking journalists for asking questions. Akhilesh Yadavji the violence against journalist in your presence is condemnable.”State law minister Brajesh Pathak also criticised the attack and said on Sunday, “Akhilesh Yadav is letting out his disappointment by attacking journalists. The state government condemns the attack and will never allow it to happen again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/moradabad-police-begin-probe-into-case-accusing-akhilesh-of-violence-rioting-101615733867053.html
14-03-2021||Other||Country’s growth can’t be imagined without forest dwellers: President||President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday said the overall growth of the country cannot be imagined without the development of rural, tribal and forest dwellers’ communities. He also referred to the contribution of tribals and forest-dwellers in Lord Ram’s victory in this context.“When Lord Ram emerged victorious in the war against Ravan, the ‘vanvaasi’ (forest dwellers) extended great assistance. In the same way, if the society and the country have to move ahead, then the forest dwellers’ community has to be first taken ahead,” Kovind said.The President was addressing a gathering at Chapki in Sonbhadra district in eastern Uttar Pradesh on Sunday after inaugurating the newly constructed buildings of the Seva Kunj Ashram. “Without the development of tribal, forest dwellers, the development of the country cannot be called complete,” the President said, adding, “Therefore, the development of tribal and forest dwellers’ communities and rural areas is necessary.”“It should be our endeavour that forest dwellers remain an integral part of the modern development process, while keeping their cultural heritage and identity intact,” he said. The central and the state governments were implementing various schemes for the overall development of rural and forest dwellers’ communities, he added.Recalling his long association with the Seva Kunj Ashram, he said social worker Vanyogi Bala Sahab Deshpande founded Akhil Bharatiya Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram around 70 years ago and Awadh Bihari established the Seva Samarpan Sansthan as a service wing of the Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram around 40 years ago. Remembering Birsa Munda on the occasion, the President said Birsa Munda struggled relentlessly to protect the forest wealth and culture from exploitation by the British. “His life has been a source of inspiration and ideal not only for the tribal communities but also for all citizens,” he added.The President said that he was happy to inaugurate the newly constructed buildings of the Seva Kunj Ashram. Noting that construction of school and hostel buildings were undertaken by NTPC, he appreciated this social welfare work.“When I visited the NTPC stall, two sisters greeted me with “Ram, Ram”. I interacted with them and told them that Lord Ram had achieved his victory with the help and support of tribal and forest-dweller heroes,” he said.The President said that he held the belief that the soul of the country resided in rural and forest areas. “If anyone wants to get acquainted with the roots of India, then one should spend some time at a place like Sonbhadra,” he said.The President termed Sonbhadra as the power capital of India. He appreciated the fact that the forest dwellers are keeping alive the tradition of intuitive knowledge received from their ancestors and carrying it forward. “From agriculture to art and craft, the harmony they have with nature impresses everyone,” he said.“Many success stories are coming from the forest areas. Our tribal sons and daughters across the country are increasing the pride of the country by their hard work and talent in many fields, including sports, arts, and technology,” he said.The President said he was confident that the Sonbhadra region connecting eastern Uttar Pradesh with Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh would become a major centre of modern development.He expressed joy over efforts being made by the Sewa Samarpan Sansthan to revive the folk arts and preserving the folk languages and songs.Stating that he liked calling on the “brothers and sisters” of the forest dwellers’ community, he said he was supposed to visit the ashram last year, but could not do so due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The President also participated in Vanvasi Samagam. UP governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/countrys-growth-can-t-be-imagined-without-forest-dwellers-president-101615733688192.html
14-03-2021||Lucknow||UP Govt hopes for revenue mop-up with OTS for traders||The authorities are keeping their fingers crossed for the success of the one-time settlement scheme (OTS) announced for the state’s traders/dealers. The scheme gives the traders an opportunity to clear their arrears with no or reduced interest, depending on the amount of the dues.Successful implementation of the scheme may help the government to bolster its coffers with the help of recovery of pending tax liabilities in the time of pandemic that is said to have squeezed government’s resources.“We have made elaborate arrangements by setting up a helpdesk under a gazetted officer at each location to help dealers avail of the government’s scheme,” commercial tax commissioner Amrita Soni said.“We expect a good response to the OTS,” she added.She further said officials were asked to verify the documents and personally contact the defaulters, encouraging them to avail of OTS.The government recently brought the OTS. In line with this scheme, the interest on the traders’ tax liabilities under UP Sales Tax Act, Central Sales Tax Act, UP Entertainment Tax Act, UP Cable Television Network Act up to December 2020 will be waived, provided one opting for the scheme clears the principal amount at one go.The scheme will be in effect for three months. But it does not cover the GST arrears. “OTS will cover tax liabilities prior to the GST regime that came into effect on July 1, 2017,” another official dealing the issue clarified. “There are around ₹3,000 crore recoverable tax arrears pending against thousands of traders and dealers, including government agencies,” the official said.The OTS circular issued by the government seeks to waive 100% interest component on the arrears up to ₹10 lakh, 90% on the arrears of over ₹10 lakh and up to ₹1 crore, 50% on the dues between ₹1 crore and 5 crore and only 10% on the arrears if they are above ₹5 crore. The exemption be will available only for full payment of the arrears.The available data shows that successive one-time settlement schemes (OTS) have not been able to make any significant dent in the amount of arrears, the volume of which keeps on fluctuating.It is seen that the total recoverable (undisputed) dues in 2013-14 were ₹1957.95 crore. It went up to ₹2594.53 crore the next year and further increased to ₹4270.21 crore in 2015-16. The arrears were ₹4161.43 crore in 2016-17 and rose again to ₹4430.17 crore in 2017-18 before they again came down to ₹3444.15 crore in 2018-19. Although the department is still not sure as to how many defaulters would like to avail of the OTS this year, over 18,000 traders/dealers having old tax liabilities against them are said to have opted for the interest waiver scheme in 2019-20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-hopes-for-revenue-mop-up-with-ots-for-traders-101615733267139.html
14-03-2021||City||Stage set for Kerala polls: Metro Man, Chandy figure in BJP and Cong lists||Metro man E Sreedharan, former chief minister Oommen Chandy, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala and actor Suresh Gopi figure in Kerala candidate list of the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) released on Sunday.The BJP has named 88-year-old E Sreedharan from Palakkad. Though the party wanted to field him from an urban constituency in Kochi, he preferred Palakkad district where he had his education and grew up, party leaders said.The seat is now being held by young Congress leader Shafi Parambhil. BJP state president K Surendran will be contesting from two seats, Mancheswaram in north Kerala and Konni in Pathanamthitta district. Rajya Sabha MP and actor Suresh Gopi has been fielded from Thrissur. In the April 6 assembly election, the stage is set for a fierce three-cornered contest after all three major alliances released their lists.The BJP declared candidates for 112 of the 115 seats it is contesting for the 140-member legislative assembly.Also read: The political importance of KeralaChandy is seeking re-election from Puthupally constituency in Kottayam district which he held for more than half a century (51 years). Similarly, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala is contesting from his sitting seat Harippad in Alappuzha district.Congress alliance called the United Democratic Alliance (UDF), comprising five other parties, declared candidates for 85 seats of the 91 it is contesting. The remaining 49 seats have been left for the allies. The Congress, in which at least 55 per cent of the candidates are new faces, triggered protests at many places.Party headquarters in the state capital witnessed an unusual protest after Mahaila Congress state president Lathika Subhash, who was denied a seat, tonsured her head. She has also resigned from all posts but she said she will continue to work as a party worker.“My leaders have let me down badly. I have tonsured my head in protest,” she said. In tears, she said the party always put women in high esteem but always ignored them during seat distribution.“I came to the party at the age of 16 and now I am 56. Now I don’t think the party can do justice to women. Even 10 per cent of seats are not given to women. My protest is for all women,” she said. But state president Mullapally Ramachandran later said she was keen to contest from Ettumanoor (Kottayam) but the seat went to Kerala Congress (Joseph) during seat distribution.“We are upset that we could not accommodate her. In coalition politics certain sacrifices are necessary,” said Ramachandran in Delhi after releasing the list. Chandy also underplayed the protest saying it would not affect the party's prospects.Similarly, senior BJP leader Shobha Surendran was also denied a seat though the central leadership was keen. “I have no complaints. I will work hard to for my candidates,” she later said. She was sidelined for more than a year after a feud with state leaders. She, however, took a dig at the state president who is contesting from two seats.The Congress has tweaked the norm of not alloting seats to the MPs in the assembly elections to name party MP from Vatakara K Muraleedharan. He has been named from Nemom in Thiruvananthapuram, the lone sitting seat of the BJP. Earlier, the party high command had insisted that a senior leader should contest from Nemom where former Governor Kummana Rajasekharan is contesting on the BJP ticket. Of the 91 seats the party is contesting, the Congress has announced candidates for 85 while 6 will be announced later, the PCC chief said.The ruling Left front alliance called the Left Democratic Front led by the CPI(M) had declared a list for all 140 seats last week. CPI(M), which announced its list on March 10, is contesting 85 seats, six less than the main opposition party, the Congress.With this, the contestants in Kerala's electoral arena are almost clear with more than 95 per cent of the seats declared by all political parties. The BJP is contesting the most number of seats among any political party in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/stage-set-for-kerala-polls-metro-man-chandy-figure-in-bjp-and-cong-lists-101615732748033.html
14-03-2021||Other||After dispute with 5-yr-old brother, 10-yr-old girl commits suicide||AGRA: Suicide by a ten-year-old girl has shocked many in rural belt of Agra district. The victim committed suicide following a dispute allegedly with her five-year-old brother, police said. The incident took place in Pratappura village under Fatehabad police station of Agra district. “Fatehabad police was informed about the suicide. They went to the house and completed all the legal formalities. Locals told the police that the girl had a dispute with her 5-year-old brother,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP) Agra Babloo Kumar. “Police has been asked to investigate the matter in depth as it was shocking to hear about such a young girl committing suicide,” said the SSP. Police said the incident took place on Saturday evening after both brother and sister had a dispute. The eldest sister returned home from work to find her sister hanging from the window of the house. The youngest of three sisters is only one and half year old while brother is 5-year-old and had a routine dispute with his sister. The minor brother was not in position to explain much, police said. According to reports, the girl was living with her two sisters and a brother. Their mother had died while father had left the family. The 18-year-old eldest sister, worked at a cloth shop to earn bread for her family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-dispute-with-5-yr-old-brother-10-yr-old-girl-commits-suicide-101615731166956.html
14-03-2021||City||'Illegal infiltration will be thing of past if BJP is re-elected in Assam': Shah||Illegal infiltration will become a thing of the past if the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) comes to power again in Assam, Union home minister Amit Shah said on Sunday while addressing rallies in the poll-bound state.Union defence minister Rajnath Singh also addressed three election rallies in the state in Biswanath, Gohpur and Dergaon constituencies which will go to polls in the first phase on March 27.“People of Assam have two options in this election. One is a BJP-Asom Gana Parashar government led by Modiji, Sarbananda and Sarma and the other choice is Rahul Gandhi’s Congress and (Badruddin) Ajmal’s All India United Democratic Front. Who can work for Assam’s good? Modiji or Rahul-Ajmal?” Shah said at Margherita in Tinsukia district.The Union home minister said that in the past five years, the BJP government in Assam has been able to put an end to agitations and terrorism in the state and ensure development in a peaceful atmosphere.Also read: Union minister and 3 sitting MPs mark BJP’s Bengal nominees for 3rd, 4th phases“Can Rahul, who has tied up with Ajmal, put an end to infiltration by illegal immigrants? Give us another five years, and illegal immigration will become a thing of the past in Assam,” said Shah.Targeting the influential tea-tribe community in upper Assam districts, where polls would be held in the first phase on March 27, he listed welfare schemes launched for them by the state government and the Centre while blaming previous Congress governments in the state and Delhi for failing to do anything.Shah assured that if the BJP comes to power again, Assam’s biggest problem i.e. annual floods would get solved. He said floodwaters would be diverted to big reservoirs, which in turn will become tourist destinations.“We understand the pain of tea-garden workers and that’s why the BJP-led state government has approved an increase in their daily wages and allowances to ₹318 (from the existing ₹167),” Rajnath Singh said at a rally in Biswanath district.“On May 2, when the poll results will be announced, the BJP will return to power again in Assam and also form its government in West Bengal. Tripura is already under BJP's rule. When we have governments in these three states, no infiltrator (from Bangladesh) will dare enter India,” he added while blaming the Congress for joining hands with the AIUDF.On Sunday, the BJP released its list of 19 candidates for the third and final phase of polls on April 6. While two sitting MLAs have been denied tickets, the party selected industries minister Chandra Mohan Patowary to represent Dharmapur again. Names of ministers Himanta Biswa Sarma (Jalukbari) and state BJP chief Ranjeet Kumar Dass (Patacharkuchi) had been announced earlier.“Before coming to power in 2016, the BJP had promised to protect ‘jati-mati-bheti’ (community-land-base). But by bringing in Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), it is giving a red carpet welcome to illegal immigrants, which in turn threatens the language, culture and identity of the people of Assam,” Congress in-charge of the state Jitendra Singh said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-infiltration-will-be-thing-of-past-shah-in-assam-101615730244058.html
14-03-2021||Pune||Pune adds 14 more private hospitals as Covid vaccination centres||PUNE In a bid to increase the number of beneficiaries getting vaccinated the central ministry of health and family welfare has approved 14 non-empanelled private hospitals, each with a capacity of 200-100 beds, which will serve as Covid vaccination centres in Pune city and Pimpri-Chinchwad.The additional hospitals will increase the vaccination by at least 4,000 beneficiaries daily, said officials.These hospitals are not empanelled with the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY), Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) or state health insurance. The Centre has approved 67 such hospitals in the state out of which 12 are for Pune city and two from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) area.All the approved hospitals, government and private are approved after assessment of space for vaccination, cold chain space for vaccine storage, vaccination team/human resource and emergency service after reported adverse effect following immunization.Currently, Pune has 135 session sites that can administer more than 16,100 vaccine doses.Rajesh Deshmukh, district collector, said, “We are trying to increase the vaccination centres in Pune district given the high number of Covid cases. We aim to vaccinate about one lakh people daily. We are also seeking permission to vaccinate the population above 18 years.”While the earlier notification of the government stated that only those private hospitals empanelled with central or state government health schemes and with more than 200 beds would be eligible for vaccination. However, given the high response from citizens, the government has further relaxed its guidelines and allowed more private hospitals to come on board.The hospitals have to purchase the vaccine for ₹150 per dose and can charge ₹100 per dose, so the beneficiary would have to pay ₹250 per dose at private hospitals.Currently, Pune city has 83 vaccination centres out of which 42 are private hospitals, while PCMC has 21 centres out of which eight are government hospitals.At least 35,687 beneficiaries were vaccinated in the Pune district on Saturday (March 13) which was the highest in the state which took the cumulative number to 3.08 lakh.Out of the total vaccinated, 90,000 health care workers have got the first dose while 29,000 have got their second dose and have completed their course. While 55,000 frontline workers have got their first dose and 2,657 have completed their vaccination course.Out of the 90,000 vaccination doses, 1.29 lakh senior citizens and those aged between 45-59 with comorbidities have got their first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-adds-14-more-private-hospitals-as-covid-vaccination-centres-101615728946905.html
14-03-2021||Other||Delay in exam results leaves hospitals with shortage of interns; pressure on residents docs increases||PUNE With Covid cases on the rise, hospital staff is likely to be under immense pressure in the coming weeks. Their workload may further increase as fourth year MBBS students will not join the hospitals as interns until May.Most examinations have been postponed due to Covid, including the final examination for fourth year MBBS students. The exam is usually conducted in December, followed by the results in February. Internships for students start in March. This year, the examination was postponed till March 8. Fourth year MBBS students can join as interns only after the results are declared. That process will take another two months, which will put a strain on hospital staff in government, as well as private hospitals.Sohel Inamdar, president of the Association of State Medical Interns (ASMI) at BJ General Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital, said there are 3,000 interns across Maharashtra, in government and private hospitals.“The examination of final year students was postponed due to Covid-1. Till May, there will be no new interns. In government colleges there are 2,500 interns in Maharashtra and there are 1,500 interns in private colleges. Every year by the end of February, internships for most students end. There are fewer interns right now. Till April end, there will be a stress on the medical system as there will be fewer interns to carry out the work and assist resident doctors,” said Inamdar.Dr Vijay Yadav, president, Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (Mard) at BJ General Medical College and zonal secretary for Mard Maharashtra, said that at present there are no regular interns.“Due to this, the resident doctors are over worked. One of my colleagues handles the Covid-19 ward at Sassoon General Hospital and has 54 patients there. Each patient requires checking of oxygen level and other details every three hours. This was mostly done by the interns. Due to their absence she is overworked and overloaded. This is the picture when there is a absence of interns, as they play a crucial role in taking samples and other works, which aid the functions of the residents,” said Yadav.He added that many other departments as well are understaffed as the interns will join late. “This has put a burden on many residents. Many of them are seeking psychiatric help as they are overburdened and overworked,” added Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delay-in-exam-results-leaves-hospitals-with-shortage-of-interns-pressure-on-residents-docs-increases-101615728886874.html
14-03-2021||Other||Night curfew hits income of Pune’s cabbies||PUNE Private taxi drivers are complaining that the night curfew in the city is impacting their daily income.In Pune, night curfew was imposed from February 22, and has now been extended till March 31. With stricter norms for restaurants, hotels and malls, cab drivers are also affected.According to the new order – malls and restaurants will close at 10 pm, while only delivery of food from restaurants will be allowed till 11 pm. “I work as a peon in a hospital in Kothrud till 8pm and then drive my auto rickshaw till am. I give service to Ola and Uber both. Since February 21, I have been going back home at 10 pm. Driving at night helped me to earn money which took care of my monthly rations,” said Sunil Ramse.Most private cab drivers prefer to wait at Koregaon Park or SB road for after-hours customers. “Although Pune doesn’t have a night life like Mumbai, if you are in Koregaon Park or SB road you get many calls, as there are many pubs and bars in these localities,” said Dhanjay Kudale, an Ola driver.IT park’s WFH a big blowBefore night curfew was imposed, many cab drivers who used to provide their services to IT companies in Hinjewadi and Kharadi, were left jobless with companies continuing the work from home (WFH) routine.“Private cab owners who were on duty with IT companies had developed a very good source of income as their payment was always done on time. Now all these drivers who had contracts with IT companies are with Ola and Uber, so we have more drivers in every area,” said Vishwanath Sadhu, a cab driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/night-curfew-hits-income-of-pune-s-cabbies-101615728286798.html
14-03-2021||Chandigarh||Trident PCA triangular cricket tournament from March 15||Trident Group of Companies in collaboration with the Punjab Cricket Association will organise the Trident PCA Cup at various venues in the region from March 15 to 26. The winning team from among three from Punjab will be awarded ₹2 lakh, while the runners-up will bag an award of ₹1 lakh.Former Indian cricketer and member of the tournament organising committee, Bhupinder Singh Senior said, “The opening match between Punjab XI and Rest of Punjab (red) will be played at the Gandhi ground in Amritsar, while other matches will be played at Hoshiarpur and Ludhiana. The final will take place at the IS Bindra PCA Stadium in Mohali. Such a tournament will give a chance to the best players of Punjab to play against each other and improve.” The matches will be a one-day (50 overs) affair.Teams:Punjab XI: Vinay Chaudhary (captain), Rohan Marwaha, Abhijeet Garg, Prabhjot Singh, Arush Sabharwal, Ramandeep Singh, Akul Pratap Pandav, Anmol Malhotra (wicket-keeper), Yashanpreet Singh, Baltej Singh, Abhinav Sharma, Gurvinder Bhullar, Gurnoor Brar, Parth Aggarwal, Tejpreet Singh and Gaurav Chaudhary. Coach: Devinder AroraRest of Punjab (red): Gitansh Khera (captain), Mandeepinder Singh Bawa, Nihhal Wadera, Vishwapratap Singh, Kashish Pasneja, Kunwar Pathak, Salil Arora (wicket-keeper), Pukhraj Mann, Sumit Sharma, Ekjot Singh Thind, Preet Dutta, Abhishek Bajaj, Jasinder Singh, Sahil Chandra, Dipin Chitkara and Hartejaswi Kapoor. Coach: Ravneet Singh Rikki.Rest of Punjab (green): Aashish Ghai (captain), Naman Gheer, Vinay Garg, Karan Chawla, Aman Ghuman, Kamaljeet Singh (wicket-keeper), Aashish Malhotra, Talwinder Singh, Arjun, Prashant, Harjot Singh, Taranpreet Singh, Manjinder Singh, Aditya Narayan Mehta, Damandeep Singh and Ujjwal Hans. Coach: Munish Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/trident-pca-triangular-cricket-tournament-from-march-15-101615728047352.html
14-03-2021||Pune||Survey: 2,457 students have dropped out of school in PMC limits||A total of 46.89 per cent of students could not attend school due to Covid, according to a recent survey by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). The survey also highlighted that 2,457 students have been reported to be out of school within the PMC limits. Suresh Jagtap, additional commissioner with the PMC said 3,05,898 households were surveyed in the PMC limits. “There are 2,457 students who are out of school between the ages of three to 18 years in the PMC limits. Of this, 1,152 students have been out of school due to the ongoing pandemic,” said Jagtap. He added that PMC will continue its efforts to include these students in the upcoming academic year. “We will trace and admit them in the upcoming academic year. The schools are shut till March 31. We will be following the plans chalked out by the state government to include these children back in the education system,” said Jagtap. Mukund Kirdat, an education activist as well as a member of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said that it is unfortunate that these students inside the PMC limits could not receive formal education last year. “These families of these students have reported financial difficulties. Not just middle-class parents, but single parents who are daily wage workers and domestic helpers do not have the money to continue the education of their ward. There are also parents who are single, financial difficulties have been a challenge for them as well. In such cases, the authorities have failed to include these children in the system. There has been no system where these students are included. The sad part is that these students are in the city and have not migrated out of here and the authorities have failed immensely,” said Kirdat. Of the 2,457 students, only 153 have migrated out of the city. There are 174 students whose parents have financial problems due to which they are out of school and there are 21 children who are out of school as they have single parents. “The authorities should plan the upcoming academic year in a better way so that those parents seeking admissions now are able to continue the education of their child,” said Kirdat. Box Header: Why are they out of school? *Due to Covid-19-- 1,152 *Parents who think education is not important--536 *Parents with financial problem--174 *Migration--153 *Child does not like education--139 *Specially abled children--109 *Family problems--92 *Younger siblings to take care of--22 *Single parents--21 *Do not have documents for admission--18 *Language problems--18 *No response--11 *School is far away from home--7 *Child labour--5 *Total --2457 *Source: PMC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/survey-2-457-students-have-dropped-out-of-school-in-pmc-limits-101615727986903.html
14-03-2021||Pune||PMC begins auctioning 40 properties of property tax defaulters||Despite the introduction of the amnesty scheme, some property tax defaulters in the city are not paying up taxes owed to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and therefore in a first, the PMC has initiated the auction process on a total of 40 properties. PMC property tax departments have identified properties that are not responding to the property tax department. Last week, the PMC sealed nine properties and sent a proposal to the tehsildar to put the civic body’s name on the 7x12 extract of the defaulter’s properties. In the background of the Covid-19 pandemic, the PMC is facing a financial crunch and property tax and Goods and Services Tax (GST), building development charges are the main income source for the PMC. At present, the property tax department has collected ₹1,465 crore so far in property taxes and is expecting another ₹50 crore by March 31, 2021. However, the PMC has claimed it has collected the maximum property tax as compared to other municipal corporations in the state on the background of the Covid-19 pandemic. The PMC’s target of ₹2,100 crore which was set in the 2020-21 budget has still not reached. Vilas Kanade, joint municipal commissioner, property tax department said, “We are first initiating the process of adding PMC’s name on the 7x12 extract and auction properties. At present, we have started the online auction of properties to recover outstanding dues of ₹7.72 crore.” He further said, “We have identified another 30 properties for the auction. We have started the process to seal and put the name of the civic body on the 7x12 extract. It will take time to complete the entire procedure. After that, we will go to the auction. We have to recover more than ₹20 crore against these properties.” 40,000 new property registrations Kanade said, “On one hand, we are initiating strict action against defaulters, and on the other the property department has registered 40,000 new properties. It is one of the highest records of registering new properties in PMC history. The PMC has also collected ₹1,654 crore despite the Covid-19 pandemic.” In the collection of property tax, around 5 lakh residents paid property tax of around ₹778 crore online. Now, the department has completed all necessary procedures to send new property tax bills for 2021-22 from April 1st. It will be distributed until April 15 to all property holders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-begins-auctioning-40-properties-of-property-tax-defaulters-101615727926843.html
14-03-2021||Chandigarh||Thieves who stole unattended bags from buses arrested in Chandigarh||Two thieves, who would make off with unattended bags in buses, have been nabbed by the Chandigarh Police. As many as nine laptops, an iPad and a charger have been recovered from the accused, identified as Om Parkash, 61, and Balram, 26, both hailing from Arya Nagar in Haryana’s Rohtak district.The arrests came following investigation into two such thefts at the Inter State Bus Terminal (ISBT) in Sector 43 on March 6 and March 12.During interrogation, the accused revealed that they were drug addicts and used to steal bags containing electronics to finance their addiction. They would get onboard buses making a stop and observe passengers who would leave their electronic bags unattended to steal them.Looking into their past criminal record, police found a case of mobile theft registered against Balram at the GRP police station in Rohtak. The duo was presented in court on Sunday and sent to one-day police remand for more recoveries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/thieves-who-stole-unattended-bags-from-buses-arrested-in-chandigarh-101615727387377.html
14-03-2021||Other||Meghalaya guv backs farmers’ demands||MEERUT Meghalaya governor Satya Pal Malik said on Sunday that the government should accept the farmers’ demand for legalizing MSP and advised it to not use its might on the protesting farmers. Malik was addressing a gathering after his felicitation at Sheelchand Inter College in Aminagar Sarai town of his native district Baghpat. He belongs to Hisawda village of the district. He shared that he wrote a letter to the Prime Minister and home minister about the ongoing farmers’ agitation but it remained unresolved. Visibly perturbed over the stir, , he said that a governor was supposed to be quiet on certain issues but “I went against this norm because I am also the son of a farmer and understand the pain and problems of farmers.” He claimed that he opposed farmers’ arrests and advised the government to not use power against them but ensure that they did not go back empty-handed. He said the farmers’ demands were genuine and the government must listen to them. Malik also recalled his tenure as governor of Jammu and Kashmir when Article 370 was repealed. He appreciated the decision of the Modi government and said that a better kind of democracy was established there after conducting panchayat elections. He said, “ I don’t know how long I will remain in the Raj Bhawan” and added that he would write books after his retirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/meghalaya-guv-backs-farmers-demands-101615727086809.html
14-03-2021||City||It's YSRCP all the way in Andhra civic polls; TDP draws a virtual blank||The ruling YSR Congress party in Andhra Pradesh made a clean sweep in the elections to urban local bodies in the state held on March 10. The party decimated the opposition parties completely. The counting of votes took place on Sunday.The YSRC won 10 out of 11 municipal corporations and established a clear lead in Vijayawada municipal corporation. The counting in Eluru municipal corporation was withheld as per the direction of the state High Court due to an election petition.The YSRCP also won 73 out of 75 municipalities and nagar panchayats, including four municipalities – Pulivendula, Punganur, Macherla and Piduguralla municipalities, as its candidates were elected unopposed unanimously.The main opposition, the Telugu Desam Party, drew a blank in the municipal corporations and won just two municipalities – Tadipatri in Anantapur district and Mydukur in Kadapa district - with a slender margin.Also read: Artist in Andhra creates miniature golden YSRCP symbol on party's foundation dayHowever, senior YSRCP leader and state municipal administration minister Botsa Satyanarayana told reporters soon after the election results that the ruling party would capture power even in Tadipatri and Mydukur municipalities with the help of the votes of co-option members. “We shall not allow the TDP to rule any municipality in the state,” the minister said.If it happens, it will be the YSRCP all the way in all the urban local bodies in the state, which is an unprecedented victory for any political party in the state.“It is a historic win for the YSRC and an endorsement of the welfare schemes taken up by the Jagan Mohan Reddy government,” said Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, senior YSRCP leader and advisor to the state government.The Congress drew a blank by not winning even a single ward anywhere in the state, while the BJP-Jana Sena combine did not cross even a single digit in winning the wards and divisions.A festive atmosphere prevailed at the YSRCP central office at Tadepalli in Amaravati as the party leaders and cadre celebrated the victory by bursting crackers and distributing sweets.It is a huge setback for the TDP which was desperate to regain the ground which it had lost in the 2019 general elections. Party president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu extensively campaigned in various municipal corporations and municipalities, attacking the Jagan Mohan Reddy government on various fronts.Naidu especially focussed on Visakhapatnam trying to exploit the ongoing agitation against the privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant and also in Krishna and Guntur districts where he banked on the strong sentiment in favour of Amaravati being retained as the capital city of the state.However, the TDP lost heavily in these districts. For instance, in the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation elections, the TDP could win only in 30 out of 98 divisions, while the YSRC won 58 divisions.In Vijayawada, which Naidu developed as part of Amaravati, the YSRC was leading by winning 23 seats in the 64-member corporation, while the TDP was left far behind with victory in just eight seats. In the remaining divisions, too, the YSRC has a clear edge, reports from the YSRC said.Similarly, in Guntur municipal corporation, the hotbed of agitation for Amaravati capital city, the YSRC established a massive victory by winning 44 out of 57 divisions while the TDP ended up with just nine divisions.“The victory in Visakhapatnam, Guntur and Vijayawada municipal corporations is a clear indication that the people have endorsed the chief minister’s decision to form the three capitals for the state with executive capital at Visakhapatnam,” YSRC general secretary and MP V Vijay Sai Reddy said.TDP politburo member and spokesman Varla Ramaiah said it was the YSRCP, not the TDP, which should make an introspection on how it had won the elections. “It has completely bulldozed the elections, misused the official machinery, used the ward volunteers as party workers, spent thousands of crores and cared a damn for the state election commission,” he alleged.Ramaiah said the TDP would not get disheartened by the defeat. “In fact, the defeat will only strengthen our resolve to fight back and we shall overcome this crisis very soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/its-ysrcp-all-the-way-in-andhra-civic-polls-tdp-draws-a-virtual-blank-101615726313678.html
14-03-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC to resume physical functioning from Monday, an year after Covid-19||After a year, the Delhi High Court will resume from Monday its complete physical functioning, which was restricted due to the Covid-19 pandemic.From March 15, all judges of the high court would hold physical hearing of cases.Since March 2020, the high court has been holding proceedings through video conferencing and subsequently, a few benches started holding physical courts everyday on a rotation basis.Some of them were also holding hybrid proceedings, wherein lawyers have the option to attend the hearing via video conference instead of appearing in person.According to a notification issued by the high court administration on March 12, limited numbers of litigants who are appearing in person and/or required to appear in compliance of the court's order/directions be permitted in the court premises.The high court on March 2 had issued certain guidelines to be followed upon resumption of physical court hearings from March 15, including that visitors and advocates shall maintain social distancing as per government norms.A circular issued by the administration branch of the high court earlier had said entry of litigants will be regulated as it was during the pre-Covid-19 pandemic period and facilitation counter/pass counter will also function in a normal manner."All the visitors, including lawyers, shall maintain social distancing as per norms/protocol issued by the government of India/ Delhi government and or this court," it had said.The functioning of the high court was restricted to urgent matters from March 16, 2020.Thereafter, from March 25 last year, the functioning of the high court and district courts was further restricted and no physical hearing was being conducted due to the spread of Covid-19 cases.An office order had said that all pending routine or non-urgent matters listed before it from February 22 to March 26 would be adjourned en bloc to dates between April 15 and May 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/year-after-covid-19-delhi-hc-to-resume-physical-functioning-from-monday-101615722566986.html
14-03-2021||Mumbai||Vaze arrest: Fadnavis says case is major plot, more names will come out||Former chief minister and Leader of Opposition in Maharashtra assembly Devendra Fadnavis, while reacting to the arrest of Sachin Vaze, said the action against the police officer shows the case is a major plot and other names in it will soon come out. The former chief minister said the arrest of the officer who was investigating the case has put a major question mark on the way the entire probe was earlier carried out.Fadnavis, while speaking in Pune on Sunday, said, the way the details are coming out now shows this was a major conspiracy of which some police officer is part of.“This isn’t a small plot. It is a major plot. There are many people involved in this. All those who are involved and the reasons for doing this will come out now,” said Fadnavis.Also read: Ambani security scare probe - Sachin Vaze remanded to NIA custody till March 25Vaze was in the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) leading the investigation into the security scare outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence Antilia in Mumbai. However, following the death of Mansukh Hiren, a Thane based decor businessman who had been in possession of the vehicle, Fadnavis presented some fresh details putting Vaze at the centre of the case.Late on Saturday, the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is investigating the February 25 bomb scare outside Antilia, arrested Vaze.On Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut’s allegation that Vaze’s arrest is part of a conspiracy to destabilise the Maharashtra government, Fadnavis said, “What Raut said is laughable. In fact, what some police officers were doing itself was an attempt to destabilise the government.”Raut had also alleged that the opposition is hurting the image of Mumbai police to which Fadnavis said, "If the investigating officer is involved this way and is arrested, it puts a series of questions. Those who are saying we are damaging the image should give it a thought that such an act by some officer is actually causing more damage to the image of Maharashtra and Mumbai police."Fadnavis also questioned the reinstatement of Vaze into the police force last year when the High Court had not cleared his name in the killing of Khwaja Yunus in police custody.“When I was the chief minister and holding home portfolio, the Shiv Sena had asked me to reinduct Vaze. I referred the case to Mmaharashtra’s advocate general, who opined against it. However, after Shiv Sena came to power, Vaze was reinstated into service citing a shortage of manpower due to Covid,” Fanadnavis said, adding, Vaze was directly given charge of the crime intelligence unit.Get our daily newsletter
14-03-2021||Other||4-member Giripremi team to scale “deadly” Mt Annapurna in Himalayan cluster||PUNE Only two Indians have successfully scaled the Annapurna 1 mountain, the 10th highest in the world. Annapurna 1 is located in Nepal’s Himalaya Annapurna Massif (cluster), home to several mountains 6,000 mts tall, of which Annapurna 1 is the tallest.Now four Punekars – Umesh Zirpe, Bhushan Harshe, Dr Sumeet Mandale and Jitnedra Gaware, will attempt to to scale the 8,091metre-tall mountain in an expedition that will start in the third week of March, and expected to end in last week of April.In 2012, Basanta Singha Roy and Debashis from West Bengal climbed Annapurna 1 successfully. Annapurna 1 is also considered a deadly mountain, as so far, 61 climbers have lost their lives while scaling its peak.“Due to its unpredictable weather it is one of the deadliest mountains. Climbing between Camp 2 and Camp 3 is hardest, as most avalanches occur between these two camps,” said Mandale, who has climbed Mt Cho Oyu in Tibet and Mt Kanchenjunga (located on the India Nepal-border).All four mountaineers represent a well-known mountaineering club in the city, Giripremi.Before Annapurna, mountaineers from Giripremi have climbed the seven tallest mountains in the world (see box).“We are experienced mountaineers, and since it is a tricky mountain to climb we did not think of a bigger team. Before heading to base camp to acclimatise we will be climbing Mt Singu Chuli, which is around 6,000 metres tall,” said Umesh Zirpe, president, Akhil Maharashtra Giryarohan Mahasangh (AMGM).Giripremi had planned this expedition in 2020, but it was not possible due to Covid-19. “Although covid patients are increasing in India, in Nepal the situation is completely under control so we will not have any issues of travelling and once we are in the mountains, there is nothing to worry about,” added Zirpe.Previous expeditions by Giripremi:2012: Mt Everest2013: Mt Lhotse2014: Mt Makalu2016: Mt Cho Oyu2016: Dhaulagiri2017: Manaslu2019: Kanchenjunga||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4member-giripremi-team-to-scale-deadly-mt-annapurna-in-himalayan-cluster-101615723006708.html
14-03-2021||Delhi||AAP will make Delhi world-class city if voted to power in next MCD polls: Pathak||The Aam Aadmi Party will focus on making Delhi clean and a world-class city if it comes to power in the municipal polls due next year, party leader Durgesh Pathak said.Having won the municipal corporation bypolls, the Arvind Kejriwal led party is now focusing on consolidating its position in the civic bodies.Pathak, who is the party's in-charge of municipal corporations, said there is a feeling on the ground that the Arvind Kejriwal government must be given an opportunity in municipal corporations.The municipal corporation polls of Delhi are due in 2022.On the party's vision for municipal corporation, Pathak said the first thing they will do is to clean Delhi if they win the polls."The main work of the municipal corporation is to keep Delhi clean but the national capital is so dirty under the BJP. So the first thing we will do is to clean Delhi.Local bodies play a very important role in implementing policies so if the AAP government comes we will succeed in making Delhi a world-class city," he said.He said the party will reduce corruption in municipal corporations.Talking about the bypoll results, Pathak said the AAP won the bypolls in the strongholds of the BJP and in other seats too, the AAP's margin has increased."So the feeling we are getting on the ground is that Arvind Kejriwal must be given an opportunity in municipal corporations too," Pathak told PTI in an interview.The AAP swept the bypolls, winning four out of the five wards where elections were held on February 28.Speaking about the factors that worked for the AAP, Pathak said there is anti-incumbency and at the same time people are impressed by the AAP's work."Looking at the work done by the AAP government in various sectors like health and education, people believe that if the AAP government comes in municipal corporations then Delhi's development will happen," he said.Speaking on the AAP's loss on one seat of Chauhan Bangar in the bypolls which used to be its stronghold, Pathak said in by-elections, local factors also play an important role.Congress leader Chaudhary Mateen, whose son fought from Chauhan Bangar ward, has an influence in the area.Moreover, Mateen had lost many polls earlier which might have led people to sympathise with his son Chaudhary Zubair Ahmad."Congress lost its deposit on the rest of the seats.I am very confident that next time AAP will win from Chauhan Bangar also," he said.The Congress wrested the Chauhan Bangar ward from the AAP by a huge margin of over 10,000 votes.Pathak said people trust the AAP's governance model and they will oust the BJP government in the upcoming polls.The BJP has been ruling the municipal corporations since 2007. In the 2017 MCD polls, the party won 184 of the total 272 wards in three municipal corporations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-will-make-delhi-world-class-city-if-voted-to-power-in-next-mcd-polls-pathak-101615707531532.html
14-03-2021||Mumbai||BJP's Fadnavis, Patil slam Shiv Sena's backing of assistant inspector Waze||Senior Maharashtra BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday said the arrest of assistant inspector Sachin Waze in connection with the explosives-laden vehicle found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's home was just the beginning of the flow of information about the case.It also puts a question mark on the Uddhav Thackeray- led Maha Vikas Aghadi government that was shielding Waze, Fadnavis claimed.The National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested Waze on Saturday night for his alleged involvement in placing the explosives-laden vehicle on Carmichael Road near Ambani's residence Antilia on February 25, an agency spokesperson earlier said."If somebody from the police force works in this manner, then how will law and order be maintained? Waze was sheltered by the state government. Now the NIA has proof and has arrested him. This is just the beginning and more information will come out as the investigation progresses," the former Maharashtra CM told reporters.Fadnavis said Waze was under suspension since 2004 due to a Bombay High Court order.Also read: Ambani bomb scare probe: Sachin Waze appears before NIA in Mumbai"But when I was chief minister and held the home department, my Shiv Sena colleagues wanted Waze to be reinstated. I took the advice of the advocate general who said it was not proper to revoke the suspension. Last year, the MVA government reinstated Waze citing the lack of police officials amid the Covid-19 outbreak," he said.Fadnavis said Waze was posted in Crime Intelligence Unit, a sensitive and important arm of the Crime Branch, that too by giving him charge after transferring the inspector level official heading it.He was handling every case in the CIU despite being just an assistant police inspector (API) because he was confident he had the backing of the ruling Shiv Sena, Fadnavis alleged."He is now accused of staging an incident of which he was named the investigating officer," the former CM said.He rubbished talk of the involvement of the NIA, a Central agency, in the probe lowering the morale of Maharashtra police, and asked if the morale of the police was getting boosted due to the presence of personnel like Waze.Reacting to some leaders accusing him of getting sensitive information about the case before hand, Fadnavis said, as Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly, it was his duty to highlight wrongdoing.Meanwhile Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said Waze had done irreparable damage to the image of the state."It is shameful that a police officer defended by the state chief minister till yesterday has been arrested by the NIA in a terror conspiracy case. The Shiv Sena was supporting a person who wanted to harm industrialists and destroy peace," he said.Patil said there were several answers people wanted to know about the incident involving the explosives-laden vehicle as well as the death of its owner Mansukh Hiran."People want to know why Waze was supported to the hilt and who are the leaders, MLAs, ministers and police officials who knew about the entire episode but chose to remain silent," Patil said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjps-fadnavis-patil-slam-shiv-sena-s-backing-of-assistant-inspector-waze-101615720071715.html
14-03-2021||Other||Consumer forum directs insurance firm to pay farmer’s widow ₹2.20 lakh||The Pune District Consumer Redressal Forum has directed the National Insurance Company to pay complainant Geeta Arun Dube, an amount of ₹2 lakh, together with interest thereon, at 9% pa; this is with effect from the date of filing of her complaint till realisation of the entire amount. “Despite submission of relevant documents pertaining to the insurance claim by the complainant to the company, it has failed to settle the legitimate genuine claim of the complainant. Therefore, the complainant was required to suffer mental torture and was compelled to file present complaint before us. Hence, complainant is also entitled for Rs20,000 towards compensation for mental agony and costs of litigation collectively,” the forum stated in its order.Dube stated in her complaint that she is the wife of Arun Maruti Dube, who was a farmer and died on January 24, 2016, due to injuries sustained in a road accident. The deceased fell off his bicycle, and was admitted to hospital for treatment. Unfortunately, he died during treatment on the same day. Arun Dube owned agricultural land at Premgiri village, bearing Gat No 502, and the complainant is the legal heir of the deceased. However, the insurance firm did not intimate the wwife about the status of her claim. Later, she got the information through an application under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, that her genuine claim was repudiated. Relevant claim papers produced on record by the complainant show that the cause of death of Arun Dube was due to heart attack. This insurance policy provides for compensation to farmers who sustain any bodily injury resulting solely and directly from accidents caused by external violent and visible means, resulting in specified contingencies such as death. Hence, natural death is excluded from the scope of the policy. The claim of complainant was repudiated on these grounds and the company submitted that the present complaint is liable to be dismissed with costs.The forum held that there is sufficient evidence on record to show that the deceased, who was the farmer owning agricultural land, accidentally fell down from a bicycle and died. “The complainant is the widow of the deceased farmer and has complied with all the substantial formalities as required under the agreement and government resolutions. Therefore, as per the terms and conditions of the agreement, considering the facts and circumstances of the case, the insurance company is liable to satisfy the claim of the complainant,” the order stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/consumer-forum-directs-insurance-firm-to-pay-farmer-s-widow-rs-2-20-lakh-101615721746644.html
14-03-2021||Other||Cases of dog bite drop from 9K in 2019 to 800 in 2020 due to lockdown||There has been decline in the number of reported cases of dog bites in Pune between January 1 and December 31, 2020.Eight hundred cases of dog bite were registered during these 12 months. However, during the period between January 1, 2019, and December 31, 2019, 9,134 cases of dig bites were recorded. Civic officials have attributed the decline to the citywide lockdown last year, with Punekars spending more time indoors April to November.Dr Prakash Wagh, PMC’s veterinary superintendent said, “Citizens did not step out on the roads during the lockdown period and whatever incidents took place have occurred during the morning and night times. After the lockdown period, the sterilisation programme has intensified and it this brings down the number of dog-bite incidents.”Sunita Khare, an animal rights activist, said, “The strays are facing issues related to lack of food, due to unavailability during the lockdown period. Dogs don’t bite humans without a reason, unless provoked. Society needs to be considerate about strays and give them their due space to avoid man-animal conflict.” The population of stray dogs has gone up from 40,000 to 3 lakh in the last 10 years, according to a livestock survey conducted by the central government in 2019, as per to animal husbandry department and PMC.According to a new proposal, PMC will appoint NGOs to execute the animal birth control programme and provide 15 vehicles to such NGOs to undertake the programme. PMC is framing a programme for three years, like Mumbai, to control the population of dogs.At present, there are two dog pounds, one at the Naidu Hospital near Pune railway station and another located in the Mundhwa area; and a third is coming up in the Baner area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cases-of-dog-bite-drop-from-9k-in-2019-to-800-in-2020-due-to-lockdown-101615719106468.html
14-03-2021||Dehradun||New Uttarakhand CM to review some big decisions taken by Trivendra Singh Rawat||Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat has decided to review and possibly reverse some major decisions taken by his predecessor, Trivendra Singh Rawat’s government. Apart from making it clear that there will be no mandatory Covid test for attending Haridwar Mahakumbh, during his visit to the sacred city, Rawat has also hinted that decisions like the formation of Char Dham Devasthanam Board and making Gairsain the third administrative division of the state will be reviewed in the light of people's "sentiments".Rawat hinted at this at his Dehradun residence when some reporters asked him questions regarding these decisions taken by his predecessor. “What is most important is what people want, what are their sentiments regarding these issues. We will talk to people on these issues,” he said.All these three decisions have been opposed by the concerned people, who have expressed their serious misgivings. Char Dham priests have been agitating since last year, alleging that the government's takeover of the Char Dham and 51 temples was not right and it will side-line priests from the management of these shrines, which have been managed for centuries by priests and seers.Following the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Centre and the state government, making a Covid-negative certificate mandatory for attending Mahakumbh, local traders, priests and Akhada seers were not happy with the strict restrictions. They wanted easing of the restrictions so that mahakumbh can be held in its fullest grandeur.And in case of the Gairsain decision, which triggered the recent political upheaval in the state, it was not just the BJP MLAs and ministers who claimed they were not consulted, but people in many of the districts included in the new administrative division were unhappy with the decision.Tirath Singh Rawat, when he took charge, said he will take ahead the work done by the Trivendra Singh Rawat government, but it has become clear that he has decided to review and likely reverse some of the decisions, aiming to check the resentment brewing among the people.Rawat has also decided to cancel the much-hyped events to commemorate completion of four years of BJP government in the state.On Sunday, the new chief minister also took charge of his office at the secretariat in Dehradun after ritual prayers and a ‘hawan’ ceremony. After that he left for Haridwar to meet the officials and review the mahakumbh preparations.The new CM’s focus on mahakumbh is quite clear, given his two visits to the sacred city after taking charge in the last four days. On Thursday, the day of his ascension, Rawat was in Haridwar along with his family members, showering flowers on pilgrims and ascetics and meeting Akhada seers, seeking their blessings. He directed officials that there should be no unnecessary restrictions on pilgrims and they shouldn’t face any inconvenience.Also Read: Uttarakhand: Tirath Singh Rawat cancels events to mark BJP govt's 4 yrs in powerIt is being seen as Rawat’s effort to placate those who have been unhappy with various decisions related to Kumbh management, taken by his predecessor. Many people are upset that the Mahakumbh has been shortened this time and strict restrictions have been put in place.Kumbh Mela additional officer Lalit Narayan Mishra said after the CM’s announcement, they are waiting for the official communique. He said in line with CM’s focus on Mahakumbh, they have taken adequate measures like sanitisation, availability of face masks and ensuring social distancing norms.“The directives and minutes that will come from the government after CM’s announcement regarding Covid report waiver, will be adhered to. As of now, our focus is on the next Shahi Snan (ritualistic royal bath) which falls in mid-April. We are focussing on all possible arrangements to ensure a safer and grand mahakumbh," said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/new-uttarakhand-cm-to-review-some-big-decisions-taken-by-trivendra-singh-rawat-101615718740998.html
14-03-2021||Mumbai||Ambani security scare probe: Sachin Vaze remanded to NIA custody till March 25||Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze on Sunday has been remanded to the custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) till March 25 in connection with his alleged link with the explosive-laden car which was found on Carmichael Road near Mukesh Ambani's residence Antilia on February 25. After his late-night arrest on Saturday, the encounter specialist of the Mumbai Police was produced before a court in South Mumbai.During the hearing, NIA pleaded that the case has so far travelled to three agencies — Mumbai Crime Branch, Anti-terror Squad and then the NIA. Hence, NIA wants to probe the role played by the accused. The prosecution, however, refused to share the copy of the remand application with the lawyers of Vaze, citing privilege and confidentiality. Vaze’s lawyer Sudeep Passbola objected to it and claimed that the agency has no evidence to implicate Vaze. On the right to have access to the remand application, the court will hear the defence (Vaze) team arguments on Monday.Vaze has moved an application before the Bombay high court challenging the grounds of his arrest. Vaze's counsel advocate Sudeep Pasbola, however, was not available for further details about the high court plea.Vaze's alleged connection to the case surfaced after it was found that the SUV carrying the explosives belongs to a Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran, who was found dead on February 5. Hiran's wife accused Vaze of killing her husband and claimed that Vaze took the SUV from Hiran in November. She also claimed that Vaze was pressurising Hiran to get arrested in the case.A top official told HT that during the 12-hour interrogation, Vaze confessed to being a part of the group that planted the car near Antilia on February 25. “Sachin Vaze is part of the group that planted the explosive-laden Scorpio on Carmichael Road (near Antilia) on February 25. He has confessed to it,” a top official told HT.After his name surfaced in the case, he was transferred from the crime intelligence unit (CIU) of the Mumbai crime branch to Citizen Facilitation Centre (CFC) of Mumbai police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ambani-security-scare-probe-sachin-vaze-remanded-to-nia-custody-till-march-25-101615717797158.html
14-03-2021||Patna||Award instituted in Mahadevi Verma’s name on her 114th birth anniversary||To commemorate celebrated writer Mahadevi Verma’s deep connection with Bihar and her pioneering work in the realm of women empowerment, some literary figures and culture enthusiasts in the state have decided to honour those who have contributed to the society, with an award named after the great literary figure, on her 114th birth anniversary on March 26.Verma, who is also considered one of the pioneers of feminism in the country, is learnt to have spent many of her childhood years at Bhagalpur, where her father taught as a professor in a college.Rajeev Ranjan Sinha, the national president of Global Kayastha Conference said it was a matter of great pride for the state that the Padma Vibhushan and the prestigious Jnanpith Award winning writer had connections with the state.“Her caliber as a writer is widely discussed, but there is also the need to look at Mahadevi as the epitome of woman power. She worked a lot for women education, set up the Prayag Mahila Vidyapeeth and worked as its principal, which was quite a revolutionary step during the pre-Independence period,” he said.“It was women’s liberation in true sense. This courage to face the challenges of the society has been an inspiration for many women,” he added. "It deserves to be commemorated. This is why an award has been instituted after her name," Sinha said.Also Watch: ‘Yashwant Sinha Sahab is aged now…’: BJP reacts to ex-party veteran joining TMCDr Namrata Anand, the state president of the GKC, said over a dozen persons from different states including Maharashtra, Delhi, Bihar and West Bengal will be honoured with the Mahadevi Samman on her birth anniversary. “We have selected people from different faculties. They have made contributions to the society in various fields,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/award-instituted-in-mahadevi-verma-s-name-on-her-114th-birth-anniversary-101615716333843.html
14-03-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka CM to hold meeting with officials over spike in state's Covid cases||Karnataka chief inister B S Yediyurappa has convened a meeting of officials and health experts on Monday in the wake of a spike in Covid-19 cases in the state in recent days, his office said.The meeting would be held at 5 PM in the Vidhana Soudha, the seat of state legislature and secretariat, the Chief Minister's Office said in a statement on Sunday.For the first time since January 22, the daily Covid-19 cases in the state crossed the 900 mark. It reported 921 cases with 630 of them from Bengaluru Urban district alone.Since Monday last, over 4,300 new cases have been detected in the state, whose cumulative Covid-19 tally stood at 9,59,338 including 12,387 deaths and 9,38,890 discharges.The active cases, which hovered around 4,000-5,000 last month, touched 8,042 active cases, reflecting the rise.In the wake of a spike in cases in the state, the government on Friday had put a cap on the number of people who cam gather at events and celebrations like marriages.Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Jawaid Akhtar in a circular has said the measure has been taken amid the emergence of new clusters and fear of a second wave of the pandemic.As per new rules, 500 people will be allowed at marriages if it is an open space, and only 200 if it is a hall or a closed space.Similarly for birthday celebrations, the limit would be 100 and 50 respectively for functions in open and closed spaces.A similar cap has been specified for funerals. However, at cremations and burials, only 50 are allowed.A maximum of 500 people will be allowed for religious and political gatherings in open spaces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-cm-to-hold-meeting-with-officials-over-spike-in-state-s-covid-cases-101615715596121.html
14-03-2021||Delhi||Power discoms in Delhi seek progressive tariff rationalisation||Power discoms in Delhi have proposed to regulator DERC that there should be a cost reflective, progressive tariff rationalisation as their combined standalone revenue gap in 2019-20 is nearing ₹3000 crore.BRPL, BYPL, and TPDDL have filed their separate petitions for truing-up up to 2019-20 and aggregate revenue requirement (ARR) and tariff for 2021-22, ahead of tariff rationalisation by the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC) this year.The Commission has sought comments and suggestions from consumers and other stakeholders on the petitions by March 26.The Commission may hold a public hearing later on and will issue its tariff order considering views of all stakeholders, a DERC public notice said.The petitions of three discoms show that their standalone revenue gap for 2019-20 has been computed to be around ₹2968 crore including ₹1565 crore of BRPL, ₹609 crore of BYPL and ₹794 crore of TPDDL.The accumulated revenue gap of the discoms has reached a whopping over ₹50,000 crore as on March 31, 2020, as per their petitions.It includes Rs 28,623 crore of BRPL,  ₹19,213 crore of BYPL, and Rs 3,810 crore of TPDDL, it showed. The BSES discoms BSES Rajdhani Power Limited(BRPL) and BSES Yamuna Power Limited(BYPL) have proposed DERC to determine a suitable cost reflective tariff so as to recover the projected revenue gap.The two discoms have also proposed subsidy of the Delhi government to be directly transferred to consumers through DBT, and excluding "dishonest" consumers from the subsidy.They have also sought tariff for electric vehicle charging stations to be approved equivalent to average cost of supply.Tata Power Delhi Distribution Limited(TPDDL) has proposed a separate flat rate for high power consumption in domestic category.It has also proposed "progressive" tariff rationalization in domestic consumer segment as per the Electricity Act and National Tariff Policy.The discom's other proposals are mandatory online payment for consumers above 10 kW or bill more than ₹20000, and new connection charges above 10 KW.Mandatory e-bill for load above 5 kW.The TPDDL has also cited non availability of space in regularised and unauthorised colonies for infrastructure, and proposed that Delhi government provide land to it.It has also proposed to make Aadhar and PAN card mandatory for application of new connection and existing customers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/power-discoms-in-delhi-seek-progressive-tariff-rationalisation-101615714703593.html
14-03-2021||Mumbai||‘Sachin Vaze very honest, capable’: Sanjay Raut day after Mumbai cop’s arrest||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday came out in support of Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze, who was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday for his alleged role in the conspiracy to plant an explosive-laden vehicle near industrialist Mukesh Ambani house last month. Raut’s remarks come after the 49-year-old assistant police inspector was arrested late on Saturday after being questioned for nearly 12 hours.“I believe Sachin Vaze is a very honest and capable officer. He has been arrested in connection with gelatin sticks that were found. One suspicious death also occurred. It's Mumbai Police's responsibility to investigate the matter. No central team was needed,” Raut told news agency ANI.The Sena lawmaker also reiterated his stand against the “repeated interference” of central bodies in cases based in Mumbai, saying that it creates instability in the state. “We respect NIA but our police could have done it too. Mumbai Police and ATS (Anti-Terrorism Squad) are well respected but central agencies repeatedly enter Mumbai and demoralise Mumbai Police. It creates instability in the state and creates pressure on the Mumbai Police and administration,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.Raut was referring to the transfer of the Ambani case, which was first registered at the city’s Gandhari police station. It was transferred to ATS after opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis demanded an NIA investigation into it. ATS registered a separate murder case after the man said to be the owner of the explosives-laden sport utility vehicle parked near Ambani’s residence was found dead on March 5.NIA later took over the security threat case and on Saturday questioned Vaze, who was earlier the lead investigator in the case. His links were also traced to Mansukh Hiran, the Thane-based auto parts dealer who claimed the SUV’s ownership.Raut made similar comments when the probe in the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput was handed over from the Mumbai Police to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate and Narcotics Control Bureau began investigating the money laundering and drug angle in the case respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sachin-vaze-very-honest-capable-sanjay-raut-day-after-mumbai-cop-s-arrest-101615713463812.html
14-03-2021||Bhopal||MP to auction unused govt properties to fund direct money transfer schemes||Reeling under a debt of more than ₹2 lakh crore, the Madhya Pradesh government has decided to auction government properties that are not in use or are encroached, with an aim to generate revenue to meet the shortfall of ₹8,294 crore, projected for 2020-21, said officials.To sell these properties, the state government set up a public asset management department in September 2020 for efficient management and rationalization of public assets, including monetization of unused properties.The department has asked the 52 departments of the MP government to share the list of unused properties and land of higher value so that it could be auctioned. The state government’s target is to generate ₹1000 crore in six months by selling such properties, said one officer of the department, who is not authorized to talk to the media.“The departments have started sharing the list of unused properties. Our priority is to sell the properties of MP Road Transport Corporation, which have been closed down many years ago and other such small offices and mills,” said the officer.In the past two months, the MP government has released tenders for selling 18 properties including three bus depots and booking offices of MP Road Transport Corporation (MPRTC), a factory in Ujjain, a government office in Bhopal and government lands worth more than ₹200 crores, said an official. He added that more tenders will be released after the list submitted by the departments are finalised.Another official said that the state government was in a hurry to generate revenue to fulfil the promises made for civic bodies’ polls and panchayat elections, which are slated to be held in April and May.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has transferred ₹4,600 crores into the bank accounts of different beneficiaries since November 2020 and more would be done in the next few months, according to the public relation department officials.The state government has provided ₹20,000 crores for such money transfer schemes such as Sambal, Mukhyamntri Kalyan Krishi, Rising School and Teerth Darshan before the local body polls.Economics professor Ganesh Kawade said, “It is a good decision of the state government to monetize the abandoned properties but they should select the properties wisely with the help of a team of experts. They should also ensure the proper valuation of the properties because there are chances of scam and undervaluing of the property to provide benefit to any private company.”Transport minister Govind Singh Rajput said, “The state government will auction only those properties which are unused and encroached by private persons. The properties of MPRTC in other states, including Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra, will also be auctioned along with properties worth crores of rupees in Madhya Pradesh. We don’t want to make an excuse for financial crises before the common people. We are here for the solution, not for making excuses.”Also Read: MP Congress seeks Shivraj Chouhan's resignation after SC slammed law & order“We will use generated revenue to run beneficial schemes of the government and to develop infrastructure,” he added.Congress MLA Kunal Chaudhary said, “BJP-led state and central governments are planning to sell everything to private companies. What do they mean by unused properties and who is deciding what is useful and what is not?”“Many towns don’t have bus stands but in the same towns they are planning to sell bus depots with an assurance that they will construct bus stands. This idea of revenue generation is to provide benefits to private companies, not for the welfare of common people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-to-auction-unused-govt-properties-to-fund-direct-money-transfer-schemes-101615712667007.html
14-03-2021||Pune||YourSpace: Pune loses top spot in Ease of Living Index... Rankings are way off reality||Pune has failed to retain its top position among 111 most liveable cities with a population of more than a million in the Ease of Living Index 2020 (EoLI) declared by the central government on March 4 this year. The city ranked top position in the first EoLI report released in 2018. EoLI is an indicator on quality of life and impact of initiatives for urban development. Where has authorities lacked to make urban life more effective? Public transport, sanitation need attentionThere should be continuous efforts to maintain the top spot at ease of living rankings. As compared to other cities, Pune is comfortable to live in but it is not easy. A lot of attention needs to be given towards public transportation and sanitation. These two factors are often ignored. Punekars still don’t have efficient public transportation. Also, steps should be taken to clear piling and overflowing garbage seen on roadsides.Sharayu Fukey Interior areas are ignoredThe Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) should not only improve civic amenities of main streets but also interior localities of the city. Many roads of these areas are not in good shape and public complaints are often ignored. Regular road repairs should be carried out. Also, some areas face acute water shortage. A good city is defined for equitable drinking water distribution. It is not enough to achieve top rankings on the index, the results should be reflected on ground also. Sukhada DikeyCity’s traffic management is badTraffic remains the worst problem for those living in Pune. Authorities should have been paying more attention to it. The road traffic has eased a bit as many are working from home because of the Covid situation. Otherwise it seems that authorities are not paying attention to this problem. Roads are blocked during rains or some civic works. An efficient system has to be developed to deal with such situations. Good public transport system could be a solution to it, but not enough is being done about it. Anand GanorkarBicycle-sharing system fails in cityAuthorities chalk out plans and leave it midway. A year before, there was a plan of public sharing bicycle. Friend and I used the facility when we visited Jungli Maharaj road. But now I don’t see the cycles anywhere. What happened to that plan? There has to good implementation of plans. Sometimes work is not completed on schedule. I often see hastily and incomplete construction work and potholes. Delay of civic works can be understood, but it should be completed. Indrani Bhagat Provide clean public toilets for women I often visit Mandai, Ravivar peth, Tulshibaugh and Laxmi road for shopping. These are prime areas flooded with people. Yet, there are no decent facilities of washroom. It becomes difficult for women. Many people from various parts of the city visit these areas. Authorities should provide appropriate facility of washroom and drinking water. Besides constructing washrooms, it should also be properly maintained. Many women avoid public toilets because of unsanitary conditions. What about the ease of a woman’s living? Isn’t it an essential part of a city? Supriya Parakhi Better hospital care mustPeople should feel comfortable and reassured while going to a public hospital. Everyone should get healthcare facilities such as ambulance, first aid in times of emergencies. Are we getting it? Can the poor also get the same standard of treatment? It should be kept in mind. Also, when a new person comes into the city, s/he should feel comfortable in finding necessary things easily. Such system should be created. Mrunali Akolkar Residents should help each otherI feel residents of a city should be cooperative and supportive towards each other. Then only ease of living can be achieved. Of course, administration has a big role in it, but citizens should ask whether they are making each other’s life easier? We should embrace community life. Try to care more for each other. Try to help each other more. Then only mental ease of life will be achieved.Vinay Girhe Rankings are way off from realityThe central government (mainly the ministry of housing and urban affairs) since 2014 seems quite obsessed with holding/supporting intra city competitions on various fronts. If these competitions yield good results seen n ground, Punekars would be the most enthused Indians. Whether it is the Ease of Business, Janagraha, Swachch Bharat Abhiyaan, Happy City and Indian Smart City initiatives or the latest results on Ease of Living Index.The authorities should give respondent and sample detailsBasic service parameters that cover “ease of living” are missing on ground in Pune. Poor urban planning, regular traffic jams, yearly flooding, abysmal garbage collections and disposal, unplanned and unfinished infra projects, bad roads and badly designed footpaths and cycle tracks, missing street lights and hawker menace, ineffective public transport and air pollution are some of the key issues. On what basis are respondents picked? Whether the respondents are Punekars, or tourists, or picked on the streets…as the percentages in scoring are way off target from reality.If it means that cities compete against the worst, then these competitions are a success. But, if it to extract the best outcome out of each city doing a self-assessment by having them compete against themselves, these ranking are abject failure. Qaneez Sukhrani||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/yourspace-pune-loses-top-spot-in-ease-of-living-index-rankings-are-way-off-reality-101615709146317.html
14-03-2021||Pune||Curtain Call: The story of “White Rabbit Red Rabbit”||I am writing this article while prepping for a very unique show called “White Rabbit Red Rabbit”. Written by the Iranian playwright Nassim Soleimanpour, the uniqueness of the play lies in its concept of performance. It is a mono-act piece, but every performance requires a different actor. The actor is given the script on stage, in front of the audience and she/he has to start reading and performing it immediately! One of most important pre-requisites of the play is that the performer should not have read the script before nor should she/ he have watched someone else perform it! It should be the performer’s first time, getting to know the material! (So, if you are someone who feels that you have a fair chance to perform it, I would suggest that you leave reading the article at this point!) The concept of “White Rabbit Red Rabbit” came to Nassim when he refused the mandatory military service in Iran. He was not allowed to leave his country and this play was written as a reaction to his incident. Ironically, before he was finally granted a passport, the play had already been performed in most parts of the world. The play is an important cultural phenomenon of recent times. This is an audacious experiment which requires no director and set. Just an actor and some stage props, and of course an audience! There are many moments in the play where the actor interacts with the audience members, often calling them up on stage. Nassim makes it clear through the play that it is his creative expression and that the actor is just a medium. He gives out his email address in the play and appeals to the audience members to send him pictures of the performance and their thoughts about the text. The performer is sent an email 48 hours before the play which has a set of instructions, prepared by Nassim of course. The actor is asked to prepare an animal impression and to bring a water bottle, in case she/he needs to drink during the performance. There are two glasses of water on stage, as part of the stage props, but the actor is not supposed to use or touch any props unless expressly mentioned in the script. The play has been translated in over 30 languages in the world and was brought to India by Mumbai-based theatre group QTP. It is presented in Marathi by Natak Company, of which I am a founder member. I have watched several performances of this play in Marathi and it is interesting to see that the tone, outcome and impact of every show is different even though the text is the same. The same text was performed as a comedy by a few actors, but the climax of one show in particular was extremely emotionally charged. “White Rabbit Red Rabbit” was first performed in 2011 and is still performed by theatre companies across the world. Most of the theatres in Europe shut down on March 13, 2020. Normal theatre going practice is yet to resume in most parts of the world. It is a situation similar to the one Nassim was in when he was not allowed to travel, making this play more relevant. Keeping this in mind, a global event has been organised to perform this play in all languages at 8 pm local time. The script has also been modified considering the fact that most performances will be conducted online. The writer is not charging any royalty for these performances and has urged all theatre companies to donate profits to a charity of their choice. Curtain call: Nipun Dharmadhikari is a storyteller and looks forward to telling them on stage, in front of the camera or in person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-the-story-of-white-rabbit-red-rabbit-101615708726238.html
14-03-2021||Bhopal||MP needs 8.1 million first doses of vaccine: CM Chouhan as tally nears 268,000||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Sunday the state, among those witnessing a surge in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), needs 8.1 million first doses of the vaccine adding that only 1,884,000 were secured so far. “The Union health minister has promised to provide the remaining shots very soon,” Chouhan was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. The chief minister’s remarks come after he met Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan in Bhopal.Chouhan said that the vaccination drive in the state is being carried out in full swing. More than 1.46 million people have been administered vaccine doses in Madhya Pradesh of which the first dose was given to 1,138,321 and the remaining 327,284 were vaccinated with the second dose, according to the Union health ministry’s update at 7am. The state, in line with the Centre’s guidelines, rolled out the first phase of its vaccination drive from January 16 to inoculate healthcare and frontline workers and started the second phase from March 1 during which people above 60 years and between 45-59 years with specific co-morbidities are being inoculated.The surge in number of cases is a serious concern. I don’t want to create a situation of panic but people should continue taking preventive measures, otherwise, we’ll be compelled to impose night curfew at place witnessing an increase in #COVID19 positive cases: Madhya Pradesh CM pic.twitter.com/2dPhb6JDIBChouhan also told ANI the surge in Madhya Pradesh’s cases is a serious concern and urged that people should follow all preventive measures. “I don’t want to create a situation of panic but people should continue taking preventive measures. Otherwise, we will be compelled to impose night curfew at place witnessing an increase in Covid-19 positive cases,” he said.Madhya Pradesh on Saturday added 675 fresh Covid-19 cases, two more deaths and 496 recoveries. The caseload has climbed to 267,851 with 3,885 deaths and more than 259,000 people have recovered so far. The pandemic situation in the central state of India has been worsening since the first week of March.Indore and Bhopal are the worst-affected regions in the state and have reported 61,642 and 45,079 Covid-19 cases respectively. Chouhan said on Saturday that night curfew may be imposed in Indore and Bhopal from Sunday or Monday due to a recent uptick in their daily cases and tough measures would be taken to ‘flatten the curve’.According to a report by Hindustan Times, in what is being seen as a measure to ramp up the fight against the outbreak in Indore, the district's chief medical health officer Praveen Jadia said on Saturday big hospitals in Indore will now allow vaccinations of up to 500 beneficiaries every day and smaller hospitals have been permitted to vaccinate 250 people each day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-needs-8-1-million-first-doses-of-vaccine-cm-chouhan-as-tally-nears-268000-101615703394099.html
14-03-2021||Delhi||East Delhi water supply hit, likely to be restored by evening: Delhi Jal Board||The Delhi Jal Board (DJB) said on Sunday water supply in several areas of east Delhi was hit because of repair work to fix leakage in the national capital’s Vikas Kunj area. The supply is likely to be restored by evening, the water board added. The areas where the water supply has been affected include, Laxmi Nagar, Chitra Vihar, East Azad Nagar, Gazipur, Dallupura, Trilokpuri, New Kondli, Shadra, Mandawali and Patparganj area, Mayur Vihar Phase-1&2, Shalimar Park, Vishkarma park, Pandav Nagar, and its adjoining areas, it added.“Several residents of Vikas Kunj, reported major leakages in the G.K.main which led to water entering the basement of their homes, causing a threat to the building/structure/property. Taking immediate cognisance of the situation, DJB started the repair/interconnection work,” it wrote on Twitter.DJB also informed that the repair work has had an adverse impact on the water supply, particularly in East Delhi. “This repair work may take a few more hours, after which water supply shall be restored - most likely by today evening,” it posted in the morning.This repair work has had an adverse impact on the water supply, particularly in East Delhi. This repair work may take a few more hours, after which water supply shall be restored - most likely by today evening.We are sorry for the inconvenience caused 🙏Soon after the announcement on Twitter, several residents replied to the post urging fellow citizens to be patient. “Gyz have patience they are working so hard .. water likely to be restored by 2pm -3pm they are trying their level best,” a user tweeted along with the pictures of the workers at the repair site.Work in Progress...By eveng it wl be sort out..I m frm Mayur Vihar ph 2. pic.twitter.com/UoeHaDDyP0Gyz have patience they are working so hard .. water likely to be restored by 2pm -3pm they are trying their level best pic.twitter.com/uoIQxOrCAEThe supply in parts of south, east, and northeast Delhi was partially affected last month in the aftermath of the glacial burst in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district. Silt and debris from the flash floods in Chamoli had increased turbidity in the Ganga river that forced DJB to operate at reduced capacity.“We treat the raw Ganga water which comes from the Upper Ganga Canal at Muradnagar and provide it to Delhi households. But, due to the calamity in Uttarakhand, the quality of water has worsened. The water which we are getting now is of very poor quality as it has a lot of dirt and other particles. Water quality is measured in nephelometric turbidity units (NTU) which touched 8,000, while the permissible limit is 100,” DJB vice-chairperson Raghav Chadha had said. The water supply was restored in nearly two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/east-delhi-water-supply-hit-likely-to-be-restored-by-evening-delhi-jal-board-101615700905087.html
14-03-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav tweets FIR copy, calls it sign of BJP govt’s 'frustration'||Uttar Pradesh police lodged an FIR against Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav and 20 unnamed party workers on Saturday under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections pertaining to rioting and voluntarily causing hurt in connection with an incident of alleged violence against journalists, a police official said. The FIR was lodged at the Paghbada police station of Moradabad, the official added.The alleged incident occurred on Thursday during a scuffle between the security staff of the former chief minister and some local journalists after a press conference in Moradabad. At least two journalists reportedly suffered minor injuries.Superintendent of Police (City) of Moradabad, Amit Kumar Anand said, "The FIR was lodged on the complaint of journalists who were injured in the incident. Based on the complaint, we have booked Akhilesh Yadav and 20 unidentified Samajwadi Party workers under sections 147 (rioting), 342 (wrongful confinement) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and started investigations.”Police have secured the CCTV footage of the hotel, where the press conference was held. Another FIR was lodged against two local journalists on the complaint of the SP’s Moradabad district president Jaibir Singh Yadav."The second FIR is lodged against one Ubaid-ur-Rehman and Fareed Samsi, who are reportedly journalists. The duo has been booked under sections 160 (committing affray) 341(wrongful restraint), 332(causing hurt to a public servant), 353 (deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC," said the officer.Akhilesh Yadav posted a tweet on Saturday evening regarding the FIR.“Uttar Pradesh BJP government has filed an FIR against me, I am posting a copy of it in the interest of every citizen of the state. If the need arises, we will also install hoarding in Lucknow. The FIR is a symbol of frustration of the losing BJP,” he tweeted along with pictures of the FIR copy.Also Read: IT notices to Akhadas, mutts, angry seers write to finance minister SitharamanAccording to people familiar with the matter, the ruckus started when some journalists allegedly tried to block the exit of Akhilesh Yadav and his security staff. This resulted in an altercation. Akhilesh Yadav, in a public rally in Rampur on Friday, alleged that the power to the lift at the hotel was also cut off to stop him. He termed the incident as an “attack” on him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-yadav-tweets-fir-copy-calls-it-sign-of-bjp-govt-s-frustration-101615698736270.html
14-03-2021||Mumbai||NIA to produce Sachin Vaze, held in Ambani case, in court to seek custody||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) will present Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze before a holiday court on Sunday seeking his custody to probe him for his alleged role in the conspiracy to plant an explosive-laden vehicle near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence.The case will be heard at NIA sessions court in Mumbai’s Kalaghoda.Vaze, an assistant police inspector, was arrested late on Saturday by the NIA at their Mumbai office after he allegedly confessed to his role in the Ambani security threat case. Before his arrest, the assistant police inspector was questioned for nearly 12 hours by an NIA team led by inspector general (IG) Anil Shukla. “Sachin Vaze is part of the group that planted the explosive-laden Scorpio on Carmichael Road (near Antilia) on February 25,” a top NIA official told HT. The 49-year-old Mumbai Police official, however, declined to share any more details at this stage, the NIA officer added.Before it was handed over to the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) and then to the NIA, Vaze was the lead investigator in the case. The NIA recorded Vaze’s statement to find out the sequence of events as he was initially heading the probe and also for his connection to the man linked to the vehicle found with 20 gelatin sticks near the billionaire’s residence in Mumbai.He was named in a statement to police by Vimla Hiran, the widow of Thane’s Mansukh Hiran, who claimed ownership of the vehicle parked outside Ambani’s house and was later found dead in a creek on March 5. The 48-year-old auto-parts dealer’s widow told the police that the explosives-laden Scorpio belonged to one Dr Peter Newton and had been with them for the past three years.She said that Hiran lent the SUV to Vaze in November 2020 and the vehicle was sent back to his shop in Thane on February 5 this year. It has been alleged that Vaze was also forcing the Thane businessman to take the blame for the case on him and surrender to the police.Thane sessions court judge rejected Vaze’s anticipatory bail application on Friday and set March 19 as the next date of hearing in connection with a separate case registered by the ATS in Hiran’s alleged murder last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nia-to-present-sachin-vaze-held-in-ambani-case-before-court-to-seek-custody-101615693496229.html
14-03-2021||Bhopal||MP Congress seeks Shivraj Chouhan's resignation after SC slammed law & order||After Supreme Court reprimanded Madhya Pradesh government on condition of law and order in the state, Congress attacked BJP government and raised questions on working of MP Police on Saturday.The Supreme Court on Friday pulled up the state government for not arresting BSP MLA Rambai’s husband Govind Singh Thakur in connection with the murder of Congress leader Devendra Chaurasiya from Damoh, and for alleged threats to an additional sessions judge, said Manish Nagaich, Chaurasiya’s advocate.“During the hearing, the apex court said the state government should accept they are not capable of ruling according to the Constitution of India,” said Nagaich.Govind Singh and four others were accused of killing Chaurasia in front of his son in March 2019. Criminal charges were earlier dropped against Govind Singh after a police investigation. He was again named accused in January on the orders of Damoh additional sessions judge RP Sonkar. Sonkar also issued an arrest warrant against Govind Singh, who is absconding. Earlier, justice Sonkar, who was conducting the trial in the murder case, alleged the police were supporting Govind Singh and maligning his image. He wrote to the sessions judge, two days after a woman police officer accused Sonkar of harassing and insulting her for the delay in Govind Singh’s arrest.“The apex court on Friday pulled up the state government, asking if there was law-and-order in MP or ‘Jungle Raj’. This proved that the MP government is patronising mafias and criminals," said MP Congress Committee general secretary KK Mishra.Mishra further claimed that despite justice Sonkar accusing MP police of falsely accusing and implicating him, the state government didn’t take any action against the police officers. He said chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan should resign for “failing” to maintain law and order in the state.Also Read: Big hospitals in Indore allowed to vaccinate up to 500 people per day: OfficialHowever, BJP leaders said the government will look into the matter.“We respect the apex court, but Congress leaders have no rights to question the law-and-order situation in MP. Thakur used to meet Congress leaders in the state assembly when he was absconding in the case. During the regime of then Congress-led state government, Govind Singh Thakur’s name was removed from the charge-sheet by MP police. It is Congress which used to force police to work against the law, not us,” said Rajneesh Agrawal, BJP spokesperson.Despite repeated attempts, state home minister Narottam Mishra and director general of police (DGP) Vivek Johri couldn’t be contacted for their comments.BSP MLA Rambai said, “My husband is being targeted for political vendetta, but I don’t know where he is.”(With inputs from Anupam Pateriya)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-congress-seeks-shivraj-chouhan-s-resignation-after-sc-slammed-law-order-101615693306874.html
14-03-2021||Lucknow||IT notices to Akhadas, mutts, angry seers write to finance minister Sitharaman||Expressing anger over income tax department notices to 13 akhadas of Sanatan Dharma and all the major monasteries of Tirtharaj Prayagraj recently, the Akhil Bharatiya Sant Samiti termed the notices as a conspiracy to defame Sanatan Hindu Dharma and humiliate Hindu Dharmacharyas, on Saturday. The Samiti wrote to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman demanding action against the officials who served the notice.Akhil Bharatiya Sant Samiti is a joint platform of different akhadas and mutts (monasteries) of Sanatan Hindu Dharma.In a press conference at the Samiti office, Swami Jeetendranand Saraswati, general secretary, Akhil Bharatiya Sant Samiti, said, "Certain work was done by the joint efforts of the state government and centre during Kumbh 2019, in Prayagraj, so that pilgrims may live there comfortably. At that time, UP government had done some work in 13 akhadas and major mutts to add facilities to ensure comfortable living to the pilgrims during their visit to the Kumbh. The Jal Nigam was the executing agency for this work and the UP government or centre provided the fund to it.”He said that the akhadas and seers had nothing to do with that fund. They didn't get any funds for that work in their bank accounts. He said that despite that, the income tax department served a notice to the 13 akhadas and major mutts and seers for the fund which they never got.Also Read: On new CM's command, choppers shower flowers on seers in HaridwarSaraswati said that through the notice, the seers have been asked to be present in person and give a clarification. “As an Indian citizen, it is our duty to give an account of the fund which we receive. But how can seers give an account of the fund which they never received?” he asked.He claimed this was sheer “humiliation” of the seers and a “conspiracy” to defame Sanatan Dharma and that there was anger in the seer community. “The Samiti has written a letter to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, demanding action against the officials concerned. If action is not taken against the officials who issued the notice, the seer community will take to the streets,” Saraswati said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/it-notices-to-akhadas-mutts-angry-seers-write-to-finance-minister-sitharaman-101615691221692.html
14-03-2021||Mumbai||Sachin Vaze arrested by NIA in Ambani threat case: What we know so far||Sachin Vaze, an assistant police inspector at the centre of the industrialist Mukesh Ambani security threat case, was on Saturday arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for the alleged conspiracy to plant an explosive-laden vehicle near the billionaire’s home in Mumbai, a top official said.Vaze, who was the lead investigator in the case before it was handed over to the Anti-Terrorism Squad of the Mumbai Police, and then the NIA, was arrested by the central agency at 11:50pm on Saturday after being questioned for nearly 12 hours.Here’s what we know about the case so far:1. A sports utility vehicle laden with 20 gelatin sticks and a threatening letter was found parked near Ambani’s residence on February 25. There was, however, no other assembled Improvised Explosive Device (IED) or timer in the vehicle.2. A Telegram channel was created by “jaishulhind” [Jaish-ul-Hind] on February 26 and a message claiming responsibility for parking the vehicle outside Antilia, where Ambani lives with his family, was posted from that channel.3. On Saturday, a special cell team of the Delhi Police interrogated Tehsin Akhtar, who is known to be the last chief of the now dormant homegrown terror outfit Indian Mujahideen (IM), as two smartphones were recovered from his barrack in Tihar Jail. One of these phones was reportedly used to send out the message that claimed responsibility for the explosives found outside the industrialist’s house last month.4. A 48-year-old auto parts dealer in Thane, Mansukh Hiran, claimed the SUV was his and told the police that it was stolen from the Vikhroli area a week before it was found outside Ambani's house. He was found dead in a creek on the outskirts of Mumbai.5. Hiran’s widow Vimla named Waze in her statement to the police. She said she suspected the 49-year-old police officer’s role in the matter. She told the investigators the SUV belonged to one Dr Peter Newton, who was known to her husband.6. The Scorpio was with the Hirans for the past three years and was lent to Waze in November 2020. The vehicle was dropped off by the police official’s driver at Hiran’s shop in Thane on February 5 this year. It has been alleged that Vaze was also forcing Hiran to take responsibility for the case and surrender to the police.7. Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar reportedly intervened as Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray did not want to take action against the police officer, who had once quit the service and joined the Shiv Sena.8. Vaze applied for an anticipatory bail in Thane sessions court on Friday, which was rejected by the judge. The court set March 19 as the next date of hearing.9. The NIA recorded Vaze’s statement to find out the sequence of events as he was initially heading the investigation and also for his connection with Mansukh Hiran who was linked to the vehicle. The Mumbai Police officer went to the central agency’s office a little after 11am and was questioned for nearly 12 hours, before being arrested at 11:50pm.10. “Sachin Vaze is part of the group that planted the explosive-laden Scorpio on Carmichael Road (near Antilia) on February 25,” a top NIA official told HT, adding that he confessed to his role in the entire episode but refused to share more details at this stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sachin-vaze-arrested-by-nia-in-ambani-threat-case-what-we-know-so-far-101615689760152.html
14-03-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Tirath Singh Rawat cancels events to mark BJP govt's 4 yrs in power||Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat, on Saturday, cancelled the programmes scheduled in all 70 constituencies of the state to mark the completion of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government’s four years on March 18, citing ‘unavoidable’ reasons, amid murmurs that it could have aggravated the differences within the party. The cancellation also comes amid Opposition charge that the government had delivered very little during the period.State chief secretary issued a notification to the effect on Saturday evening, only a day after confirming events were to be organised as per the schedule, leaving many surprised. The decision to commemorate four years in government was taken by previous chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, who was replaced by Tirath Singh Rawat on March 10 by the party in the face of growing dissension against his leadership style from within the state unit.Party leaders said the cancellation followed concerns over newly-appointed CM’s decision to address one of the celebratory events being organised near Dehradun, at Raipur constituency, represented by BJP leader Umesh Sharma 'Kau', a known critic of former CM Trivendra Singh Rawat. Friday's notification had confirmed Rawat as the chief guest at the Raipur programme."In former CM Trivendra Singh Rawat's programme schedule, he was to attend the programme at his assembly seat of Doiwala near Dehradun. But CM Tirath said he would attend the event at Raipur, a seat held by ‘Kau’, who is considered an opponent of Trivendra," said a party leader, who didn't wish to be named.CM Tirath's decision to address the programme from Kau's constituency raised many eyebrows in the party leadership."The equations between Kau and Trivendra are known to all. Kau, a staunch opponent of the latter, wrote last year to party national president JP Nadda, alleging his constituency was being neglected by the state government, due to which, constituents were angry," said the leader, adding CM Tirath's decision could have created further rift in the party, which could have completely defeated the reason for his selection as the new CM by party high command.Another leader privy to the development, said some leaders requested the CM not to go ahead with his Raipur address as it "would give a wrong signal to party workers and the media" but he "refused"."It was then decided to cancel the whole programme and hold it later," he said.BJP state media in-charge Manveer Singh Chauhan, however, said, "The programmes have been postponed for later when they will be organised in a much more grand way. However, the new date is yet to be decided," he said.Also Watch: Fire engulfs train bogey in Uttarakhand; passengers evacuatedOpposition Congress said there was no point in holding celebrations when the "government had done nothing on development in four years of its tenure.""It is good that programmes have been cancelled, but the question is what the BJP government was going to celebrate when it failed to tackle unemployment, price rise, rampant corruption and declining economy," said Congress state president Pritam Singh."Moreover, the celebrations would have only led to the expenditure of crores of money from the exchequer. The BJP government has no right to celebrate when it did nothing for the development of the state," said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-tirath-singh-rawat-cancels-events-to-mark-bjp-govt-s-4-yrs-in-power-101615688831254.html
14-03-2021||Lucknow||UP woman carrying 'kanwar' raped by 2 in Aligarh, case filed: Police||Uttar Pradesh Police on Thursday filed an FIR against two accused of allegedly raping a woman in Aligarh district.According to Muniraj G, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Aligarh, the men, who were acquainted with the woman offered her a lift to her home when she was mistakenly left behind while she was carrying 'kanwar' with her husband in Harduaganj."Yesterday a woman filed a complaint that she and her husband were participating in 'kanwar', and she was left behind. She saw two men from her locality on a motorbike. They offered her a lift till home and she took it. But instead of taking her home, they took her somewhere else, and after a day released her," he said."She lodged a rape complaint yesterday (Friday). We have formed two teams to investigate the matter. The woman has also been sent for medical examination. The teams are sent to arrest both accused," the SSP added.He informed that further probe in the case is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-woman-carrying-kanwar-raped-by-2-in-aligarh-case-filed-police-101615681333528.html
14-03-2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal meets kin of health worker who died of Covid-19||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal Saturday met the family of a 58-year-Rakesh Jain, a Hindu Rao Hospital staff member who had died of Covid-19 last year, and offered an ex-gratia of ₹1 crore.“Till his last breath, he (Rakesh) served the citizens of Delhi. The Delhi government salutes such front line workers,” read a statement issued by Kejriwal’s office. “The Delhi government will also provide a job to his son.”The same day, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain chaired a ceremony organised to felicitate 80 Covid Warriors from Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital and Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital at Delhi Assembly. Speaker Ram Niwas Goel was also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-meets-kin-of-health-worker-who-died-of-covid19-101615671906686.html
14-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai cop, who probed Ambani security scare case, was involved; arrested: NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday arrested Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze, 49, for the alleged conspiracy to plant an explosive-laden sports utility vehicle near the residence of billionaire industrialist Mukesh Ambani on February 25, a top official of the federal probe agency said.Vaze, an assistant police inspector, was placed under arrest minutes before Saturday midnight by an NIA team led by Inspector General (IG) Anil Shukla at the agency’s Mumbai office. Vaze had walked into the NIA office a little after 11 am and had been grilled for nearly 12 hours. The arrest was made at 11.50 pm.Vaze was the lead investigator in the explosives case before it was transferred to the Anti-Terrorism Squad of the Mumbai Police, and later the NIA. On Saturday, he tried to get anticipatory bail from a judge but did not succeed.“Sachin Vaze is part of the group that planted the explosive laden Scorpio on Carmichael Road (near Antilia) on February 25,” a top NIA official told HT. The officer alleged that Sachin Vaze had confessed to his role in the entire episode but declined to share more details at this stage.Also Read | Vaze under scanner in Hiran death case: What led to the moveIt is not clear if there was a conspiracy to hurt the Ambani family. The SUV found parked near the Ambani residence had 20 gelatin sticks and a threatening letter. There was, however, no other assembled Improvised Explosive Device (IED) or timer in the vehicle.Mansukh Hiran, a 48-year-old auto parts dealer in Thane who claimed ownership of the abandoned vehicle - he told the police that the vehicle was stolen a week earlier - was found dead in a creek in Mumbai on March 5. Hiran’s wife Vimla blamed Sachin Vaze for the murder, claiming that her husband had given the SUV to the police officer months before it mysteriously turned up outside the Ambani residence.Vaze’s arrest by the NIA could lead to some embarrassing moments for the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), particularly the Shiv Sena, which was accused by the opposition BJP of going soft on Vaze. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who led his party’s offensive against the MVA government, had cited Vimla Hiran’s statement to demand that the police officer be suspended and arrested. But chief minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray was unwilling to take action against the 49-year-old officer who had once quit the service and joined the Sena.Also Read | Antilia bomb threat put out on Telegram channel made in TiharAs the opposition amped up its attacks on the government, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar finally intervened on Wednesday and discussed the case with the chief minister. Thackeray agreed to move out Vaze who headed the crime intelligence unit of the crime branch of the Mumbai Police.The chief minister underscored that the guilty will be punished but the opposition wants to straightaway hang Vaze.“A picture is created that Sachin Vaze is Osama Bin Laden….Death or suicide by anybody is unfortunate, so is the death of Hiran. A thorough probe will be conducted in the case,” Thackeray told reporters after the end of the state’s budget session where Vaze’s transfer was first announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-cop-sachin-vaze-grilled-for-12-hours-arrested-at-midnight-by-nia-101615664441854.html
14-03-2021||Chandigarh||HC dismisses bail plea of man accused of cheating in name of CM’s OSD||The Punjab and Haryana high court has dismissed a bail plea of a Sangrur man accused of cheating multiple persons in the name of officer on special duty (OSD), Sandeep Singh Sunny Brar, to the Punjab chief minister.Two FIRs were registered against Abdul Gaffar on January 17 on allegations of cheating and Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. Allegations were that he took money from two persons to help them in securing release and settling drugs and sexual harassment cases.The complainant, Mohammad Jahid, told police that Gaffar informed him that he could get his brother-in-law released from judicial custody in drugs seizure case for which the total expenditure of ₹15 lakh was estimated. He claimed to have good relations with OSD to CM and he took him to meet a person who introduced himself as the OSD and an assurance was given that “any work” could be done through him, the allegations recorded in petition says adding that the complainant paid him ₹9 lakh. However, as the work was not done, he requested to return the money, it adds. As Gaffar dilly dallied on returning money, the complainant went to meet the OSD, where he found that he was not the same person introduced as OSD by Gaffar, as per allegations in the plea. Brar advised the complainant to file a complaint, following which he approached the police. In the second case, Gaffar was accused of striking a deal with one Mohammed Abdul Rashid for ₹10.5 lakh for settling a case of sexual harassment against one of his relative. Gaffar had argued in court that he had been falsely implicated in these cases and at best it can be termed as a civil dispute between them. To give bribe and accept the same are offences, but no action has been taken against the complainants. Therefore, the petitioner is entitled to concession of anticipatory bail, he had argued. Police had opposed the bail stating that investigation is at the initial stage and that his custodial interrogation would be required to unearth the truth behind the entire episode and the modus operandi.The bench while denying the bail observed this is not a case that a single person has made allegations of cheating against him, but two different FIRs by two different complainants have been lodged against him. In order to unearth the modus operandi and to catch the person who impersonated as OSD to the CM, his custodial interrogation is required, the bench added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-dismisses-bail-plea-of-man-accused-of-cheating-in-name-of-cm-s-osd-101615664024831.html
14-03-2021||Chandigarh||4 yrs in office: SAD flays CM for planning a ‘sanitised’ press conference||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Saturday condemned chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh for planning a sanitised press conference to mark the completion of four years in office by asking mediapersons to submit their questions in advance. Stating that this spoke volumes about the state of the Congress government, former minister Daljit Singh Cheema said that forget facing the public, the government is unable to even face the media now. “This is why mediapersons are being asked to hand over their queries days in advance to the scheduled press conference on March 18,” he said.The SAD reacted to the text messages sent by the department of public relations asking scribe to send questions in advance for the press conference scheduled to be held on March 18 on the completion of four years of the state government. Asking the chief minister why he was going through the motions of a ‘fixed’ press conference, Cheema said: “The Congress government could have very well issued a handout stating it had completed 100% of the promises made to the people as part of a one-day publicity stunt in the same manner in which it had claimed last week that 84.6% of the poll promises made to the people had been fulfilled.” Asserting that the Congress government was insulting the fourth estate by passing such draconian directions, the SAD leader said such conduct was also not conducive for a thriving democracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-yrs-in-office-sad-flays-cm-for-planning-a-sanitised-press-conference-101615663844858.html
14-03-2021||Chandigarh||₹700-cr bogus GST billing scam busted in Punjab, 5 held||Officers of the investigation wing of Punjab state GST on Saturday arrested five persons for creating and operating a bogus billing network across various states, including Punjab, Delhi and Haryana, according to a release. An authorisation for the arrest of seven persons was issued by commissioner state Tax Nilkanth S Avhad, under Section 69 of the GST Act for violation of Section 132 (1)(a),(b) &(c). Search and seizure operations were conducted at multiple locations in Khanna, including residences of the accused, to gather evidence for establishing the modus operandi that involved creating firms in states outside and within Punjab dealing in copper scrap and hosiery items and thereafter passing the same to various beneficiary firms in Punjab, the release said. The income tax certificate (ITC) created through bogus firms was used to support the local movement of goods of various traders, said the release, adding the department got alerted about the network after a vehicle carrying copper scrap was detained by the mobile wing in Jalandhar last year and investigation revealed that the goods had been procured locally while the e-way and invoice were generated from some other firm. Detailed investigation revealed a network of 44 firms spread across states that was being used to create the bogus ITC for setting off the tax liability arising out of purchases made from local unregistered dealers. On being confronted with the evidence, the kingpin confessed that he was operating the network with the help of some other accomplices some of whom have also been arrested, the release said. During search operations, incriminating documents related to various firms and mobile phones used for sharing fake invoices and e-way bills generated were seized. The total bogus billing by the network is likely to be more than ₹700 crore while ITC created/availed and tax evaded is more than ₹122 crore, the release said. .Evidence was also gathered about various beneficiaries of the bogus network and other accomplices involved. The arrested have been identified as Vinod kumar, Maninder Sharma, Sandeep Singh, Amarinder Singh and Sunny Mehta, all residents of Khanna. They were produced before the duty magistrate and were remanded in judicial custody for 14 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rs-700-cr-bogus-gst-billing-scam-busted-in-punjab-5-held-101615663604732.html
14-03-2021||Chandigarh||Master storyteller Rupana gets Sahitya Akademi Award at 87||The phone has been ringing in constantly since Friday night after the news of the award, with greetings followed by the catch phrase ‘der aaye durust aaye’ (better late than never)!But it is never too late for this legendary storyteller Gurdev Singh Rupana, who put his village of Rupana in Muktsar district of Punjab with pride on the literary map of Punjabi like never before way back in the 1960s. Bedridden following a spine operation, he says with his usual rye humour: “Well, if it had to come late, then the award amount should have come with interest added to the award amount!”This Rupana boy penned his first short story in Class 5 and it was his fifth story ‘Hava’ (wind) which became a classic with a difference as it was the first heart-wrenching confession of what happened at during Partition on this side of the border in which the narrator passes a caravan of refugees trudging to the new land of Pakistan with the dead outnumbering the living. This was followed many years later by yet another classic of the great divide, ‘Sheesha’ (mirror) in which he tells the untold some 50 years later.After completing his Masters in Punjabi literature from Delhi University, he started his working career as a schoolteacher in the metropolis with very close literary ties with celebrated Punjabi poet Amrita Pritam, who was one of the first to acknowledge his talent. He has authored some 70 stories and five novels and is working currently on the sixth titled ‘Murti’, which tells a woman’s tale. “I am often accused of having written less but those who say so forget that I am a writer not a printing press,” he says with his usual guffaw. The award winning collection tells stories of the marginalised: Dalits, immigrant labourers, slum dwellers with an extraordinary flourish. He adds: “I am often asked why I suffix the name of my village to my name and my reply is that where would I be without the soil I was born to in which I harvested my stories, never shying away from the truth.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/master-storyteller-rupana-gets-sahitya-akademi-award-at-87-101615663425022.html
14-03-2021||Chandigarh||16 Thapar varsity students among 1,515 test positive||Coronavirus claimed 22 more lives in Punjab on Saturday as 1,515 fresh cases surfaced, pushing the state’s infection tally to 1,96,263, according to a health bulletin. Among the fresh cases, 16 students of Thapar University, Patiala, tested positive. Patiala civil surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said two hostels at the university have been declared micro-containment zones. “We have initiated contact tracing of positive cases so as to contain further spread of the infection,” he said.The virus has killed 6,052 people since its outbreak in the state. The number of active cases also increased from 10,452 on Friday to 10,916 on Saturday. A total of 1,024 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 1,79,295, the bulletin said. Currently, 24 patients are on ventilator while 212 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said, adding that a total of 53,47,572 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state.Night curfew imposed in FazilkaThe Fazilka district administration on Saturday imposed night curfew and stringent restrictions in order to curb the Covid-19 virus spread. Deputy commissioner Arvind Pal Singh Sandhu said night curfew will be from 11pm to 5am till further orders in the wake Covid surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/16-thapar-varsity-students-among-1-515-test-positive-101615663185634.html
14-03-2021||Other||Battle on for claim to SAD assembly ticket in Majha||Tarn Taran/Amritsar Even as state assembly polls are over nine months away, early next year, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) will have its task cut out in deciding its candidates in the border districts of Tarn Taran and Amritsar. A rift has been created in the party over its ticket for Khemkaran assembly.Earlier this week, during his two-day public meetings in Khemkaran, former SAD minister and former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal’s son-in-law Adesh Partap Singh Kairon, had laid a claim to the ticket. Khemkaran is home turf of SAD’s senior leader Virsa Singh Valtoha, who has fought three assembly elections from here, winning two of them. Valtoha has dubbed this as a betrayal and vowed to work to deny a ticket to the Kairons. Party president Sukhbir Singh Badal is holding a rally at Amarkot village of Khemkaran constituency on March 15, under the party’s Punjab Mangda Hisab campaign. Now, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) member Bhai Manjit Singh, son of former chief of Damdami Taksal Kartar Singh Bhindranwale, has written a letter to SAD patron Parkash and Sukhbir, seeking a ticket from Tarn Taran district.Manjit, of Bhura Kohna village in Khemkaran constituency, told HT over phone,“My father opposed Indira Gandhi’s emergency. My brother Bhai Amrik Singh, who remained president of All-India Sikh Student Federation, was killed while fighting the Indian Army during the attack on the Akal Takht Sahib. I will start my campaign from April 13 by paying obeisance at the Baba Budha Sahib Gurdwara.”On Valtoha’s annoyance over Kairon’s ‘interference’ in the constituency, Manjit added, “I made Valtoha a two-time MLA by my support. If I get the ticket from Khemkaran, Valtoha will support me.”Former Subordinate Service Selection Board (SSSB) member Iqbal Singh Sandhu has also been camping in Tarn Taran for the past few months. Iqbal, who claims to have former minister Bikram Singh Majithia’s backing, said, “The party high command has given its blessings to me from Tarn Taran.” BATALA MLA STAKES CLAIM TO TICKET ON FATEHGARH CHURIAN Batala MLA Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal has staked claim to SAD assembly poll ticket from Fatehgarh Churian seat in Gurdaspur district. Ravikaran Singh Kahlon, son of Akali stalwart and former Punjab assembly speaker Nirmal Singh Kahlon, has already been nursing the constituency.Lodhinangal challenged Kahlon’s claim a day after he (Kahlon) shared a photo of his meeting with the party chief Sukhbir. In the photo caption, Kahlon claimed that the party president had handed him over the command of the segment. Kahlon has been working in this constituency as “halqa incharge. “I shall gift victory to the party from this constituency in 2022 elections,” his post said.Batala MLA said, “My home segment is Fatehgarh Churian. My village Lodhinangal is here. Akali workers have warned that they would have no option other than leaving the party if I don’t contest from Fatehgarh Churian.” On Sunday, he is addressing a gathering of his supporters at Hothian village. On Lodhinangal, Kahlon said, “I met the party president on Friday. He trusts me and ordered me to go ahead. Since he appointed me in-charge, I have been serving the constituency. Where was he (Lodhinangal) earlier?”.Qadian, Sri Hargobindpur and Dera Baba Nanak constituencies in the district also face a similar fight over ticket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/battle-on-for-claim-to-sad-assembly-ticket-in-majha-101615662704985.html
14-03-2021||City||TN Cong members allege 'discriminatory candidate selection' for assembly polls||There is dissent in the Tamil Nadu unit of the Congress over the selection of candidates for 25 assembly seats and a Lok Sabha by-poll Kanyakumari seat for which elections will be held on April 6.On Saturday, Congress MP Vishnu Prasad and his supporters were on a hunger strike stating that those who quit the party and distant relatives of certain unnamed leaders were being offered tickets and being supported by other Congress leaders on social media. Congress, which is in alliance with the principal opposition DMK, has so far announced only its constituencies and is yet to release its list of candidates.“One person has quit the party a month ago and threatened to come back only if given a ticket and that person is being given a seat, how is it just?” Prasad told reporters. “We are on a fast to protest against the party leadership that isn’t respecting the party cadre. District-level leaders should do all the work for the party but only those with money and power are given seats. How is this democratic? It is alright if leaders’ children seek seats but even in-laws are receiving seats. Look how badly the party has been reduced to. Is this Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) or Commercial or Corporate Committee? If we remain mute anymore, we would be betraying our leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi,” he said.Congress MP from Karur S Jothimani tweeted in Tamil in support of his claims and said that her ‘blood boils’ over the ‘betrayal’ and that ‘dishonest practices’ followed in candidate selection would only end up helping the ruling AIADMK-BJP alliance.Also read: TN CM Edappadi Palaniswami confident of ‘sweeping majority’ in assembly polls“I am aware of the agitated state of minds of Congress cadres…” she tweeted, adding that she has already raised questions on it. “The heartless leaders are drinking the blood of cadres and not listening to the voice of justice.” She said she wouldn’t be an MP if Rahul Gandhi believed in money power and that it was their duty to protect the dignity of the central leadership. Following her tweets, Villupuram MP Manickam Tagore took to Twitter to express his displeasure against the internal rebellion, however, he took no names.TNCC chief KS Alagiri sought to appease Vishnu Prasad at the headquarters and talks were on-going between them at the Congress office on Saturday night.Senior Congress leader EVKS Elangovan dismissed any irregularities in the candidate selection. "Every election this will happen with some aggrieved parties, it is nothing serious and is solved now," Elangovan said.This isn’t the first time that party leaders have made public their displeasure on the internal workings. In January, INC had revamped the state committee ahead of the elections by making several appointments to which Congress MP Karti P Chidambaram, in a tweet, commented that such 'jumbo committees serve no purpose’. He said that with several leaders there would be no leader, no authority or accountability.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tn-congress-members-call-out-discriminate-candidate-selection-for-assembly-polls-101615661167198.html
14-03-2021||Other||Education dept probe into paper leak gives clean chit to SCERT||Bathinda An internal inquiry report of the state education department has given a clean chit to the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT). The report was sought after question papers of pre-final tests appeared on social media before the exams were conducted. The Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) conducts the final exams, with paper setting and issue of pre-final tests with the SCERT. A random analysis of these question papers, including board classes of 10 and 12 show that the papers were uploaded on the eve of examination. To date, these test papers remain on YouTube with timeline descriptions on at least two channels. One of these channels has over 17 lakh views, the other has crossed 2 lakh views. Such large viewership is related to the question papers and answers posted on it.On February 24, HT had reported details quoting the director-general of education department Mohammad Tayyab that action was being taken as complaints of the alleged leak of pre-final exams surfaced from a number of schools.SCERT director Jagtar Singh refused to comment on the incidents and on pre-final question papers landing up on YouTube. PSEB controller of examination Janak Raj Mehrok said he had submitted a report to the board chairperson, with official reaction awaited. “In her report, deputy director, academics, Amarjit Kaur Dalam stated that these questions papers were actually guess papers to facilitate students. She has ruled out paper leak,” Jagtar claimed. Dalam, however, could not ascertain or evaluate the content posted on the two specific Youtube channels. This is even as several government school heads talk of the compromising of examination secrecy.Classroom exams for Classes 6-12 started on February 15 till March 1. Uniform question papers for these classes were prepared centrally and dispatched to school heads through email on the eve of the examination.Teachers from schools in Bathinda and adjoining districts reconfirm that students had easy access to the papers hours on the two YouTube channels, before the examination day. Instead of face-saving after the expose, authorities should have contacted teachers as the breach is widely acknowledged, the staff claims. “This is a serious issue as government school students get 10-20% marks in different subjects on the basis of an assessment on these examinations. Authorities should have fixed accountability. The should examine over 200 video posts on YouTube channels and compare content with actual question papers,” said the head of a government school in Malwa region.After the anomaly was highlighted, the authorities opted not to send digital copies of question papers for non-board classes of government schools. Final papers for various classes start on March 15. Sources in the education department said, this time, hard copies of question papers are being sent to schools to rule out any leak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/education-dept-probe-into-paper-leak-gives-clean-chit-to-scert-101615661264499.html
14-03-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai cop Sachin Vaze arrested for bomb found outside Ambani house: NIA||The National Investigation Agency's (NIA) on Saturday arrested Sachin Vaze, the assistant police inspector who is at the centre of the investigation in connection with the death of Mansukh Hiran.Mansukh Hiran, who was linked to the SUV found parked near Mukesh Ambani’s residence with 20 sticks of gelatin and a threatening letter, was found dead on March 5.“Sachin Waze is part of the group that planted the explosive laden Scorpio on Carmichael Road (near Antilia) on February 25. He has confessed to it,” a top official told HT.The NIA had called Vaze for questioning on Saturday morning since he was heading the probe earlier and his name had come up for having used the SUV, officials said. According to Mansukh Hiran’s widow Vimla Hiran, Vaze, who knew her husband well, was forcing Hiran to get arrested in the case.On his name surfacing in the case, he was transferred from crime intelligence unit (CIU) of the Mumbai crime branch to Citizen Facilitation Centre (CFC) of Mumbai police. Leader of Opposition and former chief minister of Maharashtra Devendra Fadnavis had sought his arrest for Hiran’s suspicious death.On Friday, Vaze had applied for anticipatory bail in Thane sessions court which was rejected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ambani-bomb-scare-nia-arrests-sachin-vaze-101615660618114.html
14-03-2021||Other||Telangana MLC polls today, acid test for TRS||Hyderabad: The elections to the Telangana Legislative Council from two graduates’ constituencies are to be held from 8am to 4pm on Sunday. Polls in the two constituencies, each comprising three districts - Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahabubnagar and Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda - are going to be a litmus test for the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), headed by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao. As many as 10,36,565 graduates, including 3,67,808 women, will exercise their franchise at 1,530 polling stations in these two constituencies. What makes this electoral battle more significant is that these six districts account for 75 out of 119 assembly constituencies in the state, thereby reflecting the mood of educated voters and indicating a possible outcome of the state assembly elections scheduled in 2023. “The victory or defeat in these MLC elections doesn’t make much difference to the TRS in terms of numbers in the 40-member state legislative council, as it has huge majority with a strength of 36 members. But a defeat will indicate the voters’ perception against the ruling party which will have a bearing on its prospects in the coming elections,” said political analyst Suresh Dharur. The immediate impact of these elections is expected to be on the by-election to Nagarjunasagar assembly seat likely to be held in April, besides elections to Khammam and Warangal municipal corporations, dates for which are yet to be decided. That is precisely why the TRS has taken the MLC elections to these two seats very prestigiously. The ruling party has already sensed the changing mood of the people with its defeat, albeit with a lesser margin, in the by-elections to Dubbak assembly seat in Medak district, followed by a serious drubbing in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections last year. The TRS has taken the elections to the two MLC seats very prestigiously and mobilised all its resources to win these two seats at any cost. For the Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahabubnagar graduates’ constituency, the TRS president has chosen Surabhi Vani Devi, daughter of former Prime Minister P V Narasimha Rao. It is a strategic move on the part of KCR since the state has been celebrating the birth centenary year of Narasimha Rao, the only Telangana leader to rise to the position of Prime Minister of the country. Naturally, the TRS wants to cash in on this Telangana sentiment. The TRS mobilised all its party machinery to campaign in support of Vani Devi. Right from party working president and KCR’s son K T Rama Rao, daughter K Kavitha and nephew T Harish Rao, the entire battalion of cabinet plunged into action, covering every section of graduates’ community. KCR himself personally held interaction with state government employees, who constitute large chunk of graduate voters and promised them a salary hike of 29%, as against 7% recommended by Pay Revision Commission. Since Vani Devi herself is an academician, the TRS made extensive campaign among the teaching community to attract their voters. “It is a master stroke of KCR to field her in the MLC elections, as being the daughter of the former Prime Minister, she commands tremendous goodwill among the educated voters,” Dharur said. On the other hand, Bharatiya Janata Party, which is on high spirits after its victory in Dubbak and an impressive show in the GHMC elections, is keen on repeating its performance in the MLC polls. It has once again fielded its sitting MLC N Ramachander Rao, who has huge support among the advocates, in Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahabubnagar constituency. What makes the contest more interesting in this constituency is the entry of Osmania University professor K Nageshwar, who represented the seat twice in the past, as an independent. He is a prominent face among the educated voters. The Congress fielded former minister G Chinna Reddy and TDP its state president L Ramana, but both have very bleak chances. Besides, as many as 88 other independent candidates are also in the fray. In Khammam-Warangal-Nalgonda graduates’ constituency, where 71 contestants are in fray, the fight is mainly between TRS candidate Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, the sitting MLC and Prof M Kodandaram of Telangana Jana Samithi. Kondandaram, once a protégé of KCR during the Telangana movement, fell apart from the latter and floated his own regional party before 2018 assembly elections. Though he has not achieved any success in the electoral battle till now, he commands tremendous respect among the educated Telangana youth. That makes his chances of wining the MLC seat brighter. BJP has fielded its general secretary G Premender Reddy, who has considerable cadre base in Warangal, but the party has little presence in Khammam and Nalgonda and that might prove disadvantageous to him. The Congress has fielded S Ramulu Naik, a tribal leader who was earlier a nominated MLC in Khammam-Warangal-Nalgonda constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/telangana-mlc-polls-today-acid-test-for-trs-101615660544535.html
14-03-2021||Delhi||Tests for driving license now on Sundays as well||Tests to get a permanent driving licence (DL) in Delhi will soon be conducted on Sundays too, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Saturday.The new testing dates will likely be rolled out from next Sunday, a senior transport department official said.Aimed at reducing the pendency of applications for permanent licence, the city’s regional transport offices (RTOs) will not have tests on Monday instead.“I have directed the transport department to keep all RTOs in Delhi open on Sundays only for driving tests. On Mondays, there will be no test,” Gahlot said.The decision was taken after the transport department observed that many applicants wanted to give their test on Sundays, which is a holiday for most, Gahlot said. He said that an analysis of their records showed that the turnout on Mondays, a working day, was low in any case.The state transport department had asked all motor licensing officers to get update their softwares to user in the changes. Officers who worked on Sundays to conduct the driving tests will be off on Monday, the order issued on Saturday stated.A senior transport department official said that the Covid-19-induced lockdown resulted in many pending applications. At some busy RTO zones the waiting time was around two months, the official said.“Due to social distancing norms, which we cannot compromise, we have capped the number of daily driving tests being conducted in every RTO. We are also trying to make people aware about the Central government’s relaxations for any expired transport documents (no prosecution till March 31). So, there is no need to panic and rush to the RTO for renewal as of now,” said a second senior transport official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tests-for-driving-license-now-on-sundays-as-well-101615659343865.html
14-03-2021||Delhi||New air quality panel shuts down after ordinance lapses||The commission was also working on a long-term solution to control the annual problem of stubble burning in the agrarian states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, which becomes the reason for pollution in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/air-quality-commission-shuts-down-after-ordinance-lapses-101615659225238.html
14-03-2021||Other||Doctors of Kasturba Hospital go on indefinite strike to demand pending wages||At least 100 doctors of Kasturba Hospital, which is run by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, went on an indefinite strike from Saturday to demand pending wages, which they claimed have not been paid for three months now.The strike by doctors comes in the backdrop of the city witnessing a slow uptick in the number of Covid-19 cases, after a brief lull. Delhi on Saturday added 419 new Covid cases, as per the daily state government bulletin.On Saturday, the agitating doctors staged protest at the hospital and demanded payment of pending salaries, inconveniencing hundreds of patients. Some patients chose to return home due to the strike.Resident doctors of Hindu Rao hospital and Rajan Babu TB Hospital have also extended their support and are likely to go on strike from Monday over non-payment of salaries.The 450-bed Kasturba Hospital is a maternity and child specialty hospital of the north corporation located near Jama Masjid, while Hindu Rao Hospital is the largest medical facility of the north civic body with 980-bed capacity.According to representatives of doctors association, the civic body had promised to streamline the issue but had failed to do so.Dr Sunil Kumar, president of the Kasturba Hospital Resident Doctors Association, said doctors have not been paid for last three months at all five hospitals of the north civic body.“Our salaries are pending since December and we are working without money. Non-payment of salaries has now become a routine affair in north civic body and this should be stopped. This is the end of financial year and we have to pay taxes, but we don’t have money as our salaries are pending. It is a situation of complete chaos and the authorities should make serious efforts to solve this crisis. We will not return to work until our salaries are paid,” Kumar said.Kumar also said that the strike impacted patient treatments as work at OPD was not conducted on Saturday and patients were referred to other nearby hospitals. “Some patients of gynaecology department in Kasturba Hospital were shifted to other hospitals as resident doctors are on strike,” he said.According to civic officials, the north corporation employs around 1,000 senior doctors, 500 resident doctors, and 1,500 nursing officers across its five hospitals — Kasturba Hospital, Hindu Rao, Rajan Babu TB hospital, Maharishi Valmiki Infectious Disease hospital and Girdhar Lal hospital.This is not the first time when doctors had to go on strike on non-payment of salary issue. In June 2020, doctors of Kasturba Hospital and Hindu Rao Hospital had threatened to tender mass resignations over the issue of pending salary of two months but had to take back their decision after the Supreme Court asked the north corporation to pay their dues. Later in October the same year, the doctors were on strike for over a fortnight to get their pending salaries. They called off the strike after being paid two months salary. Again in January they had threatened to go on strike, but were later paid for one month and decided to call it off.Abhimanyu Sardana, president Resident Doctors Association Hindu Rao Hospital, said that the salaries of December, January and February are pending. He said that a decision on when to go on strike will be taken on Monday after a meeting of representatives of the association.“We have several times written to the civic authorities to release our salaries on time but nothing happened. It is a shame that doctors who have a crucial role in the fight against Covid-19 have to resort to strike or mass resignation to get their rightful salary,” Sardana saidJai Prakash, mayor North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said, “We are making arrangements to release two months salary of doctors as soon as possible. We have also had a meeting with the doctors of Hindu Rao and Kasturba hospitals and assured them to release salary soon. We have appealed them to call off the strike.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/doctors-of-kasturba-hospital-go-on-indefinite-strike-to-demand-pending-wages-101615659163939.html
14-03-2021||Noida||Muslim boy beaten for drinking water in Ghaziabad temple, two arrested||A video of a man purportedly beating a 14-year-old Muslim boy inside a temple in Ghaziabad’s Dasna went viral on Friday evening.The boy’s family said he had gone inside the temple to drink water when the man, 23-year-old temple caretaker Shringi Nandan Yadav, caught and beat him. Ghaziabad police on Saturday registered a case against Yadav and Shivanand Saraswati, another caretaker who recorded the incident, and arrested both.The video purportedly showed Yadav kicking and punching the boy after he revealed his name and also his father’s name.The boy’s father, whose identity is being withheld as per law to protect the child, said the incident took place at around 5pm.“My son stopped to drink water from a tap located inside the temple as he was thirsty. He was beaten up after they asked his identity. He suffered a head injury. He generally doesn’t venture inside the temple but this time he told me he was just very thirsty. I have asked him not to go there in the future,” said the father who described himself as a daily wager and a scrap seller.The temple authorities said that they had barred entry of people from non-Hindu communities.“There are several taps outside the temple from where people drink water. Our caretakers caught the boy spitting inside the temple. They have been arrested and we will seek to legal recourse to get them bail,” said Yati Narsimhanand Saraswati, another caretaker of the temple.Taking suo motu (on its own) cognizance of the video, police registered an FIR under Indian Penal Code sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace), 352 (assault or criminal force otherwise than on grave provocation), 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) and also provisions of the Information Technology Act.“The prime suspect (Yadav) has been staying in the temple complex for the past three months. Both suspects made the video go viral,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural).Priyank Kanoongo, chairperson of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), tweeted the picture of the prime suspect on Saturday and said the NCPCR was committed to protecting the rights of the child.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/muslim-boy-beaten-for-drinking-water-in-ghaziabad-temple-two-arrested-101615658803861.html
14-03-2021||Chandigarh||Panchayat polls deferment: Khattar’s budget speech remarks on PRI empowerment draw flak||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s budget speech assertion that his government is committed to ensure vibrancy of the panchayati raj institutions (PRIs), the third tier of democracy, in both letter and spirit has drawn flak from the opposition in view of the delay in holding panchayat polls. The State Election Commission (SEC) which is responsible for holding the panchayat elections has deferred the polls citing the pandemic situation and protests by farmers against three farm laws. The term of the panchayats in the state ended on February 23. As per Article 243-E of the Constitution, an election to constitute a panchayat shall be completed before the expiry of its duration which is five years from the date appointed for its first meeting. A division bench of the Punjab and Haryana high court had in a 1999 order observed that advocate general and SEC counsel had conceded that the September 30, 1999, order pertaining to preparation of electoral rolls for the panchayat and the municipal polls had been made in ignorance of the constitutional provisions contained in part IX and IX-A (Article 243) and the Panchayati Raj Act and Municipal Act and the order had in fact by implication, nullified a constitutional and statutory mandate. The bench was hearing a review application against September 1999 orders filed by six petitioners including two MLAs for impleading them as respondent and also saying that elections of panchayats, panchayat samitis and zila parishad in Haryana which were due to be held in December 1999 would be deferred if the voters lists were to be prepared afresh in compliance of the HC orders and that would result in non-compliance of the provisions of the Constitution to complete the panchayat elections before the expiry of their duration. Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala said the chief minister should stop taking false credit when his government is guilty of trampling the democracy. “The BJP-JJP government has brazenly violated the constitutional provisions by not holding the panchayat polls before February 23. The government is deliberately violating the constitutional mandate of holding the panchayat polls before the expiry of term of the panchayats,’’ the former minister said. Former leader of the opposition and INLD general secretary Abhay Chautala said the BJP-JJP government knows that they will be wiped out in panchayat elections. “The plea of pandemic and farmers’ agitation is a mere excuse to hide their low confidence. If this is the case, why were the municipal polls and Baroda assembly by-poll held? They don’t have the nerve of get polls conducted,’’ he said. Chautala said that on one hand the chief minister claims that he has empowered the panchayats and on the other his government has put a cap on the financial powers of the sarpanches. “Panchayats should get greater financial autonomy,’’ he said. Congress MLA from Dabwali Amit Sihag said If the government is so concerned about democracy, it should get the panchayat polls conducted. “The truth is that BJP and JJP leaders are scared of visiting the villages in view of stiff opposition by farmers. But yet they have the brazenness to claim credit. In fact, the authority from sarpanches was withdrawn much before February 23 by this government and handed over to block development officers. This is undemocratic,’’ the MLA said.What Khattar said about panchayats in his speech? “I believe that although the 73rd and 74th amendments in the Constitution ( pertaining to empowering PRIs and municipal bodies) were carried out in 1992, they have not been implemented in spirit by the successive governments. My government is committed to ensure vibrancy of the third tier of democracy in both letter and spirit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchayat-polls-deferment-khattar-s-budget-speech-remarks-on-pri-empowerment-draws-flak-101615654666391.html
14-03-2021||Other||Amarnath yatra to commence on June 28||The annual Amarnath yatra to the 3,880-metre-high cave shrine in the south Kashmir Himalayas will commence on June 28 and culminate, as per the tradition, on the day of Raskha Bandhan festival on August 22, officials said on Saturday.A decision to this effect was taken at the 40th board meeting of the Shri Amarnath Shrine Board (SASB) chaired by Lt Governor Manoj Sinha at Raj Bhavan here.This year’s pilgrimage will be held as per standard operating procedures (SoPs) for Covid-19 stipulated by the government.The registration process for the yatra would begin on April 1 through 446 designated branches of Punjab National Bank, Jammu and Kashmir Bank and YES Bank in 37 states and union territories.Live telecast of prayers The SASB will enable the live telecast of morning and evening “Aarti” (prayers) for devotees across the globe. “The live telecast is a tool for virtual ‘Darshan’ for those who are unable to undertake the arduous Yatra,” a spokesperson said.Moreover, the pilgrims can download the ‘Shri Amarnathji Yatra’ App available on the Google play store to get real time information about the Yatra and for availing several services online.Daily pilgrim ceiling enhanced The board also decided to enhance the daily route-wise pilgrims ceiling from 7,500 per day per route to 10,000, excluding yatris who would travel by helicopters. One of the highlights of this year’s yatra would be the introduction of free of cost battery car service up and down of the 2.75-km-long Baltal to Domel stretch.L-G Sinha also directed for sending special invites to “Akhada Parishads, Acharya Parishads”, and exploring the possibility of establishing counters at prominent religious places across the country for facilitation of Sadhu and Sant Samaj. The board also approved the enhancement of remunerations for Pujaris from existing ₹1,000 per day to ₹1,500 per day for the next three years. ₹5 lakh group accidental cover Moreover, as directed by the L-G in the January 5 preparatory meeting, the group accidental insurance cover for pilgrims, service providers was also enhanced from ₹3 lakh to ₹5 lakh and for ponies from ₹30,000 to ₹50,000.A discussion was also held on introducing RFID (radio frequency identification) tracking and prepaid hiring of services for putting in place a strengthened online digital system.The board also advised the CEO to appeal to all potential pilgrims to consult their doctors before embarking on the pilgrimage. Also, no person below the age of 13 years and above 75 years shall be permitted to undertake the pilgrimage.Appreciating the important services rendered by langar organisations, the board sought their continued support during the pilgrimage this year.The board is issuing silver coins of 5 gm and 10 gm denomination through the Metal and Mineral Trading Corporation (MMTC). These coins would be sold to the pilgrims at the holy cave and at the offices of the Shrine Board during the Yatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amarnath-yatra-to-commence-on-june-28-101615654365491.html
14-03-2021||City||DMK election manifesto promises to enact law to reserve 75% jobs for Tamils||he Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) released on Saturday its manifesto for the April 6 assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, promising a law to reserve 75% jobs for locals in the public sector and adding that a similar move will be attempted for the private sector, even as it pledged financial assistance of ₹25,000 to 100,000 for people going on pilgrimage to major Hindu temples, among others.DMK leader and Rajya Sabha MP Trichy Siva said: “The government can only implement it within its limits which is the public sector but we will try to pursue it in the private sector too.” Siva who was part of the party’s eight-member committee formed to prepare the manifesto.Releasing the manifesto that primarily focussed on addressing issues facing the youth, DMK president MK Stalin said: “Usually, the DMK’s manifesto is considered as the hero of the elections.” “This time many are saying our candidates list (of 173 released Friday) is the hero, so I’m releasing the second hero.”The party has also promised to waive education loans of students aged below 30 and cut the prices of petrol and diesel by ₹5 per litre and ₹4 per litre, respectively.Also read: Cut in fuel price - DMK releases manifesto ahead of pollsKeeping in line with the DMK’s campaign against the ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) on the issue of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), the party has promised to bring a law against the medical entrance exam in the first assembly session. The NEET issue holds significance in the state as several students have died by suicide either because they failed to clear the exam or they feared they couldn’t realise their aspirations of studying medicine. Chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami attempted to circumvent this criticism by introducing a 7.5% horizontal reservation in medical colleges for government students who clear NEET.The DMK is contesting the single-phase election in alliance with the Congress and the Left. Apart from these two, the DMK has also firmed up tie-ups with other parties including the Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK). It is contesting on 173 of the 234 seats and has allotted the rest to its alliance partners.The election will be held in Tamil Nadu on April 6. This is the first assembly election after the demise of leaders J Jayalalithaa and M Karunanidhi. The filing of nominations will start on Friday and the last day is March 19.In its manifesto, the DMK has also offered several sops to women who outnumber male electorate (31.8 million female voters and 30.8 million male voters) in the state. The party has also promised to increase the maternity leave period from nine to 12 months, and quota in government jobs from 30% to 40%. An assistance of ₹24,000 has also been announced for pregnant women, along with ₹100 subsidy towards LPG cylinder.State municipal administration minister SP Velumani, meanwhile, termed the manifesto “hollow” and “full of false promises”. The ‘Palaniswami wave’ is sweeping across Tamil Nadu and the AIADMK is sure to return to power, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dmk-election-manifesto-promises-to-enact-law-to-reserve-75-jobs-for-tamils-101615652714304.html
